 And it is time to play The Puzzle.   Joining me as always is Will Shortz. He is puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzlemaster. Good morning Will.  Good morning Lulu.  So can you remind us of last week's challenge?  Yeah it was actually a two-week challenge. The first week I asked what do the words Neanderthal embarrass saturation and contemptuousness have in common? And the answer is each word conceals the name of a planet in left-to-right order. So Neanderthal has Earth. Embarrass has Mars. Saturation has Saturn. And contemptuousness has Neptune. And then the second week I asked what do scarecrow screensaver camerawoman and curvaceousness have in common? And each of those when written in lowercase letters consists entirely of narrow letters - that is have no ascenders or descenders. And then I asked can you think of a seven-letter word that fits both properties? And the answer was avenues has only narrow letters and it conceals Venus.  That is a hard one I have got to say. And we had about 300 responses. And this week's winner is Jeff Zarkin  of Burke Va. Congratulations.  Well thank you.  That was really a tough one. How did you come up with it?  I saw very quickly in the first week's challenge the planets spelled out in it. And then when the second week's challenge came out I started looking at my computer keyboard. And I was looking - were they left-hand letters right-hand letters? Then it dawned on me that they had no descenders. I looked a bit closer and said oh they have no ascenders either - and then just went back to the original list I had been playing with of words that had planets hidden in them and so  was like ding.  There you go. All right. And Jeff I hear you have a question for Will.  Yes. I am curious how your family reacted when you told them you wanted to study enigmatology.  Yeah. Well my mom was a creative sort so she thought it was cool. My dad was more of a straitlaced type. And he thought OK you know play now and then you will get a serious job later.   I love it.  All right. Are you ready to play The Puzzle Jeff?  Let us go.  All right. Take it away Will.  All right Jeff every answer today is a made-up two-word phrase. Add the letter F in front of the first word to get the second word to answer the clue. For example if I said less than usual stream of water you would say low flow. So here's number one. The entire autumn.  All fall.  All fall is it. Number two more unusual stuff that cattle eat.  Odder fodder.  More aged container of office papers.  Older folder.  That is it. Arranges hot dogs in order of quality.  Ranks franks.  That is it.  You are on fire.   Exposes oneself to the chances of being searched for weapons.  Risks frisks.  Yeah risks frisks. You have got it. Does not have any publicity agents informally.  Does not have any publicity agents. That...  You know what an informal term for publicity agents is?  It is a PR man. It is got to begin with an F unfortunately.  It is got to start with an F though.  I am stuck.  It is lacks flacks - F-L-A-C-K-S.  Sorry about that.  There you go. Here's your next one - one who whips someone who works with timber.  Seller.  And someone...  Works with timber.  Someone who goes out and cuts trees in the forest. What would - and brings them in - what would that person be?  A forester a seller.  And this is the word that does not start with the F.  What do you put in the fire?  There you go.  Oh a logger flogger.  A logger flogger is right. And here's your last one - parts of Helsinki's country that are away from the coast.  Inland Finland.  Good job.  Good job. For playing our puzzle today you will get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin as well as puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. Jeff what member station do you listen to?  WAMU here in Washington D.C.  You did a great job. Jeff Zarkin of Burke Va. thank you for playing The Puzzle.  Thank you.  All right. Will what is next week's challenge?  Yeah it comes from Joseph Young of St. Cloud Minn. who conducts the blog Puzzleria. Think of a brand name you might see on your breakfast table. Change one letter to a Y and rearrange the result to get a familiar two-word phrase that names something else you might see on your breakfast table. What phrase is this? So again brand name - you might see it on your breakfast table. Change one letter to a Y. Rearrange the result and you will get a familiar two-word phrase that name something else you might see on your breakfast table. What phrase is it?  When you have the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit Your Answer link. Just one entry per person please. Our deadline for entries is this Thursday August 23 2018 at 3 p.m. Eastern. Include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time. And if you are the winner we will give you a call and you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzlemaster our very own Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thanks Lulu.  