 Companies and corporations are in business to make money for themselves their workers their stockholders. But can they make too much? Ralph Nader thinks Apple hit that limit earlier this month when it became the first trillion-dollar publicly traded company in the United States. Mr. Nader wrote a blistering blog post about what Apple is and is not doing with that money. He joins us now from Connecticut. Mr. Nader thanks for being back with us.  You are welcome Scott.  What is wrong with Apple sitting on all that money?  Well they just announced earlier this year - a 100 billion stock buyback adding to previous stock buyback without asking the shareholders institutional and individual their opinion or even their approval. So the point I was making is it could have been used to increase employees. It could have been used to shore up the pension fund. It could have been used - 2 percent of it Scott to double the income of the serf laborers - 1.3 million Chinese laborers in the contractor that builds the iPhones. It could have had 2 percent of 100 billion to improve the recycling of used computers and phones which are endangering both the environment and the workers. It could have been put in productive investment. It could have been put in research and development. It could have been sent to cash dividends back to the shareholder but no.  Just follow up on a couple of points. Apple I think would say that in fact they have worked strenuously to greatly improve worker conditions in their Asian factories. And they have some pretty ambitious programs about green technology and recycling. Do you accept that?  Well they have said that and they have done a little of that. But they are starting from a very low base. The kind of income that the Chinese workers are making under tremendous pressure by their contractor is really not a living wage even in China. And certainly you know NPR has reported on how the corporations demanded the tax cuts from Trump and the Republican Congress last year. Why did they demand it? So they could have more capital to engage in productive investment and jobs. Well what they did not admit is if they wanted all this capital why have they spent 7 trillion - these companies in stock buybacks since 2005 - which is double the federal government's current entire budget if they needed capital for productive investment? Stock buybacks do not create any jobs. They do not create any productive investment. And they are a signal to corporate observers that while people like Tim Cook know how to make a lot of money for the company they do not know really what to do with it other than to enhance their own executive compensation package.  Still it is a remarkable turnaround for Apple is not it? I mean just a couple of decades ago I think they were on the brink of extinction.  There is no doubt. It was a great turnaround. But under Steve Jobs stock buybacks were prohibited. He paid himself very little. When Tim Cook came over everything changed. And while they know how to make enormous money with their overpriced iPhones they do not know how to productively use it. And Marxists of many decades ago would never have dreamed that corporations would pile up all this capital and not know how to use it productively.  Mr. Nader do you own an iPhone?  No.  Apple laptop?  No.  On principle or just because you prefer other products?  One I want to get a day's work done so I am not involved in email and all the nonsense. I am very available by phone - our office never has voicemail. Human beings answer the phone . And I use an Underwood typewriter. When the electricity goes out with a thunderstorm I am still working Scott.  Ralph Nader consumer advocate and author of many books including now the paperback Breaking Through Power It is Easier Than We Think. Mr. Nader thanks so much.  It is easier than we think. Thank you Scott. 