 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. The British band Doves used to go by the name Sub Sub. They made music like this    Ooh with the rain on the love is it raining on you?  But dance music just did not work out for them. They changed their name to Doves. That was four albums and 11 years ago. Now they make music that sounds like this    We laid and stared at the stars. Woke up in the storm. Am I yours?  Doves are three Manchester men - Jimi Goodwin and brothers Jez and Andy Williams. Their new album Kingdom Of Rust. Jimi Goodwin joins us in our studios. Thanks very much for being with us. Mr.  All right. It is a pleasure.  Your lyrics are remarkable. I am going to read from Kingdom of Rust. A sound above my head. The distant sound of thunder booming out in the moor. Blackbirds they flew ahead into the cooling towers. Mr.  Andy wrote those lyrics. There is a lot of that on the album. It is almost just like walking through the landscapes and it is almost like you are jotting down your observations. And - but yeah I love that image. It reminds me of almost like of an industry that is declined.    I hear a sound a sound above my head. The distant sound is thunder booming out on the moor. Mr.  Just like an abandoned factory floor or something and then gradually it makes you sort of come in and reclaim it.    Blackbirds flew ahead into the cooling towers. I packed my bags thinking of one of those hours with you waiting for you. My God it takes an ocean of trust in the kingdom of rust.  What is that time like in the studio for the three of you? Mr.  This one was a tricky album to make. It took longer than any of us anticipated but that is after 19 years we worked together. It took a while for the juices to really get flowing. We were writing. We wrote a ton of tracks this time probably more than we have written for an album project. Without saying it you kind of know though that the first things that you write are maybe just stepping stones till you get to the really juicy stuff. We had to go for a least four or five months of just not really knowing what we wanted to do or where it was going and allowing it to go there really to make sense of what we were trying to do together.  Mm-hmm. Let me ask you about a song. In fact let us listen to a little bit of the song Greatest Denier.    The English skyline falls down to the future. But no one noticed in this empire...  So tell us about this song. What is it about? How did it get here? Mr.  Jez had the line I am the greatest denier but I can cut you with a look. And that was just like I was like oh that is great.    'ecause I am the greatest denier and I will cut you if you look. Mr.  It is about a racist or a bigot of some sort who realizes that his views and his ideals that he is always that he is stood behind are just redundant. And he is realizing that you know like he is been living a lie for a long time. You know and...  And the English bloodline clashes in the sun. Mr.  That is about  sort race riots that - you know in the North of England a couple years ago there was a lot of Asians and mostly kids clashing with white kids and all that sort of stuff. And you know the English skyline falls down to the future but no one noticed it is maybe seeing it from the perspective of someone who is quite reprehensible maybe do a character and not be yourself for a song.  Another song I am going to play for you - and unless my producer has set me up for one of the most embarrassing moments of my broadcast career and I do not put that past her - we are told this song is going to mean something particular to you.  Mr.  Yeah.  RAMONES  There is no stoppin' the cretins from hopping it. You gotta keep it beating. For all the hopping cretins. Cretin. Cretin.  The Ramones. Mr.  I saw the Ramones when I was 10. You know my dad was into punk and stuff and...  He would bring you to clubs is what I heard. Mr.  Yeah. Yeah. It was great. But my old man was a bit of a cat. He was pretty funky and he is definitely how I got into you know music and...  So your father would say come on son we are going to a club? Mr.  Well that was - the Clash was the first band I saw and it was my ninth birthday.  The Clash was the first band? Mr.  Yeah.  You saw it on your ninth birthday? Mr.  Yeah. I thought I was going for a Chinese meal and I turned up at the Apollo Theater in Manchester and see tonight only the Clash. And I just nearly wet myself. I had to get out of there though at the end because they played White Riot and the speakers started getting ripped and all that. So my dad be like right come on son let us go now. You know I was only a kid but I got the feeling of it - the spirit - I understood it.  I guess for a kid in Manchester London Calling is a big song right? Mr.  Yeah that - that record was amazing you know.  And then   do I have that right? Mr.  Yeah  the USA. I think that song was actually I am in love with the USA but they did not think it was punk enough   Mr.   has to be anti-authoritarian all that stuff.  I never heard that. I like that explanation. Mr.  No apparently that is true that Joe Strummer - I think Mick Jones and Joe Strummer went It is too nice turn it into - let us make it a negative.  Oh that is hilarious. Well he is a great showman. Can I ask you about the dedication of this album? Mr.  Well to my dad really who passed away.  Right Francis James Goodwin. Mr.  Yeah at Christmas. He passed away while we were making the record.  finished it.  He must have been very proud of you. Mr.  I guess he was yeah. We were quite estranged at the end which is the sad part of it.  I am sorry. Mr.  I am still just sort of making sense of it.  Really? Mr.  Yeah.  You have had a lot of success as the Doves after changing your name and your style. What do you see in the future? Mr.  I think we have got an album  we need to shake it up again.  Mm-hmm. Mr.  Possibly by doing things separately or doing a film soundtrack or something like that. We love film music. It is definitely big part of the inspiration for Doves and - so if anyone out there and wants to offer us a massive Hollywood movie we will entertain the idea.      Thank you so much for being with us Jimi. Mr.  No problem.      Jimi Goodwin of the Doves joins us in our studios. Their latest album Kingdom of Rust is out now.     