 Comedian Mark Malkoff has lived for a week inside of an IKEA store. He is consumed beverages at 171 Starbucks in Manhattan in less than 24 hours and he proved that his kids Big Wheel bike could beat a New York City bus across 42nd Street. So what worlds are left to conquer? How about talking to someone at every country in the world over Skype.  Good morning Belgium. Good morning Pakistan.  Welcome to Beijing.  Mark Malkoff used Facebook and Twitter to try to locate willing participants in 162 countries including North Korea. He joins us now from New York. Thanks so much for being with us.  Oh Scott it is great talking to you again. Thanks for having me.  And the kids in the Gambia with whom you spoke just made me smile.   I mean are not they adorable? I mean it was just like I had no idea that people were going to bring their kids into the video pets people prayed in the video people sang to me.   The Swedish guy could not sing ABBA very well.   No I do not think he is going to be hired on Mama Mia anytime soon.  Are you still in touch with anybody you met this way?  They have invited me I would say probably a quarter of the people have invited me to stay in their homes. That was just something I did not expect. They were proud of their country. They even would go outside and show me landmarks. They would show me the mountains I got to see the entire city of Dubai which was beautiful Tiananmen Square and I try to reciprocate so I showed people around the world the Brooklyn Bridge. It was just this connection.  I was very touched by the fact that when at least what I saw when you asked people what they wanted in life whatever their differences there was an astonishing commonality in the answer.  Yeah it is true. I mean it was just love and peace and it was just you know we are way more similar then different. And I have gotten a lot of messages from viewers around the world that the video definitely made them laugh but people were crying a lot. I mean the words were just very touching. It just really really changed me doing this video.  Look I enjoy your self-seeking publicity stunts but...  OK.  I will look forward to the next one but was this something else too?  You know just I feel like I have made all these friends and I really do hope to travel and meet some of these people.  That would be nice would not it?  Yeah you can come with me.  Thank you. Good. This is good to know. Well Mark good talking to you.  Scott it was a pleasure as always.  Comedian Mark Malkoff in New York.  If you could say one thing to people all around the world what would it be?  Just tell everyone to be happy be satisfied be at peace.  Love one another.  I would tell the world to have much more love to each other.  This is NPR News.  