 I am Scott Simon. President Obama's former campaign manager has gone to work for Uber - but do not expect to get him on your app. The ride-sharing startup service based in San Francisco has hired David Plouffe in the hope that the strategist who helped elect the president can steer Uber through a thicket of local regulatory disputes and set a course for future development. We are joined now from San Francisco by NPR's Aarti Shahani. Thanks very much for being with us.  Thank you.  So why does Uber need one of the - well one of the obviously best and best paid political strategists in the country?  Well first off they can afford him right? Full time. I tried to find out exactly what Plouffe is getting paid. Uber will not say but the company is valued at something like 18 billion. And in terms of why they need so much muscle Uber is taking on the taxi industry for one. Cabbies are saying that Uber is just a smartphone-enabled taxi and should be subject to all the same roles they are. And that level of regulation would really hurt Uber's business. Then there is the whole part about insuring part-time drivers. Uber has a million-dollar insurance policy but it is still very limited as to when it kicks in.  So what is David Plouffe's job on day one would you guess?  Well there are a lot of campaigns to be fought. Uber's CEO Travis Kalanick is spinning this one as an epic campaign of Silicon Valley innovation against the big taxi cartel - those are his words not mine. Uber will not get into the details but presumably Plouffe is going to lead a big marketing push and the both of them appeared this week on Bloomberg TV to talk about the partnership.  Let us play a piece of that. This is Travis Kalanick talking about what David Plouffe's going to do.   You know it is about communications policy branding and strategy - and weaving that together to tell a story in the cities that we are going to do about how safe the rides are about the tens of thousands of jobs we are creating every month and making sure cities understand the progress that Uber represents.  Tell a story - now that is become a very political phrase like we have to establish a narrative for this campaign.  Oh yeah a very strong one. And mind you Obama's 2008 campaign was a social media home run. And that was well before the app ecosystem and smartphones took off. And so you know you will recall in Obama's campaign there were homegrown sites and My Personal Obama Testimony. So now we might see a My Uber Stories take off with you know dads and moms talking about how they can pay the bills. So presumably bringing on Plouffe is in part an effort to push out the stories that show hey Uber is good for the public.  I doubt Uber is valued at 18 billion just because it wants to schlep people from point A to point B. They just started deliveries on demand in Washington D.C. in fact and a lot of people wonder if they are not trying to position themselves to be the next Amazon deliver anything anywhere.  You know Uber is experimenting with the transportation of people and goods - and some very kitschy transportation too I mean they did Valentine's Day roses and this weird get-a-kitten-for-an-hour kind of thing. And it could be that they really expand their wings their fleet you know - not to mix metaphors - in the transportation of people and goods. It could be that they go in another direction. They are backed by Google Ventures. They just made a huge partnership with ATT so they are clearly looking for partnerships and integration and penetration. And also Google is about moon shots right? So it is possible that they move beyond transportation itself into other kinds of goods and services. Now besides Uber's business model I am really curious to see if Plouffe comes up with his own product line or startup. You know he is a political operative who loves technology and he used the Internet to win the 2008 campaign for Obama. And frankly right now there is a bunch of tech startups that are making Get Out The Vote apps and marketing to candidates in both parties. So we might see Plouffe do his stint at Uber milk all the amazing Silicon Valley contacts and bounce to his own startup.  Aarti Shahani NPR Technology correspondent. Thanks so much.  Thank you. 