 The series Upright opens with a man hauling an upright piano and a trailer across the bare Australian landscape. He is frazzled and alone at the wheel guzzles beer and gobbles pills. He gets a text message - mate time is running out. Do not duck this up. Ah spell check. Then he drives into a ditch hears his piano bleat and an angry profane 16-year-old.    Are you kidding me?   But it is my piano.   And this is my arm .   Well wait a minute. We can just take the trailer off and hook it to the ute. We can do that right?  The axle's gone.  Upright is the story of two strangers Lucky and Meg who take off across the expanse of Australia scheming swearing pilfering and becoming vital to each other. Upright airing on Sundance Now stars and is co-created by Tim Minchin. And we are joined now from Sydney by the singer songwriter satirist and composer Tim Minchin. Thanks so much for being with us.  Hi Scott. Thank you for having me again all these years later.  What put these remarkable characters in your mind and heart?  Well they got delivered to me by a friend of mine called Chris Taylor who came up with this premise basically that he wanted to create a comedy show with me in it that involved a guy trying to get across Australia with a piano on the back of a ute - what we call a pickup truck. And I thought it was a pretty seductive kind of idea. And he and a couple of other friends of mine writers invented Meg as well. I sort of got a really strong feeling quite early that a story like that could bear the weight of a lot more drama. So it went from being a quite lighthearted sitcom - which was what the pitch was - to being a much bigger story.  I noticed you could not resist an encounter with a kangaroo.  .  How much Australian does an American audience need to know to understand this road trip?   Have to speak basic Australian. Look. I am not interested in forwarding artificial tropes of Australian - blokey kangaroo you know crocodile-wrestling nonsense. I was incredibly keen as were all the writers to make something quite sophisticated and Upright is a quite sophisticated story. That said in your desire to avoid tropes you do not want to turn your back on the actual absurd reality of your own culture. And the fact is you cannot drive across this country without almost hitting a kangaroo. And you cannot walk through the desert without getting yourself in a bit of trouble. And if you do have interactions with all the wild and wonderful characters who live in the Outback of Australia you will find they are pretty different.  You of course wrote the musical Matilda - wildly successful. Matilda I guess is 5. Meg is 16. You write such vibrant interesting young women - girls as characters. How do you put yourself in their minds and hearts?  That is a nice thing to say. I do not know. I think a great part of the adventure of creation is trying to place yourself in other people's shoes. I think that is what all of us need to do all the time. I think empathy is intuitive but it is also something that you have to work on because of course your empathy tends to more easily fall with people more like you. So you actually have to fight to try and place yourself in the shoes of others. And I guess I am intellectually interested in that.  I ask because I have seen you address it in some recent interviews. What do you think of the contemporary line of criticism that would hold that you cannot really put yourself in the skin of a young woman?  Look. I am open to hearing the ways in which especially powerful groups like straight white cisgendered males like me - I am happy to hear that there - I am absolutely sure there is cultural appropriation. I do not think that necessarily means that everyone should only write from their own point of view just because there is a power differential. I think that is - it just cannot possibly end well. And the other thing - and this - I do not know - might get me some criticism. But I can write a song from a female's point of view better than many females not because of my gender but because I am a songwriter. I have spent many many many years working on the craft of songwriting. The craft is of trying to place yourself in other people's shoes and find interesting ways to express things. And if I have a particular ability hypothetically to express things in a way that shines a light on something then it would be a pity if I only used that craft to shine a light on a straight male cisgendered point of view.  You have an utterly beautiful song in this series that I was not expecting. But what can you tell us about Carry You?  So I wrote Carry You in the back of a prop truck. And I realized that what I needed to write about is a really universal idea that when you cannot be with one another - and obviously it has become incredibly resonant in this current weird time when we are away from our families. And I have actually lost a couple of friends this year. It is really just a song about how whether you like it or not and whatever you believe the people we cannot be with - you carry them. And you carry them not just in a lovely way not just in memory but almost as a burden. You get a sense in this song that he almost wishes he did not have to carry it quite so much.    So though we cannot be together I know that I will carry you. Wherever I go I will carry you. Lord knows I will carry you.  I have got to tell you I heard that song and I thought about my last words I ever uttered to my mother. She was gone at that point but I said to her I will take it from here.  Aw. Yeah and it is tiring taking on that as an - and when you lose people older than you. And yeah so there is a real sense of oh God I have got to shoulder that as well now.  Tim Minchin stars in and is part of the creative team of Upright now on Sundance Now. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks so much Scott.    ...Is all my promise and my pride is all fear and all my fight. 