 Tomorrow youths from around the world were supposed to gather in Anaheim Calif. No not to ride the teacups to compete days of contests culminating in a stirring award ceremony...   Please give a round of applause to all of our competitors.  ...At the 2020 Microsoft Office Specialist World Championship. Every year students as young as 13 on up to 22 show off their wizardry with Excel PowerPoint Word and the rest of the MS Office Suite. But the pandemic put the kibosh on this year's event. To see what we have lost we called two of last year's medalists.  My name is Seth Maddox. I am currently enrolled in Auburn University studying computer engineering.  I am Ashlyn Dumaw. I am from Cary N.C. and I am a rising senior at Green Hope High School.  Both competed in the PowerPoint contest. Maddox got gold and 7000 Dumaw bronze and 1500.  So a lot of people think that it is kind of just making a PowerPoint or some Word document about whatever you want and then like submitting it for judging. And I have actually gotten quite a few questions about it from like fellow classmates. But I do not think people realize like the complexity that goes into it and the different parts that you have to complete for the actual competition.  To win you have to create the PowerPoint as close to sort of the model PowerPoint as you are supposed to make in a short amount of time. You have to use what you know about the program about the font sizes about paragraph spacing about borders about colors.  The world championship caps a long process which in past years has involved more than a million students globally.  It is different for the state level and the national level and the world level. So for the state level all you have to do is take the certification test like you would normally just to get certified in that particular area. So you have to get first in states to be able to go to nationals. And then at the national competition so you start with just a raw text file. So you do not get any sort of like blank presentation. You have to open it yourself and do all of the formatting like based on the instructions that they give you and based on the knowledge that you have of that program. So you do have to consider accuracy first and foremost. But time is also a factor. So you cannot just spend like all the time in the world doing one thing.  Fewer than 200 people end up at the World Championships.  I guess my favorite part of the competition itself it would just be seeing just all the people from so many different countries there.  Seth Maddox and Ashlyn Dumaw shared last year's stage with students from Greece Macao Romania and Taiwan. Maddox is in college now and proudly done competing. Dumaw is not necessarily resting on her laurels.  I do not like go around and - I mean I would say a lot of people at school do not exactly know about these competitions because they are not super publicized or anything. But I have definitely gotten a lot of questions from people about like oh how do I do this in Microsoft Word? Or how do I add this type of thing in PowerPoint? And it is just really cool to be able to use the skills that you have learned and to help others with it. This was my junior year of high school and so I had a lot of like different classes that I needed to concentrate on for college applications. So I decided to like take a step back this year but I was potentially planning on doing it next year depending on what my course load looks like then. So I guess we will have to see for next year.  If all goes well we will see another round of medalists in 2021 when the World Championship moves to Orlando. 