 Tension between the United States and Russia has been running high after friction over issues like NSA leaker Edward Snowden missile defense Syria and human rights. But while President Obama snubbed Russian president Vladimir Putin and called off plans to go to Moscow next month top U.S. and Russia officials met in Washington yesterday. They said they had plenty of other business to discuss and both sides seemed eager to show that this is not some new sort of cold war - as NPR's Michele Kelemen reports.  Secretary of State John Kerry tried to lighten the mood at the State Department as he and defense secretary Chuck Hagel hosted their Russian counterparts - the two Sergeis as Kerry says.  Sergei Lavrov and I are old hockey players and we both know that diplomacy like hockey can sometimes result in the occasional collision.  But there was no small talk when Sergei Lavrov Russia's foreign minister and Sergei Shoigu the defense minister addressed reporters at the embassy later in the day. There Lavrov recounted a conversation he had with Kerry earlier this year.  He said well I believe that we can make a difference in Russian-American relations. Let us act as adults and that is what we are trying to do.  Lavrov says the case involving NSA leader Edward Snowden should not disrupt relations. He says Russia was just following its laws when it offered Snowden temporary asylum.  Edward Snowden did not overshadow our discussions. This was mentioned as a fact which we have on our hands but the main discussion was about the issues which we have on our agenda which are of huge interest of the United States for Russia Federation and to the entire world.  U.S. officials also say the Snowden affair did not color the discussion which they say was positive and constructive. They say this two-plus-two format with the foreign and defense ministers will continue. At the top level though President Obama is making clear that he is pushing the pause button and reassessing the relationship which changed when Vladimir Putin returned to the Kremlin.  We saw more rhetoric on the Russian side that was anti-American that played into some of the old stereotypes about the Cold War contest between the United States and Russia. And I have encouraged Mr. Putin to think forward as opposed to backwards on those issues with mixed success.  But he is playing down suggestions that he and Putin just cannot get along.  I know the press likes to focus on body language and he is got that kind of slouch looking like the bored kid in the back of the classroom. But the truth is is that when we are in conversations together oftentimes it is very productive.  Not productive enough for a summit in September though. White House officials say they want more progress on arms reductions and missile defense. Russia's defense minister Sergei Shoigu came away from his first meeting with Defense Secretary Hagel sounding optimistic about that. He says he and Hagel will hold regular video conferences and he says he is invited the U.S. to join in a friendly military competition - a tank biathlon in Russia. Michele Kelemen gton. 