 Fifty years ago this summer long before Ferguson riots broke out in cities around the country sparked by confrontations between black residents and their predominantly white police forces. NPR's Hansi Lo Wang of our Code Switch team looks back at the summer of 64. HANSI LO WANG  In Philadelphia it began after dark in late August.  You know it was a hot day. And you just - was not too much activity you know in the hood as they say.  Kenneth Salaam was 15 years old in 1964. He was hanging out on his block with friends when police cars began zipping by one after another. He ran towards the action.  Crowds of people with police. And then you hear glass breaking. And now I know it is a riot. Did not know what started it you know there were so many rumors as people was coming - what happened? What happened? What happened? What is going on?  What happened was the start of three days of rioting in one of Philadelphia's dominantly black neighborhoods. It made news around the country like in this New York City radio broadcast by WOR.   What began as a minor traffic dispute last night in a Negro section of Philadelphia has since resulted in rioting and looting with damage running to more than a half a million dollars.  That incident involved a white police officer trying to remove a black woman from a car that had stalled at an intersection. Kenneth Salaam says conflicting accounts of what happened quickly spread through the streets.  To hear a white police officer hitting a black woman I mean that is enough to take the lid off that pot that is been boiling.  In another version of the story the woman had been shot and killed.  It was a false rumor but it captured a feeling that had been present all summer in that community.  Matthew Countryman author of Up South Civil Rights And Black Power In Philadelphia says anger over police brutality and chronic poverty sparked many residents to hurl bricks bottles and rocks at the police and some looted neighborhood stores. Just weeks before the chaos President Lyndon Johnson had signed the Civil Rights Act into law. But Countryman says that was not enough to lift the hopes of many African-Americans struggling in the nation's cities.  It was focused on the desegregation of South. We missed the national story of unequal opportunity that was a national experience for African-Americans at the time.  The summer of 1964 began with unrest in New York City. Classes in Harlem and Bedford-Stuyvesant between protesters and police officers prompted by a familiar tragedy.  There was the killing of an unarmed minority youth by a police force that was almost entirely white.  Cathy Schneider is the author of Police Power And Race Riots.  What New York shows is that when police behave in minority communities like an occupying Army we are likely to see eventually an egregious act of violence.  In the aftermath of New York Martin Luther King Jr. spoke about the responsibilities of black leaders in that moment of crisis.  MARTIN LUTHER KING JR. We must vigorously condemn the violence and lawlessness of the Negro community. On the other hand we must be equally vigorous in appealing to the white power structure to give us some concrete victories.  That message was hard for some African-Americans to accept.  We had reached a point in this community that people were screaming - no longer talking to each other they were screaming at each other.  Constance Mitchell was 36 and the first black woman elected locally as a county supervisor when violence erupted in Rochester New York that same summer. Those riots left five dead hundreds injured and almost a thousand in custody after police tried to arrest a drunken man. The distrust between a mostly white police force and black residents fueled the riots. Mitchell says the last two weeks in Ferguson proved that same feeling is alive and dangerous today.  You mean to tell me 50 years have gone by and we are still in the same boat? So much time has gone by did we learn anything from that?  In Ferguson and across the nation communities are still waiting for the answer. Hansi Lo Wang NPR News. 