 A word of caution now. You are about to hear the old nursery rhyme Little Jack Horner in the creepy voice of one of the world's first talking dolls.    Little Jack Horner sat in a corner eating a...  Thomas Edison built and sold about 500 of these talking dolls back in 1890. NPR's Neda Ulaby says that new technology has made hearing the dolls possible for the first time in decades.  And you may never unhear this glassy-eyed cherub shrieking out a child's prayer.    Now I lay me down to sleep. I pray the Lord my soul to keep.  That is most likely one of Edison's female factory workers imitating a little girl or so says Jerry Fabris. He curates sound recordings at Thomas Edison National Historical Park. Fabris says Edison was for the first time trying to market the then brand-new wax-cylinder phonograph for people to use at home. He thought the best vehicle would be a doll.  About two feet tall - it would have wooden arms and legs.  Encased in its metal body was a miniature phonograph spring-activated by a crank sticking out of the doll's back. Edison knew the sound quality was raw so he had the dolls recite recognizable verses like Hickory Dickory Dock.    Hickory dickory dock. The mouse ran up the clock.  Were these pleasant to listen to back in 1890?  No I do not think so. Edison himself thought they were unpleasant.  So did everyone else. The dolls flopped in the market not because people thought they were creepy but because they were expensive about 200 in today's money. And people thought the dolls were not lifelike enough. They wanted moving mouths and the dolls' voices to be understandable. Edison stopped making the talking dolls after about a month.  After the business failed he referred to them as little monsters.  Which raises a larger question. Why do we find talking dolls so scary?    Hi I am Chucky. Want to play?  .  Talking toys occupy their own horror sub-genre that led to their own parodies.    My name is Talking Tina and I love you very much.   Will you shut that thing off?   My name is Talking Tina and I think I could even hate you.    I am Krusty the Clown and I do not like you. .  I am Krusty the Clown and I am going to kill you.  Did not even pull the string that time.  A talking toy belongs in an unsettling middle space says horror scholar Caetlin Benson-Allott. It is human but not that human.  Where it is both familiar and different and we do not kind of understand if it is entirely dead or entirely alive.  It is what Sigmund Freud called the uncanny she says. And we can feel it as a subconscious holdover from childhood when we pretend our dolls are real. Even as knowing grown-ups it is that lurking apprehension she says.  That that doll is actually alive and watching me.  Benson-Allott says we have probably freaked ourselves out with dolls for as long as we have used dolls in rituals and in play. When we give anything power she says from a talking doll to technology there is a sense - even a fear - that that power might turn back on us.    Twinkle twinkle little star how I wonder what you are.  Neda Ulaby NPR News. 