 In La La La a little girl wanders around the pages of a book singing to herself. She is alone and lonely until she finds an unlikely friend the moon. It is illustrated by Jaime Kim and authored by Kate DiCamillo who is written dozens of children's books including the Mercy Watson series and the novel Because Of Winn-Dixie.  It is true that in the 20 years that I have been doing this I have literally never met or talked to the artist until the book is done.  This summer we are asking authors and illustrators how they work together or separately to translate words into pictures or in this case word because for La La La DiCamillo gave illustrator Jaime Kim a challenge - a manuscript with exactly one word.  The only word in this is la. And I do not even know if that counts as a word. I guess it does. If you are playing Scrabble it is officially a word.  Oh and a doodle.  I drew this really small terrified-looking circle. It was at a time in my life when I felt kind of small and terrified which is actually when I think about it most days. Anyway I drew this small terrified circle and then a big light-filled circle above it. And I became preoccupied with these circles and figuring out how to make them connect. And finally I figured it was by singing. Then the small circle did not feel alone anymore. And then Jaime got these small circles and turned it into this symphony of singing.  As an illustrator I first thought about creating a character which is just circle shape. But then I decided that a little girl is best suited to this story. I actually reflected my childhood personality into the main character. I was really introverted and a shy girl when I was very young. And my little sister - she was kind of my first-ever friend in my life. So in the book there is a moment when the main character miss her first friend the moon. That scene reminds me the feeling when I first saw my sister. Yeah. That is my story.  I love that so much because there is a moment at the end when the little girl's face - she is ecstatic as she and the moon are singing together. And because there - as Jamie said there is no text to speak of it becomes kind of a universal experience because of the lack of text and then the gorgeousness of the art. So you open it. And you automatically emotionally connect with this small child. The colors are deep and vibrant. And then they become even more so once the connection happens. Kids that do not even know how to read yet can read it and they do. There was a woman who told me at a signing that her daughter who was 3 read the book - I am using air quotes but of course that does not help because it is radio - and said the girl's not alone anymore because the moon sees her. And so it totally got the whole thing. And that was because of the art.  I actually kept worrying that what if the readers - they would not interpret the story as I intended or as Kate intended? But every time those kind of concern hit me I tried to think that the reader - they do not really have to feel the same way what I felt because Kate - she has her own story. And I have my own. So I want the readers to have their own stories through this book. Yeah.  Yeah. That is beautiful which is what we always want because what I think every time I write a story is that it is not complete until somebody else reads it and then reading it is not getting what I intended but rather both of us being in the story together the teller and the person who is reading the book.  That was Kate DiCamillo and illustrator Jaime Kim talking about their book La La La. 