 In Indonesia authorities are awaiting DNA tests to determine whether a man killed yesterday in a gun battle with police is Southeast Asia's most wanted terrorist. He is blamed for a string of bombings since 2002 including last month's hotel attacks in Jakarta. NPR's South Asia correspondent Michael Sullivan has more.  Dead or alive it is clear Noordin Top has been a very busy fugitive the past few months. He is believed to be the man behind last month's suicide bombings of the J. W. Marriott and Ritz Carlton hotels in Jakarta that killed nine people. Indonesia's national police chief says Noordin was also planning a suicide car bomb attack on Indonesia's President Susilo Bambang Yudoyono. Police say two of Noordin's associates were killed in a raid yesterday on a house just a few miles from the president's home. The raid yielded a large quantity of explosives and a vehicle rigged to carry them - the president's house the police chief says about a 10 minute's drive away. National Police Chief Bambang Hendarso Danuri says the decision to target the president was made in an April 30th meeting chaired by Noordin Top who wanted the president punished for allowing the execution of three men convicted of taking part in the 2002 Bali bombings which killed 202 people  mostly Australian tourists. The Malaysian-born Noordin helped plan those attacks and almost every other major bombing in Indonesia since. Once a senior operative in the Southeast Asian terror network Jemaah Islamiyah Noordin left J.I. several years ago and formed his own splinter group. In addition to last month's attacks on the J.W. Marriott and Ritz Carlton hotels his group is also blamed for the 2005 Bali bombings that killed another two dozen people. Indonesian security forces have rounded up or killed several hundred militants in the past several years but Noordin Top has consistently eluded capture protected by a small but well-disciplined group of supporters and sympathizers. Indonesia's national police chief says he is not sure if one of the bodies recovered in yesterday's raids is in fact Noordin's. And many analysts are expressing skepticism the man who has evaded police for seven years has been killed. A talented fundraiser and planner Noordin also had a gift for attracting new recruits to the cause and persuading them to become suicide bombers. If he is dead analysts say it will deal a huge blow to other militants' plans to carry out similar attacks in the future. Michael Sullivan NPR News. 