 Ushio Shinohara was the bad boy of the avant-garde art world when he came to the U.S. more than 50 years go. The Japanese artist knew Andy Warhol hung out with multi-media artist Red Grooms and painted wearing boxing gloves covered with pigment. He met his wife Noriko not long after arriving in the U.S. She is an artist too but she spent most of her career living in his shadow. The story of their life together is the subject of an intimate new documentary. It is called Cutie and the Boxer. Karen Michel has the story.  The film takes its title from Ushio's style of painting and the pigtailed Noriko's nickname.  Eleven years ago I was walking on the street with my hair tied to braid. Younger guy approached to me like about 25 years old. He said Hi cutie. I at that time maybe '48 or 9 so it will not happen to many women who young guy approach to hi cutie so same thing I ask my family and my friend call me cutie.  She sits in the same cluttered studio that filmmaker Zachary Heinzerling captured in his feature-length debut. He had been working for HBO making mostly sports docs when he met the couple at an open studio and knew they would be great subjects for a documentary.  They live these authentically Japanese lives but sort of transplanted in Brooklyn. Yeah they live in this loft that is this sort of catacomb of history - paint everywhere photos everywhere. And there is a sort of open-door policy there you kind of come in you experience them and their world and then you leave and you are kind of back in the city.  The couple lives in two upper floors of a building in one of those Brooklyn neighborhoods most artists can no longer afford. Often neither can the Shinoharas. Ushio leads the way to the rooftop.  This is my studio so I am very lucky because I am an outside worker.  He likes working outside in part because many of his pieces are huge. He points to a motorcycle taller than he is and three times as long. It is neon green headlamp is like a cycloptic insect and its engine resembles the head of a Tyrannosaurus rex.  When I came here 40 years ago everything  but finally motorcycle.  Shinohara came to New York in 1959 the recipient of a generous grant and he made an impression.  He is a genius.  Alexandra Munroe is the Guggenheim Museum's senior curator of Asian art. She is been a fan for decades.  He is a maker of ideas. He is a maker of cultural revolutions. He never cared about making money. I think he was fashioning himself after a radical artist and fashioning himself after a kind of heroic radical artist after even a Pollock for that matter.  Ushio Shinohara chose other American icons for his subjects.  This motorcycle made of cardboard.  Inspired by seeing Marlon Brando on this Triumph Ushio Shinohara's scrounged cardboard ubiquitous in the city streets and started creating his versions of motorcycles both smaller than life and like the roof much larger. Have you ever had a motorcycle?  Never.   I have no knowledge of mechanic and I am nearsight and my temper is an artist's temper. Sometimes up sometimes down. Very dangerous motorcycle.  He exorcises his temperament in part by pounding that canvas. The creation of his boxing paintings is a performance. He wears swim goggles and boxing gloves with foam attached to them with rubber bands.   Often shirtless and still trim at 81 Ushio dips the boxing gloves into paint and hammers at the canvas from right to left as if he is writing kanji with his fists. The film also captures the couple's domestic life. Noriko brushes her long gray hair and plaits her two braids. They eat dinner they do their artwork and they bicker over rent and bills and the son who seems to be following his father's path into alcoholism though Ushio quit drinking a few years ago. After his initial brush with fame Shinohara's reputation rests mostly in the art world. Yet he is still the dominant personality at home. The film shows Noriko Shinohara's emergence as an artist from under the outsized reputation of her strong-willed husband. She tells me it took her three days to clear out a little  of their living space to do her own work.  I moved my  and declared this is my country so he cannot come in without a visa. And this is my etching and this is the way I always work when do do the same.  Towards the end of Cutie and the Boxer the couple opens a joint show in New York. His massive sculptures and wall-sized boxing paintings fill galleries. Noriko chooses to paint her work directly on the walls of the space she is given. It is narrative much like a comic book of a couple she calls Bullie and Cutie and a relationship that seems like theirs.  People think Cutie is me but it is not me. She is smarter than me because she treat Bullie well tricks Bullie and she wins. But in my life I did not win him yet.  Not after 40 years?  It is so difficult.  Even after 40 years together theirs is a relationship in flux.  I am a free secretary free assistant free ship. If you wish you can kick me out right? That is what you are talking about. You are poor. That is why you are with me.  I need you.  Because you somebody to read the subway may right?   Cutie hate Bullie.  Oh Cutie love the Bullie so much.   For NPR News I am Karen Michel in New York. 