 The emptying downtown mall is a nationwide concern. Borders Books for example is in the process of closing nearly 400 stores after filing Chapter 11 earlier this year. By next month many of those stores are likely to be barren. That is just one example of so-called anchor stores closing around the country. Last week home improvement chain Lowe's announced it was shutting several underperforming stores. Joining me from the Brookings Institution to talk about how the retail landscape is evolving in many communities is Chris Leinberger. Welcome to our program.  Thank you.  So Chris Leinberger we see these things around the country. What is the immediate impact to neighborhoods and communities when a big store that is been an anchor closes?  Well it depends on the strength of the local place and I am in particular looking at the walkable urban places as opposed to the drivable places. And with walkable urban places sometimes it can be very positive. There are Borders stores that are being taken over by restaurants. In one case it is a 24-hour seven-day-a-week restaurant. On the other hand there will be places that will be chopped up and they will become small boutiques. And some places they will stay empty for a time because the walkable place is not quite so strong. So it will vary but retail changes. That is just the nature of the beast.  Is there a ripple effect for nearby stores?  Yes. Because the anchor stores of course draw people to the location. Many times anchor stores do not pay as much rent. In fact sometimes some anchor stores do not pay rent at all and they are used purely to draw people there. So it certainly has an impact on the retailers around them and it could be negative.  Is there any sort of upside to a big store like Borders closing its doors?  Actually yes because most of the national chains led by chains like Target and Safeway and Whole Foods are all experimenting and implementing urban formats. So Targets most of the major grocery chains understand that walkable urban places are very successful much more profitable than their drivable suburban places. And believe it or not even Wal-Mart - I will believe it when I see it of course - but even Wal-Mart's experimenting with urban stores.  But what about places that are more far-flung when you have a Target or a Borders anchoring a sort of a pedestrian place that you then drive to?  That is going to be a bit more difficult. That if it is a drivable suburban strip mall it might be many years before that Borders or any other big box that vacates it will find a new tenant and probably the new tenant will be a lower-end tenant. In essence we have overbuilt drivable suburban retail. We have got far too much of it. And there is pent-up demand for walkable urban places. And those places by the way are every bit as likely to be in a suburb as they are in a city.  What are some of the places around the country that you are talking about places that have developed this walk to the stores concept and kind of created an edge community?  Well they fall into three camps. There is the redeveloped strip malls and the best example is a place called Belmar in southwest Denver - it is the first suburb outside of Denver. And they bulldozed the mall and put in a grid of streets and a Whole Foods and retail and housing and office a big movie theater. Then you have got suburban town centers that fell into decline such as Santa Monica and Pasadena in southern California and they have been revitalized tremendously. And then there is also greenfield developments. And the best one in the country is Reston Town Center outside of Washington ironically developed by Mobil Oil Company. But it is a highly successful walkable urban place. It is kind of you just add water and poof you have instant urbanity.  I imagine that made a lot of people happy. Those are some success stories. Are there other kinds of places you think could be more challenged?  Well certainly fringe drivable suburban strip malls are going to be challenged. And they have sort of lost their reason to exist. The pendulum's basically swinging back the other way. And so we are seeing starting in the mid-'90s but really picked up steam in this past decade we are seeing a structural shift in how we build the built environment. The last structural shift was back in the '50s and '60s and this is now another one as the pendulum begins to move towards creating more walkable urban places. Whether it be in the cities but even more so transforming inner-suburban places.  Chris Leinberger from the Brookings Institution and the author of The Option of Urbanism. It is been a pleasure talking to you.  Thank you very much. 