 Time for sports.   The Big Ten and Pac-12 cancel their full seasons while other leagues planning to play. And the St. Louis Coronavirus Cardinals are on their way to Chicago for a big series. ESPN Michelle Steele joins us from Chicago. Thanks for being with us Michelle.  Sure Scott. Great to talk to you again.  Oh wonderful to talk to you. And what do these other conferences know or think they know that makes them go ahead and play while the Big Ten and Pac-12 have canceled?  Yes it is real interesting right? Interesting is one word for it. Bonkers I think is another. And to me it is just a microcosm...  That is a good one too yeah.  Yeah it is a microcosm for the whole country is handling this virus. You know you have got the South going one way the Midwest going another and on and on. Now you mentioned the Big Ten was the first to come out and stake the position of you know there is too many unknowns here. Nobody really knows the long-term ramifications. Let us just delay this to the spring. And they were followed quickly by the Pac-12. Now the other conferences who are playing - the SECC the ACC and the Big 12 - they have got their own medical experts that they are leaning on. And they say that they can play safely. So they are pressing forward for now. But I think the quote of the week came from the NCAA their health advisor Carlos Del Rio who said Scott he feels like they have hit the Titanic. They have hit the iceberg. They are on the Titanic - excuse me - and quote we are trying to make decisions on what time the band should play. The other conferences obviously do not think they are on the Titanic.  Puts players in a heck of a position does not it?  Oh gosh yeah. I mean for the guys who are sidelined there is tremendous disappointment. Now some of them who are eligible will start preparing for the NFL draft. They are not going to go back to college. Most guys though are going to wait for the spring. But everybody's watching the conferences who are going to play. You know we are already seeing Scott players hold out from practice or speak out about you know inadequate safety protocols. You know Syracuse and Florida State players did this week.  There is a - let us switch to baseball. There is a caravan on the road Route 66 between St. Louis and Chicago this weekend is not there?  Yeah. Yeah. You and I know it well but there is 41 rental cars that went from St. Louis to Chicago. Now I can tell you that Cardinals players do like each other but the team decided to rent 41 cars for every member of the traveling party because they want to keep them away from each other for as much as possible before they regroup at the ballpark in Chicago today. The Cards Scott have had 18 players and staff infected with the coronavirus. They have not played baseball for the last two and a half weeks. So they are going to play a bunch of baseball on the South Side of Chicago for the next couple of days and then they are going to go to the north side. They are going to try to minimize travel as much as possible. But they are going to be playing a bunch of baseball between now and the end of September.  To finish a 60-game game schedule. And so it is going to be double header after double. header is not it?  Yeah if you like double headers you are in luck. Fifty-five games in 44 days and the teams already had - yeah. Yeah they have had seven more double headers added to their schedule to make up for all the lost time. You know they have only played five games. So it is August 15...  Well that is astonishing. Yeah.  It is absolutely jaw dropping. They have 21 games to play for the rest of the month. It is August 15 already so they might want to invest in some pitching help if you ask me.  Just some pitching help and you know I think some vitamin supplements too. In any event ESPN's Michelle Steele. Always good to talk to you. Thanks so much.  You too Scott.  