 The members of the rock band Young The Giant met as kids in Irvine Calif. Most of them are either immigrants or children of immigrants. Here's Sameer Gadhia the band's vocalist.  My parents are Indian. Francois our drummer is from Montreal. Jacob I met the first time he ever came to America the first day of middle school. He is British. Payam is of Persian descent and Eric is Italian and Jewish.  Young The Giant's new album is called Home Of The Strange and it centers around the question of American and immigrant identity.    Land of the free home of the strange from shining sea to mountains grey.  When I spoke with Sameer Gadhia about the new album I asked him - who is strange in home of the strange whether it was immigrants like his parents or first-generation Americans like him?  Most directly I think it is maybe my narrative as a first-generation American. We have a lot of ties to India and that heritage and the tradition and the philosophy cultural practices. But then you know we grew up here. And my parents more than anyone wanted me to find success and chase that American - elusive American dream. And so home of the strange I think is the place in between those two places.    Do what you want to take what you need. Let me live in the moment let freedom be.  There is another song on the album called Something To Believe In. It is about finding your own path in life. Let us take a listen to it.    I will give you something to believe in. Burn up a basement full of demons. Realize you are a slave to your mind. Break free. Now give me something to believe in.  Sameer you personally had to defy expectations and find your own path in life too. You were an undergrad at Stanford studying to be a doctor and then you scratched all those plans to focus totally on music. So I am assuming that there was this moment when you had to tell your parents you know forget the whole pre-med thing. I am just going to drop out of college to be a rock star.   Obviously you know gut reaction from my parents was are you crazy you know? But you know my parents come both from musical backgrounds. My dad's mom was a classical Indian music singer and my mom was a singer. And there was always music around the household when I was young. And it was not - it was not like a secret affair by any means you know? I think they came to shows at a very young age. But when it did happen - it is funny because my dad is a very logical rational person. And so I kind of played to that and almost like went in as if I was like an attorney or something. And I think we had some bogus paperwork numbers and all that stuff. This is you know how many people come to our shows and you know if we can extrapolate blah blah blah . And that was kind of not necessarily what won him over. I think it was just the tenacity or the real drive I think that all of us had to really want to pursue this.    And I said you have got to listen. I am a songbird with a brand-new track. You underestimate.  God there is so much about that that I relate to. I quit being a lawyer in 2006 and my parents were really disappointed because they had thought you know like all my life had led up to that moment being this successful lawyer. And I said no I think I want to try this public radio thing. And they did not quite get it. At least your parents - you say they were musicians so they could kind of at some level relate to your passion right? But were they very disappointed?  You know I think they were. And my parents are very emotional people. And I think traditionally with immigrant families you find that the stereotype is that it is hard to relate or transmit emotion across generations. But my parents are the exact opposite. Yeah I think it just made them sad and made them worried that - they did not want me to fail. I think they did not want me to feel dejected.  Let us listen to another track on the album. This one is called Amerika. Now that is America spelled with a K. You said you were inspired by Franz Kafka's unfinished book by the same name.    And so I have arrived with gold in my eyes. Are you paying attention?  How does this song interact with Kafka's unfinished story?  The book - it was not published at the time of his death. And he actually told his friend who he gave all of his copies to - he said just under no circumstances will you ever publish this. And his friend realized that you know it was - it would be a travesty if he did not. And so it is just a very strange elusive story of this kid who is forced to leave Germany. And he becomes a stowaway on a boat and finds himself going to America and just has all these really really bizarre dreamlike things that happen to him where he is really just at the end the day trying to belong or find some sort of grounding where he can feel like he knows what is going on.    Always talking about one day in America. Same old story. You want glory son. I have been looking for so long.  And the second that you think that that is about to happen it just completely gets pulled under his feet. I think in a lot of ways that speaks to me in terms of the immigrant experience in America. And...  ...What do you mean by that?  I think you know the second that you feel like you may or may not belong to the place that you call home the rug gets pulled under you and you realize that you are different. And I think a lot of young people have their issues with this and you know they want to whitewash themselves or they feel insecure or embarrassed by their heritage. But you know I think when people look back - when America eventually hopefully becomes completely again renewed by this mixing and meshing of different cultures that these first-generation Americans is - was a very unique time in American history because we have that duality. And it is so conscious within us that it is up to us to really tell the story and figure out where we go next.  Sameer Gadhia of the band Young The Giant. Their new album is Home Of The Strange. It was such a pleasure talking to you Sameer. Thank you so much.  Thank you very much.    I saw a picture of you today.  Our theme music is written by BJ Leiderman. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Ailsa Chang and Rachel Martin will return next week.    You wore those bells we found on Champs-Elysees framed like the golden masters forgotten all these years . 