 Bernadette Fox is a successful architect in a rut. She has not designed anything in 20 years. She has insomnia. Her only joy is her daughter Bee whom she had after several miscarriages.    I just need you to know how hard it is for me sometimes.   What is hard?   The banality of life. But I retain the right to be incredibly moved by those little things no one notices.  And then one day after a surprise intervention with a psychiatrist organized by her husband Bernadette Fox up and disappears. Where did You Go Bernadette? has been adapted from a book into a movie starring Cate Blanchett and directed by Richard Linklater. And they join me now from Toronto. Welcome.  Thank you.  Hello.  When we meet Bernadette Fox she is a different person than the one we hear about before moving to Seattle with her family. So let us start with who was Bernadette Fox?  Well that is the eternal question is not it? She was a MacArthur genius. She was someone in a very happy marriage to a kind of a tech wizard. And then I think something that the book does not really deal with but I always thought was the quintessential change in her life is that she then had a series of miscarriages and so grief started to enter her life. And at the same time she experienced monumental creative failure. And so she ran away from both of those experiences and ended up in Seattle. And so Seattle became the point of all her rage and frustration and grief.  I have to say Seattle does not do well in this film .  I love Seattle. I have had nothing but great experiences there. It just shows that anyone can be in a wonderful city and if you are miserable you can take it out on whatever your surroundings happen to be.  Richard you adapted this movie from the book. Why did you want to do it?  Oh gosh just the utter complexity of Bernadette that character and the notion of an artist who is not making their art which haunts every artist I would imagine. It does me. I have been fortunate to not go 20 years you know to have these huge breaks. But there is just a rich area of so much going on.  I do want to know Cate because you brought this up about the miscarriages and how she basically gave up so much of herself to have a child I think is a really rich theme throughout the film.  Yeah. I mean it is - I think it is a portrait of a marriage in a family as much as it is about a creative journey. And I think that there is a point that a lot of people could connect to in their own relationships is that as one person's career is taking off another one is stepping back. And then how do you re-enter the thing that you are meant to be doing which is creating and making something? And how do you juggle that with letting a child go? Because apart from her being a creative force Bernadette's also someone who is incapable of entering the next chapter of her life. And I think that a lot of people whether they are fathers or mothers find that really difficult.  Creativity thwarted is probably the most toxic thing in the world. You know the artist thwarted is lethal.  And I think too with - that a creative energy which we have as humans it will out. You know like I have been running away from being an actor my entire life and I feel like I am constantly running away from it. But if...  Really?  Constantly. It is always like this is the last one. No one...  Why?  Oh well look I mean Dr. Freud how long you got? But it does pursue you. And I think that that is the thing is Bernadette has said nope I have made a promise. That is why I call my child Bala Krishna. She was blue and I promised whatever higher force there is that if she survives I am going to put all my creative energy into my child which she did. And the problem is the child is now getting ready to leave and she is got all this energy and so if she does not adhere it to creating and making something new she is going to start feeding on herself and start feeding on her neighbor and on Seattle and on her marriage. And fortunately she - without wanting to give the game away - she does find something.  I have to say what I loved in the film is the mother-daughter relationship and how much her daughter loves her and does not want her to change. And you know there is this very poignant scene where she tells the father that you know we have been having a lot of fun while you have been off working. We have been having a good time and that Bernadette's her best friend.  You know yeah - well exactly. It often happens. You know I do say to my kids a lot - I say you know in the end I love you but I am your mother. I am not your friend. So you have got to let your children go out into the world and make and connect to their own generation and be - they are going to be outside the home. It is really painful and difficult. And the thing is Bernadette is really isolated and in a way her daughter is really isolated and now she is going to move on and go away to school. And so they have both got to let something very precious and very special go.  And Cate when you said that you have been running away from acting I am wondering what you would like to run away to. But is it the parenting? I mean is it when you have children that you are constantly feeling torn or is it something else?  Oh I am sure that is part of it. You know someone asked me a while ago - they said well what else are you passionate about? And I went oh plastic bags? Plastic bags really upset me. Leaf blowers really upset me. Additives really - there is so many - you know but in a way I think probably why I keep returning to acting is because you get a chance to empathetically enter someone else's experience. I think my own experience interests me very little. But also I am a working actor so I have got nothing to complain about.  Richard ultimately this is a very uplifting film.  I hope so because to me this is the definition of a hard-earned hopefulness. It did not come easy for anyone in this film despite their apparent privilege. If there is any message here it is you have to kind of grind it out. And I was not trying to make a simple satisfying ending.  I can promise you it was not simple but it was satisfying .  OK. Well that is a good mark that we were aiming for I believe.  I am sorry if you felt that it should have been unsatisfying but it was not.  No.   Cate Blanchett and Richard Linklater's new movie is Where did You Go Bernadette? Thank you so much.  Thank you.  All right. Nice talking to you.  