 And Secretary Clinton is not the only one who is traveling a lot these days. Despite the global recession a lot of other people are using their passports too. And we are going to take you now to two destinations that you might not have visited. In a moment we will head to huge peninsula in the Middle East. But first we are going to Cuba. Cuba's President Raul Castro threw out the policy last year that banned ordinary Cubans from staying at tourist hotels in their own country. And as a result there is something new this summer at the island's resorts Cuban tourists. Nick Miroff reports.  With 12 miles of white sand beaches and more than 50 hotels Varadero is one of the largest resorts in the Caribbean. Foreign companies partner with the Cuban government to run the place and it is a bit like Cancun without the American college kids. Of course Varadero is still off-limits to American tourists under U.S. law and for years it was pretty much that way for Cubans too. They cleaned the hotel rooms and staffed the restaurants but the island's communist authorities would not let them check in as guests. That policy ended last year and these days dozens of tour buses packed with Cuban vacationers are pouring into Varadero each day. For less than 200 per person Cubans can buy a one week all-inclusive package and finally claim their places in the sand alongside budget-minded Europeans and Canadians. When Cuban vacationer Lorenzo Yeras arrived at the lobby of Varadero's Cuatro Palmas Resort he said there had not been a single foreigner on his bus from Havana. Mr.   They were all Cubans and that is something that makes me really happy. Not that I have anything against foreigners but it is nice to see so many Cubans together sharing that happiness and excitement.  If the Castro government's old policy was intended to enforce some degree of socialist equality its removal is the latest sign that a growing number of the island's residents have money to spend. The average worker's monthly salary here is less than 20 but Varadero's resorts are crowded with Cuba's new economic elite employees of foreign companies private entrepreneurs black marketers and farmers prospering from the country's new land reforms. Felix Beatoy an actor said most of the guests at his all-inclusive resort were Cuban. Mr.   You know this is how it works in the rest of the world. Either you can afford something or you cannot. It did not make sense that a Cuban was not allowed to stay in a hotel even if they had the money. We have fixed that just like Cubans not being able to have cell phones. Now if the offer's there but you cannot afford it that is a different problem.  The change is also a welcome one for Cuban-Americans returning to the island to visit family. They used to rely on illegal rentals bribes and other schemes in order to vacation together. But now Cuba's tourist resorts are playing host to large family reunions. Tampa resident Ileana Perez left the island six years ago and she grew tearful describing how she would saved her wages for three years in order to treat nine of her family members to a Varadero vacation. Ms.   I see this as a good thing. At least nine people can come eat and enjoy themselves. But I would have liked to have brought more of my family. I would like them to be able to come here without having to depend on me. They should not have to wait for a family member to come from abroad just to enjoy their own country. And that really hurts.  Foreign tourists in Varadero have long enjoyed a kind of alternate Cuban reality a sunny world of all-you-can-eat buffets in a country accustomed to food rationing. Miami resident Karel Alemany left the island a decade ago. And while his family members seemed to be enjoying themselves by the pool his thoughts were elsewhere with the real Cuba beyond the beach. Mr.  What about the other 11 million people that live here? What if they do not have someone else that comes to Cuba to take them to someplace? How do they live? How do they eat you know? That is something you got to think about that.  This sentiment is just one more strange twist in this communist country's awkward embrace of international tourism. Like Alemany Perez and others many of the fiercest critics of the island's socialist system now find themselves straining to enjoy the beach knowing so many others cannot afford to do the same. For NPR News in Varadero Cuba I am Nick Miroff. 