 Listen up soccer moms. Last week Real Madrid signed an Argentine prodigy named Leonel Angel Coira to a one-year contract. The club is betting that someday he will be mentioned in the same breath with his countryman Leo Messi who plays for rival Barcelona FC and is perhaps the best player in the world. Messi will have a while to wait a while though - young Leonel is only seven years old. We asked Tim Stannard who writes for soccer publication FourFourTwo magazine to explore the issue with us. He joined us on Skype from Madrid. Welcome Tim.  Nice to be here. Thank you very much.  So why would a team want to sign a seven-year-old? I mean why not wait until he is older or maybe even a teenager?  Well everyone's looking for the next big thing so even if it might take 10 12 13 years. And perhaps to give an example of the best futbol player in the world and some will say Leo Messi from Barcelona. He was signed at the age of 13. And they brought him into the youth academy and he made his debut at the age of 17. It is a low-cost gamble. Of course there is cost involved in looking after the kids coaching them over the years. But when you want to keep the player to become a homegrown superstar it is priceless. Or indeed if you eventually end up selling on the player it can be an enormous benefit on your investment.  What type of contract do you sign a seven-year-old to? And will Coira get paid?  He will not get paid no. During the day he will be educated as normal. And then afterwards he would go to the Real Madrid training center with 200 other kids. Real Madrid of course have their very famous first team. But they have under-18s under-17s under-16s. And you will have hundreds and hundreds of kids below.  So what about the kids who do not make it? There are going to be you know it is a hundred and one chance or a thousand and one chance that they might make it. Is there any debate in Europe about whether you know you are putting them in a special academy spending all this time training and then what do they do if they do not make it?  They may not make it into the first team of their club but it does not mean they still cannot make a very good career as a professional futbol player at another club or lower down the leagues for a smaller one. Barcelona and Real Madrid and a club like Manchester United are the three biggest most famous and best clubs in the world. So in order to get to the very top is immensely difficult. It is actually a very very lucrative business for smaller clubs if you sign a youngster at the age 10 11 12 bring him up you can actually sell him on perhaps at the age 18 19 20 for a huge profit. In fact that is actually how some clubs survive.  Does anybody in Europe ever complain that this is exploitation?  No. It is never really come up. It is seen as tough for the kids to get rejected. And when you hear managers they do say the hardest job in the world is when they have to bring in youngsters into their office and say sorry you have been with us six seven years you are not going to make it in our first team.  Tim Stannard writes for the soccer publication FourFourTwo magazine. Thanks for talking with us Tim.  A pleasure. 