 Ten thousand uninsured and underinsured people are expected to seek free medical dental and vision care this week at a former basketball arena outside Los Angeles. Volunteer physicians dentists and eye doctors will treat patients 12 hours a day for 8 days. This temporary clinic is set up by a group called Remote Area Medical. NPR's Howard Berkes attended the group's last clinic in rural Appalachian Virginia two weeks ago and has this Reporter's Notebook.  I write and talk for a living but some of what I saw at the county fairgrounds in Wise Virginia last month left me wordless. Like the scene at the front gate at precisely 34 a.m. Friday - the first day of the Remote Area Medical clinic. Guards had been handing out tickets all night and the line of cars was a mile long. The next car in line would get ticket numbers 1599 and 1600 - and they were good for eye care. Unidentified Woman  You got the last two tickets. Unidentified Woman  Last two tickets. Unidentified Woman  For eyes.  That stunned the woman behind the wheel. She was speechless at first. Unidentified Woman  Madam. Unidentified Man  Madam. Unidentified Woman  Madam we are trying to tell you what you got. Unidentified Woman  Yeah I want to give the two eyes back 'ecause somebody may need them more than me. Unidentified Woman  Okay. Unidentified Man  Okay. Thank you madam.  Somebody may need them more. She figured there was somebody in line behind her more desperate to see an eye doctor right away. The dentists were already booked for the day so she parked and waited 24 hours for the next round of dental and vision care - and there were plenty desperate to see dentists. Unidentified Woman  Yeah we have actually gave out all the numbers that we can handle today for dental. Dental services are closed I am sorry. Unidentified Woman  You have to come back tomorrow.  Everybody who came back was treated during the two-and-a-half days of free care - more than 2700 were seen overall. But organizers figured hundreds did not come back because they could not afford the gas or another day paying babysitters or time away from work. In the office above the fairgrounds' entrance nurse Teresa Gardner of a mobile-free clinic called the Health Wagon told me that many people would probably have to wait a year for care. Ms.  For many patients I think it is the only answer. It may not be the answer but it is the only answer.  The only answer - I thought about that standing in the busiest place that weekend - the open-air dental pavilion where more than 70 dentists pulled teeth filled cavities and performed root canals nonstop 12-hours-a-day Friday and Saturday and six hours Sunday. Close to 4000 teeth ended up in buckets. Some 20-year-olds had every tooth pulled. A 4-year-old had every tooth filled. Out of the hundreds treated only 11 had dental insurance. I arrived home from Virginia with a badly infected finger. It was swollen red and painful. With my insurance card and a 15 co-pay my doctor took a scalpel to it and sent me to the pharmacy for antibiotics. All that took an hour. That is when these words came to me I never felt so privileged to have a good job and good insurance and easy access to care without long drives and long nights and a yearlong wait. Howard Berkes NPR News. 