 If you go onto YouTube and you type in How to cook salmon you will get a lot of very practical professional instructional videos. But if you keep scrolling and scrolling eventually you will get to grainy amateur videos like this one.   All right guys. This kid over here is going to try to cook fish in a dishwasher.  This is not just fish. This here is salmon. I only do it fancy around here.  Excuse me salmon.  All right.  Samon. OK. Yes the Internet strongly suggests that you can indeed cook salmon in your dishwasher. But of course the Internet is filled with non-truths. So we called up Dan Pashman of sporkful.com to find out what dishwashers can and cannot cook. Hey Dan.  Hi Rachel.  So apparently this trend has been around. But honestly I would never heard of this. I mean explain how one might use a dishwasher to actually cook salmon?  Well you are essentially just poaching it. You know its heat transfer through hot water. You throw some lemon juice and some sort of liquid on the salmon a little bit of maybe lemon salt seasonings. And then wrap it very very tightly in foil. And this is really the most important thing when cooking in a dishwasher is to seal the food. And that way you can still wash dishes at the same time. And the soap and the dirt from your dishes do not end up on the food. And the food does not corrupt the dishes or the dishwasher.  Now I know you are a serious person Dan Pashman. But I do not understand the practical utility of this technique. I mean why would you actually want to do this?  Well I was wondering the same thing in fairness Rachel. And it turns out that if you want to learn more about dishwasher cooking you have to go to Italy which is where I went via Skype.   I talked to a woman named Lisa Casali who wrote book called Cucinare in Lavastoviglie which translates to Cooking in a Dishwasher.   So she literally wrote the book on it. And she says for certain recipes you just cannot beat the dishwasher.  It was not just a different way to cook. It was a really particular technique something that I was looking for for years the way to cook at low temperature at home.  And cites a lot of other benefits. She says its environmentally friendly 'ecause you are running your dishwasher anyway. You just shove little bits of food into the empty nooks and crannies and it retains all the meat juices. So you are getting every ounce of meaty goodness that you paid for.  All right so you can do salmon. But I mean does it work for other dishes?  I have tried it. I set out to do some experiments and made butter-poached lobster tail in my dishwasher. I had to run it on the heavy duty cycle but it was quite good. My bourbon-poached pears were outstanding. That is the one I would definitely make again. But I have to admit that the Korean beef did not really cook quite right. The quail egg did not cook it all and the mussels kind of atrophied.   All right in the final analysis Is this actually a good idea. If you have a perfectly well functioning oven should not you just default to that?  Well I guess you are right that there may not be a situation where this is just flat out the best most convenient way to cook something. But I will say that I do think that this is a fun party trick that actually works. And I can imagine the scene right? You invite friends over for dinner. They come into your house and there is no food and the sink is full of dirty dishes. And they are like Rachel...  Sounds great.  Yeah.   They are light Rachel what gives?  Sounds like a real parties at my house actually.   See Rachel? Maybe this is practical. This is perfect for you.   And everyone says Rachel was going on here? And you throw all the dishes in the dishwasher. And you fill that up - all the nooks and crannies with all different foods. Pour a couple of drinks while the dishwasher runs. And you open it up set the table and dinner is served. And...  Bada-boom bada-bing.  That is right. I mean it is certainly a meal people are going to remember.   Dan Pashman of Sporkful.com. If you want to see Dan actually trying this experiment there is a video on our website npr.org. Thanks so much Dan. Thank you Rachel. 