 The Trojan Women by Euripides is a Greek tragedy written 2500 years ago that war keeps timely. It is about a group of women who struggle to survive in Troy after the town's been sacked. When one of the women cries out our country our conquered country perishes... oh land that reared my children it is hard not to hear those words echo today through Syria in Iraq and in Ukraine. A new production re-staged by two American filmmakers and Omar Abu Saada the Syrian director now living in Cairo was set to open next month at Georgetown University then on to Columbia University. It is called Syria The Trojan Women and it is already been presented in Amman Jordan with a cast of 12 Syrian women who work in their own real-life stories of loss death and exile. But the play may have to be cancelled. The U.S. State Department rejected the women's application for entertainer's visas because they are refugees now stranded in Jordan. The State Department worries they might try to stay in the United States even though they have families and small children in Jordan. Section 214b of the Immigration Act requires people who want to come to work in the United States to prove they have a home overseas and quote no intention of abandoning it. That sounds like especially ugly language to turn on refugees whose homes may be bombed or burned. There are 3 million refugees of the war in Syria which the U.N. yesterday called the biggest humanitarian emergency of our era. Jonathan Ginsburg an immigration lawyer hired by Georgetown says that since 911 the Department of Homeland Security has gotten more involved in approving visas for artists - or not. And it is affecting the arts across the board he told the Washington Post. It is more difficult than it has been in years to get the underlying petitions approved for artists to get visas. The U.S. State Department is probably not silly to think artists who perform in the United States may get a taste of fast food and freedom and try to stay. The ballet companies of America are richer because of Cuban and Russian dancers who took the stage here and stayed. Quite a few U.S. baseball clubs are better too. But Cynthia Schneider a former U.S. ambassador to the Netherlands who is co-chair of Georgetown's Laboratory for Global Performance and Politics says it is American audiences who may lose out on hearing Euripides' classic lines uttered with the passion and poignance of Syrian women who know struggle through their own tragedies. This is the greatest tragedy says Ambassador Schneider because in the United States we really do not have access to the voices of the Syrian people. Who are we hearing from? ISIS. 