 Staff Sergeant Robert Bales was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole yesterday in an Army courtroom in Washington state. Sergeant Bales confessed to sneaking off his base in Afghanistan last year and committing a massacre killing 16 civilians - men women and children. As NPR's Martin Kaste reports the end of the case offered little comfort to survivors of the massacre some of whom were in the courtroom to hear the sentence.  Bales' lawyers tried to get him a life sentence with parole - just the chance of parole no guarantees - years from now. They based their argument for leniency on the bloody horrors that Bales had witnesses in Iraq. They cited a letter written by a soldier who would served with him which said quote The darkness that had been tugging at him for the last 10 years swallowed him whole. But it was not enough to convince the jury. In less than two hours the six soldiers handed up their decision - life no parole. Bales was ushered out by military police his elderly mother sat head down rocking and weeping. Soon after on the lawn outside the court an unusual scene - an Army public affairs officer lining up Afghan villagers for the media.  Hold on a second. He is going to make a statement. And once he is done with his statement I will call you by organization. All right? Be respectful. Go ahead sir.  The nine Afghans - six men and three boys - had been flown in to testify. Now Hajji Muhammad Wazir who lost six children in the massacre gave his opinion of the defense.   They claim he was crazy. He had mental issues. And if he had mental issues how could it be he did not do the same thing to his family or to his team members in his own base? He goes shoots in one village murders some people goes back to his base and gets more ammo and he goes to the next village and kills more people. He is not crazy he is a murderer.  Wazir and the others expressed their disgust over the fact that Bales had avoided the death penalty.   I am asking the average Americans right here if somebody jumps in your house in the middle of the night kills 11 members of your family then tried to burn them what sort of punishment would you be passing on on that person?  Other Afghans took their turn at the mic. A boy showed the long scars on his leg where he would been shot by Bales an older man complained of other abuses by American soldiers and he demanded that the U.S. stop sending quote maniacs to their country. But two hours later away from the cameras some of that anger had cooled. Escorted by plainclothes security men the group attended Friday prayers in a tiny mosque with a view of the Olympic Mountains. Sami Ullah is the father of a girl who was shot in the head by Bales.   We came here for two reasons. One is today is Friday but also to do extra prayers just to be thankful for the fact that this guy was sentenced to life imprisonment and that means he will be spending his life for the rest of his life in jail.  Ullah spent some months in the U.S. last year when his daughter received intensive rehab at a Navy hospital in San Diego. Asked if ever wonders what kind of country would produce a man like Bales he is philosophical.   In a thousand you know one could be bad. And this guy was a bad apple. In a thousand apples there is one bad apple. And he was the bad apple from here.  Was Bales evil or disturbed or both? It is not a question Ullah feels much need to dwell on. Martin Kaste NPR News Seattle. 