 For years scientists have been trying to replicate what octopus and squid do change color to blend in to their surroundings. Now researchers say that they have produced materials that can sense color and change accordingly. So does this mean that shirts will blend into your sofa or submarines can look like coral? John Rogers is a professor of engineering at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign. And he is one of the researchers who headed a team that is developed this camouflage technology. He joins us now from Evanston Illinois. Thanks so much for being with us.  Yeah. Thanks for having me.  Congratulations and how does it work?  It is a multi-functional multi-layered type of material that changes colors in a pattern that reflects the illumination that is incident on it either from its front side or its back side.  So what have you done with it so far?  Well we have demonstrated that you can actually put together all the pieces and make this kind of system in a thin lightweight flexible form. You know the goal was really to take a deep look at how a cephalopod's skin works - it is a spectacular you know engineered system that evolution has come up with - and try to sort of abstract some of the key concepts from the study of the biology and then implement them you know in a man-made system.  I gather this is a study for the Navy right?  It is a study funded by the Navy. I think there are clear potential militarily implications of this kind of technology out into the future but I think they are interested mostly you know at the basic scientific aspects of how one thinks about doing this sort of bio-inspired engineering.  I mean we -  I guess we are being cheap and obvious when I mentioned you know maybe you could wear shirt that blends in to the sofa. But while we are on the subject could you devise a shirt that blends in to the sofa on which you are sitting?  . Well it turns out that there are folks out there who are interested in exactly that type of thing. So again you know my own motivation's more from an academic basic scientific standpoint and blending you know biology concepts with engineering capabilities. But we have had conversations with faculty for example at the school of the Art Institute of Chicago who are interested in new technologies and how they could be used to advantage in enabling new concepts in fashion and design. And the other class of folks that have you know reached out and we have had discussions with are people in our school of architecture. So you can imagine interior design you have thin sheets. You can put them on the walls or on different you know surfaces in an interior living space and make those adaptive to you know the ambient lighting conditions in an interesting way that you know opens up new possibilities in interior design as well.  John Rogers is a professor of engineering at the University of Illinois. Thanks very much for being with us.  Yeah. Thanks again for having me. 