   I confess I am a mess and I am trying to catch up to my lies. So I keep seeking a way and I am losing myself everyday all in the name of life  Soul singer Ledisi burst onto the mainstream music scene two years ago but she is been running a long time.    I keep running  The Louisiana-born California-raised artist has been recording music for more than a decade and she is been performing since childhood. At the age of eight Ledisi sang with the New Orleans Symphony Orchestra. In 2007 her first major label release Lost and Found earned two Grammy nominations including one for best new artist. Her latest album Turn Me Loose was released last week on Verve Records. Ledisi joins us from our New York bureau. Welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  You know I referred to you as a soul singer but you have been called an R and B singer a jazz singer you do gospel you do blues you do funk. How would you describe yourself?  Well that is the problem I never do.   I create my own lane and I am working on becoming a legend and that is what I want to do   in music. So that is my plan.  That is a great goal to have and you have worked hard at it. I mean you you know were turned down by labels  Yes.  and you had to self-release. And then finally Verve came along and gave you that chance to record that Grammy-nominated album in 2007 Lost and Found. Now after all the time that you had already put in did you feel it was kind of ironic to be nominated for best new artist.   Well you know for me just to be acknowledged at that time especially to even be acknowledged in any kind of way was such a big thing for me. So I did not really focus on the category that much. I just was like is it real? You know? And it really happened. So I just focused on that.  Yeah you might have thought it was not real 'ecause Dave Grohl of the Foo Fighters announced   the nominees. He did not know how to pronounce your name.  No that is been the story of my life.   Right. Ledisi - it is Nigerian right?  Yes it is. It means to bring forth to come to.  Ah. On this new CD - wow. I mean you wrote or you co-wrote all of the tracks but one - and I will get to that one in a minute. But I wanted to know I mean after you had that big success with the first album Lost and Found is it true that you had writer's block when you were trying to figure out how to follow it up?  Yes. There was a lot of pressure after that. I had spent most of my career begging people to hear me and now they are listening. And now what do you want to say you know?    I am going through changes. How do I let you go let you go? I might And I was worried trying to please everybody to see if they would like what was in my head. And I was not sure and I was scared. And then a friend of mine we were going to the movies and she said Led I want you to hear something I grew up on that I love and I know you have probably never heard. And it was Buddy Miles Them Changes.   And when I heard that sound I was inspired and uplifted and thinking wow this is how I am live. How can I translate this in the CD. And look at the audience I have - will they get that?  And you actually cover Them Changes as a bonus track on your album.  Oh yes. I had to. I worked on it with Rex Rideout one of my producers and the producer that predominantly did most of Lost and Found. And we just took a different direction and different approach. And working with all the different producers really opened me up as well.    Well my mind is going through them changes I am going out of my mind every time you see me going somewhere I am about to commit a crime. He had me running had me riding. He had me running and crying and running yeah yeah yeah. Well it is all right. What I say it is all right. Yeah yeah yeah yeah. All right now. Yeah come on  A number of the songs have very positive affirming messages - I mean even All Right from your last album Knocking from this one. You had to have a sense of optimism to get as far as you did the way that you did. But is it important for you to have that sense of optimism in your music?  It is a part of me. I cannot tell you sleeping on the floor in New York City and having all these bills to pay and not knowing where it would come from but believing in my art knowing that it is going to happen. I mean this business will make you believe in something. You know I have parents that are very spiritual and that is what I was taught to be faithful and have faith. No matter what believe in something. And I know I believe there is something higher because I would not do this. I would have left a long time ago.   But I am here just being myself constantly. I never ever want to lose that truth.    I keep a  on my faith and you will not hear me complaint. Hey cause I cannot let the dark days bring me down. Got a lot of things to say. Do not be knocking at my door. I hear you knocking but you cannot come in. I hear you knocking but you as not gonna get in. You as not gonna . I hear you knocking on the I hear you knocking on the I hear you knock knock knock knocking. Kn-kn-kn-knocking at my door. I hear you knocking but you cannot come in  So many flavors on this.   Really. I mean you know you are really cutting loose and doing things that you have not done before. But you know you are known for cutting loose in your live performances.  Yes yes.  I mean I have heard about you dancing onstage   And putting on your bright red high-heel shoes and  Yes honey.   And you end up kicking them off?  Mm-hmm.  So is there a story behind those shoes?  Oh man. I have had those shoes probably for probably three years. I love those shoes. They have little crazy scuffs on them and everything but they feel so good. But I do not know they give me power. Before I used to wear slippers and just barefoot. And something about strutting I get it now.   I get it. I love showing my legs now. My mom used to tell me You need to show your legs and strut in some heels. And I was like no no they do not need to see. They need to just listen to me. And now I am strutting in red shoes and they have to be five inches at least.  Woo.   Woo. What is your goal when you are performing live? Obviously it is for the audience to have a good time but is that how you do it? By just  Most definitely. I mean you go to shows now and it is all about the artist and how they are feeling and they just want you to just know how they are feeling and how they feel. But what we forget and what I studied is that a lot of interaction back in the day between the artist and the audience is really big and we do not have enough of that going on. I mean they do it but it is so self-centered. And for me I want to touch you I want to feel you I want you to feel me. And all the greats did that. They made you feel something. I do not want to spend -I imagine myself as an audience member. I want to be tired after and be like ooh that was so great like I had a workout I am uplifted and I am energized. That is me. That is me fire hot with the microphone. That is how I am. Lost and Found was me going who am I because I do not think people want to see the Ledisi but do I fit in here? Can I come in? Can you find me? Now it is about just release me and let me just go ahead and be me you guys. You get it or you do not. It is okay. I cannot please everybody but what I can do is be my best at what I do.    I do not know yeah I am gonna get my things and walk out the door  Ledisi's new album is called Turn Me Loose on the Verve Record label and she joins us from our New York bureau. Thanks a lot. Good luck.  Thank you so much for having me today.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Liane Hansen. 