 Summertime opens up a whole avenue of literature beach reads - even if you are nowhere near a beach novels that are great for just getting lost in while you relax outdoors some just out some that have been around a long time. Meg Cabot author of The Princess Diaries series among other books for young readers young adults and adults has some recommendations for books that can be devoured anywhere. Thanks very much for being with us.  Well thanks so much for having me. I am delighted to be here.  Well we are delighted to have you. First on your list you have got a great crime novelist out of Baltimore Laura Lippman who is creator of Tess Monaghan a reporter who decides to do something useful with their life and becomes a private eye.  Yeah she is one of my favorites. I love the Tess Monaghan series. And I love Baltimore too. My mom lives in Annapolis so I always love reading about the goings on next door in Baltimore. And she has a new book out this summer called Dream Girl.  I have read about it.  Yeah it is Tess Monaghan adjacent. Tess Monaghan actually makes an appearance so I was excited to read that. And it is - I also - it is pretty dark. It is a little bit of a kind of departure for Laura Lippman.  Well let us ask about some historical mysteries that are on your list. The Jane Prescott mysteries...  Right.  ...Written by Mariah Fredericks set in 1910 New York.  Yeah the Gilded Age. That is what they call it. That is right around when - well I think in the second book the Titanic goes down not to give anything away because it is not...  What? The Titanic went down?  I know. Another spoiler. Well it is kind of fun for fans of like Downton Abbey. This is what people were doing on the other side of the pond in New York City. So we have got a main character who is a lady's maid and she is kind of the upstairs downstairs kind of feel. So you are seeing what she is doing in the servants quarters but then she is observing all the beautiful ladies in Manhattan and the wonderful clothes and the sumptuous food. But then Jane the maid is also out on the streets of New York and kind of seeing the restlessness and the poverty that is going on. It is really fascinating and fun to watch. And of course I do not know about this maid because it seems like everywhere she goes there is a murder .  That would make you think maybe you do not have to come in tomorrow. I was so glad to see John D. MacDonald's name on your list. He is considered one of the grandmasters of crime fiction and not just crime fiction.  Yeah.  His Travis McGee series - Travis McGee has his headquarters on a boat called Busted Flush. Where do you think people might begin with John D. MacDonald these days?  I always think of these books as kind of like dude - you know there is chick lit people talk about. And then this is like dude lit. It is definitely kind of the hardboiled mystery novels that - my dad loved these books. You know they are of their times. They started in the 1960s and they went on into the '80s. So they have got kind of this - they are a little dated but they are also so much fun to read because they are set in Florida and John D. MacDonald loved Florida. He just writes about it so lovingly and he is so concerned about the environment.  I have not read his books in years but I - yeah I think you would be struck both by how some sections certainly are dated yet others are - were ahead of their time. And that...  Yeah.  You know? That is not a bad record for a great novelist is it? Let me ask you about Alyssa Cole...  Yeah.  ...Who is a contemporary master in the romance genre.  Yes.  She is got a book out that I guess - it involves emails from an African prince.  .  And having recently won the Czech lottery I can understand this.  . Yes A Princess In Theory is the first book in a series that Alyssa Cole who is a great Black romance author. She also writes thrillers too. But this - A Princess In Theory was one that I - kind of surprised me because it is that funny idea. I mean we all get those emails from the Nigerian prince or wherever he is from. And this is a great romance idea. So she has a character in this book who is getting those emails. She is a Black grad student. And you know she deletes them as we all would. But hers actually turn out to be from a real prince from an African country. And it turns out she is a foster kid. And this guy is really trying to tell her that she - you know she has a connection to this country. And every time she deleted the email it turns out she is actually throwing away her future because this guy wants to marry her.  Meg - if I may call you Meg.  Of course.  Meg what are you going to do for the rest of summer ?  Well fortunately you know there is a lot of Travis McGee books out there ...  All right. OK.  ...That I have not gotten to yet. But there is a lot of other great books coming out in all genres the mystery genre and the romance genre. So I think we have a lot to keep us busy. And I do eventually have to write some books myself .  Right. Meg Cabot who herself will have a new book No Words that comes out in September. Thanks so much for being with us.  Oh thank you so much for having me. This was a ball. 