 Residents in Milwaukee are trying to come to grips this morning with the violence that took hold of their city last night. A police officer shot an armed suspect after a traffic stop. And hours later a protest turned violent. For more we are joined by John Diedrich a reporter for the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel who is on the scene. Good morning John.  Good morning.  Tell me where you are and what is going on.  Well I am on - outside a gas station that was burned heavily damaged along with cars. This is in the central part of the city and this was one of at least three businesses that were burned last night. There were also cars that were - squad cars that were burned and turned over and so forth. So I am at that scene right now.  Can you tell us about where this broke out last night? Where in Milwaukee did this happen?  Well this is an area of the city that has - older part of the city sort of rock-solid homes you know working-class area but also has just very distressed areas as well where violence has erupted here. We have had five killings in the last three days in Milwaukee and a couple of them has been in this area. This is also an area where we have seen protests. This gas station actually was a scene of a tense event last month where a clerk fired a gun in the air to get a crowd to disperse to a lot of community angst and conflict. And so it is - in a way it is not surprising that it sort of flared up around this gas station following the shooting that you mentioned.  I understand you have covered the police in Milwaukee for the last decade. Can you tell us about the relationship between the police and the community?  Well it is tense at times. I mean like other American cities that we have seen lately Milwaukee's had a series of incidents in-custody deaths shootings involving unarmed individuals - and also armed as you said this - what police are saying right now is an armed individual was shot here. They have changed the procedure by which these police shootings are investigated. But a lot of that is still just ringing hollow for the people some of whom I have talked at the scene today who feel like you know the community does not have a lot of hope and that the police are victimizing them on a regular basis.  And finally just briefly what are the next steps for community leaders there?  Well so today we are going to - there is a group that had formed around an in-custody deaths that happened earlier. They are going to be out here. They have been marching for a number of months. And they are going to be out here cleaning up and then also marching today. There is a police officer support event that is going to be happening today. A police officer was injured last night was hit in the head with a brick. And there is a lot of concern about police officer safety. So that event will be going on and I am sure we will be hearing from the police department as well about this shooting and other details about it.  John Diedrich is a reporter at the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel. He is on the ground there in Milwaukee. Thanks so much.  Thank you. 