 Steve Bannon is out of the White House - says he is going to war for his nationalist agenda and President Trump. Within hours Mr. Bannon was back at the helm of Breitbart News and told the Weekly Standard quote the Trump presidency that we fought for and won is over. Joined this morning by Republican Congressman Charlie Dent of Pennsylvania. Mr. Dent thanks for being with us.  Hey thank you for having me. Really great to be with you Scott.  Are you glad to see the back of Steve Bannon?  Yeah. All I can say is this is a very positive development that he has departed the White House. And I would have never - certainly I do not think he should have been hired in the first place. But now that he is gone I think it is all for the best. I guess I was a bit stunned by this interview that he had with this Robert Kuttner of The American Prospect where he went on and said a lot of very disparaging things about his colleagues - you know his own world view that seemed to contradict many of the president's policy objectives. And I thought how could you keep the man after he made those statements - or other reasons obviously. But that was just glaring. And now this - I am not sure what he means by this declaration of war - the presidency is over with - but it is what it is. But the at least General Kelly seems to be you know fully in charge of the staff now. And that is a positive development.  Well do you - I understand that people in the Beltway get all excited about White House staff changes - journalists and politicians - but is not all that really matters who is president? And that has not changed.  Well I have always said that the - General Kelly you know I think he will bring focus and discipline and order to the White House staff. Whether or not he can bring focus and discipline to the president is another matter. And obviously the events of Charlottesville I think you know cost us all a great deal of concern and alarm you know based on the response - the failed initial response and then the subsequent response. The one that - it was a better response on I guess Monday and then the meltdown on Tuesday. And so I think that many of us are deeply concerned about the you know the president's behavior in recent days.  Well and - then - let me go through the door you just opened of course because Senator Corker of Tennessee raised - you think he used pretty blunt language raising questions about President Trump's moral and mental fitness for office. Do you share those - do you share those anxieties?  Now let me say this. I have been critical of the president on a number of issues over the years and I did not - I did not endorse him during the campaign. And I felt that Senator Corker issued some strong words clearly. But some of our military leaders - you know the Joint Chiefs of Staff - I mean all made statements on nondiscrimination that I felt were a bit of a rebuke of the president's response and - as did corporate leaders - many corporate. So the bottom line is many of the leaders of this country whether it be political military or business leaders have been distancing themselves from the president over the past - over the past week. I know Ken Frazier at Merck. A lot of my constituents work at Merck. And he is good man.  Who resigned from the president's council.  That is correct. He was on the President Business Council and resigned. And so - and I guess that is what - I think there is just this lack of moral clarity when it comes to these white supremacist groups - the neo-Nazis Ku Klux Klan or whatever other ones are out there. I think it was important that - I think it is important that the president be very clear about this. And he should not have been equivocating so much. It is not to say there are not left-wing groups out there that are violent. I am sure that they are. But that is not what we saw in Charlottesville last week. It was this group of supremacists who were responsible for the violence and inciting that violence.  Mr. Dent I am afraid - but thank you very much for being with us but I am afraid we got to move on with more news in this run. But thanks so much for being with us.  OK. You take care now.  Republican Congressman Charlie Dent Pennsylvania's 15th District. 