 These are vexing times for everyone including governors between the pandemic recession and protests. We are joined now by New Mexico's governor Michelle Lujan Grisham. Like many other Democratic governors she has criticized what she considers to be the president's lack of response to the coronavirus pandemic and the administration's response to protests against police brutality. Governor Lujan Grisham joins us now from Santa Fe. Thanks so much for being with us.  You are welcome Scott. I am delighted to spend some time with you.  COVID rates in New Mexico have been decreasing in recent weeks but there you are right between two hot spots in Arizona and Texas. Do you believe you have been able to do something different that other states can learn from?  I do. One of the issues that has certainly worked to our favor is we have kept our stay-at-home order consistently in place and our emergency orders. We have been very cautious about our reopening so that you do not have this kind of flipping back-and-forth. And where I think we are now seeing real success again and we can hold it as we continue to get kids back to school after Labor Day is our mask-wearing and social distancing. And we are an enforcement state so if you do not wear a mask you can be fined. And if businesses do not help us enforce and they do not meet their COVID safe practices they are fined. And we loathe that environment but it is making a productive positive difference in our ability to manage and live with COVID.  You must have had to deal with a lot of people that just say look you know we are individualists here I do not like being told what to do.  Every state seems to be dealing with that in ways I do not think any governor irrespective of party ever anticipated. It was never this angry. And I think part of it is social media and part of it is the fact that we have had inconsistent messaging.  The Navajo Nation as I do not have to tell you has been hit hard by the virus. And I gather it is going into a 32-hour lockdown this weekend starting Saturday night. They are worried about people traveling. Do you consider limiting movement between cities in New Mexico?  The Navajo Nation is an incredibly tough situation. I think the leadership of the Navajo Nation has been remarkable. We did go to a pretty severe curfew and restriction of movement in and out of the city of Gallup. And our goal was we do not want someone getting infected in Gallup and taking it to a remote area in the Navajo Nation where they do not have access to medical services. And it began to lower the curve and it gave the hospitals in Gallup the breathing room they needed to catch up.  Governor Lujan Grisham Joe Biden according to many reports is going to unveil his running mate in the next few days. Your name has been on that list. Anything you can tell us? Have you been vetted as they say?  You know I am like every other American. I am waiting to hear. It is an honor to be in the list. I love that this nation is really focusing on the qualities qualifications experience and intellectual capacity of so many remarkable women who have I think a much better plan for serving Americans than the current occupant of the White House. But that is all I know. I was going to ask you Scott what have you heard?   You know they do not make me part of that circle so nothing. Well I - let me put it this way. Does something in you leap when the phone rings?  I want voters to think about how hard it is been particularly these last six months. And if they would think about a way in which they could bring dignity respect and security and minimize fear when the phone rings and I get asked to participate in that I am all over it. But I am expecting to get a call that suggests that I can do more to encourage particularly Hispanic and Latino communities to make their voices heard in this election.  The governor of New Mexico Michelle Lujan Grisham thanks so much for being with us.  You are very welcome. Thank you Scott. 