 The Color Purple is back on Broadway. The musical made from Alice Walker's 1982 Pulitzer Prize-winning novel and the basis of a 1985 film by Steven Spielberg then a 2005 musical. It is at the Bernard Jacobs Theatre. It stars Jennifer Hudson in her Broadway debut Danielle Brooks and as Celie who begins the show as a 14-year-old girl who loves but is forced to give away her baby it stars Cynthia Erivo the British singer and songwriter who trained at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. The Broadway show is her U.S. stage debut and for this role she had to lose that British accent. She thinks performing an accent is like singing a song.  When I was younger I just liked the sound of different accents and I used to just play around to see if I could do things. I hear accents like music so that is what helps me to learn them. I knew how to do an American accent a long time ago but I like to try and be as specific as possible.  And this is rural Georgia...  This is Georgia yeah.  ...In the 1930s.  Yeah so I tried to find the right texture of the accent - the right song I guess yeah.  Yeah. A lot of attention is paid to this cast. You join a distinguished cast certainly distinguished in your own right. But Jennifer Hudson...  Yes.  ...Who probably needs no introduction and Danielle Brooks...  Yes.  ...Who a lot of I think our listeners know from Orange Is The New Black but may not know her by name. What is it like to be on stage with them?  Really wonderful actually. They are both very very open and they share wonderfully. So it is - I feel like we support each other and it feels like we have got this great rapport with each other. Now we have fallen in love I guess with each other very much so.  Well that suits the material...  Yeah it does. Yeah.  ...Too because actually your three characters at one time or another do kind of fall in love.  Yeah completely.  Which raises a question - do you think this production - I am assuming you saw the Spielberg film at one point.  Yes I did. Yeah.  And that film which was widely acclaimed at the same time there is some people that thought that he had gone soft on the lesbianism in the film. And I wonder if you think this production is just a little bolder.  I think it is a little bolder because John is that kind of person. One of his main things was that he wanted to make sure that the relation...  John is?  John Doyle our director - he wanted to make a point of the relationships between the women come forward I guess more so and to be unafraid of that - to make it clear that they are two people who fell in love.  Shug is the bad girl who goes off to Memphis to sing and comes back to town. But she is not a...  I guess so. She is a - yeah she is the Mary Magdalene of the piece I guess. You know the woman who has a wonderful heart of gold but not the best reputation. And I like daring so I like the idea that we can push the boundaries a little bit with this. And also I guess it being on stage you have the chance to do that. People want things that are a bit more daring when you are on stage when it is live theater.  I had the pleasure of attending a performance. As well-known as this story is when you exchange your first kiss with Shug - and I bet this happens every night - there is still some .  There is still a  oh my gosh. Yeah. And I am still like shocked every time I hear that reaction because I am like I am sure you know this happens. I feel like they have up until that point they forget that these two people fall in love. And it is a wonderful thing because I think people come into the theater sort of forgetting anything that is come before which gives us a chance to really I guess to affect properly because no one's expecting anything other than what we give.  The show opens with a heart-stopper.    God's going to see you through to part with you more than I can bear. But somebody's going to love you.  And that is you singing to an infant - Somebody's Gonna Love You.  Yeah.  Could you put us in that?  Yeah she - she is 14 at that point - 14 15. She gives birth - we simulate the birth on-stage and she is alone. She is by herself and she sings this lullaby Somebody Gonna Love You and is pretty much a cappella. There is some like almost plainsong humming behind it until the very last line which is I am always going to love you. And she sings that on her own.  Oh I am always going to love you. And it is actually one of my favorites just because it is so simple. And - it is a mother singing to her baby. She just wants her baby to know that she loves him and will always be there for him no matter what and you find out that that song is completely needed .  Yeah because she - her father says she has to give the baby up yeah.  Yeah.  When did you first have an inkling that you could sing?   When I was about five  - I tell this story because I can remember it like it was yesterday. I did the nativity play and they put me in as a shepherd. And for some reason they asked me to sing Silent Night by myself. So when I finished singing Silent Night everybody started clapping and they got up. Now when you are five you do not realize what that means or what it is. I just knew that it felt good. And I knew that people were happy because I could see it on their faces. So I guess from that moment on I got the bug and realized that whatever sound is coming out of my mouth when I sing songs makes people happy. That makes me happy so I guess I just continued to do it from there. You just tie it to the most simple thing of - does it make people happy? Yes. Does it make me happy? Yes. I will keep doing it then.  How do you react to the criticism that really dates back when Alice Walker's novel came out in the 1980s that the male characters are villainized - that black men are villainized in this piece?  Well my understanding is that this story comes from the point of view of someone who is been through a lot of terrible things herself. This is not something that she plucked out of the sky. I think a lot of it is life experience. And we sat there and we talked with her. And she said these characters are based on real people. I know these people. This is a story I am telling because they exist. And if this story did not exist then I would be the first to say OK they are there being villainized. But these are actual people and the thing is if people have read the novel they will know. And also I think in the film these characters are redeemable. They become redeemed and my understanding is a villain is a villain though and through and they become defeated as opposed to redeemed. And I do not think they are made out to be villains. I think they are made out to be who they were and then who they become. I think people - often it comes from the people that have not either read seen or heard of the play. They just have heard a couple of things about it and do not look into the details. Look into details and they will find everything they need.  You volunteered that the first song you sang that got notice was Silent Night.  Yeah.  We are in the season again.  Yeah.  Could we have a couple of lines?  OK .  Thank you.  Yeah.  Silent night holy night. All is calm. All is bright 'round yon virgin mother and child. Holy infant so tender and mild sleep in heavenly peace. Sleep in heavenly peace.  Thank you so much.  Thank you so much for having me.  And happy holidays.  Same to you.  Cynthia Erivo stars in The Color Purple on Broadway.  