 Newspapers have been known to go to great lengths to hide their story budgets - that is the all-important list of what is coming up in the next day's paper. One British paper however has begun to do the opposite in the last few months. They are making their lists public so readers can weigh in on story decisions. Dan Roberts is the national news editor for the Guardian. He joins us from the offices of the paper in London. Dan welcome.  Hi.  So what on earth possessed you to publish your story list?  We have been experimenting for a while in trying to get readers to help us report things. And we realize that the only way to really take that to a bigger scale was to tell them what we are already doing 'ecause there is no point in just kind of giving them a blank of sheet and saying what would you do? You have to kind of engage them in the process as we go along. We got a lot of good feedback so we decided to keep it going. But actually we want to relaunch probably in the new year. And I think we are actually giving people stories that we have not written about when we think they can help. So a good example we did an investigation into the exploitation of interns. And rather than the normal process of doing the investigation and then opening the piece up for comments on the website and then seeing people's experiences we flipped it. And we said right in advance we were going to tell people we want to investigate this. Can you give us examples of perhaps how you have been exploited as an unpaid intern. And suggestions poured in. And then we did the report and we checked them out. The advantage of that was that you get a much better story. We had some brilliant examples that really open people's minds to stamp out what the problem was. But also we had an audience that were already there waiting for us to tell them about it. So it ended up being the best read story of the week.  So talk more about how this experiment affected the way you made decisions about what to cover.  We are finding sometimes the editors have a particular sort of shortsightedness about an issue that the readers are much more fired up about. We had a good example we are covering reforms to the National Health Service. We would reported it extensively over the summer but when the bill actually reached Parliament we kind of switched off from it. And we got a lot of feedback from readers saying no we really want every spit and cough of the parliamentary debate. And so we responded to that. We set up live coverage for the two-day debate and put some reporting resource into it. And they were right. The parliamentary stage was much more important than we had acknowledged. And we got huge traffic on the stories but also a lot of engagement in the commentaries under the stories.  What did this experiment teach you about your new judgment?  Well I think we have got to recognize our strengths and weaknesses. I mean I think our strengths are that as professional journalists we can be dispassionate about things. And the positive side of it is that there is only a few of us. And there is a big world and there is an awful lot of things going on. And actually it is that wisdom of crowds thing that actually good ideas bubble up that you are not going to get through a dozen sitting in a room around a table chewing over that day's news.  Dan Roberts. He is the national news editor for London's Guardian newspaper. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  This is NPR News. 