 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Linda Wertheimer.   The 700th issue of The Amazing Spider-Man hit the shelves this week. Dan Slott is the comic book's writer. And for this long-awaited installment he did the unthinkable. Now turn your radio down if you do not want to hear this spoiler because it is big.   He killed off Peter Parker - the handsome virtuous teenager behind the famous red mask. Dan Slott joins me now. Good morning Dan.  Morning Linda.  So how exactly does Peter's death play out in this installment?  Spider-Man Peter Parker's - one of his longest and greatest enemies the evil Otto Octavius also known as Doctor Octopus back in issue 600 found out he was dying. And since then he is been going on the super-villain equivalent of a bucket list doing one evil scheme after another before he runs out the clock. And his greatest and final act of vengeance was he found a way to switch minds with Peter so that he would be in the body of Spider-Man and Spider-Man would be in the destroyed and diseased body of Doctor Octopus with hours left to live.  But why pick Doctor Octopus to take over this identity?  Doc Ock one some level is the shadow Peter Parker. Peter Parker was a bespectacled nerd as a teenager who was very resentful of all of his peers. One of his first lines ever in a comic book is they will be sorry they laughed at me.   One day I will get even. Bookworm shookworm I will get even.  That is something a villain says. And it was the ethics and things that Aunt May and Uncle Ben taught Peter in the end made him a hero.   With great power there must also always be great responsibility. And so long as I live Spider-Man will never shirk his duty again.  When you first meet Doc Ock he is this adult bespectacled nerd who has a radioactive accident that makes him the analogue of an eight-legged creature. And one of the things that happens in Amazing Spider-Man 700 is Peter is able to valiantly in his last act imbue Doc Ock with his memories and feelings.  So instead of being one of the comic's main bad guys as he is been for years he turns out to be somebody better and different?  That is the hope. He kind of realizes that he is wasted his life on villainy. Then as the camera keeps rolling Doc Ock goes And with my unparalleled genius and my boundless ambition I will be a better Spider-Man than you ever were. In fact I shall become the superior Spider-Man.  So how are your fans handling this?  It is an incredible mix. There is a lot of people that realize that over 50 years of Spider-Man some of the best stories involve loss. Every hero out there when you think of who and what superheroes are like Superman and Batman - they are all square-jawed Adonises with perfect teeth and standing arms akimbo and they never lose. And what Stan Lee and Steve Ditko did when they came up with Spider-Man in Amazing Fantasy 15 was they broke the mold. They made a hero who is like us a hero with feet of clay a guy who made mistakes all the time.  We should probably say happy birthday to Stan Lee.  Ninetieth birthday this week. Just the other day I wished him a happy early birthday. And he responded to me Dan most people would give you a watch or a nice cigar. But for my birthday you gave me a dead Peter Parker. Thanks my friend.  Dan Slott is writer of the comic series The Amazing Spider-Man which is now called The Superior Spider-Man. Dan thank you very much.  Thank you. 