 And now it is time for sports.   Hey Shohei Ohtani going to Disneyland? I will bet he is. The overpowering pitcher and hitter from Japan has signed with the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. This could be the beginning of a legend. And while we are on the subject of legends MVP Giancarlo Stanton is reportedly going to be in Yankee pinstripes next season. But most of the sports news this weekend is about disgrace. We are joined now by Howard Bryant of espn.com and ESPN The Magazine. Howard thanks so much for being with us.  Good morning Scott.  Larry Nassar the sports doctor who worked for years with the U.S. gymnastics program has been sentenced to 60 years in federal prison for child pornography. But that one charge is just the beginning of describing his crimes over the years is not it?  Well it is. And it is a heartbreaking story. And it is been building for a long time. And the fact that Larry Nassar was sentenced to 60 years - he is 54 years old. So he is going to die in prison it looks. The sexual assault on the USA gymnasts - the legendary gymnasts - from McKayla Maroney to Gabby Douglas to Aly Raisman - people that we have watched on TV in all of the Olympics - that their claims were finally listened to. It is a terrible story. You think about this one from the standpoint of being a world-class athlete having to go through this but also having just to be children. The one thing that I have always learned in this - in my career - is when you are covering Olympic athletes especially this is your childhood. Their childhood was - one it is already stolen by trying to be great. And two this is something that they are going to have to live with for the rest of their lives. So obviously our system is what it is. It is justice if you want to call it that. But it does not really feel like it even though Larry Nassar's going to prison.  People have to wonder how could somebody so unabashedly wicked be allowed to damage so many young women for so long?  Well I think that is the big issue. And I think that if this is a story that - if we believe that Larry Nassar going to prison is the end of it then I think we are sorely mistaken and we are making a huge mistake because you take the bad apple and you put them in jail and you leave the system intact. Well there is going to be other Larry Nassars. USA Gymnastics and Michigan State University - these institutions have a lot to answer for. And you would like to think that there is going to be big reform because there has to be.  2018 Winter Olympics will open Feb. 9 in South Korea but no team from Russia. They have been banned from the games for widespread systematic doping. Russians have been a powerful force on the International Olympic Committee. They have thrown around a lot of money. What finally got the IOC to act?  Well I think it is just the overwhelming evidence and the fact that this has been going on for so long. Obviously you remember the tennis player Maria Sharapova being banned for doping two years ago - the International Tennis Federation. And I think that now you are looking at this - you cannot ignore this anymore. But the interesting part of this is the compromise is that the Russian athletes are going to be allowed to compete - however not under the flag. So if they win there'ill be no national anthem. They will be able to win their awards - I mean their medals...  Yeah.  ...But they will not be celebrated as Russian. So it is a very interesting compromise that you penalize the state but you do not penalize the athlete.  Who will coach them? I mean do we know any of that? I guess that is to be determined.  To be determined yes.  Howard Bryant of ESPN thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you. 