 And there is another way the Mexican drug cartels smuggle illegal drugs into the U.S. - illegal immigrants. Federal agents prosecutors defense attorneys and migrants themselves say that traffickers have begun recruiting undocumented immigrants at the border both voluntarily and involuntarily. Now U.S. courts along the border have to decide what to do with terrified immigrants who come before them and say the cartel made me do it. NPR's John Burnett reports.  Rodolfo and Jose Luis were fairly typical economic immigrants. Strong resourceful and poor they arrived at Ojinaga Mexico with the intention of crossing the border and making their way to Colorado to look for work as roofers. But when they arrived at the Rio Grande on October 21st ready for the journey north they were met by three trucks full of heavily-armed young toughs belonging to La Linea a drug gang based upriver in Juarez.    They hit us threw us on the ground searched us and took our money said Rodolfo. Then they told us if we did not smuggle drugs for them they would kill us. They did not give us any other option. So that is what Rodolfo and Jose Luis did. They each shouldered a 50-pound backpack full of marijuana and carried it across the dry riverbed into Presidio County Texas. The cartel guide who accompanied them carried a radio but no weapon. So as soon as they were out of sight of the border they dropped the dope in the brush and high-tailed it north. The next morning Border Patrol agents found them tromping through the desert and arrested them for illegal entry. Rodolfo spoke on a cell phone from inside the Pecos Criminal Justice Center in Pecos Texas.    I told the Border Patrol that we were forced to carry it Rodolfo said. They told us we were lying. I said No I am telling you the truth. We will show you. So we took them to the place near the river and the marijuana was still there. Last month the prosecutor dropped the charges against the pair. Rodolfo and Jose Luis fearing for their lives were deported back to Mexico. They asked that their last names not be used for this story. This is the new calculus for illegal border crossers. They have to deal with criminal syndicates that control all 2000 miles of the international divide. To them immigrants are just another income stream. They are robbed they are kidnapped and their families are extorted and increasingly they are dragooned into helping the gangs. Elizabeth Rogers has been a federal public defender in West Texas for 27 years. Rodolfo and Jose Luis were her clients.  About a year and a half ago ourselves as well as our investigators started seeing these clients that would say I do not care how long I am going to get I cannot go home. They will kill me.  It is difficult to say how many cases like this are in federal courts along the border. Rogers says most of her backpacker cases these days claim coercion and they did not used to. The individual stories vary but the common denominator is fear.  And to have grown men rawboned cowboy guys from Chihuahua begging for protection from deportation.  In Tucson criminal defense attorney Raul Miranda says about one-third of his clients these days are telling him they were unwilling drug mules. Most say they were planning to cross the border but the human smuggler they were dealing with turned out to be a marijuana smuggler.  Then they are told by the people who obviously work for the cartels that they have to carry the bundle and they will reduce the fee that they are going to have to pay or they will forgive the fee. But you know the people that are telling them this are armed and the people feel threatened if they say no.  The identical story is heard 1000 miles east in Laredo Texas where Myrna Montemayor is a federal public defender.  They kind of feel like they do not have a choice because now they have been approached to do this and you do not really want to say no to people who are committing such violent acts in Mexico.  The Mexican city of Nuevo Laredo where the Pan-American Highway becomes Interstate 35 is a major terminus for drug and human smugglers. Migrants headed north or people just deported from the U.S. end up here at a church-run shelter called Casa del Migrante. Young men in baseball caps and baggy pants sit at long tables served with bowls of vegetable stew. Fernando is a slight Honduran in his early 20s with thick kinky hair wearing a dirty hoodie with a Tasmanian devil on it. He says he is had several run-ins with the violent drug mafia the Zetas here on the border.    Oh yeah they force you to work for them and if you tell them you do not want to they will kill you. They will use you as a lookout or a kidnapper or to carry drugs north.    Some people who do not have family to help them join these gangs because it is the only way they can cross the river. I will not work for them. I will not ask the cartel for help. I ask God to help me. The U.S. justice system is generally skeptical of immigrants who claim the cartel made me do it. One fed-up federal prosecutor in fact told a California jury in a cocaine smuggling case why do not we send a memo and say dear drug traffickers when you hire someone to drive a load tell them that they were forced to do it. Lately public defenders in border courts have raised this duress claim more and more in attempts to get their clients lower punishment. But the defense is rarely successful. Rodolfo the immigrant we heard from at the top of this story is the exception. Federal agents believed his story only after he volunteered to show them where he dropped the dope. But usually there is no corroborating evidence all the judge has is the defendant's word. Robert Pitman is the U.S. attorney for the Western District Texas.  I think that no doubt some of them are valid. I think that based on the information that I get that the vast majority of them are not valid. If you think about it there are very few things people can say in their defense when they are caught with a load of illegal drugs.  To test the duress claim federal investigators look at an immigrant's criminal history and they will interview co-defendants to see if all the stories match up says Will Glaspy. He is an assistant special agent in charge with the DEA in South Texas.  What we are finding out in our investigations in a lot of cases is in fact that is not true. They are just kind of using that as a trendy defense because maybe they think it is going to work.  Their individual stories may or may not be true but they are entirely plausible. Cartels are targeting immigrants. Defense attorneys in three states interviewed for this report say they are frustrated that the government maintains its longstanding distrust of duress claims despite the new reality along the U.S.-Mexico border. Marissa Perez-Garcia is branch chief of the public defender's office in Laredo.  It is a tough defense because it is another country and we cannot even investigate properly over there. So there is no proof. And that is not to say that they are not true.  One immigrant defendant recently blurted out in a West Texas courtroom just kill me here so my family can claim my body because if you send me back I know the narcos will kill me. John Burnett NPR News. 