 During Hurricane Harvey Houston's 911 system was overwhelmed. But newly released recordings reveal that another number played an important role the all-purpose helpline 311. As NPR's Rebecca Hersher reports it became a useful tool for understanding dangerous air pollution from the storm.  MS.  Thank you for calling to 311. This is Ms. Boom. How may I help you?  Hi Ms. Boom...  On a normal day the calls to Houston 311 are pretty dull. My trash did not get picked up. That fire hydrant is still leaking - that kind of stuff. But during and after Hurricane Harvey people were using it to report some unusual smells.   It kind of smells like those refineries - kind of like that chemical from the refinery that type of thing.  This is a recording of one of about 40 calls to 311 about strong chemical odors in neighborhoods. The calls were obtained through an open-records request by NPR. Caller names have been redacted.   So it do not smell like a sewer smell. It smell like a chemical smell.  It is like a chemical smell.  When this call came in the water was still rising in Houston. And across town at the City Health Department they were dealing with a nightmare situation. Refineries and chemical plants were flooded and some were releasing millions of pounds of dangerous chemicals into the air.  Benzene and 13-Butadiene are chemicals that we watch really closely.  Loren Raun is the department's chief environmental scientist.  They both are carcinogens and cause leukemia.  Those chemicals and others were leaking out of damaged facilities that were right next to neighborhoods. But Raun had a problem. She did not know where the leaks were. Most of the air monitors were offline during the storm.  We had sporadic readings. The wind was changing direction and - so the data was limited.  Raun and her colleagues needed to answer a difficult question. Were people in danger from the air? There were not a lot of hard numbers. But there were those 311 calls.   Um yes. I need to report - I would not necessarily call it a gas leak. But I smell gasoline.  The more calls that came in the more they told a bigger story. There was a cluster of people complaining about weird smells in southeast Houston. So that is where the Health Department started focusing their resources. They sent in investigators and a private mobile air monitor. It helped them pinpoint where chemicals were coming from which Raun says helped them make sure that people were not in imminent danger.  We were pushing the limit of what we could do. You know I believe that we did an incredible job.  And 311 provided a less tangible benefit. In the middle of a disaster with 911 backed up calling 311 made some residents in working-class neighborhoods feel like their city was listening to them - people like Jessica Hulsey who smelled gasoline in her neighborhood during the storm.  So I call - I call 311. And I said you know this is what I smell. And they are very very courteous.  The whole interaction left her feeling pretty empowered.  I know that we are not rich that we are no millionaires. We are very blue collar - maybe under blue collar you know? But I have to say that the city provides the tools.  Tools like 311. She is one of a dozen residents who told me they felt the city was more responsive to air pollution after the storm than state and federal authorities. Rebecca Hersher NPR News.  