 This just in - Kirk Douglas is not dead. The announcement of my death is premature he told USA Today after People magazine's website ran an obituary this week for Mr. Douglas who looks vigorous says he feels strong has just published a book of poetry and will turn 98 years old on Tuesday. News organizations prepare obituaries in advance of course. They just usually wait for someone to die before they run them. People has not said how they happened to hit the send button on Kirk Douglas. I do not know if Mr. Douglas read the obituary that People briefly posted but I imagine that say for reading that he was gone Kirk Douglas could only be delighted by the way his life was encapsulated. He has enjoyed one of the great long careers in an industry famous for flash and fad but the glimpse of the obituary Mr. Douglas might have gotten did not seem to mock or even much remark on some of the slightly silly Harry costume epics in which he appeared like The Vikings or the soap operas on horseback like Last Train From Gun Hill. The obit dwelled on Mr. Douglas's fierce portrayal of the fragile and frantic genius of Vincent Van Gogh in Lust For Life. Or the vagabond modern cowboy in Lonely Are The Brave and how he used his stardom to get great films like Paths Of Glory and Spartacus made and helped break the Hollywood blacklist. It noted how a man famous for his star quality did not dim when felled by a stroke and slurred speech. The obit might have mentioned flops and infidelities of which Mr. Douglas had quite a few but an obituary strives to have the perspective of a full life. Failures and mistakes which once loomed huge can finally be seen as small bumps on a long road. Maybe it would be a good exercise - even a gift in the holiday season - to help write a brief obituary for someone you love while they are still vibrant alive and able to appreciate it. You can remember a grandmother who may seem a little halting and crotchety now as she was when she was young and lighthearted. You can ask a father who can seem exasperated about being an authority figure now to remember the years when he was young unruly and even a little sassy. Seeing your life stretched out may make you see disappointments and defeats as pointers not missteps along that long road. The magazine's blunder may have given Kirk Douglas a pretty good gift for 98 birthday a chance to see how his life adds up while he can still add to it. 