 John Leguizamo has just wrapped up his one-man show after a national tour including a stop here in Washington. He would been performing it for six years. It is called Latin History For Morons.   I am embarrassed that I did not know enough about my ancestry to pass on to my kids. I mean I kind of sort of knew about our Latin timeline. What is that? 1000 B.C. we had Mayans and then we have now.   And what is this the age of Pitbull?  I have been wanting to talk to him for a long time. And his being here in Washington is a great opportunity. So here he is. John Leguizamo thank you for being with me.  Thank you for having me.  What have you seen change while you have been performing Latin History For Morons? I mean obviously you started it because your son was bullied.  Right.  And you wanted to sort of talk about Latino history in this country. So what is changed?  Well an election happened. And a midterm...  Did it?  ...Election happened.  .  And now we are almost ready for another election. And that is what I think helped galvanize a lot of what I was saying because I mean a lot of what I was talking about on the show obviously predated the 2016 election. I mean the only thing that changed was my outrage about it.  I mean hate crimes against Latinos are up 41.  Yeah. Yeah.  Whereas like hate crimes against Muslims are down actually against Jews are down. But Latinos obviously are being targeted through the rhetoric. We are hearing words like infestation.  Right.  You know it is...  Demonized by...  Demonized.  ...The words that the president uses.  Yeah.  Exactly.  And others.  Yeah. Well mostly him. I mean his rhetoric against Latin people becomes sort of like a mandate. It is like a - it is not even a dog whistle. It is so blatant. And for all the pushback all the sort of not being asked to be at the table where the big decisions are being made we are still making big inroads because we are - we have added 2.3 trillion to the U.S. economy. If we were our own country it would be the eighth largest economy in the world. So even with all these horrors and hate mongering from the president and Republicans allowing that to happen we are still thriving which is how we have always survived.  And yet at a moment when this is happening when you are seeing family separations at the border you are seeing a lot of policies that really are aimed squarely at Latinos we still see this invisibility that you talk about this erasure. I mean if you look at your own industry I think a report came out that said that only 4.5 of speaking roles went to Latino actors.  I know. And that is because I wrote an article a year ago saying we were at 3 complaining in Billboard magazine. But we already went up 1.5 because we started complaining. We are the second largest ethnic group in America after white people. And yet Nielsen boxes are not representing Latinos. So you are diluting our power. In Hollywood we are 50 of the population and less than 4 of the faces in front of the camera behind the camera. That is cultural apartheid.  Why is it happening in your view? This is something I have been grappling with because you know I head a national news program. And not a week goes by where I do not get an email from a listener complaining about too much Hispanic content on my show. And that is even on weeks when there is only me on the show and no other Latinos...  .  ...And no other Latino content. And the letters always start with I am not a racist but. And I am trying to understand what it is that they are hearing. Why are they hearing something different just because my name is Lulu Garcia-Navarro?  I mean the president has definitely fueled the sort of - with racist people he is giving them a voice. He is giving them a sense that they can speak out because...  But I am not sure these people are racist in the way that we would understand it.  They may not call you a derogatory term to your face. But they do not want you. You know like I do speeches across the country where I vilify The New York Times and Hollywood. And you will get like a couple or two - older white couple who I guess just watch Fox News and they started booing and said go back to Mexico. You know what? I said that is cool. I am not - but I am not from Mexico. I am Colombian Puerto Rican. And that is good. And the audience started turning against them. And I said no no no. This is a country of free speech. They are cool to say what they want. I just was correcting them. And I move on.  You know you have written all these editorials. You give speeches. You advocate for this all the time. Who are you talking to when you go around the country? Who...  All of it. All of it.  Who are you speaking to?  All of you every single one of you because we cannot do it completely alone. And that is who I am talking to. I am talking to - yeah the audience is very mixed. And they are coming to listen to me talk. And I am talking very political. And I am talking about our Latin contributions and our lack of inclusion and a seat at the table. And I think it is making differences. And when I wrote my article about our invisibility in Billboard then it got echoed by other Latin artists in different publications. And it starts to build starts to build momentum.  But the message cannot just be you need to do it because you should do it because we are 17 of the population.  But that is not the - see that is the ugly question in the room that is why are not we there? Because we are not talented enough? We are not smart enough? There is so many brilliant people out there that are just excluded because they are Latino. I have been pitching scripts to Hollywood for 30 years. And I always thought it was that oh maybe I am just a bad writer. Maybe I just do not write well enough because it was always rejected. Oh you know Latin people do not really want to see Latin people. Oh Latin people do not want to see feel-good movies - with all this Hollywood wisdom that really just racism. Or just they do not get us. And that is WHY we need Latin executives there. And there is plenty of Latin people who are super talented super capable of each job that have not been given that job.  This journey started for you six years ago with this show. And as we mentioned it was because your son was bullied. I am curious how he is doing now after you have done all this for him.  My son is doing great. He is really thriving. He is in college now - an economics major and poli sci minor. And I hope the poli sci is because of my influence.  But when you look at him and you see what he might be in the future what does the future look like for him you know in this country as a Latino?  Well let us hope it is a lot better. I mean - and it should be a lot better. I mean when Latinos have direct access to their targeted audience we are successful. That is why we have Latin baseball players who are successful IN everywhere and doing great - and managers because those are stats and you can measure that. Why are we crushing it in music? Cardi B Camila Cabello Ozuna Bad Bunny J Balvin J.Lo - why are we crushing it? Because as you can scan the purchases. But everywhere else where it is gray and somebody's you know - led at somebody's discretion that is where we are not succeeding.  John Leguizamo - his show is called Latin History For Morons. Thank you so much.  Thank you for having me. It was a blast.  