 We reached Christophe Chalencon in Paris yesterday. He is an organizer of the yellow vest movement. He is an iron craftsman from southeastern France. We spoke to him before today's protests began. Monsieur Chalencon thanks very much for being with us.  .  Why have you joined these protests?   I am 52. I have seen French society slowly slide towards the Dark Ages. We have people today who have jobs and yet have to sleep in their cars and under bridges. That is unacceptable.  How did the gas tax affect you and your family?   The problem is that political power is centralized on Paris and Mr. Macron's government have certainly not lived in rural France. To get around to get to the dentist I have to drive 80 kilometers. To pick up equipment I need for work it is the same. So this gas tax - it is really a tax that is directly on labor.  So a gas tax would greatly increase what it costs you just to live?   Yes it has a direct impact on buying power.  And what kind of choices do you have to make in your family budget?   The choice becomes about food. Some people cannot even fill their fridge and those who can no longer buy quality food.  So you feel French society is stacked towards people with money.   Exactly. And unfortunately in French society right now you have three categories. You have the very rich who no longer pay taxes. Then you have rural France and you have the suburbs which have been abandoned for 40 years. Today they are rising up and want to destroy the country.  And what would satisfy you now? What would make you stop demonstrating? Or is there anything?   We are not asking for Mr. Macron to step down or to dissolve Parliament. That would plunge France into chaos. We just want Mr. Macron to start talking to the people to talk like the father of the nation and not like the president of a startup. He has to tell us that he understands us that he hears us that he is going to change course. But he seems incapable of that. He used to be a banker and bankers only think about numbers. They do not think about people. People have to become the focus of politics again.  And I mean he is already decided to either not impose or delay the gas tax. That is not enough?   Not at all. We demand a change in government including the resignation of Prime Minister Edouard Philippe.  Christophe Chalencon who is an iron craftsman from southeastern France and an organizer of the yellow vest protesters thanks so much for being with us.  .  Our interpreter has been Mathilde Piard. 