 The criminal justice bill that just passed Congress has renewed hope for those incarcerated in the U.S. prison system. Among the reforms the end of automatic life sentences under the three-strikes penalty for drug offenses. That law contributed to the ballooning of the U.S. prison population over the last 30 years or so including the number of people serving life sentences without a chance for parole. The new book The Meaning Of Life by Marc Mauer and Ashley Nellis of The Sentencing Project makes the case for abolishing life sentences altogether. And today we are going to take a look into a particularly troubling piece of that puzzle - life sentences for juveniles. Joining me in the studio is Ashley Nellis. Welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  And joining us from WHYY in Philadelphia is former inmate Robert Holbrook. At age 16 he was sentenced to life in prison without parole for being the lookout for a drug deal in which someone was killed. After serving 27 years he was released last February and is now an inmate's rights activist. Welcome to the program to you.  Thank you.  So first off I want to start with you Robert. What is your reaction to the justice reform bill?  Well my reaction is positive. I mean I am always skeptical when you see a lot of bills passed dealing with criminal justice reform because they never seem to take that deep enough bite that you want them to take. However this is - I believe this is a good start.  Robert I want you to take us back now to your initial imprisonment. What was that like for a teenager to enter prison with a life sentence?  It was surreal. Just trying to wrap my head around that at the time was just something I could not do. And you had to retain a sense of hope that one day you would be released. So you know I was in a survival mode the first five to 10 years of my imprisonment.  I mean you grew up in prison essentially. You were 16 and 27 years you were there.  Yeah. The thing is in prison when you are growing up the stakes are high because you know every mistake you make you know has serious consequences. So you know for a lot of us we were living life walking on needles - on razors actually.  Ashley can you broaden this out for us? There are some staggering statistics you have compiled in your book - the number of people serving life sentences and the number who were sentenced as juveniles.  Sure. So at the moment about 14 percent of our prison population includes lifers which amounts to 1 in 7 people in prison serving a life sentence. And within the juvenile arena there are about 12000 people serving life sentences for crimes committed when they were under the age of 18.  And just like the entire criminal justice system African-Americans and Latinos are disproportionately represented. Robert's father is African-American. And you note in the book that Pennsylvania where he was convicted is the nation's leader in life without parole for juveniles.  That is right. And the racial disparity you know is of course all over our criminal justice system - right? - from the point of initial contact. So we were not surprised that 1 in 5 African-American inmates is serving a life sentence.  Ashley this book is called The Case For Abolishing Life Sentences. What people on the other side of this argument would say is that you need to have something that will deter crime. You need to have serious repercussions for serious crimes. Make the case - why should life sentences go especially for juveniles?  There is no empirically evident deterrent value of life sentences or long sentences just as we know there is no deterrent value of the death penalty. And where I am going with this is that it is really the certainty of apprehension that deters people from crime not the severity. So when we just stack on sentence after sentence after sentence and think we are doing something to deter crime we are really not. What we are doing is continuing to use the criminal justice system simply to remove citizens from society for the rest of their lives. But there is a point in their incarceration - when they are younger people are more rebellious. They are more risky. And you add a prison sentence on top of that you are going to have some trouble usually at first. For the vast majority of people who - even those who have committed multiple offenses they age out. This is a known fact in criminology. They age out of crime. Even the chronic offender ages out by their mid- to late 30s. What we have when we have life sentences now as a result is we have geriatric institutions. We are incarcerating people in basically nursing home facilities. And the Department of Corrections in these states was not designed to do that.  Robert I am curious to know what it is been like for you since you left prison. I mean you entered at 16. You are out in your 40s. How is it been?  Well I was very fortunate to have a very strong support system - a family support system and a advocacy support system - that surrounded me during my years in prison. So I have not really had too many struggles. And much of my work you know revolves around you know my passion which is helping other people who are like me and made you know terrible mistakes when they were younger - to give them just an opportunity to show that they are not the worst ever created. And most importantly that they hold themselves accountable and they change themself in prison as I did.  Robert Holbrook is a prison reform activist and one of the people profiled in the new book The Meaning Of Life co-authored by Ashley Nellis. Thank you both so very much for joining us.  Thank you.  Thank you. 