 While Scott Simon is away for the holidays he very kindly let me borrow one of his favorite series.    Here's looking at you kid.    Frankly my dear I do not give a damn.    I could have been a contender.    Fasten your seatbelts.    Show me the money.    You talkin'  to me?    I will have what she is having.    I as not never thought I would have to fight in my own house.    Stella.    Long live the king.    Here's Johnny.    I am your father.    I will get you my pretty.    Precious.    Why so serious?    Hasta la vista baby.  RICHARD S.   Leave the gun. Take the cannoli.  Guess what it is time for Movies You Missed where we make friends colleagues listeners and strangers watch classic films they somehow missed. We asked Weekend All Things Considered producer Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi to spend his vacation watching An Affair To Remember. You have got to remember that one.  A love affair . The 1957 movie stars Cary Grant and Deborah Kerr. Alexi joins us now. Can you sing the theme?  I do not think so.  .  I have actually forgotten it already.  Now I have not seen this movie in a very long time. So why do not you do the heavy lifting? What is it about?  Well so on its face it is about these two kind of star-crossed aristocrats who are sailing their way across the Atlantic. And they are both headed back to their significant others. And Cary Grant plays this international celebrity playboy named Nickie Ferrante. He is kind of the subject of a ton of gossip and everybody's very excited that he is on his way to go finally settle down and marry this New York socialite. He meets Deborah Kerr's character Terry McKay. And of course the first thing he does is try to seduce her. And he comes up with this line that I kind of liked but he tries to convince her that life is too short to not seize whatever moments are given for romance and adventure.    You know this ship is going much too fast. We ought to take advantage of every moment. Do not you think that life should be gay and bright and bubbly like champagne?   I like pink champagne.   Yes that is the kind I mean - pink champagne. Now is there any reason why from now on this trip should not be pink champagne?  So eventually despite a good stand by Terry McKay against the charm of Cary Grant's character she finally succumbs to his charm and they have a famous love affair. And he actually asks her to marry him instead of his wife-to-be. You know I will not spoil the rest of the movie. There are a lot of ups and downs - it is you know - as in life. The love affair in this story is kind of a rocky road. And there is some vehicular blunt trauma. I will leave that as a teaser.  So the American Film Institute says that this is one of the most romantic movies of all time - that it really is a movie to remember. What say you?  You know I was really confused in a lot of ways by this movie because...    ...The whole start of the movie's setting up this guy as this notorious rogue whose word basically means nothing. And he is super rude to everybody he meets. People are asking him to play cards on the ship. And he is like...   Oh I am sorry Mr. Hathaway but I cheat. It is an addiction.  I do not know. I mean there is a lot of pithy fun banter. There is some chemistry there. But I think the way you read the romance in this movie is whether or not you believe that this is actually an affair to remember at all or just one in this slew of affairs that is this guy's life. I think I have a pessimistic view of that. But it seems like people who saw this movie at a different time read it differently. In this moment it struck me the other way.  I see . What'd you think about Cary Grant?  Well you know I have not seen that many Cary Grant movies - I will admit. And most of the ones I did see were when I was little. I was not totally charmed by him in this movie. I am willing to give him another chance. I think of myself more as a Jimmy Stewart kind of guy.  .  I like the stammering principled kind of earnestness of Jimmy Stewart. I will say I did - I watched this movie on the plane back from our home state of New Mexico to Washington. And there was a woman in her mid-70s maybe sitting next to me - I was squished in the middle seat. And she watched the movie over my shoulder. You know she was kind of enraptured by it. And we ended up talking about it a little bit. And she was saying - oh Cary Grant. There was no one who did not love Cary Grant you know when I was young and it was unheard of. And you know they just - romance is not the same anymore. And I do not know. I hope it is changed...   ...If this is what romance is.  Well can you think of anyone you know - I mean among your friends - who is actually seen the film?  Yeah. I asked a lot of people that I know - and to be fair most of them are 20-somethings or 30-somethings - in my...  Like you.  ...Age range. That is right. And none of them seemed to know it but they would sometimes gaze off mistily and say I think I have heard of that. Have all of your friends heard of it or seen it?  Are you kidding ? Seen it more than once cried all the way through it - yes. I mean it is not as if you cannot see the ending coming. So you start crying in preparation for the ending. Did you cry?  No. I mean I did enjoy it. I do not think I was greatly moved by it. But yeah it was a nice way to spend a flight. I will say that. And also I did like - I will say one last thing. I did like something about his joie de vivre - this disaster life that he had. I do not know if I fully identify with it. And you know I liked that whole thing that life should be you know gay and bubbly and bright. So in the spirit of that I thought maybe we could end this by cheers-ing the movie and the new year with a little bit of pink champagne.  .  So bear with me. Bear with me. We are going to open this up.   .  There we are. And breakfast is served.    A love affair.  Alexi Horowitz-Ghazi producer at Weekend All Things Considered - cheers.  Happy new year Linda.    We will rejoice in remembering. Our love was born with our first embrace. 