 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Liane Hansen. The U.N. climate talks in Copenhagen made little visible progress this past week on a treaty to combat global warming. NPR's David Kestenbaum is in Copenhagen and he joins us now. David give us a sense of what is going on at the talks.  Well unfortunately a lot of what is going on at the talks is behind closed doors and sometimes you are not even sure which doors. Yesterday things spilled outside of the conference center and onto the street. There was a large rally estimated at 40000 people. Police detained some people but by and large it was very peaceful. I was out in the street last night at the end of the rally talking to a small group of people standing around a fire they had built. They were burning their protest signs. One of the signs that still remained red There is no Planet B meaning this is the one we have let us take care of it.  What have been the sticking points in the negotiations?  They are basically the same points that people have been wrestling with forever - that fixing the climate is not free. It is going to impose some kind of economic cost and basically we are just trying to work out how to split up that cost. That turns out to be very very difficult. And the biggest divide is between the rich and the poor countries of the world.  But China India and Brazil have all pledged to slow the rate of growth of their emissions. Why is not that enough for the United States?  The United States wants binding agreements. In other words they want these countries to write down on a piece of paper what they are going to do and make that part of the agreement. Todd Stern the U.S. climate envoy here he said it is not a matter of politics or morality or anything else it is just math. If you think about China - which you could call a developing country - it is the largest emitter in the world and most people there do not even have cars yet. So the U.S. wants to get them on paper saying this is what we are going to do and we commit to it. China and other developing countries on the other hand they would like to stick with what was laid out in the Kyoto climate accord which does not put any specific demands on them.  The European Union pledged what 10.6 billion this past week to help developing countries?  Yeah.  And the U.S. said it would do its fair share - that is in quotation marks. Does that help?  It helps a little bit but the Chinese delegate pointed out here that if you divide up the numbers being talked about for aid for a climate fund it works out to about 2 a person on the planet. So poor countries are saying they are going to need a lot of help if they are going to grow in a way that does not dump huge amounts of carbon into the atmosphere. And the numbers floating around are big 100 billion a year maybe 400 billion a year down the road. And at this point it is unclear where that money comes from. And until that question is resolved a lot of the smaller countries are just are not going to be very happy.  President Obama is headed to Copenhagen later this week though what do you expect from this week's talks?  This is the way things go. You often have a lot of posturing in the few week behind the scenes. But it is unusual for the actual heads of state to come. That is a big deal. The problem for President Obama is that it is going to be hard for him to budge on a lot of these issues because he does not want to promise more than Congress is talking about doing. And at this point it is even unclear if Congress will pass a climate bill. But that said they are going to be here. They are going to be giving talks these leaders and they want to be able to have something to say.  NPR's David Kestenbaum in Copenhagen. Thank you David.  You are welcome. 