 From Coco Robicheaux to coquito. That is an eggnog that is as much a part of a Puerto Rican Christmas as sunlight and beaches. Today in New York 12 coquito-makers will contend to be this year's Coquito Masters champion. Debbie Quinones is the founder of the International Coquito Federation. She joins us from New York. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for inviting me.  And what is a coquito?  Coquito is made specifically with condensed milk evaporated milk coconut rum vanilla nutmeg and some other spices that tend to vary with various families.  So everybody has their own personal recipe.  Absolutely and that is what is the joy and beauty of this contest that I organized. It is called Coquito Masters. It started when my mother's friend passed away who was the coquito maker for our family. And I was left without any coquito and realizing that the concept of culinary legacy was really important. And I started having this event in my house basically with some friends and family.  What can we expect today?  You have the top 12 coquito masters from the five boroughs from different neighborhoods and even Connecticut - and of course the defending champion who is Maritza Acosta. It is really an exciting opportunity and experienced to see people coming in with this sense of pride and competition. I have to say that this competition is fierce.  Are people eager to share the recipes? Can they keep them...  Oh no. No. Oh no. No. This is something that is really intense. We have the competition today. And as a result of the growth and expansion of this initiative we have decided that - in consultation with the Museo Del Barrio - that in a new twist what we have now is a coquito crawl which is promoting the tourism of East Harlem where restaurants have come on board and they will serve as the winning contestant's coquito. And we have a trolley that is going to go around the neighborhood. So ultimately after you taste from two to four people can go back to the Museo Del Barrio at 30 where we will announce the winner.  Does the winner have to share his or her recipe?  No. No. No. No. That is like really something that we do not get into.  OK.  The third-place winner in 2008 she stole the recipe from her father who had it under his bed in a locked box. She actually stole...  And you rewarded that kind of family pilferage?   The mother was in - she was part of the collaboration and she took the recipe and put it into the contest and won third place.  Well happy holidays and may all your coquitos be smooth.  Thank you.  Or whatever a gentleman says to a lady.   Thank you so much.  Debbie Quinones speaking with us from New York. The Coquito Masters Championship happens today in Spanish Harlem. And to find a recipe for a coquito you can go to our website NPR.org.   This is NPR News. 