 Frank Sinatra was born a hundred years ago today. Even if you think his music just is not your music it is hard to get through life without uttering what I will call a Frank phrase from one of his songs at telling times in our lives. So set them up Joe. Fly me to the moon. I have got you under my skin. My kind of town. I did it my way. I want to wake up in a city that does not sleep. And that wry elegy for lost loves and lonely nights - so make it one for my baby and one more for the road. Sinatra called himself a saloon singer. He ran with mobsters and could be a bully. He coveted other men's wives and could be brutish to his own and other women and men. But today I would like to recall a moment when Frank Sinatra was truly magnificent not in Las Vegas or New York N.Y. but Gary Ind. November 1945 a lot of white students had walked out of Gary's Froebel High School when it opened up to black students. A citizens' group asked Frank Sinatra to come to their school because he was a teenage heartthrob but also a performer with principles. Sinatra had always insisted on playing with integrated orchestras. He was the best and he wanted to play with the finest - Count Basie and Duke Ellington Sinatra wanted to sing with Ella Fitzgerald. November 5 1945 Richard Durham of the Chicago Daily Defender described Frank Sinatra's appearance at Froebel High in Gary this way - Sinatra blue suit and red bow tie 5 feet 10 inches tall and 138 pounds the heavyweight in the hearts of the teenagers stepped to the stage amid weeping some fainting much crying and said you should be proud of Gary but you cannot stay proud by pulling this sort of strike. When he described his own racial background and told how he was called a dirty little Guinea the students yelled in horror no no no and listened quietly when he told them to stop using the words - well Sinatra used words that we do not say on the air these days. The eyes of the nation are watching Gary Frank Sinatra told the students. You have a wonderful war production record. Do not spoil it by pulling a strike. Go on back to school kids. When he sang The House I Live In wrote The Defender a strange silence fell upon his normally noisy worshippers and for once they screamed only when the songs ended.    The house I live in a plot of earth a street. The grocer and the butcher and the people that I meet. The children in the playground the faces that I see. All races and religions that is America to me. The place I work in...  You know who that is. You are listening to NPR News. 