 After years of predicting the demise of the cupcake WEEKEND EDITION food commentator Bonny Wolf has let it go. If you want to have a cupcake go ahead. But for the more adventurous she does have some guesses on what you will be eating in the 2013.  Asia is the new Europe. It is been gradual pan-Asian Asian fusion Asian inspired. Now it is just deciding among Vietnamese Korean Tibetan and Burmese for dinner. Should we have the simple food of the Thai plateau or the hot salty sour foods of southern Thailand? The new flavors of the year will not come from the kitchens of chefs trained at Le Cordon Bleu. More likely they will trickle up from Asian street foods. Chipotle has opened Shophouse with a menu inspired by street food from Singapore Kuala Lumpur and Hanoi. Even comfort foods are becoming Asian Vietnamese pho Korean kimchi fried rice and Chinese hot pots. Speaking of kimchi we will see a lot more fermented food. Last year we canned. This year we ferment. Think sauerkraut. Or if you are under 30 kombucha which for you old folks is fermented tea. Fermented foods produce probiotics - good bacteria. Good-for-you foods remain big. Vegetables are now entrees as well as ice creams. I am going to go out on a limb though and say Brussels sprouts may have peaked. Where do they have left to go? They have been paired with every ingredient known to modern cooks. They have gone from ooh Brussels sprouts to being the most popular kid in vegetable school. They have been baked breaded roasted and shredded. We will see more dark leafy greens beet tops collards and probably even more varieties of kale. Oh expect more seaweed. It too contributes to long life. As a member of the baby boom I can say this we really want to hang on. Veganism is getting even bigger but so is nose-to-tail. Farm-to-table now includes farm-to-bar. Mixologists aka bartenders have their own gardens or shop at farmers markets for produce to add to cocktails. Also watch for more smoked drinks with smoked ice cubes of course and barrel-aged cocktails. Like everything else they will be more savory than sweet. And if you want just to be left alone to eat whatever unhip food you want consider adding a little soy sauce.   Bonny Wolf is managing editor of AmericanFoodRoots.com.   This is NPR News. 