  Kentucky is often reduced to coal miners bourbon horse racing and bluegrass. Oxford American magazine has dedicated its latest Southern Music Issue entirely to Kentucky. And it is not just bluegrass. It is soul jazz punk rock and rap. The issue comes with a CD of Kentucky music some new and some old. And we are joined today by Oxford American deputy editor Maxwell George. Welcome.  Hi Lauren.  And also Nathan Salsburg who is a musician who was a consultant for the magazine. Welcome to you.  Hi Lauren.  Now the cover of this magazine I have to say is not what I expected. There is a tiny photo of Loretta Lynn. But we do not see bluegrass founder Bill Monroe here and instead you have got a relative newcomer on the cover Sturgill Simpson. Let us hear a bit of his music.    Basically it is just like Papaw said keep your mouth shut and you will be fine. Just another enlisted egg in the bowl for Uncle Sam's beater...  So Max why did you pick Sturgill Simpson for the cover of this magazine?  We were really floored not just by the history of the music but the vibrancy of the contemporary scene. So we knew we kind of wanted to find someone for the cover who would convey that kind of dual nature of the themes of this issue which are - Sturgill is playing country music and he is drawing on that form but he is moving it forward.   Let us bring in Nathan Salsburg. You are the curator of the Alan Lomax Archive at the Association for Cultural Equity. And you wrote an essay in this magazine about a murder ballad Lomax recorded in Kentucky in 1937. First let us hear a little bit of that recording.  PINE MOUNTAIN SETTLEMENT SCHOOL GIRLS'   Pretty Polly Pretty Polly come go long with me. Pretty Polly Pretty Polly come go long with me.  And there is a new version of this song on the CD that you have issued with the magazine.  Yes. So Lomax who is a renowned folklorist who made recordings in the '30s and '40s for the Library of Congress made some 70 hours of east Kentucky recordings between 1933 and 1942. And in '37 he traveled to the Pine Mountain Settlement School and because he only got two verses of the Pine Mountain Girls' Octet very haunting rendition of Pretty Polly the famous murder ballad I had the idea to enlist a local string band in Louisville Ky. called Maiden Radio to put together a contemporary octet of some of their colleagues drawing five other women from across Kentucky to do this new rendition of Pretty Polly.    A debt to the devil now Willie must pay for killin' Pretty Polly and running away.  I got goosebumps just listening to that I mean that acappella murder ballad.  This is also the only version that I know that is sung by women who were more or less Pretty Polly's age you know about 1821 say and that adds this very very sort of deeply creepy aspect to it.   Let us go in a completely different direction. Who knew Kentucky had a soul music tradition? Let us hear a little bit of music from the late 1960s by the Soul Walkers.    When I saw I let your love slip away from me I pleaded to you darlin' I was sorry for being on the street.  The Soul Walkers - what can you tell me about this band?  They were in high school when they recorded this and they did not last very long. They started out in '67 as teenagers and by 1973 they had broken up but they were able to cut I think four songs total in that span. That one is a little bit derivative of the Jackson 5 but I mean they were world class no doubt.    Do not leave me no please baby please baby. Do not leave me baby. I got to .  But I do believe the main guy in Soul Walkers Bruce Griffith is still around.  I bet he is pretty pleased.  Yeah. And Nathan has made a good point about this particular band. They are from Owensboro Ky. which is normally associated with - directly with bluegrass so to hear this music coming out of the same place...  Soul music from a bluegrass place. There is also a song on here by the late actor Harry Dean Stanton and that song is in Spanish.   .  We lost Harry Dean Stanton this year found out - sort of realized early in the year that he was from Kentucky. He went to high school in Lexington and we knew we wanted to include him in the issue. And then when he passed it sort of became a tribute. This song he originally recorded for the movie Paris Texas.   .  Such a variety. There is a song in Spanish. There is a cappella murder ballad. I mean you have broken the stereotype for me. But can you sum up the Kentucky sound? I mean what is it that ties all of this music together?  That is a really good and hard question. And I guess Kentucky is unique in a way in that it is not sure whether it is Southern or Midwestern. Kentucky itself was this sort of interesting crossroads of obviously the river traffic the frontier through the Appalachian Mountains that Daniel Boone blazed. They are all of these intersecting and sort of competing factors. And in the cities themselves you know a lot of this music cross-pollinated in particular in towns like Paducah and Newport in the north of the state and Louisville where there was a lot of really interesting black and white music that was interacting through steamboats. Kentucky is interesting in its geographical placement and through all of this cultural interaction I think gets overlooked again as your introduction said because of bourbon and horse racing and bluegrass.  Max do you want to give that a go sum up the Kentucky sound in a few words?  Well I would only just add to that that Kentucky was one of the original frontiers of America. It retains that spirit today and we can hear it in the contemporary music coming out of Kentucky too from Joan Shelley to Bonnie Prince Billy and even legends like Les McCann the Everly Brothers. I think that that spirit runs through the whole history.  Max George and Nathan Salsburg who both worked on the Kentucky Music Issue of Oxford American thank you very much.  Thanks Lauren.  Thank you.    Lay down. Lay down by the water of the Ohio. I will send on dreams a sweet melody I hold for you. 