 And for the last time in 2017 let us play the puzzle. Joining me is Will Shortz. He is puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master. Will good morning.  Morning Laura.  And remind us of last week's challenge.  Yeah it was an easyish  one. I asked the name of what well-known U.S. city in 10 letters contains only three different letters of the alphabet and the answer is Walla Walla as in Washington.  Walla Walla. We received almost 2000 correct responses and our randomly selected winner is Nick England of Chapel Hill N.C. Congratulations.  Thank you very much.  And how did you come to this answer Nick?  Well I had recently looked up the lyrics to an old Pogo comic strip Christmas carol which starts deck us all with Boston Charlie Walla Walla Wash. and Kalamazoo.  Wow.  Yeah that is weird. But when I started thinking of cities around Walla Walla came to mind and it probably would not have otherwise.  Amazing. I understand that playing the puzzle is not your only hobby. You also restore radios.  Oh I have a thing for 1950s and '60s U.S. Navy radios. I have restored several tons of them.  So these are your two loves coming together - puzzling and being on the radio.  I guess. We will see how this goes.  OK Will take it away.  Yes. Well this is my annual year-end New Names in the News Quiz and it works like this. I will name some people and things you probably never heard of until 2017 but who sprang to prominence during the past 12 months. You tell me who and what they are. And here's No. 1 - Doug Jones.  Doug Jones.  Who is Doug Jones?  I am not a very good at current events. I have heard the name but I cannot tell you where.  Does the hint Alabama help?  Oh yeah. He was the guy who won against the - Judge Moore.  Right.  Good.  That was the Democratic-upset winner in Alabama versus Roy Moore in the special election to replace Jeff Sessions in the Senate. No. 2 - Gal Gadot. That is G-A-D-O-T.  I have not seen it but I understand she is a Wonder Woman.  Excellent yeah - the Israeli actress who starred in Wonder Woman. Anthony Scaramucci.  Somebody in the Trump administration.  Otherwise known as the Mooch.  Who maybe got fired.  I will give you that. He is the - Trump's communications director for just 10 days.  Yup shortest tenure ever right?  Jack Phillips.  This is a tough one.  No that one does not ring a bell at all.  All right I will give you a hint - Colorado.  Think wedding bells.  Oh is he the baking-the-wedding-cake guy?  That is the one. He refused to bake a wedding cake for a same-sex couple and the case is now before the Supreme Court. Emmerson Mnangagwa. And that last name is spelled M-N-A-N-G-A-G-W-A - Emmerson Mnangagwa.  I have no idea but I am going to take a wild guess that it might have something to do with Zimbabwe and...  Excellent.  All right Nick.  The wild guess is right. He is the new president of Zimbabwe successor to Robert Mugabe.  OK.  Tom Steyer - and that is spelled S-T-E-Y-E-R. Tom Steyer.  He is the guy who made a whole bunch of money and is currently running commercials about impeaching Trump.  You named it. Boy...  Wow.  .  I thought you said you were not up on current events but you are killing it. How about Salvator Mundi? Salvador Mundi.  Nope.  And here's your first hint. It is not a person.  Salvator Mundi.  And if you need another hint what about 450 million?  What about it? I will take it.   I must have completely missed this one. I...  I do not think so.  This is tough. This is tough.  That was the painting by Leonardo da Vinci that sold at Christie's for a record 450.3 million.  Oh you know I bid on that too and I...  .  There - you were the underbidder right? Well Nick I think you did all right for someone - especially for someone who says he does not follow the current events.  Yeah Nick that was great. It was trivia rather than a word puzzle but you did really well. For playing our puzzle today you will get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin as well as puzzle books and games and you can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. Nick what member station do you listen to?  Oh we listen to WUNC FM and religiously listen to the puzzle on the air.  Oh great. Well I am glad to hear it. Nick England of Chapel Hill N.C. thank you for playing the puzzle.  Thank you. What a great way to end the year.  Happy New Year to you.  Happy New Year Will.  And Will what is next week's challenge?  Yeah it comes from listener Patrick Berry of Jasper Ala. Name a famous singer - three letters in the first name five letters in the last. Drop the middle letter of the last name and rearrange the result to name a variety of singing group. What is it? So again - famous singer three five drop the middle letter of the last name and rearrange the result to name a variety of singing group. What group is it?  When you have the answer you can go to our website - npr.orgpuzzle - and click on the submit your answer link - just one entry per person please. Our deadline for entries is this Thursday January 4 2018 at 3 p.m. Eastern. Include a phone number where we can reach you at around that time and if you are the winner we will give you a call and you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will and Happy New Year.  Thank you Lauren. Happy New Year to you too.  