 And this holiday weekend clergy in a Berlin church are struggling with their Christmas message this year. The church is just behind the market where a terrorist attack took place last week and people have been filing in to light candles and sign a condolence book ever since. As Joanna Kakissis reports pastors are searching for a way to talk about compassion in a time of fear.  Just before his Christmas sermon a sandy-haired vicar named Thomas Franken stands near the entrance to Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church pointing to a damaged spire.  The tower that you can see over is part of the remaining old church which crashed down in the war.  The original 19th-century church was bombed during World War II. A new church was built around what remained. The old with the new symbolizes reconciliation. It is the way Franken tries to live his life.  I mean 60 years ago people did forgive my grandfather who was really a terrible Nazi. So I think it is my thing to forgive others now.  But he says it is hard for many people to forgive or even understand Anis Amri the Tunisian man who pledged allegiance to ISIS and allegedly drove a tractor-trailer into the neighboring Christmas market killing 12 people and injuring at least 45.  Up to now death was far away. War was far away. And now death has come closer. And that makes them of course be afraid. But the Christian message is do not be afraid. Christ is here to save us.   As an organist begins to play Hiltrud Trebben a retired secretary takes a seat in a back pew. She says she and her husband cannot stop thinking about the night of the attack.   We were in Dusseldorf at a tango class when we heard the news. The class broke up and we ran to the phone to call our daughter who is here in Berlin. We kept asking her - where are you? Are you home yet? We kept asking ourselves is the criminal on the streets? Is he on the train? Will something else happen?  Yet she resents nationalists taking advantage of the tragedy to incite hate against refugees.  .  I came here today she says so someone could give me a sign of hope for the future.   Trebben sings along to a hymn about standing beside the manger of baby Jesus. There are many families with young children in the congregation. There was supposed to be a nativity play for them but it was canceled. So Vicar Thomas Franken adds a puppet a happy green dragon named Bartholomew to the sermon just for the kids.  .  The puppet asks did not we just sing a song about a star rising and that those who were sad and who have cried - that they do not have to cry anymore? But this year it is not as simple as just celebrating the birth of Jesus says Franken and the church's lead pastor Martin Germer.   The most important thing is to stand with people during their grief to listen to them and to say - you can tell me what you are worried about right now.  They worry about more attacks and how amid the fear they can remain compassionate toward newcomers. For NPR News I am Joanna Kakissis in Berlin. 