 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. You are traveling to another dimension a dimension not only of words and numbers but of mind a journey into a wondrous land whose boundaries are that of the imagination. That is the signpost up ahead your next stop the puzzle.   Joining me now is Will Shortz. He is the puzzle editor of the New York Times and also WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle-master. Good morning Will.  Good morning Rachel.  So I understand a pretty big day in the history of puzzles coming up this week right?  That is correct. This coming Saturday is the 100th anniversary of the crossword. The first one appeared in the New York World an old newspaper on December 21 1913. And I have the world's only known copy in private hands of that first puzzle.  Do you really?  I do. And there is two things I want to mention. I am going to be on CBS Sunday Morning this morning. They do a nice segment on crosswords. And on Wednesday December 18 I will be on CBS This Morning with an interview with Mo Rocca. It was very funny when we did it.  Great. OK. Well refresh our memories. What was last week's challenge?  Yeah it was a tough one. It came from listener Pete Collins of Ann Arbor Michigan. And the challenge was name a U.S. city in nine letters. Shift the third letter six places later in the alphabet. Then shift the last letter seven places later in the alphabet. And the result was a family name featured in the title of a famous work of fiction. What is the city and what is the family name? Well the city is Kalamazoo Michigan. And shift those letters - you get Karamazov as in The Brothers Karamazov by Dostoyevsky.  So this one was kind of tough. We got just over 200 correct answers this week. And our randomly selected winner is Nicole Heron of New York City. She joins us now on the line. Hey Nicole congratulations.  Hey Rachel. Thanks so much.  This was hard. So did this come pretty easily to you or did you have to struggle with it?  You know I heard it very late this week. You have the podcast till Wednesday night. And I could not get it on my way home but I was walking to the subway Thursday thinking about some friends who are from Michigan and said oh my God Kalamazoo Karamazov.  Perfect.  Yeah. So it worked out.  And do you do a puzzle a lot? Are you a puzzler in general?  Yes I love the puzzle. I have probably only been solving for about 10 years ago - not a postcard...  Not a postcard .  Yeah my mom my brother and I we have a little family email we have been drawing every week.  Oh nice. Well they will be a little envious I imagine then.  They will be.   OK. Will Shortz is on the line Nicole. If you have a question for him?  Good morning Will.  Hey there.  Yeah nice to meet you. I do actually. So we are big puzzlers I guess in our family and I wondering what kind of puzzle traditions you grew up with that turned you into your puzzle-master?  That is good. I really developed myself. Nobody in my family did puzzles.  Oh no way.  Really?  How surprising.  Yeah. I think I picked up puzzles just as a way to procrastinate from schoolwork.   But school was important right Will?  Yeah it was important.  Kids should stay in school yeah. Well Nicole are you ready to do this?  I think so.  Let us go for it Will.  All right Nicole and Rachel. Every answer today is a five-letter word. I am going to give you a clue for the word. And besides giving you a direct hint to the answer the clue will also contain the answer in consecutive letters. For example if I said push over hard you would say shove because push over hard means shove and the letters of shove are inside push over.  OK. Do you have it Nicole?  Yep I got it.  All right. Let us give it a go.  Number one it is taken to kill a vampire.  Stake.  Stake good which is hidden inside it is taken. Title for Theresa in the Catholic Church.  Saint.  Saint. Man that is fast. Using shorter sentences say.  Terse.  Nice. Animal with much impish behavior.  Chimp.  Chimp inside much impish good. Beverage put on ice with gin.  Tonic.  Excellent. It can lead rains away from a house.  Rains? How do you spell that?  Yeah rains R-A-I-N-S. It can lead rains away from a house.  Drain.  Drain is it. One of the places to rent in a mall.  Store?  That is it. It might be built with big loose blocks of ice.  Igloo.  That is it. Kellogg's All brand Drano or Twinkies.   It is a brand.  Odd combination - oh brand.  Brand each of those is a brand. Good one. Home of Dali Velasquez and other famous painters.  Spain.  Spain is it. Song that worships all-mighty God.  Hymn.  No it is got to be letters.  No sorry.  Song that worships all-mighty God.  Psalm.  Psalm is it.  Psalm good.  Pleasant annual visitor.  Santa.  Santa is it.  Oh Nicole. That was awesome.   You did so well.  I was so nervous.  Oh my gosh. We could not tell. That was fabulous.  Oh thank you so much.  And you know that for playing our puzzle today you do get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin and puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. And before we let you go what is your Public Radio station?  Ninety-three point nine WNYC.  Nicole Heron of New York City thanks so much for playing the puzzle Nicole.  Thanks so much guys.  OK Will what is up for next week?  Yes. A fairly easy one I think. Name an island in which some of the letters appear more than once. Drop exactly two instances of each repeated letter. And the remaining letters can be rearranged to name something to eat. What is it? So again. An island some of the letters in it appear more than once. Drop exactly two instances of each repeated letter. And the remaining letters can be rearranged to name something to eat. What is it?  When you have got the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and click on that Submit Your Answer link - just one entry per person please. Our deadline for entries is Thursday December 19th at 3 P.M. Eastern Time. Please include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time because if you are the winner we will give you a call. And you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle-master Mr. Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thanks Rachel.  