 Mose Allison grew up in the South. By the time he moved north to make it as a pianist and songwriter in the mid-1950s he would taken the rough-edge blues of the Mississippi Delta smoothed it out with New York City jazz and added some potent lyrics.    You are sitting there yakkin' right in my face. I guess I am gonna have to put you in your place. You know if silence was golden you could not raise a dime because a man is on vacation. And your mouth is working overtime.  Mose Allison who died three years ago was an influence on artists from The Who to the Rolling Stones to Jimi Hendrix to Bonnie Raitt. In fact she is contributed to the new album If You are Going To The City A Tribute To Mose Allison. It also features Jackson Browne Taj Mahal Chrissie Hynde and Elvis Costello among many others. And Bonnie Raitt joins us now from member station KQED in San Francisco. Welcome.  Hi Lulu. How are you?  I am great. And we are also joined by Mose Allison's daughter singer Amy Allison who is the executive producer of the album. Welcome to you too.  Oh thank you Lulu. Thanks for having me along with Bonnie .  Yeah. It is great to have you both. And I am going to start with you Bonnie. What drew you to this project?  Well I have been such a fan of Mose since my older brother turned me onto his records when I was about 16. And I never heard anything as cool as that even though I used to listen to jazz radio in LA. When I was supposed to be asleep I would turn my little transistor on.  .  And he - you know I love the blues. I loved his laid-back delivery. And I have been a fan ever since the first note I heard him sing. And we met backstage. I went to see him at jazz clubs when I was in college. And I would go to Greenwich Village. And then we had the opportunity to do some shows together. In the early '70s mid-'70s we did some touring together. And we were friends - lifelong friends - and one of my great heroes personally and musically.  Yeah. Let us listen to Everybody's Cryin' Mercy. That was recorded in 2017 in Ontario.    Well I do not believe the things I am seeing. I am wondering about the things I have heard. Everybody is cryin' mercy. But they do not know the meaning of the word.  So I understand you have included Everybody's Cryin' Mercy in your live show for years. How come?  Oh you cannot get any better than that tune.  I got to tell you it gives me chills listening to it .  Oh thank you. Well I cut it back in 1973 when I was just starting out on my third album. And for me you know a lot of political music is so pedantic and corny and too on the nose. And this is - the thing about Mose that is so great is he can make social commentary and it is not really satirical at all. It is - I mean there is humorous songs as well. But this is as biting and as sardonic and incisive a point of view about you know the lack of empathy and the hypocrisy in the world. And it unfortunately has - ringing true when the shows that I sing today as much as it was when he first recorded it.  Amy Allison why this album now? And why these particular songs?  Oh boy. Well I knew there were a lot of people that you might not really think of that were fans but are you know? I think it is true that a lot of people across all genres were into him. So - and the song choices - you know we let the artists choose the song.  Your song Monsters Of The Id in which you share vocals with Elvis Costello with your dad actually on piano.    Monsters of the Id no longer staying hid. And terrors of the night are out in broad daylight.  Bonnie clearly he touched such a broad range of musicians. I mean here's someone who was sort of nonchalant with his style with mellow witty vocals. But he influenced punk godfather Iggy Pop.    If you are going to the city you better bolt your door. If you going to the city you better bolt your door. They will take all you got and come back for more.  We can start conversations when we are at a party or backstage at an awards show or you know meeting people that you have never met. And one thing you can have in common is Mose Allison the coolest guy of anybody I have met in my just-turned-70 life. I mean the guy was just nonstop. And anytime I think about hanging up my high heels I go what would Mose have done you know?    When you get up to the city you better lock your door. You know they will take what you got boy. And they will ask for more.  Amy what was it like growing up - him as your dad?  Oh gosh. Oh boy. It was great. I mean you know he was on the road. But when he was home he was home you know? And he - you know he listened to weird music. And he would  just - sofa on the side. But he was really funny too .  Bonnie and Amy if you were talking to a young aspiring songwriter what Mose Allison song would you suggest they listen to and why?  Oh my gosh. That is so hard to pick - which one. For me the one Chrissie chose - Stop This World is just - well it is a jazz song. It is a masterpiece.    Stop this world. Let me off. There is just too many pigs in the same trough. There is too many buzzards sitting on a fence. Stop this world. It is not making sense.  That is Amy Allison and Bonnie Raitt talking to us about the new collection If You are Going To The City A Tribute To Mose Allison. Thank you both very much.  Thank you.  Thank you Lulu for having us. I hope everybody...  Yeah.  ...Gets this record for Christmas.  Bonnie thank you. And thank you. And thank you for actually saying all that because it is like you have promoted the record much better than I could have.  Oh I am so glad we finally had a chance to meet even if it is from three cities. But what a cool...  Oh wait a second. Wait a second. You have not met?  Well we met backstage when she was a wee little thing. Yeah.  When I was a teenager and I was just dumbstruck - and I was like - my dad had opened for her. And I was like holy...  .  You know I better not say that. But anyway - but I am - but you know this is an honor. And...  This is the first time we have had a chance to talk. I have talked to her mom before and I have stayed in touch with her dad.  Yeah.  And I feel like I have known your family all my...  Yeah.  ...Adult life. So I am so honored to be part of this project as we all are. And long live the incredible legacy of Mose Allison one of the greatest artists of all time.  All right. Thank you both again. Bye.  Bye Amy. Bye Lulu.  Bye Bonnie. Thank you so much.    Well I got too smart for my own good. 