 By now you would better have your holiday shopping done. Maybe you did more of it online this year. Easy for you but bad for your local mall - brick-and-mortar stores are losing jobs. And it turns out some workers are hit harder than others. A new analysis shows that last year women in retail lost jobs while men actually gained them. Heidi Hartmann is an author on the study. She is with the Institute for Women's Policy Research. And she joins us in studio to explain. Hi Heidi. Thank you for coming in.  Oh It is a pleasure to be with you.  So what exactly did your analysis find?  Well we found that women lost hundreds of thousands of jobs in retail over the last year and men gained more than 100000 jobs. And we were quite surprised because we think of retail trade as a women's industry.  Right.  And the biggest losses for women were in general merchandise stores. And the biggest gains for men were in the same kind of stores. And that is the hugest part of retail.  So this was not a positive holiday gift to women?   No. I would characterize it as women getting coal in their stocking this Christmas season.  So what exactly do you think is behind this trend?  Well I think it is the consumer durables. We know that just like in other industries...  Durables are - what? - washing machines cars big-ticket items.  ...Furniture - things that last a long time as compared to clothing cosmetics things like that.  And this year we saw a rise in sales of these items?  We did. We saw hiring anyway. And that is interesting. I think it is a longtime recovery from that very deep and long recession we had in 2007 and 2009. They are finally catching up.  People finally decided it was time to invest in a new washing machine after holding off for a couple of years.  Yeah.  So we are talking about men selling more of these big appliances women selling clothes and cosmetics. What is the wage disparity there? I imagine that the commission is higher if you sell a car than if you sell a T-shirt.  Well definitely. Men make more in retail just the way they make more in almost every industry and every occupation. But you know women have tried for years to get these jobs. Sears actually won a case in the '70s saying that it was not enough to just show a statistical disparity that there were no women in the jobs. That was not enough . And the judge ruled that the plaintiffs had not shown intention that Sears did not...  So this was women suing because they were denied access to those high-commission sales jobs.  Absolutely.  We have broken this down by gender. But are there also disparities when it comes to race or age in the retail industry?  Well there probably are. This data set does not have it. And we vowed that this is so interesting we are going to take a look in the spring when we can get a different data set that will have all of those demographic variables.  Let us talk again then. Yeah.  I would love to.  Heidi Hartmann - an economist and president of the Institute for Women's Policy Research here in Washington. Thanks for coming in.  Thank you so much. 