 And to the shutdown - it is nearly Christmas and 380000 federal workers are on furlough. Another 420000 are working without pay. President Trump wants 5 billion to build along the southern border what started as a big beautiful wall - his words - and now is something.   A wall or a slat fence or whatever you want to call it but we need a great barrier.  Democrats will not fund that great barrier and Congress will not meet again about reopening the federal government until Thursday. But amid the Christmastime uncertainty is a small glimmer of generosity. Celebrity chef Jose Andres is promising furloughed federal workers a free lunch at any of his Washington restaurants for as long as the shutdown lasts. NPR's Bobby Allyn reports.  Spanish-born Andres announced it on Twitter. Bring your federal government ID to any of his eight restaurants in the nation's capitol and lunch is on him.  I do not have my ID with me. I did not know anything about it until you said it. Man I will have to remember that.  That is David Kassebaum a federal employee who does international development work. Kassebaum was leaving Jaleo a Spanish tapas hot spot owned by Andres.  I appreciate it. It is a nice gesture especially at the holiday season. And there is not a lot of other open gestures like that.  Flo Rivera  also left the restaurant. She was visiting Washington from Puerto Rico where she works as an airport TSA agent. The 53000 employees of the agency are considered essential so will have to work without pay until a new budget is passed.  We still have to go to work. And the airport is not going to close  so we still have to go.  Many like Rivera say they are anxious - not her though.  Well right now no. I am confident that everything's going to get back into shape soon.  This is the third government shutdown in Washington this year. For Dominic Parisi who works for the Social Security Administration it is almost part of the job. Over his long career at SSA he is experienced a dozen shutdowns.  It makes you wonder about how much you are appreciated. And it makes public service more challenging.  Will a free pulled pork sandwich help remedy this grief? Maybe a little - he will bring his ID next time he says.  Well if I am in the neighborhood I certainly will because I do love the food here .  The shutdown coming before a long holiday weekend took some of the pressure off lawmakers. But still nobody knows how long the closure could last. Chef Andres meanwhile says he will not be running out of bread anytime soon. Bobby Allyn NPR News Washington.  