 The people of Moore Oklahoma are still living with the effects of a powerful tornado in May. The twister killed 25 people and destroyed more than a thousand homes. This holiday season residents are reminded just how much they lost in that destruction. Kate Carlton of member station KGOU reports on one woman who is found a small way to make the holidays a bit more normal.  On a recent Wednesday evening Kim Rollins opened her home to strangers.  There is a bag to shop with. If you guys need any stockings? Do you have any?  Rollins makes handcrafted children's items which she sells on the Internet. On this night though she walks a mother and daughter through her kitchen pointing our ornaments covering her table and countertops.  There are some homemade ones and there is this one that has a cross with a frame that says bless this family 2013.  Each night tornado victims stop by her house to browse through donated Christmas decorations which she offers for free. Rollins started this drive three weeks ago after realizing how the tornado affected her own Christmas traditions.  We lost a lot of our ornaments and I am seeing on Facebook all these people posting pictures of their awesome trees and stuff and it just kind of was depressing.  So Rollins took to Facebook and posted a question. Would people donate ornaments for survivors of the May 20th tornado who no longer had decorations?  I had hundreds of emails like hundreds of people responded so I was pretty shocked. I just kind of thought a few people would get some ornaments and so I did not expect all this.  And they were not just from Oklahoma. She is received boxes of decorations from Florida and New York Washington and Las Vegas. So far Rollins has helped nearly 50 families trim their trees. One shopper Amber Harris lost half her home when the tornado hit Moore. She says ornaments are so important during Christmas because of what they represent.  It is a traditional thing. I mean you have your special ornaments that your kids have made just as you were growing up you know. You might have special ornaments from your parents that they gave you when you got your own house and they are sentimental things.  Harris says losing all of that is hard for anyone but it is especially difficult when the loss is combined with total devastation that comes with a tornado. She says being able to pick out new ornaments has helped.  It is special 'ecause it came from somebody that had a purpose you know that purpose to make you feel like you are special again.  The ornaments are shipped to Emmaus Baptist Church not far from the Tornado's path where Rollins is a parishioner. The church's associate pastor Jim Lehew says he is impressed by his community.  It is little things like that that I see people really stepping up and helping to find a niche to be able to meet needs that families have and as different seasons approach you realize what you do not have. And so there are people that are meeting those needs.  Rollins sees this too.  People want to be giving but they do not know what to do with it. So whenever somebody just asks for something specific and small it is just yeah we can definitely get ornaments. I think that was the key here is I just asked for something small and something meaningful and unique.  And Rollins is not only sprucing up Christmas trees across Moore she is also helping connect homeowners with licensed contractors and finding groups to sponsor tornado survivors who do not have presents for Christmas. For NPR News I am Kate Carlton in Norman Oklahoma. 