 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. This week the Obama administration completed a review of its war strategy for Afghanistan and concluded that the strategy is working. Or as Mr. Obama put it at the White House We are on track to achieve our goals. It was just a year ago the president decided to send 30000 more American troops to Afghanistan. In just a few months he will face a new decision how to start bringing some of them home. NPR's Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman has been reporting on the war both from the field there in Afghanistan from the Pentagon. He joins us in the studio now. Tom thanks for being with us.  Good to be with you.  And let us start with your review. What evidence did they cite that the strategy's on track?  Well there are security gains in Kandahar in the south and also Helmand Province next door and as a result of those 30000 additional troops. And if you go to a place like Helmand you would definitely see better security. I was at a bazaar back in November thousands of people there something you would not have seen last year. And then in Kandahar as well the Americans swept in pushed out the Taliban. But the concern here is the Taliban sort of melted into the villages. They just took off. They essentially put down their weapons and picked up a shovel. So the big question is will the Taliban come back in the spring and start fighting again? And at this point nobody really has an answer to that question.  I mean and that is why some critics and not just critics compared that strategy to a game of Whac-A-Mole where they said that they attack the Taliban at one point and then they just come back somewhere else. And the administration report acknowledged that and said that safe havens are the problem because insurgents can go into these places and essential wait out U.S action.  Oh absolutely. The serious problem of the safe havens in Pakistan everyone agrees with that. The president and Secretary Clinton Defense Secretary Gates mentioned that as well - that you have to push the Pakistanis to deal with those safe havens. And a Pentagon report last month said that is the primary problem to a secure and stable Afghanistan.  What does all this do to the question about - a lot of obviously Americans are eager to know when U.S. troops can start leaving.  Well the plan right now and the president articulated this is for some U.S. troops to start coming out next July. Now I asked the number two officer in the Pentagon Marine General Jim Cartwright about that this week. Here's what he had to say. U.S. troops will come out in July 2011 right? General  No. What they have said is that at 2011 to 2014 there is a drawdown. What is being negotiated and what will be adjusted is the rate of that drawdown.  But troops will come out. Gen  Troops will come out.  Troops will come out. The question is how many will come out? We do not know that yet.  From what you can see now Tom is it likely to be a substantial reduction in force or if I might put it in the baldest possible terms kind of a token withdrawal right before an election season begins?  At this point people I talk with both in the Pentagon and on the ground over in Afghanistan think it will be small numbers of troops coming out. And the reason is that most of these 30000 troops are in the toughest parts of the country in the southern part in the eastern part where there is still a lot of fighting going on. So we expect small numbers of troops and they have essentially kicked this can down the road now to 2014. That is when they say the Afghans will be able to take over security duties.  NPR's Pentagon correspondent Tom Bowman. Thanks so much.  You are welcome. 