 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Liane Hansen. Home foreclosures were down last month but the housing market is still in trouble. In a moment we will hear from NPR's Chris Arnold about a new effort to prevent mortgage defaults. But first we are joined by Housing and Urban Development Secretary Shaun Donovan. He is in our New York bureau. Welcome to the program. Secretary  It is great to be on Liane.  You testified before Congress this past week about the financial state of the FHA the Federal Housing Administration which insures home loans. And its reserves have fallen below the minimum required by Congress. How big of a problem is this and do you have a solution? Sec.  Well Liane it is something we are concerned about. Just to be clear what we have said to the public is that our secondary reserves have dropped below what Congress requires. But if you look at all of the reserves that we have in total we still have about four-and-a-half percent of our insurance in force of our total portfolio in reserves. Which given what the crisis that we have been through it is certainly not enough but it should allow us under just about any circumstances to get through this crisis without going below zero. And that is really the key question. You know it is critical that we be careful that we rebuild our reserves. But it is also important that we not pull back too far which could blunt these early signs of housing recovery that we have seen.  People are flocking to the FHA because credit has dried up from private lenders. But I mean will the FHA make it harder to get these loans I mean make the requirements maybe more strict? Sec.  Well we are going to raise some of our standards. But you know what we are trying to do is find places where we can tighten our enforcement and our underwriting in ways that will have the minimum impact on the market. And a lot of that frankly is there has not been the strength of enforcement that there needed to be at FHA. Everybody suffers if a lender who is not doing the right thing is involved in FHA's programs. So the clearest thing we can do is to raise our enforcement to weed out the bad lenders and we are very very focused on that. And at the same time we are going to require a somewhat more skin in the game from our borrowers to ensure that if we do get another decline in the market ahead of us that we do not see foreclosure rates and delinquency rates rise in the FHA portfolio from where they have been.  Can you be specific about what it means for a borrower to have more skin in the game? Sec.  Well effectively what that means is that they would need to bring more cash to the closing table upfront. We are looking at exactly the way to do that and again to try to ensure that we are limiting the riskiest borrowers in our programs. So we will announce by the end of January exactly how we are going to do that. But we are looking at things like larger down payments looking at for example we just lowered the percentage of what we call seller concessions. So effectively discounts to build into their loan upfront which can make the loan somewhat riskier. So there is a set of things that we are looking at that combined together we think will help make FHA loans safer.  So if it becomes harder to get an FHA loan does not that make it difficult for your department to fulfill its stated mission of creating affordable housing opportunities for low-income Americans? Sec.  Well that is exactly the balance Liane you have got it right. That is the tension is we need to make sure that we are protecting the taxpayer being safe. But at the same time we do not want to limit borrowers who have a very very good chance of being successful.  I am speaking with Secretary of Housing and Urban Development Shaun Donovan. Your agency has also been responsible for overseeing the Obama administration's mortgage relief plan the one that is called Making Home Affordable. It is designed to help homeowners refinance their mortgages to avoid foreclosures. But fewer than five percent of the people who signed up were able to lock in the lower rates. Why is that? Sec.  We make initial modifications what we call Trial Modifications right up front - that actually lower families' payments. So just to be clear we have today almost 800000 temporary modifications that have already been made that are benefiting homeowners already. And in fact it was announced that for the fourth month in a row we have seen a decline in foreclosure activity. So those trial modifications even though they are not permanent are lowering payments are helping to avoid foreclosure. And the vast majority of those we did not expect to be permanent modifications at this point because the end of the trial period has not come up yet. What we said though is that we are very concerned about the low number that have converted at this point. We are concerned that the servicers frankly are not doing a good enough job. So we need to watch closely and see what happens over the next month and beyond to see that banks are doing a better job. And if they are not there are going to be some serious consequences in terms of the way that we oversee the program. And we are going to look at others ways to try to get these modifications to the permanent stage.  So the problem in a nutshell was the banks not the borrowers. Sec.  Look this is not an easy problem. Let us be clear. I mean borrowers can be hard to reach. But frankly from what we have seen we just have not seen enough servicers doing a good job. I think the other thing - just to step back and be clear about too - there are things that a modification can do to help a borrower that has lost their job. There are many homeowners that have lost jobs that have benefitted from our modifications. We are looking at potential changes that would go even farther to help unemployed borrowers. But the real answer in the end is you cannot fix joblessness through a mortgage program. Ultimately what we need to do - through the Recovery Act through other efforts that the president talked about - is we have got to make sure that we are putting people back to work.  Shaun Donovan is the secretary of Housing and Urban Development. He joined us from our New York bureau. Thank you very much. Sec.  It is been great to be with you Liane. 