 That Kindle you ordered as a Christmas gift may be on a truck right now. And if it is being shipped by UPS there is a good chance it passed through the hands of some very busy folks outside Chicago. The UPS plant in Willow Springs Illinois is considered the world's largest package sorting facility. Ashley Gross of member station WBEZ observed the mayhem on the plant's busiest day of the year. Unidentified Man You are good Dave.  Imagine a building the size of a football field. Now imagine 26 of them stuck together. That is how utterly enormous this place is. Inside are 65 miles of conveyor belts. On December 16th the busiest day trucks and trains are hauling 10000 trailers into and out of this place carrying 2.3 million packages. John Cason is one of more than 6000 people who work here. Mr.  Virtually from Thanksgiving on it is 24 hours a day seven days a week nonstop just to get the packages out.  Cason is the transportation manager here. Mr.  When the railroads were built in the U.S. hundreds of years ago all rails met in Chicago. So we will get packages that come on the highway from the East Coast as well as on the train from the East Coast. We can unload them and sort them and put them on trains that then disperse throughout the country.  And it is not just the East Coast these packages come from all over the country. On one side of the building people hoist boxes out of trailers and heave them onto conveyor belts. Ms.  I am Natalya Brooks from Area 105 but I came to 101 today to help them out.  Brooks is an unloader. Usually she unloads two boxes a minute. Today she aims to do three or four a minute. Computers do a lot of the work here scanning bar codes on the boxes and sending them to the correct conveyor belt. But none of it would be possible if people were not there to make sure the boxes are in good shape and properly displayed. Ms.  I am Kimberly Brock.  So how long have you worked here? Ms.  Thirteen years now.  Brock manages a steady stream of boxes and packages tumbling out of a chute. I asked her what the strangest thing she is seen is. Ms.  I do not know. I have maybe seen like some X-rated material. I guess something had fallen out of a package and you know just kind of out there like whoopsie.   Darletta Scruggs is a supervisor here but says when she was loading boxes she would sing to pass the time. Ms.  I would kind of hum a little tune or sing a song when I was in there. It makes the day go by quicker.  Can you give me a little bit? Ms.  You want me to sing? Oh my god.  The closer I get to you the more you make me see.  Just something to think about the next time you get a box delivered by UPS. There is a whole chain of people who played a role in moving it across the country to you some even singing along the way. For NPR News I am Ashley Gross in Chicago. 