 Neil Diamond is celebrating 50 years in the music business.    Play it now. Play it now. Play it now my baby. Cracklin' Rosie make me a smile.  And a lot of fans celebrate with him. In the past half century Neil Diamond has sold more than 125 million records. He is released more than 40 albums. And he has put songs into the minds of millions.    On the boats and on the planes they are coming to America.  And now Neil Diamond is back with another album. This one is Neil Diamond's Acoustic Christmas.    Do you hear what I hear said the night wind to the little lamb.  Neil Diamond now joins us from New York. Thanks so much for being with us.  Oh great to be here. Thank you.  The song we are just playing Do You Hear What I Hear? - one of my favorites I do not mind saying this time of year. Why did you want to put it on this album?  Well I sang it well. I thought - I tried it. I liked the way I sang it. I had an ensemble of musicians in the studio that was very appropriate I thought for that song - very intimate very quiet. And I just felt the whole chemistry would work well. And it did.    A song - a song - high up in the trees with a voice as big as the sea with a voice as big as the sea.  Chance to be as blunt as I can with this question Mr. Diamond - why do Jews like Christmas music so much?  I think it is because we are denied Christmas in our youth. It is not part of our liturgy. It is not part of our holiday list. But we want it.  .  We want to be part of it. And I think when most Jewish people grow up they just bathe in Christmas music. And I am no different. I did not observe Christmas. I did not have a Christmas tree. I did not get Christmas gifts growing up. So here I am an adult with the chance to do a Christmas album.  Yeah.  And it was a joyful experience for me.  You have an original Christmas song on this album.  Yes.  Let us listen to that. It is called Christmas Prayers.    You are in my Christmas prayers and in my Christmas dreams in every Christmas story told and every song I sing in every song I sing.  You have been writing Christmas songs a long time now.  Well I have written three or four of them over the years.  We think we might have found the first one. Can we ask you if this is true? Let us play a little for you.  All right.    Dear Mr. Claus my name is Juan. My name is Juan. You are well-liked where I come from. Tra la la. I know how busy you must be. But Santa please remember me.  Is that your song Mr. Diamond?  That is my song. That is Santa Santa.  Yeah.  I found a group that was willing to sing it a group of kids. We went to the studio and made this record. It did not become a hit. But I still like it. I still enjoy the song.  The group is I believe Rocky Fellers.  The Rocky Fellers right - family group.  1962 is our information.  That is right.  What were you what were you doing in 1962?   I was struggling. I was trying to get people to record my music. I was trying to make a life in music. And this is one of the things that came out of that.  So many people of course know that you went to high school with Barbra Streisand.  My mother would say that she went to high school with me. But any way you put it...  Well maybe that is what I meant to say. I beg your pardon. Forgive me.   OK.  Barbra Streisand went to high school with you.  Right.  But I just read that you were in the glee club together with about a hundred other people.  That is right.  And I just wonder. Are there any other great singers in that glee club that we have just lost track of?  You know I do not know. I would like to look through the names. There may be - I do not know about singers. I think I would have heard about other singers in that choral group. But I am sure bunches of people went on to do what they do and become what they were going to become. It is just that Barbra and I happened to become professional singers.  Well - and among the biggest stars in show business history - I think it is safe to say.  Well she is.  .  I do not know if I can take any...  Now you are getting modest suddenly.  Well it is good company. Let us put it like that.    Well you would think I could learn how to tell you goodbye.   You do not say you need me.  While we have you here - so who was Sweet Caroline written for?  Well Sweet Caroline was written for myself. But the name was inspired by Caroline Kennedy.  Oh OK.  It fit. I came to that part in the melody in the chorus where I needed a name. And Caroline Kennedy's name came to mind immediately. The story of the song is - has nothing to do with Caroline Kennedy. But the name does. She inspired it. And I have never regretted it. I have had people tell me their Caroline stories for 30 or 40 years now.    Sweet Caroline good times never seemed so good.  And you are on tour next year.  Yes. We have just announced a big tour. And the reaction to it has been over the moon. So I am very excited about it. You never do know. One day you are going to announce a tour and nobody's going to show up or be interested.  And do you still enjoy touring?  It is hard. But it is so worth it. It does something for the inside of you that makes you want to come out. I am basically a very quiet person. You would not pick me out in a crowd. But doing a show - it is an energizing kind of experience. And I love it. And I have done it now for as you say 50 years. But it feels new every time. The questions are there - the doubts of course - until you get up on stage and you face the thousands of people that have come to these shows. And at that point you become an entirely different person. I am excited. I am out of myself. I am out of my mind and my body into another Neil. And he is a Neil that is been living in me for for years and years and years. But he only comes out when I get on stage. And I like to bring him out. I do love that part about touring.  Mr. Diamond that is one of the most remarkable things I have ever heard.  Well it is kind of remarkably true. It just happens. I did not make it happen. I kind of think that it is something that occurs to me and not something that I make occur. And it is wonderful. It is absolutely wonderful. And especially at this age - to do it - it is doubly wonderful.  Neil Diamond - his latest album Neil Diamond's Acoustic Christmas. Happy Hanukkah Merry Christmas great Kwanzaa - everything to you Mr. Diamond.  Oh that is great. Thank you so much for that.    The holly green the ivy green - the prettiest picture you have ever seen. It is Christmas in Killarney... 