 The right-to-work legislation that was passed and signed into law in Michigan this week has been called a staggering blow to organized labor. Such laws allow workers to refuse to join a union and pay union dues even if they are employed in a unionized workplace. Twenty-four states now have similar laws but Michigan as the home of the U.S. auto industry is considered one of the foundries of the American labor movement. We are joined now from the studios of member station WUOM in Ann Arbor by Bob King president of the United Auto Workers. Mr. King thanks for being with us.  Scott thank you for having me on.  If the union's doing a good job for its members do you have anything to worry about?  You know it is more about the symbolic effect of this right-to-work law in Michigan. So practically or pragmatically do I think we will lose a lot of members? No I do not.  As we noted though Mr. King Michigan now becomes the 24th state to have a right-to-work law. So what is wrong with companies not requiring workers to join a union as a condition of employment?  Under federal law no worker's required to join a union. There is a long - many many years ago there was a Supreme Court decision that interpreted federal law that way and we have all lived with it. And matter of fact in the UAW we do not want people to belong that do not - belong. We have in our own constitution provisions that members - that workers do not have to be members. Now they have to pay - like any citizen of any community they have got to pay their fair share of representation.  Well I am going to try the question again though. So what is wrong with not requiring workers to join a union as a condition of employment - if it works out as happily as you say?  There is nothing wrong. What is wrong is saying that workers are going to get the benefit of representation - benefit of grievance procedure contract health care - all those things that we administer in a contract - and they do not have to pay their fair share for the cost of that representation. That is wrong.  Why do you think foreign car manufacturers have built new plants - which after all employ thousands of auto workers - in Tennessee and Alabama and not Michigan?  Well I think when they originally were setting them up 25 or 30 years ago they were concerned about lack of flexibility in UAW contracts with GM Ford and Chrysler. But today the reasons they did it are less and less pertinent. UAW contracts are more flexible. UAW workers make the highest-quality products. So things have - pretty dramatically - shifted.  As I do not have to tell you Mr. King the latest figures show that a little under 12 percent of American workers belong to unions. And it was about 20 percent 30 years ago. And I wonder if say - if there is something generational involved here because with respect for what unions have achieved in America you have these big successful new companies like Apple Google and Microsoft who - not unionized. So are unions with the glorious history - occasionally tainted by corruption - an artifact of the past?  I definitely do not think so. The majority of workers in America would like to be in a union if they could be. What is true in America is that really workers have lost the full democratic right to decide if they want to be in unions or not. There are studies by human rights organizations that have documented that one of the countries that really suppresses workers' rights to join unions - more than any other developed nation - is the United States. And so there is not really the full democratic right to join unions in America. That is - I would say - the single biggest reason.  So you believe that we have a much smaller percentage of American workers who are labor union members today because of - I am trying to finish that sentence for you - because you believe...  Because the law is slanted against workers. This country does not give workers a full democratic right to join unions.  Bob King who is president of the United Auto Workers speaking with us from WUOM in Ann Arbor. Thanks so much Mr. King.  Thank you Scott. 