 Trumpeter and composer Jon Hassell used to joke I do country music - it is just a matter of what country.   Maybe it is a matter of what planet. Decades ago Hassell coined the term fourth world music to describe his sound that is both primitive and futuristic. He continues to explore new sonic landscapes on his latest album CD for ECM Records. It is called Last night the moon came dropping its clothes in the street. Jon Hassell is also on his first North American tour in more than two decades and he joins us from the road and member station WOSU in Columbus Ohio. Welcome back Jon. Mr.  Thanks Liane. It is good to be back.  Four years ago right? You were on our program. Mr.  Right. Shockingly yes.  Yeah. This title Last Night the Moon Came Dropping its Clothes in the Street that is a pretty big mouthful. Where is it from was does it mean in terms of the music that is on this recording? Mr.  Well it is a line from a poem by Rumi the Persian poet 13th century and the whole thing is Last night the moon came dropping its clothes in the street I took it as a sign to start singing falling up into the ball of sky. Rumi is sort of the beginning of the idea of like Sufism and Islam and kind of a hippie right? I mean he was a very - you did not know if he was praising God or talking about a hot looking girl passing by. So the title itself that Last night the moon came dropping its clothes in the street has a combination of like cosmic and a bit sexy.   What kind of electronics are we hearing on this new CD? Because you are a trumpeter but there are times when I am having trouble finding out where the trumpet is. Mr.  Well it is a double whammy there because the thing I start with is a much softer sound. It is a very vocal sound and lots of air but I have always been involved for electronics and electronic music. I studied with Karlheinz Stockhausen in Germany in the '60s and so I added - in the sense let us take this picture the way hold your drawing on the wall with one pencil drawing curves and then you take two pencils or three pencils and hold them in your hand and draw so that you are drawing parallel lines. So the harmonizer gives the trumpet another pitch.  Mr.  I think the most important single thing in my inspiration was my study with Pandit Pran Nath a fantastic classical Indian raga singer. So I started to play trumpet in a different way drawing lines in space musical lines kind of arabesque kind of musical calligraphy. A certain kind of curve where you touch one line but do not touch another and touch this one lightly and touch that one more very beautiful and subtle.   I have to ask you only because I am not sure I trust my own ears. In the track I think it is called Abu Gil Mr.  Gil as in Gil Evans.  Gil Evans right. Abu Gil about six and a half minutes into the track track three. Am I hearing Duke Ellington's Caravan? Mr.  . Yes you are.  Mr.  You know I did that actually in the record I did with Ry Cooder called Fascinoma. I played Caravan a couple of versions of caravan actually and it is one of those melodies that just - in the mosaic of melodies that are in the air right? It is one that I kept following into.  Interesting.  Mr.  Good going Liane.  Yeah. I mean I honestly did not trust it. My ears perked up and my producer's ears apparently perked up because when I came in before the interview I said I cannot believe you heard Caravan. I did too. He goes oh I am glad you said that because I was not sure it was there either.  Mr.  Well actually you know there are - it is one of the jazz conventions you know to some to throw in a little melodic reference to another tune and when you stumbled upon it in improvisation and you suddenly those intervals are there and you say OK I will got off here for a second and just make a little reference.   Now you have the recording and you are doing concerts. Are there challenges to performing this music live? Mr.  Well doing anything live is a challenge of course and you know the trumpet is not - there is nothing automatic about it. I mean it is - sometimes I joke you know what a strange way to make a living by buzzing your lips but it is a very miniature athletic event that is going on. So yes it is challenging and what we do I mean - for instance two of the players on this - that are on tour are live sampling. It is a bit like a kind of extended idea of the DJ role but they are actually taking things that are happening in the concert simultaneously and just throwing it back into the mix either at a different pitch or tuning a cord into a melody or vice versa that kind of thing. So it is more in the raaga vein in the sense that there is a structure that is there. But what happens when it is actually performed is for that moment and for that time and for that audience and for ourselves at that given moment. So it is a - I think a nice experience.  Why it has taken 20 years then to get back on the road? Mr.  . Well I was not asked.   Mr.  It is the short version of that because you know there is been - I have immediate recognition in Europe and you know back in when I did Possible Musics with Brian you know back in 1980. We are on the cover of Actuel this very influential French magazine a kind of combination of Life Magazine and Rolling Stone at the same time and the introduction of African music into pop music was the kind of hook for it and so I have always had a more receptive audience there and the euro is high. . So - but I am hoping you know there'ill be more American concerts after this.  Trumpeter Jon Hassell he is currently on tour playing tonight at World Cafe live in Philadelphia and later this week in New York Minneapolis and Los Angeles. He joined us from the studios of WOSU in Columbus Ohio. Thanks very much Jon. Good luck on the tour. Mr.  Thank you Liane.  The new CD on ECM Records is called Last night the moon came dropping its clothes in the street. You can hear full audio cuts from the recording on our website nprmusic.org.   This is Weekend Edition from NPR News. I am Liane Hansen. 