 As we interact more with machines smart speakers self-checkout kiosks I wonder if we will even start to have relationships with machines. As part of her series on how artists and criminals use technology NPR's Laura Sydell introduces us to an artist and the robot he created to be a friend.  Boxie was a robot that lived at a lab at MIT in Boston. It was made of cardboard. It was about the size of a microwave oven. And it rolled around like a toy tank. It would approach people with its big round black eyes wide open and ask something like this...  I will let you take a look around. Can you take me somewhere interesting?  OK. Let us go upstairs the third floor.   Boxie's creator Alexander Reben is an artist. He was also working on his Ph.D. at MIT in robotics. One day he was watching Boxie and something big happened something that would change the course of his work. It started with a man walking into the lab.   I remember I saw him from a distance laying on the carpets in the middle of the lab talking to this robot on the ground.  I have never been to Boston before - first time. It is a great little city although I find myself stranded right now.  He just started talking to this thing like it was another person.  Because I was supposed to go to Munich today but the volcano in Iceland kind of prevented that. So anyway I am just kind of stranded anyway .   That conversation was a revelation for Reben. He built Boxie small and light to see if he could get people to move it around. Now he realized that some of the characteristics that made people want to help Boxie also seduced them into talking with the robot. It was cute. It seemed vulnerable. He teamed up with another artist and filmmaker Brent Hoff to see if they could design a robot that people would want to open up to. They carved a smile into its face.   It is the perfect smile. It is kind of a Mona Lisa Smile it is open and engaging to make sure that that was as nonjudgemental and nonthreatening as possible.  They gave it the sweet voice of Hoff's 8-year-old son.  There was some consideration of like what are the deepest most important questions we have as people?  Such as...  Who do you love most in the world? If you could give someone any gift what would it be?  And it had a camera and a recorder inside to catch the answers. They called the new robot BlabDroid.  The idea is that there is not as much judgment in a robot asking you a question as a journalist like yourself who will come from NPR into the heartland and ask maybe a question that would be maybe answered differently. I do not know if that is true or not. I would like to find out.  So would I. We set up a loose experiment. I would ask people the same questions as BlabDroid. And like the robot there would not be any follow-up questions. See if you can guess whether this man Nate Mazur is talking to me or a robot.  Who do you love most in the world?  Who do you love most in the world?  My wife. Yeah my ability to be with her. And that is something that is so precious to me. She makes this a better world - that is a - makes this a better world for me.   Here's another one.  If you could give someone any gift what would it be?  If you could give someone any gift what would it be?  I would give my mother the gift of not worrying about me before she dies. And she wants me to lose like a ton of weight and get really really healthy. And she needs to see that before she dies for her to feel like I am going to be OK when she is not here. And I wish I could give her that. And I am not positive I can.  Nate Mazur  had been talking to me. Judith Helfand  was pouring her heart out to BlabDroid. She says she felt more open when she knew there was not a person listening.  The robot was just a means to get closer to myself at a really critical moment in my life.  Helfand says it is been over two years since her mother passed away. She is been struggling with her career.  I probably could use the robot right now. You know meditation really is not working for me and I cannot seem to find the courage to sit and write down what my future plans are so that I can make them really happen. But I bet I could do it if I had that little robot asking me those questions instead of me sitting by myself with my computer.  I asked Sherry Turkle a professor of Science and Technology at MIT to listen to the responses. She could not tell whether people were talking to BlabDroid or me.   BlabDroid with its sweet voice Mona Lisa smile and probing questions...  It is pushing in us a kind of Darwinian button.  Turkle has been studying human-machine relationships for decades. She says it really does not take much to get humans to open up to a robot.  That is what I learned - that we are kind of cheap dates.  Turkle says robots do not even have to be cute. In her research she found a child that vented to Apple's Siri on an iPhone.  And talk about her anger towards her sister and towards her parents in ways that she did not feel she was free to do to her parents because in person she tries to always play the good daughter.  Turkle says over time the child was not happy.  It was almost a feeling of abandonment like is this it? There is no place they can go after they get the confession. They really cannot offer the nurturance and the care the conversation and the empathy. And the robot cannot do that because the robot has not had a life.  The science fiction author William Gibson once said the future is already here. It is just not evenly distributed yet. In Japan robots are being used to care for the elderly. Men are having relationships with virtual women who exist only in a portable video game even taking them out on dates. An American company has created robot bartenders. Perhaps they will listen to our problems. Reben does not think it is all bad. A cute robot might do a better job at getting people to answer questions honestly.  Asking about embarrassing symptoms before you see a person doctor explaining those embarrassing symptoms to a machine or a computer or a robot or whatever. People tend to be more honest because they do not feel embarrassed telling that to something that is not human.   Robots will become more human and more social. What Reben hopes is that his art will provoke us to think about how we want to use their power. Laura Sydell NPR News.  