 Horror films are not for everybody. There is usually blood gore fear. Tananarive Due is a writer who says that she became a fan of horror because her mother was - not a horror but a fan.  You know she was watching Creature Features on Saturday afternoons The Mummy...   Is it dead or alive?  The Fly...   The fly is on its way.  The Mole People.   The blood-lusting mole people storming from their subterranean caverns.  Ms. Due is African-American. And she noticed that she rarely saw African-Americans in horror films unless they were something to be feared or in a very particular role.  You are the comic relief. You are the first to die the idea of someone who is a spiritual guide who does not really have their own life. They only exist to give you wisdom as the white protagonist.    You too have a purpose Mia - to protect your family...  There are exceptions including horror films by black directors - 1972's Blacula to 2017's blockbuster Get Out from Jordan Peele. A new documentary Horror Noire A History of Black Horror touches on those films and more. Tananarive Due is an executive producer.  If you look through history you will see oh but there are also other filmmakers who did not get Jordan Peele's level of success who have also been grappling with using horror as a way to reflect our real life horrors back at us kind of through a funhouse mirror and engage with them.  We asked to Tananarive Due to give us three movies from the documentary that she considers films you must watch.   Ganja and Hess from 1973 is this very thoughtful well shot well acted film - an art film almost really - starring Duane Jones fighting this blood addiction.    He is a victim.    He is addicted to blood.  And it is about the connection to Africa and African mythology and the blood and the addiction and class and all these issues. And it is just such a hidden gem because for years it was literally hidden in a vault. But now Ganja and Hess is back out in its original form. And viewers can see it for themselves.   So for a lot of people who might not have ever heard of a black horror film before Get Out a lot of people will say oh yes. I remember Tales From the Hood. That was Rusty Cundieff's film from 1995.   Now your most terrifying nightmare and your most frightening reality are about to meet on the streets.   It is using the supernatural not to be as the evil in the film but the supernatural as the force of good. So the film touches on police brutality. It has to do with a racist politician whose slogan is an original American is not it about time? And there are so many themes that just echo things that we are hearing about today. But the only difference is that we do not have the voodoo dolls in real life to exact vengeance.   The final recommendation in some ways you might consider it a drama - Eve's Bayou.   And it is a very difficult story about a father who is having several affairs. His young daughter is well aware of the affairs. It is kind of an open secret in this all black community. And it is what happens sort of when she discovers what he is up to. There are gentle touches of the supernatural and references to voodoo.    How do you kill someone with voodoo? Do you just wish real hard that they were dead? Or do you have to do something special?  And then the rage that it brings and builds up in her is a kind of a loss of innocence. But the heart of the horror in Eve's Bayou is happening in the home in the bosom of the family.  Three black horror film recommendations from Tananarive Due. She is an executive producer of the new horror documentary Horror Noire. You can see it on the streaming service Shutter. 