 Late 2012 was a difficult time for Norwegian singer Ane Brun. Health problems forced her to cancel a North American tour with Peter Gabriel. But the break from the rigors of the road led to a new frame of mind and a burst of creativity that led to her latest album. It is called When I am Free.    I want to feel free yeah. I want to be me. I want to be the best I can be with you.  Ane Brun is now visiting the States and she will soon be taping a Tiny Desk Concert at NPR so be on the lookout for that. But now Ane Brun joins us from our studios in New York to talk about her new album and its evolution. Thanks for being with us.  Hi.  Your new album came out of some hard stuff. Can you walk me back to that time in 2012 and what was going on with you?  Well since I was 27 I have had the diagnosis of lupus like the autoimmune disease. And it is been kind of on and off for years but in 2012 I got a like a huge flare again and I ended up in the hospital. There have been things that have been quite dramatic. Like I have had blood clots but coming out of that period of sickness I kind of started to - I do not know what happened. But I got kind of an enlightenment somehow and also freedom because I feel that freedom is really an absence of fear.  So how did you channel it? How did you take what had happened to you? And you turned it around. And you said you felt free for the first time. How did that become a creative outlet?  It was not really conscious that the album would be about that. But a lot of the songs talked about new opportunities. And I remember writing the song Directions on the album which is a song about open doors and opportunities. And that song was actually a song that I wrote a few years back with lyrics that were the opposite.  Let us listen to some of this song and then let us talk more about it on the other side.    I see doors in every direction. I see them all wide open. As I go near they will not close on me will not close on me. They will not close on me.  Those are the new lyrics that you say you rewrote. What did they say before that was a different message?  Well they were kind of the opposite  kind of - there are no open doors.   So it is kind of very symptomatic too to the change in a way. You know I have not been depressed or sad all through these years. But that issue has been like a companion in a way.  Can I ask you about the video to this song?  Yes please.  It is cool.  Thank you.  It is you in this warehouse kind of setting. You are dressed all in black and you are - it is just you dancing.  Yeah.  And it reminded me of the Drake video  that got a whole lot of attention because it is just him doing his moves.  Oh.  But he is not a good dancer.  .  And you are a good dancer.  I am glad you think so.    Step one step. Step two step. I used to dance all the time when I was a teenager. I was a quite serious rhythmic gymnast.  Rhythmic gymnast wow.  Yeah. I did that for like my whole teens every day very seriously.  Let us listen to another track off the album. This one we are going to play is called You Lit My Fire.    They changed our game. I want to kiss the feet of all those women. Spray my body in gold. Engrave myself with their names.  This is a pretty just straight-up celebration of women who inspired you a kind of feminist anthem I suppose.  Oh yeah.  Can you talk about how it came together?  It was during the elections in Sweden a couple of years ago. And there is - Sweden is actually one of the few countries that has a feminist party. And there was a lot of discussions around feminism. And I feel that feminism is something that - as long as we do not have equality between men and women we need feminism. If you look at the statues that people put up in the cities there are not many statues of the feminists the women who actually fought a really serious battle and sacrificed a lot even their lives. And I feel that that reflects how we look upon them. We do not respect their place in history somehow. I just wanted to make a positive song that was a homage to these women that I feel do not get the respect that they earned.    Nothing can hold me back. Oh you lit my fire.  You revealed to me that you are turning 40.  It is in March.  In March...  Yep.  ...So soon. And like it or not in Western culture this is a marker. Do you feel it coming on in a certain kind of way? I mean are you thinking about what you want to be as an artist in this next chapter of your life?  I kind of feel that it is very exciting.   Of course I can get some panic sometimes. But I think that the panic is just the society's expectations maybe. I fill my life with things that matters to me and that I am true to myself. I do not really mind that time passes by. So I guess that is what my goal is to keep on being true to myself and also keep developing my music. And that is what I did on this album. I felt I really was playing about with it and just pressing my limits and just see what happens.  Ane Brun - her new album is called When I am Free. Sounds like you already are. She joined us from our studios in New York. Ane thanks so much.  Thank you.    Ah...  Our theme music was written by BJ Leiderman. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. 