 The bipartisan budget agreement signed by President Trump had no provision for DACA the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program that protects the DREAMers young people who were brought to this country illegally as children. Now this has angered many Democrats including Tom Steyer. He is the founder of NextGen America a political action committee and he gave more than 90 million to Democratic committees and Hillary Clinton during the 2016 campaign. He is also funding a campaign now to impeach President Donald Trump. Mr. Steyer joins us from San Francisco. Thanks so much for being with us.  Scott thank you for having me.  Will this budget agreement that many Democrats reached with Republicans affect your feeling for the party you support?  Well I will say this. You know we feel that the DREAMers deserve a clean DREAM Act. We believe that standing up for them is a matter of principle that it is a human rights issue and a civil rights issue. We believe that elected officials should be - particularly Democrats - should be standing up for young people who have done nothing wrong.  Are you upset by the budget agreement?  Well to be fair I do not think you can look at a budget agreement without looking at the tax plan that preceded it. If you look at the budget agreement in and of itself the fact that it does not include the DREAM Act does upset me and does seem specifically wrong. But I think any budget agreement has to be put in the context of the revenues and the tax plan that preceded it. And when you look at them together I think we have put ourselves in a very very tough spot Scott.  What would you advise the Democrats to do to get something done for the DREAMers?  Honestly I think in most of these things I think it is very hard to negotiate with Mr. Trump because he does not stick to his word. And I think that my experience of negotiating over the last three or four decades is if there is someone like that then you really just say this is what I want. I am not budging. I am not talking. Give me a call when you are ready to deal.  Well but does that just mean that nothing gets done for the DREAMers?  I do not think so. If you are the minority in the House and the minority in the Senate and you do not control the White House then you are going to - you have to ask yourself where are the points where we have a point of pressure? And then you have to decide what it is that you want to fight for. You have to say that clearly - not bluff at all - and we are not budging. And that is what you have got to do because the fact of the matter is every time that you negotiate you are going to come out with something that is not great.  You note your business career. As you see it Mr. Steyer has President Trump made the whole prospect of successful business figures in public office more or less enticing?   That is a great question Scott. I will say this. When I look at America today what I am looking for and what I respect the most is people who are willing to be transparent who have real principles who go back to what I think of as basic American values and stick up for the American people. So in 2018 what I am looking for people to do is really to do that because I think we are at great risk to be honest. And I think we are watching a real threat to our democracy and real threat to the safety and health of Americans. And so I am looking for people of character to stand up for the same values that have characterized our country for hundreds of years.  Tom Steyer he is founder of NextGen America a political action committee and a major donor to the Democratic Party. Thanks so much for being with us sir.  Scott thank you so much for having me. 