 Capitol Hill lawmakers often focus on the problem of HIV and AIDS abroad but it is the city of Washington itself that is had one of the toughest battles with the disease. Three percent of the city's residents are known to be living with HIV or AIDS. That is roughly 15000 people. And despite making up a little more than half the population African-Americans represent more than 75 percent of the city's HIVAIDS cases. AIDS advocates like Ron Simmons says there are a lot of reasons for those numbers. Mr.  For years I would say maybe for the first decade of the epidemic they did not really think of HIV as being a problem.  Simmons is president of the nonprofit group Us Helping Us. It was founded in the 1980s for men like Simmons - gay black and HIV positive. Mr.  Back in those days and people tend to forget this but the church was saying it serves you right you know because you have been sinning. So if you are gay you should get HIV - I mean that was the attitude.  That was the first factor. Mr.  Right. Or those people who are shooting drugs then you should get HIV. So no one really cared about it for the first 10 years.  Even though the city started a dedicated public health office to fight AIDS in 1986 it is had trouble sustaining an organized effort. It was slow to adopt free condom programs and had trouble with faulty condom inventory when it tried to ramp up giveaways. A Washington Post investigation last year turned up alleged cases of mismanagement and fraud in HIVAIDS housing assistance programs. And Simmons says the city's HIVAIDS office has also suffered from turmoil at the top cycling through 13 directors in almost 25 years. Director number 13 is Shannon Hader. Unlike the past AIDS administrators she is a doctor and she is worked with HIV-infected patients from Zimbabwe to Brazil. Dr.  You know I think that there is a fundamental assumption that people have that somehow across the country domestically we have HIV under control and it is just the District that is out of control. And I am here to say that that is actually fundamentally wrong. Here in this country we have sort of been resting on our laurels thinking that this is as good as it gets for the domestic response to HIV when in fact the CDC notes that there is been no reduction in estimates of new infections across the country for the last decade. The difference is we are a very small jurisdiction and so we are sort of one big hotspot.  Hader says until recently the District could not tell where the disease was on the rise and it was not collecting or analyzing enough data to know where best to target money or services. The city's effort to expand its HIV testing program is central to tracking the disease. Since 2004 it is doubled the number of people it is tested for HIV to more than 70000. Much of that is due to the work of folks like Beverly Honesty. Ms.  I get up  take this in your hand and do not do it that fast. I want you to swab your upper and your lower gums. Do not go back keep on going. Okay. Good good.  Honesty works for Family Medical and Counseling Services a clinic located in southeast Washington. At least three times a week she and other testers stake out street corners around the city with their Winnebago stocked with condoms and brightly colored pamphlets and HIV rapid testing kits. Most of the people she is testing today were referred by workers at the Needle Exchange Program van parked nearby who provide clean syringes to addicts. Ms.  Okay. My name is Beverly Honesty and I will be your tester and counselor for this morning. Okay? Mr.  I know who you is. Ms.  Okay. All right. First we are going to get started with some general information. African-American? Mr.  Yes. Ms.  Okay. You like having sex with men women or both? Mr.  No just women. Ms.  Okay.  Fifty-two-year-old Gerald Diggs works his way through multiple forums and a questionnaire about his sexual behavior and drug use while he waits the 20 minutes for his results. I ask him how often he gets tested. Mr.  I try to do it on a regular basis because simple fact you know I have to make sure that you know I am protecting myself you know as well as the partner that I am dealing with you know. And I try to make sure that she do the same too you know. 'ecause you know I am trying to live to be a ripe old age and I never had any type of sexually transmitted disease and I am not trying to catch them at this point you know? You know because I am getting too old you know?  Diggs keeps his test result to himself and walks away with a 5 grocery store gift card that was today's incentive. Injection drug use is among the top ways to contract the disease but until recently the city was banned by Congress from using public funds to pay for needle exchange programs. Some AIDS advocates argued this undermined the city's HIV prevention efforts. But if you ask one of the testers like Vernell Betts it is not just getting people in the door for tests that is the problem it is what they do with the information if the initial result turns out positive. Mr.  Over the course of time we have seen many more people not get lengthy care you know because they will refuse to get lengthy care. They will say oh no I am going to go see somebody else I am going to go to another doctor or I have my own doctor. You know and so we know they tell us different things but our emphasis is really on trying to get them linked. Those are the ones we tend to think have slipped through the cracks.  I heard the flip side of that story from 40-year-old Theresa Skipper. She is an HIV-positive woman who attends meetings at the Women's Collective an HIV support agency. Black heterosexual women make up the majority of newly reported AIDS cases in the city. Skipper says she put herself at risk by having unprotected sex with male partners. Ms.  I found out at the birth of my daughter. I found out I was HIV-positive and my life was a wreck. I was in a domestic violence relationship and my daughter's father wanted me to keep the baby. I didnt want to keep my daughter because I just was told I was HIV-positive. So at that point I didnt get treatment till my daughter was three years old 'ecause I was like - when they first told me I was like I am dead anyway. I am going to be dead in the next year. I am going to be dead in six months. I just looked at it like I am going to be dead in a year so it is no need in me taking no pills - just being ignorant.  So once you knew your HIV status did you continue with... Ms.  Oh wow. I hid it. I hid it. I hid it. I - I just came out last year. I...  And you said youve had the - youve been positive for... Ms.  I have had it for 19 years.  Nineteen years. Ms.  Yeah.  And youve just now admitting it. Ms.  And I am just starting to come out. I am just able to say I am HIV. I am just able to say that.  It did take you so long... Ms.  Yeah.  ....to come out publicly about your HIV status. Ms.  Right. If tell you I had cancer you are sympathetic. If I tell you I had diabetes you are sympathetic. HIV you look at me funny and you want to know how I got it. Why is that? It doesnt even matter at this point. And that is what I had to get beyond. To get beyond Yes I have HIV this is how I caught it. Now what? You know now what do we do?  Skipper says that no matter how much people talk about improved medications or living longer with AIDS the stigma remains. And Black community leaders could do more to speak out and fight against the stigma says Washington's Congressional Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton. Representative  Constituents needs to see their clergy getting tested their mayor their city council their highly placed public officials who deal with services. You see enough people getting tested you keep the issue before people so it doesnt come and go with World AIDS Day or some such. Instead what we know is that you can get this disease and you can learn to live with it. Well who in the world wants to live with it?  City officials are trying to beef up their efforts when it comes to HIV prevention. Unidentified Man Thank you.   Last month they announced a new plan to work with the National Institutes of Health on a pilot program aimed at improving the length between getting tested and getting care. The pilot research program would have people who test positive for HIV not only connect with a doctor but would almost immediately be put on antiretroviral medication. The goal is to reduce the presence of the virus and those who carry the disease and in turn prevent its spread. Right now it is only theory and its only being tested in Washington and in the Bronx. But Dr. Anthony Fauci director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases is optimistic. Dr.  People ask the question Youre the director of a research institution why are you getting involved in the in the trenches blood and guts of what is going on in a public health issue? And the answer is because not only are we going to turn this around for the District but we are going to make the District of Columbia a model for the rest of the country and the world about how to do it right.  The partnership between Washington D.C. and the NIH will infuse more than 26 million for research on developing better HIV prevention for high risk groups. And it will establish specialty clinics for HIV patients suffering from other diseases as well such as hepatitis or even heart disease. AIDS advocacy groups say that if nothing else it could draw some of the best research minds to the region and inspire the most coordinated response the city has ever seen. And they say D.C. has nothing to lose by trying.   Our piece was produced by Walter Ray Watson. Youre listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 