 Dmitri Shostakovich called the opera The Passenger a perfect masterpiece. It was written by one of his students nearly half a century ago and it is finally getting its U.S. premiere at the Houston Grand Opera. Bill Zeeble of member station KERA reports that the opera is based on a story by a holocaust survivor and it has music from a composer who lost his entire family in the Nazi death camps.  Writer Zofia Posmysz an Auschwitz survivor was in Paris in 1959 when she feared she heard her former Nazi prison guard. She was wrong. But that seed became this story. A 1950s cruise line passenger the guard thinks she sees her former prisoner.   The husband knows nothing of his wife's Nazi past. Ship scenes unfold on the white upper deck Auschwitz sequences play out in the shadowy lower deck of the prison hell where the same scene shifts back in time.   The Passenger was written in1967 By Polish-born Mieczyslaw Weinberg. The young Jewish musician escaped Warsaw in 1939 and settled in Moscow where he studied with Shostakovich. Weinberg wrote incessantly. The Passenger's director David Pountney says Weinberg composed 22 symphonies 17 string quartets ballets film scores seven operas.  Relentless. He never stopped. He was primarily writing to justify his survival. I am sure that is why he wrote such a massive amount of music. I have been saved. I am the only one who survived. I have to use every minute to justify that.  Weinberg considered The Passenger his masterpiece but a 1968 premiere was scrapped. Weinberg could not get anyone to produce it. Then after the Soviet Union's collapse music publishers in need of money began offering their works abroad.  And they sent around leaflets basically saying you know Composer Weinberg - who I had never heard of - friend of Shostakovich opera about Auschwitz. It was one of those bits of paper that is on its way into the wastepaper basket and luckily in this case I just said wait a minute what? Friend of Shostakovich? Auschwitz? What is this?  Pountney seized the opportunity and first presented a full production in 2010.  We premiered it in Austria so we are performing it to grandchildren of perpetrators. And some of the grandchildren of the victims of course.  Writer Zofia Posmysz was in the audience. But Mieczyslaw Weinberg died in 1996 and never saw the work performed. Pountney contacted Patrick Summers The Houston Grand Opera's music director and conductor. The two had worked together before and Summers agreed to stage the work even though it is not easy on audiences.  It is unrelentingly dark. There is no point in trying to pretend it is not.   Composer Mieczyslaw Weinberg wrote percussive disjointed music for the below deck prison scenes jazzy sequences above deck and spare lyrical vocal passages to get the audience's attention says soprano Melody Moore. She and baritone Morgan Smith say that is exactly what happens when their two characters meet as prisoners in the camp.  And suddenly everything stops - literally everything. There are two spotlights. Everything is down to a pinpoint.     The happy reunion is short lived. As the flashback continues Smith's character a violinist is ordered to the play a German waltz for the commandant. He refuses. The Houston Grand Opera's Patrick Summers says the opera offers little relief but does what art's supposed to do - it changes the way we see things.  We have been rehearsing this since two weeks before Christmas. I have noticed autumn leaves on the ground here in Houston in a way that I have not before. It is made me appreciate things that are around me every day.  Summers says there is no moral. There are no easy answers.  It asks us as an audience one thing. It just asks us begs us to remember.   The Passenger is performed tomorrow afternoon. The same production moves to New York City in June. For NPR News I am Bill Zeeble.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. Our theme music was written by BJ Leiderman. I am Scott Simon. 