 On the eastern edge of North America there is a sprawling Canadian island known for its dramatic coastlines expansive barrens and dense evergreen forests - not exactly the place where you might expect an indie rock band to hit the big time. But the seven-piece orchestral group Hey Rosetta! has always called Newfoundland home. Their rich layered arrangements poetic songwriting and the smooth simple arc of their lead singer's voice have made a name for them far beyond their island town. Hey Rosetta!'s new album Second Sight just came out this past week and lead singer-songwriter Tim Baker joined us from the studios of the CBC in Moncton New Brunswick to talk about it. Tim thanks so much for being with us.  Hi Rachel. Thank you.  OK. So let us just start off with a song. Let us play a track off the new album. This one is called Cathedral Bells.    I hear your voice again and it stirs me like a pealing bell echoed by everything everywhere by every fraught fiber in every cell. Here I am telling you you are not the only one.  The song like a lot of your songs start really delicately and then grow. Right? This one builds into an anthem of sorts. But the constant through a lot of your music is your voice. When did you start singing?  I joined a fairly well renowned choir - at least in choir circles in Canada - when I was I do not know four or five years old maybe. It was - it is the Newfoundland Symphony Youth Choir. We practiced for several hours every week and we had lots of homework. And it always aimed really high with this great director who was like always aim for the stars you know and expected a lot. And I do not know I think I learned quite a bit from that just like going for it giving it your all.  I read that when you started this band Hey Rosetta! you just kind of looked around at your friend circle and pointed to those folks who could play an instrument and said hey you want to do this?  Yeah pretty much. I mean like there was no never any grand scheme you know? One of the things I really love about our hometown of St. John's is that you know it is extremely isolated and nobody ever forms a band to make it. There is no one in town to play for. Like not that there is no one to play for but there is no one to play for who is going to get you like a record deal. So it was really unprofessional you know obviously in the beginning and has been kind of reactionary ever since. Like we just sold out this room so we went to a bigger room. And then we sold out that room. And then we thought wow we should probably on the road you know? And then 10 years later here I am.   Let us play another song. This one is called - let us see if I can say this right - Kintsukuroi?  That is pretty close - Kintsukuroi.    Bring that summer on your shoulders. Bring that summer when I first saw you. That first kiss coming. Let us just freeze the frame. Your blue eyes closing as mine were opening.  What is the story behind this song?  I do not usually write about my love life probably because I do not usually have a love life.  .  Because I am just on the road all the time. But I did once upon a time have a very beautiful important relationship. And it fell apart and you know I was trying to write a song about just how I think we grew a lot closer from the trauma of it and the breaking up. I was actually at a - in a yoga class and my yoga instructor was giving the intention for the class something to meditate on. And this was what she said this thing this kintukuroi which is an ancient Japanese art form of mending broken pottery with gold so that the brakes like the flaws and the faults are highlighted with gold with the idea that the broken bowl is more beautiful than it was before it was broken.    Make it better than it was before. Oh stand in front of me.  And that just sort of rang a bell in my brain. And I was like that is exactly what I am talking about.  So I have to admit - this is kind of an embarrassing thing to say - but I have never met anyone from Newfoundland.  Oh is that right?  It is true which I realize is an annoying conversation because I am from Idaho and I get that all the time. Wow I have never met anyone from Idaho. Like well we are just people like anyone else. Nevertheless I am still really curious about where it is that you are from.  Well I do not really have much to compare it to. It is - it is only when you go away for a while. I find it happens almost every tour and when you come back you realize how isolated it really is because it did not feel isolated as a kid. It was just everything that I knew.  Is it the kind of place where the people you graduate from high school with everyone stays there builds families becomes the next generation of people?  Well sadly no not really at all. It has a huge problem with outmigration because historically it is been a fishing economy and the fishery completely collapsed in '82. It was sort of mismanaged and fished out. So I mean for the last 30 years or so everybody when they are sort of graduate high school or college they pretty much move away to find work. But it is at the same time this very unusual sort of singular close-knit community. And everybody moves away and just ends up spending all their time pining about wanting to go back.  Let us play a song off the album that digs into that a little bit. This is called Gold Teeth.    Put my body on a wagon. Carry me off to the ocean. Let me float on to the eastern sun. Out where tomorrow has just begun.  This song is in some ways about that tension of wanting to stay but wanting to leave.  It is exactly that. Years ago there was a very famous songwriter named Ron Hynes who wrote his most well-known song called Sonny's Dream and it is all about just sort of a farm boy who lives you know on the coast of Newfoundland. And he really wants to leave the small place and go away to the big city and experience the world. And his mom's constantly guilt tripping him and she is there all alone. Basically the refrain of the song is Sonny do not go away. And that song is really powerfully resonant within Newfoundland culture. And I was just thinking about it and thinking about how in my generation everybody does go away. And they end up having to go away. And really the song like you say is about sort of a deeper dissatisfaction like this hunger that never really leaves you for something else no matter where you are.    Singing I I I I do not want to go back back back back to that. I I I I do not want to go back back.  Have you thought about moving away?  Yeah. I think about it every other day. Yeah because I have that hunger you know that dissatisfaction. But I have stayed there for a long time. I love the place you know? And I find being on the road does satisfy a lot of that wanderlust you know? You travel around and get inspiration but bring it back there to get the songs together yeah.  Jim Baker - he is the lead singer for the band Hey Rosetta. He joined us from the studios of the CBC in Moncton New Brunswick. Hey Tim it is been so fun talking to you. Thanks so much.  Thank you.    Through the help of the evening... 