 They have been burning the midnight oil in governors' offices around the country this weekend. Staff members are digesting the details of the new federal stimulus package passed by Congress late Friday night. NPR's Jeff Brady checked in with state capitals and reports that reactions to the plan are mixed.  The agreement between House and Senate leaders on the stimulus bill was only a few hours old when Republican Governor Tim Pawlenty of Minnesota went on MSNBC to criticize it. He said it was too heavy on spending and too light on tax cuts. Despite ideological objections Pawlenty said he will cash the check.  But we are going to take the money for this reason Minnesota pays way more into the federal government than we take out and so we are very significant net contributors so we are not going to feel bad about taking the money.  Next door South Dakota's Republican Governor Mike Rounds was quite a bit more gracious saying he hopes the stimulus package works. And he said South Dakotans likely will start to see changes from it as soon as next week when the legislature will start plugging state budget holes with federal money.  And that may very well allow them to slow down some of the cuts that we have had to propose earlier not knowing what the federal assistance might be.  None of the governors said the federal stimulus package will completely resolve their states' budget crisis. In Colorado Democratic Governor Bill Ritter said there are still plenty of difficult decisions to make. Still he is a big fan of the package and says the focus on lower-income people is a good thing. Ritter cites the boost in Medicaid funding and extended unemployment benefits.  People who are unemployed wind up spending that money. It becomes a hand-to-mouth existence certainly. And you can assist the economy by assisting unemployed people and I think you will see that.  Ritter says that money will start circulating through the economy right away. Among Democratic governors a few are willing to inch towards criticism and say they had expected to see more money from the package than they will. Washington's Democratic Governor Christine Gregoire was disappointed when the Senate passed its version of the stimulus package and slashed the amount dedicated to roads and bridges. In the end Washington state got just over a half billion dollars.  Our expectations were far greater than that. We expected in the billions.  Gregoire says that means some job creating projects in the evergreen state will not happen right now.  So there will be disappointments no question about it. But in the long haul as President Obama put it it may not be perfect but let us get going.  That is the attitude a lot of governors seem to have in response to the federal stimulus package. Florida's Republican Governor Charlie Crist took some heat from GOP colleagues in his state for supporting the legislation. Crist explained his position at a press conference Friday in St. Petersburg Florida.  We are talking about where these additional 1.3 billion for transportation alone are going to be going. You know several months ago there was zero coming. And so this is something that we ought to be very happy about and celebrate. And it is going to produce tens of thousands of jobs for our fellow Floridians and that is exactly what they need.  Jeff Brady NPR News. 