 In Vancouver NPR's Martin Kaste introduces us to some of those fans.  How are you doing all today hockey heads?   This is the hospitality tent run by Molson the Canadian brewery. The entrance is a 20-foot high maple leaf and inside it is beer big screens and hockey memorabilia. It is as good a place as any to try to get a glimpse into the average Canadian's hockey-obsessed psyche.  Get in. Woo. Woo.  Two grown men are playing a kind of hockey foosball. The two-dimensional players spin around under a Plexiglas dome.  Bubble hockey.  Bubble hockey. You have one of these at home?  As a kid we used to have it at home. That is why we are here now 'ecause our wives will not let us have it at home.   We are only allowed to have sewing rooms but no bubble hockey.  Bob Gilbeau has actually named his bubble hockey players after real NHL stars.   Double court in two's. Oh blue on gold. Boo.  From guys like Bob and his buddy Graham West you would expect some pro-Canada bravado ahead of today's game but you would be wrong.  Hopefully the better team will come out on top and set the tone and be so polite and gentle.   They really are. Cockiness just does not seem to come naturally to these Canadian fans something even their Prime Minister Stephen Harper recognized in a recent speech.  I know that thoughts of grandeur or boisterous displays of nationalism we tend to associate with others.  Harper did not say which others he was referring to there but he did say it is time for Canadians to do a little flag waving of their own. And in fact they have.   This weekend the streets of Vancouver are full of people literally draped in their national flag. Still this boisterous display as the prime minister would put it is still very tame even as the big game looms.  I think it is probably going to be close but I think Canada is probably going to take it.  John Walker is out for a stroll with his family all of them wearing Canadian jerseys.  It will be a good game. I would like to be obnoxious. I would like to be but we are Canadians.  In fact in two hours of interviews with these Canadian fans we got zero trash talk - except for this guy.  Why do you want to talk about a predetermined loss?  Now here we go Canadian willing to talk the Yank. Lloyd Niles wearing his Canada jersey and a winter hat with earflaps seems ready to let us have it - and then he just cannot do it.  Actually it is going to be a good game. There are good players on both sides. Canada should ought to win but we are so polite we will probably let you win and not complain.  But there may be more at work here than simple Canadian politeness Some fans are worried about jinxing things. Their team had a shaky start last week. On Thursday Canada played to a tie against Switzerland taking the game in an overtime shoot-out. And across the board Canadians have not won as many as they would hoped despite the millions spent by a government program confidently named Own the Podium. That program has come in for a little mockery lately by U.S. athletes such as snowboarder Nate Holland.  The Canadians claim they are going to own the podium but that is fine. They can take that thing home. We are just going to rent it for the month.   Martin Kaste NPR News Vancouver. 