 Now we are going to look at the staying power of bad science and a group of volunteers trying to fight it. Take the infamous 1998 study by a British scientist that suggested a link between childhood vaccines and autism. It was retracted more than a decade later. And its author Andrew Wakefield had his medical license revoked. But the myth that vaccines cause autism persists today with serious public health consequences. It is this kind of bad science that James Heathers is constantly looking out for. He is a postdoctoral researcher in behavioral science at Northeastern University. And he is been influential in catching mistakes in publications and getting those papers retracted. Heathers says there are two ways he can tell a paper might have a problem.  One is your kind of spider sense as a researcher which is very difficult to explain. It is a series of heuristics I suppose kind of mental shortcuts about what might be wrong with something when you read it. And a lot of the time it tips you off into the second thing that you do. And the second thing that you do is try to mathematically determine if there is anything in the paper that you see that is inconsistent if there is a test that does not work or numbers that cannot exist or something similar to that at least. Between the two of those and of course the fact that researchers will tell you sometimes if they have papers in their areas that they do not trust - they think - have problems with - sometimes they will tell someone like me.  But is not there already a system in place for this? I mean if you get published in a peer-reviewed journal that is literally you putting your paper out into the scientific community and then people get to comment.  Well that is absolutely what it is. And that is also not the end of the story. Peer review a lot of the time is very necessary and very good. The problem with it when it comes to research that is really bad is that it is not really designed to detect problems. It is done with the assumption that everything that underlies the research is just fine. It is conducted under a kind of an umbrella of trust. There is not really a culture of strong criticism of bad science that happens through peer review. The other thing that happens of course is that if you - if I write a paper and the paper is deeply problematic and it is rejected from a journal and the journal writes back to the author and says no look. We do not believe any of this. This is wrong. This was done incorrectly. These have mistakes that we cannot explain - all the authors will do is send it somewhere else. This is called journal shopping sometimes. It happens of course with papers that are perfectly fine and accurate as well. But eventually there is a - there is kind of a saying in science is you can get almost anything published somewhere.  James the Wakefield study was eventually retracted. But science is a discipline that builds on itself - right? - with new research citing old research. Have you ever found anything like that something so egregious that could have an effect on public health?  There are things that are very similar to that.  That is very ominous.  Well if that sounds ominous it probably should. Bad medical studies can tip larger results one way or another. So imagine we have six studies and one of them is problematic for some reason. And when we add up the results of all the six studies and we do a meta-analysis that one individual bad study changes the outcome of the meta-analysis. That can influence how governments buy drugs how frontline hospital care is conducted and what is considered to be standard care as evidence-based or not so evidence-based. So at its absolute worst there is very definitely problems like that that exist right now. I am afraid I cannot really speculate any further than that.  Right now.  Right now - watch this space.  James Heathers is a fellow at Northeastern University. And he is the host of a podcast Everything Hertz. Everyone's got a podcast. Thanks so much.   You are welcome. Thank you. 