 The continued downsizing of the U.S. Postal Service has especially hit African-Americans and armed forces veterans. These are two groups that have long relied on postal jobs for a good income job security and a path to the middle class. For more we are joined by Philip Rubio. He is a former letter carrier who is now an assistant professor of history at North Carolina AT State University and author of the book There is Always Work at the Post Office African American Postal Workers and the Fight for Jobs Justice and Equality. Mr. Rubio thanks for being with us.  Thanks for having me Scott.  The U.S. Postal Service historically has been a large employer of African-Americans. Why is that?  Well since 1865 since the end of the Civil War it became a job magnet for African-Americans. Oftentimes when they could not find work in the private sector especially in the South when textile mills appear and they are only hiring whites or industrial jobs are only open to blacks you know the most dirty dangerous or menial. But 1865's a date when they are actually able to start working.  And this history has persisted into our time?  Yes. It was a place where African-Americans could find jobs to pursue while they were trying to find work maybe in their chosen profession. Maybe they had degrees. It was not uncommon for doctors lawyers and dentists or people trying to get those the graduate and professional degrees to be working for the post office.  And the post office I guess has been kind of a job magnet for veterans too?  Yes it has. Since the Civil War you know with veterans' preferences for disabled veterans and you know that was a way for the federal government you know to tell veterans thank you for your service. The number one government agency was the post office. It was a secure job the wages were decent and so with each you know with each succeeding war for instance you get a lot of veterans coming back.  And this has persisted to this day too?  It has. At one point let us say I think by 1948 half of all postal workers were veterans. It is down around 31 percent today because not as many people serve in the military but it is still the biggest employer of veterans.  How has working for the post office been for many a kind of gateway into the middle class?  Well it provided a middle-class status for African-Americans especially. The fact that you had - the pay was not always great but it was regular and with benefits and job security you could accumulate wealth. That means you could provide higher education for yourself and your children. By 1940 28 percent of black postal workers had some college education compared to 5 percent overall. African-Americans also had the protection under the Civil Service Act of 1883. They also had protection in case a local postmaster wanted to fire them for civil rights activity. So you know this actually led to black community development.  It is irresistible to note that it seems like there will be a substantial number of letter carriers and other people who work for the post office looking for jobs now. Where else can they work?  That is a good question especially because one out of every two letter carriers for instance is over the age of 50. And well automation already removed a lot of clerk jobs. That is going to be hard for letter carriers and postal workers in general to you know to transition. I mean they have a skill and it is a skill that they perform and it is you know it is a service. The post office is not a charity. It is a - that we should keep alive just so people can have good middle-class incomes. It is a self-supporting universal service.  Philip Rubio assistant professor of history at North Carolina AT State University. Thanks very much for being with us.  Thank you for having me Scott. 