 Jim Weatherly wrote the song Midnight Train To Georgia. He died this week at his home in Brentwood Tenn. at the age of 77. According to The Tennessean newspaper it was natural causes. NPR's Elizabeth Blair has this appreciation.  Jim Weatherly wrote songs that became hits for a number of country artists including Ray Price and Glen Campbell. But it was Gladys Knight  the Pips who took his words and melodies to another level.    Because you are the best thing - you are the best thing that ever happened to me - that ever happened to me. You are the best thing that ever happened to me. You are the best thing that ever happened to me.  Jim Weatherly told interviewers he thought Gladys Knight liked his songs because he leaves a lot of space between the lines for the Pips to fill in.    LA proved too much for the man. Too much for the man. He could not make it. So he is leaving the life he is come to know.  The journey behind Midnight Train To Georgia is a lesson in serendipity and artistic flexibility. In 1970 Weatherly called his friend actor Lee Majors whose then-girlfriend Farrah Fawcett answered the phone. Weatherly told Mississippi Public Broadcasting what happened next.   She said Lee was not there but during the course of the conversation she mentioned that she was taking a midnight plane to Houston.  Weatherly liked the sound of those words midnight plane to Houston and wrote a song in less than an hour. And he recorded it.    And she is leaving on the midnight plane to Houston.  Weatherly's publisher wanted to give the song to Cissy Houston but she told The Wall Street Journal my people are originally from Georgia and they did not take planes. Weatherly agreed to change it. Gladys Knight who is from Atlanta also approved.    Said he is going back to find - going back to find - a simpler place and time. And when he takes that ride guess who is going to sit right by his side? And I am going to be with him - I know you will - on that midnight train to Georgia.  Rolling Stone named Midnight Train To Georgia one of the 500 greatest songs of all time. After learning of his death Gladys Knight tweeted I am missing Jim Weatherly already. Elizabeth Blair NPR News.    He is leaving - leaving - on the midnight train to Georgia. Leaving on the midnight train. Yeah said he is going back to find... 