 The Grammy Awards are tomorrow night. Kanye West Drake and Justin Bieber have all said they are skipping the show even though they are all nominees. Justin Bieber called the show irrelevant. Frank Ocean did not even submit his acclaimed album Blond for consideration. Maybe they should nominate BJ Leiderman who writes our theme music. He would not be so particular. NPR's Mandalit del Barco tries to figure out who still cares about the Grammys.  Newcomer Kelsea Ballerini says she is excited to be up for best new artist along with Chance The Rapper The Chainsmokers Anderson .Paak and another country star Maren Morris.  Just the fact that me and Maren are both in that category I think is really cool and I definitely know that Nashville feels like it is a big win regardless of who actually gets the award.    The smile the charm the words the spark everything you had it. I guess I had a naive heart 'ecause boy I let you have it.  Ballerini co-wrote this chart-topping song and she will be performing during the Grammys' telecast tomorrow.  My peers tipped their hat to me and that made me feel really really validated as a new artist. I do not know. It makes me feel like a cool kid.  Ballerini is elated that from now on she will be known as Grammy nominee or maybe a winner. She and others hope it leads to more records more money more gigs more fans.  It is also very important for the people working with you.  Jean-Michel Jarre is a French composer performer and record producer.  Artists are surrounded by managers by labels and people working giving a lot of energy and time and hope and love into what you do.   Jarre has composed film scores and helped pioneer electronic music in the 1970s but he is never won a Grammy. This year he is up for best danceelectronic album.  Electronic music is born in Europe and then invaded the world. So it shows that when the Grammys are recognizing somebody in the electronic music field it is actually not only for the U.S. market but for really the international audience so it is important.   Winning a Latin Grammy four years ago made Gaby Moreno a star throughout Latin America especially in her native Guatemala. This year Moreno's fifth album Illusion is nominated for best Latin pop album at the mainstream Grammys.   . The Grammys means the general market to me and so - I do not know - for me it is a bigger deal because you are there with the really big names in the music industry. And it opens doors for a lot more opportunities. And for myself personally it just motivates me.  Moreno's album was produced by Gabriel Roth who was also a bandleader bass player songwriter and producer for Sharon Jones  The Dap-Kings. They were nominated for a Grammy in 2014 and Roth says winning would have meant a great deal for the late singer.  I think for Sharon it was tied into a bigger goal of hers which was basically to kind of reclaim soul music reclaim RB.  Roth himself has won two Grammy Awards for producing Amy Winehouse and Booker T. But he says he is really down on the Grammys.  It is a baloney award man. Everybody in the industry votes for the record they worked on or the record their friend worked on or the record that they got an email that their friend said that you got to vote for this record. It is like a high school popularity contest.  But jazz pianist and bandleader John Beasley says the Grammys mean more than just the televised awards. The organization's foundation takes music to schools and helps struggling musicians. Beasley leads a 15-piece big band called MONK'estra.   Its tribute album to Thelonius Monk is nominated in one of the jazz categories.  This year is Thelonius Monk's centennial. So what we are hoping is it creates even more awareness for Monk's music. Some of it was composed 80 years ago you know and it sounds as fresh and has a life of its own.  Beasley is also competing in one of the arrangement categories with 22-year-old Jacob Collier who is up for two Grammys.    Flinstones meet the Flinstones they are a modern Stone Age family.  As in version of the Flintstones theme Collier sings all the vocals and plays the instruments himself. The one-man band started out as a YouTube sensation.  I hope that the Grammys will instill a sense of faith in people who want to do things their own way and are wondering whether that is you know a kind of valid way of doing things.  Collier is also rooting for his friend Chance The Rapper whose album Coloring Book was issued online only as a music stream and that would make his win Grammy history. Mandalit del Barco NPR News. 