 Crowded shopping malls selling electronics throbbing nightlife artisanal chocolate - these are not headlines you would expect to hear out of Venezuela. For years the news has been about empty shelves desperate hunger and mass migration. Now the government of socialist president Nicolas Maduro is turning to some capitalist measures to try and salvage the wrecked economy and that is easing pressure on at least some of the population. NPR's Philip Reeves is in Caracas and he joins me now. Hi Phil.  Hi.  All right. Describe what you have been seeing.  Well there are clear signs that for part of this city the economy is picking up. I went to a shopping mall. It was pretty busy. People are beginning to spend money on clothes electronics. There is always been money in this town as you know. But we are seeing much more of it come out into the streets now at least in the middle-class and rich areas and the business areas. Fancy restaurants are back in business and they are booming. I went to one of those too. Here's what it sounded like shortly before midnight.   As you can hear there are plenty of clients enjoying fine wines eating seafood. Outside there are all these big new gleaming imported SUVs being valet-parked. You see quite a few of those around town now also.  I mean this is an extraordinary change because it was not so long ago that Caracas was paralyzed economically. Why is this happening?  Well people had to use before the national currency the Bolivar and it is completely collapsed. It is destroyed by hyperinflation that at some points went into the millions. The Maduro government some months back began allowing people therefore to use dollars. At least 4 million people left the country to work elsewhere in the region. They send 3.5- to 4 billion back every year to the families here to help them get by. Those families can now spend those remittances as dollars here. And there is one other important thing Lulu which is that - and it is not exactly in line with the ideology of the socialist revolution of Hugo Chavez. Maduro has kind of formed a partnership with the private sector and he is greatly relaxed important export controls. Big question is how long will it last? Maduro's government's planning to tax dollar transactions soon by up to 25 so that may collapse this minibubble.  What about the Venezuelans who do not have access to dollars?  Well that is a very important question because conditions for them are still terrible. They are feeling the effect of the worst economic collapse in this part of the world in modern history. Health services pretty much nonexistent. There is a dire shortage of medicine. There is shortage of drinking water. Power outages happen all the time. And many of them are just focused on the struggle to survive. And now they are at the wrong end of a growing wealth gap.  Phil do you get a sense of the long-term future of Venezuela?  It is difficult to know what is going to happen. I mean Maduro does have some important international allies notably the Russians. Opposition leader Juan Guaido has been on a world tour. He showed up in Washington the other day where he was feted. At the same time Russia's foreign minister Sergey Lavrov was here this week talking up Moscow's relationship with Caracas. The Russian oil giant Rosneft has played a key role in helping Maduro sell Venezuelan oil after the U.S. imposed sanctions on it last year. And oil production here appears to have kind of pulled out of its nosedive and stabilized although it is a lot less than it used to be. So you know Maduro has so far found ways of getting by but he is still in a very dire economic crisis. And his position is not a strong one by any means.  That is NPR's Philip Reeves in Caracas. Thank you so much.  You are welcome. 