 Have you long harbored a secret desire to sing with one of the world's great choirs? Well now here's your chance. The Mormon Tabernacle Choir is asking anyone with a love of singing to join their choir at least virtually. We have asked the man behind the project to join us. Christian Pulfer is with the creative firm Boncom which was hired by The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Welcome.  Thank you.  So Christian how does this work? What is a virtual choir?  We are kind of making that up as we go. There is been a couple that have been done. But we are essentially looking to crowdsource content from anyone - you do not have to be a singer - and we intend to get their audio and video submissions via YouTube and social media and then pair them with a recording that we have made of the Tabernacle Choir and mix and master that and release it in video form for Easter.  So users submit a video of themselves singing along to these tracks that you have provided and then you kind of mix it into the final project.  Correct. They are kind of learning tracks that we have created online - videos. And participants simply learn the part stick their headphones on record themselves singing along and then we do the rest.  We have some samples from Handel hopefuls. They are all on YouTube but we are not going to use anyone's name. We will play a few and we are going to ask you to explain how you will use those recordings.  Sure.  Here's one. It is marked tenor.    Hallelujah hallelujah hallelujah hallelujah...  It is a little better than singing in your bathroom. But how would you use that? How would you mix that in?  You know it becomes a little bit of a tricky process for us because we cannot control the audio. So that submission in particular he sounded great. What we would end up doing is bringing it into a large sequence where we synchronize everybody together. So every submission would synchronize with everyone else's and then we would synchronize that with the recording of the Tabernacle Choir and then we would mix them all together so that they all sound like they are - hopefully - in the same environment .  Let us listen to this. This is a soprano.    And he shall reign forever and ever king of kings.  So this person has a lovely voice. But what if they do not? I am sure you have gotten a few that are not exactly Mormon Tabernacle Choir-standard.   Yeah definitely not. The Tabernacle tends to be pretty excellent at what they do. That in mind though we have - we are not necessarily looking for just singers. We intend to finish a video piece so that this'ill be both an audio recording a virtual choir and then there is a video accompanying that that will display all of these people in the Tabernacle Choir as if they were there singing live all of which are contributing to the final chorus.  Do reject anyone or is any - everyone that submits they get to participate?  We have not rejected anyone. Right now - I think to date we have somewhere between 600 or 700 really really professional submissions.  Wow.  And we are kind of weeding through the rest right now to figure out what is usable and what is not. I think it would be wonderful to represent thousands of people singing with the choir or rather kind of represent humanity and the world singing at large with the choir in celebration.  Submissions are open until March 1. Christian Pulfer the group director for production for the creative agency Boncom. Thank you so much for being with us.  Thank you Lourdes.  And here is the real deal - the whole Mormon Tabernacle Choir.    Hallelujah hallelujah hallelujah hallelujah for the lord God omnipotent reigneth. 