 As you might have heard some of us on the East Coast are snowed in this weekend and it is hard not to go a little bit stir-crazy. But one way to make the most out of a blizzard is to eat. That is right I am talking about turning lemons into lemonade - or rather snow into snow cones. We asked you our listeners if there are any favorite recipes you like to make with freshly fallen snow. Before we get to those a quick disclaimer because some of you might be thinking wait is snow even safe to eat? We consulted an expert in the field. Her name is Staci Simonich.  I am a professor of chemistry and toxicology at Oregon State University.  And according to her it is A-OK to eat snow with this caveat.  I think it is important to eat snow when it is freshly fallen. Soon after it is fallen not after it is sat on the ground and you know maybe picked up contaminants from cars and that sort of thing if you are living in the city.  Simonich is from Wisconsin so she knows what she is talking about. And with that in mind we would like to share some of your favorite snow recipes.   My name is Jen Smith and I live in Philadelphia Pa. I really enjoy making snow cream. You go and get a lot of snow. And ideally you would take the top layer off if you can and then you mix that with milk. And you can use as much or as little as you want depending on how you like it. And then you add vanilla and sugar also to your liking.  My name is Lorelei Bassey and I am from Woodbridge Va. You know I have ice shavers that I have bought to make Hawaiian ice with but snow is the perfect consistency for Hawaiian ice because it is so fluffy it is so light and it takes a lot of syrup which is really kind of the most important part of making Hawaiian ice.  This is Bob Balaban from Lexington Mass. I make maple syrup candy where you take the snow and you pack it a little and you drizzle some maple syrup on it. And hopefully if you do it right the maple syrup crystallizes and it is like candy.  That maple syrup candy might sound familiar to our listeners north of our border. It is a common Canadian wintertime treat as well as a literary one. It is one of Laura Ingalls Wilder's snow recipes in the Little House series too. Bon appetit. 