 Later today the New England Patriots host the Kansas City Chiefs in the NFL playoffs. The Chiefs are hot. They have won their last 11 games. But no team knows how to win like the Pats. Coach Bill Belichick and Tom Brady rightly receive a lot of praise. But what about Ernie Adams? His official title with the Patriots is football research director. He is a man who does not give interviews but if you look at the career of Coach Belichick Ernie Adams has nearly always been nearby. Who is this guy Ernie Adams? What does he do? Dan Shaughnessy writes for The Boston Globe. Thanks very much for joining us Dan.  My pleasure Scott.  Who is this guy?   Well we do not know a lot ourselves. You know Ernie is the same age as Bill Belichick. And they go way back to their high school days  Prep school days. I did not know that yeah.  Yeah Phillips Andover Academy. And David Halberstam actually unearthed this better than anybody when David was working on a book on Belichick Education Of A Coach. And Ernie Adams is such a historian that he wanted to meet the great David Halberstam. And I think they traded questions. Every time David would ask Ernie something Ernie could ask a Vietnam question of the late great David Halberstam.  Yeah so what does he do during a game? What does he do for the team?  Well there is no question. During the games he is up in the booth with a headset and there is an emergency line down to the field with an orange piece of tape that says Ernie. It is a dedicated line for him. And if you see a controversial play or a play where they might dispute or throw the red bag to get a replay those are carefully selected challenges. And Ernie I believe makes all the calls on those like this is worth the risk 'ecause you lose a time out if you make the challenge and it is upheld. So if you go back - and there is an excellent NFL Films video from the Super Bowl last year and Ernie does speak a little bit in that. And it is pretty clear that he sniffed out the play that Pete Carroll ran from the one-yard line at the end of the game which Malcolm Butler intercepted to win the Super Bowl. The Patriots had worked on that repeatedly on Friday...  Oh my.  ...And basically knew it was coming. He is what again Halberstam called Belichick's Belichick. He is really the man behind the curtain there.  And yet I gather Tom Brady barely knows him.  Well you talk to guys - I mean Brady certainly knows the value there. And they are a very secretive organization so they are not going to give up a lot anyway. I was fascinated by going back into Ernie's history people he is worked for and just trying to get them to tell stories. And it was amazing you know talking to Phil Simms. And Ernie was his quarterback's coach and just...  Phil Simms was quarterback for the New York Giants.   Yeah.  This is NPR Dan. We have to fill in the blanks sometimes.   I understand. Well Bill Parcell is one of the legendary coaches in NFL history. I called Bill and you know 'ecause saw in the press guides that Ernie was his pro player personnel director for a couple of years in the 1980s. And Bill could not remember anything about him. He says I do not know the guy. I said Bill it says on the press guide that he was your director of pro personnel for two seasons when you were head coach. And he says well I do not remember the guy. So they are all either being very careful about it or Ernie just does not leave a personal mark with them.  So I do not have to tell you Dan there are people who say that history will judge the New England Patriots as the preeminent professional sports franchise during this time. And yet they often - I mean they almost never mention Ernie Adams name.  No no.  And yet he is - his name - and again he sounds indispensible.  Yeah he is absolutely a behind-the-scenes guy. That is by choice on everyone's part. And they feel the less said and the less attention brought to it the better. But no one's really cracked the code on this guy. I mean I have tried. David Halberstam did a good job as good as anybody but I think he is going to go into his old age holding onto all these secrets  Dan Shaughnessy of The Boston Globe thanks so much.  My pleasure.  This is NPR News. 