 The Academy Awards are next month and one contender has already won over fans in Hawaii where the movie was filmed. The Descendants starring George Clooney is a story of a family grappling with death and infidelity. Its soundtrack is composed entirely of Hawaiian music. Heidi Chang reports.  When Alexander Payne set out to make The Descendants he decided to do something no other director had done before - score a Hollywood movie entirely with Hawaiian music. In the beginning Payne did not know much about the music. Then he discovered the legendary Gabby Pahinui.  And when I started listening to Gabby I just fell in love.   And in fact so much so that I considered for awhile trying to score the whole film with his music. I wound up not doing that because there are so many other Hawaiian artists to show and to discover. But his remains the anchoring voice in the film.   Pahinui is known as the Father of Modern Slack-key Guitar. In Hawaii that style is called Ki ho alu which means Loosen the Key referring to its open tunings. Since Pahinui's death in 1980 his music continues to resonate with listeners like Payne.  He had somehow in his way of playing the guitar in his arrangements certainly in his voice a way of hooking you in - really of seducing you of seducing the listener with his unique seemingly carefree soulfulness.   In the 1970's Pahinui was at the forefront of the Hawaiian Cultural Renaissance. Thousands turned out to watch him perform backed by his four sons. Both Martin and Cyril Pahinui were overwhelmed to hear their father's music open The Descendants.  I was blown away.   I say yeah. I was so proud of him. Just to hear the music track I tell you I cried. That was amazing to hear the music you know that I helped my dad record this music. The first song was Ka Makani Ka ili Aloha. It goes like...    Among the six Gabby Pahinui songs featured in The Descendants four were produced by Steve Siegfried of Panini Records. Siegfried says back in the 1970s Pahinui was the most influential artist in Hawaii. And he is glad his music will now reach a wider audience thanks to the movie.  He represented a true Hawaiian lifestyle and a Hawaiian that pursued a musical career. Gabby never made a lot of money in his life. And you know he never did it for the money. He did it for the love of the music.  And Siegfried says it is music you do not hear in Hollywood's version of Hawaii.  I think this is a great thing for the artists that are on the soundtrack to be able to get out to this bigger audience of people that are looking for something authentic. This is real authentic. It does not get more real than this.   Slack-key guitarist Keola Beamer is also featured prominently in the soundtrack. But at first Beamer says he was hesitant to contribute to the project.  You know Hawaii has really been poorly portrayed in the past. It is been portrayed very stereotypically just a lot of surface stuff you know sunlight and pretty girls in bikinis. And kind of comedy light kind of stuff. I think that this is one of best movies to come out of Hawaii if not the best. I felt proud as a Hawaiian human being and that is a nice feeling. That does not happen often with Hawaiians in Hollywood.   Beamer and another slack-key guitarist Jeff Peterson were the only artists director Alexander Payne asked to record specifically for the soundtrack.  At first I was a little nervous. I was thinking wow I have to go to the studio and write two pieces on the spot. How is this going to go? As soon as I got there he had the warmest most positive outlook. And his support was incredible. But what really moved me was how much he cared about the music. He knew the music. He had really spent time getting it deep into his soul. And so when he explained to me what he wanted I knew exactly how to express it. I found a tuning that would work and just played from the heart.   The soundtrack of The Descendants showcases a wide variety of Hawaii artists from the 1930s to today. But because it is not a full new score composed for the film it is not eligible for an Oscar. The film's music supervisor Dondi Bastone says he and Payne plan to submit the CD next year for a Grammy for best soundtrack compilation.  You know we had fantasized early on that this film would perhaps do for Hawaiian music what Oh Brother Where Art Thou did for bluegrass. And it is really gratifying that it is - the music is resonating in that way now. I mean it is wonderful.  That is good news especially considering that this year the Grammys eliminated the stand-alone Hawaiian music category. For NPR News I am Heidi Chang in Honolulu.   This WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. 