 In 2010 a young Belgian-born blues-rock singer burst onto the scene in producer Daniel Lanois' project called Black Dub. At the time Trixie Whitley was literally flipping burgers at a restaurant in New York. But Lanois had known her dad the late blues singer-songwriter Chris Whitley. So when Trixie and her mother showed up backstage at a music festival Trixie handed Lanois a demo. And after listening to it Lanois invited her to Boston to record as lead singer of Black Dub. This Tuesday Trixie Whitley releases her debut solo album. It is called Fourth Corner.    Like a feather I can blow away in the   'ecause I never get enough of my crown. Keep on calling me hold my crown boy...  Trixie Whitley joins us from our bureau in New York. Welcome to the program.  Thank you so much.  So the songs on this album as we just heard have this really soulful quality to them. Dark and intense are the words that are kind of conjured up by this music. How do they all fit under the title Fourth Corner. What does that mean?  It is obviously it is a metaphor for just kind of this journey for where I come from and that the reality is that like I am not from one place.  Well let us talk a little bit about that. I mean you do have an interesting background. Your mom is from Europe. You were raised for most of your childhood in Belgium right?  I lived there for 10 years. So actually it is kind of funny. I have spent more time in New York than I did in Europe. But yeah I lived there for 10 years. And my mom comes from this like gypsy family. A lot of like flamenco guitarists and dancers. So my family on my mom's side are total nomads too and all artists and kind of these like you know whack-job musicians and artists. It is definitely been like scattered at times in my upbringing but I am also quite proud of it.   I read that you started actually DJ'ing when you were only 11 years old. What kind of music were you drawn to? What does an 11-year-old you know throw on the turntable?  It sounds so crazy. It was kind of a crazy thing too. What happened basically it was this - the Museum of Modern Art in Brussels at the time they were just opening this like new division. And I was part of this theater and dance and music collective. So I started touring at a very young age. This is like when I first kind of went back to Europe.  So this is like your mom's crazy artistic side of the family.  This is more like her world yes. I got kind of you know swamped into that world. I guess to them it was kind of like the curator must have had this like crazy idea of like this will be really entertaining to have an 11-year-old DJ at our opening reception. And I was standing on a bunch of beer crates 'ecause I could not reach the turntables. It was this big success 'ecause I really was very determined to get people to dance. That was...  What were you playing?  Yeah. I was playing all kinds of weird stuff from like you know from really weird like African kind of obscure voodoo rhythms to like Sly Stone to like a lot of like North African stuff too like Malian blues. But I also grew up listening to a lot of hip-hop.  It is a pretty cosmopolitan musical sense for an 11-year-old.  It was fun. I mean and it is crazy how at that time - 'ecause I was serious about it you know like I really wanted to create interesting sets with like weird stuff and not scratch and stuff. But I also really wanted to get people to dance.   A lot of us would assume that you had been playing the guitar for a long time. There is really interesting instrumentation and production on this album. You play acoustic and electric guitar. But I actually read that you avoided learning to play guitar until just a few years ago so that people would not necessarily compare you to your dad.  Yeah partially. I mean it is. It is funny. Actually guitar is the last instrument I picked up only about four years ago. My first instrument was drums you know. And I did not want to play the same thing as my dad you know. Like I wanted to have my own. And I think that is a lot of children do not necessarily want to do exactly what their - I mean it is kind of like a sense of rebelling but also not. You know obviously I could not avoid the music. But I did. I did avoid the guitar for a long time just 'ecause I did not want to play the same thing as my dad. But then finally I came to this point where you know I could not escape it anymore. And when I started writing on guitar too you know it is weird - it really did not come from this like need to become this like shredder guitar player whatever. It was more just like a tool that like these songs just kind of poured out right away.   Did you ever have any doubts that this was the career path that was destined for you - music?  No. I mean I have never doubted music. Between the ages of like 11 and 16 I was basically on tour with these theater and dance companies but music was always there too. Really the choice is just expression and creativity. That is at its core you know and I feel like all of those worlds come together.  Trixie Whitley. Her debut solo album is called Fourth Corner. She joined us from our New York bureau. Trixie thanks so much for talking with us.  Thank you. Thank you so much.   And you can hear a few tracks from Fourth Corner at nprmusic.org. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. 