 After a momentous week in news let us tune out of politics for just a moment and tune into The Puzzle.   Will Shortz is the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzlemaster. Good morning Will.  Good morning Lulu.  Remind us of last week's puzzle.  Yeah it came from listener Peter Collins of Ann Arbor Mich. - sounded a little more complicated than it was. I said take the first and last names of a famous comedian. The first three letters of the first name plus the first letter of the last name in order spell the name of a god in mythology. The fourth letter of the first name plus the second through fourth letters of the last name in order spell the name of another god. Who is the comedian and what gods are these? And the answer was Martin Short which works out to Mars and Thor.  Mars and Thor. We received nearly 1100 responses. And the winner is Michael Konopka of Akron Ohio. Congratulations.  Thank you.  So how long have you been playing The Puzzle?  I have been playing The Puzzle off and on since the postcard days when I was a young kid listening to it in my parents' car on the way to church on Sunday.  Wow. And I hear solving this week's puzzle was a family effort. How did you do it?  It was. So my wife Catherine she started thinking of names of gods that were four letters. And we came up with - thought that Mars M-A-R would be the most likely to be a first name. And I got Martin Short from that. But it was really my son Will who kept reminding us to enter - that I kept forgetting. And so it was the last day that I entered. And luckily enough I was selected.  Glad that he pressured you because you are our winner today. And are you ready to play The Puzzle?  Yes I am.  All right Michael and Lulu today I brought a game of categories based on the word combs. And you probably know how this works. I am going to give you a series of categories. For each one name something in it starting with each of the letters C O M B S. For example if the category were three-syllable boys' names you might say Christopher Oliver Mathias Benjamin and Sebastian. Any answer that works is fine and you can give the answers in any order.  OK.  So your first category is musical instruments.  Let us go with...  Cello?  Cello excellent.  Oh yes. Oh oboe.  Oboe yes.  Bongo drums.  Bongo good - M and S.  Maracas.  I will give you maracas - marimba mandolin. And all you need's an S. And I can...  Saxophone.  Saxophone. Yeah OK.  Nice job. Category number two is cities in Florida.  We will go Orlando Miami.  Yes.  Boca Raton.  Yes.  C and S.  Yeah.  I am actually from Florida and I am blanking .  OK. Wait is not there like a Sealand  or - I cannot remember. Trying to think of C.  Cape Canaveral.  Oh there is a good one.  OK Clearwater Cocoa Beach. There are several others. And all you need's an S. And what is the one...  Oh Sebring Sebring.  Sebring OK.  I think there is.  And St. Petersburg St. Augustine and Sarasota would work. All right try this one - wild mammals in America.  Cougar.  Good.  Badger.  Badger nice. I did not think of that one.  Otter?  O M and S.  Mountain lion.  Otter yes. Mountain lion yes. All you need's an S.  Mammals...  And there is an S that runs around my yard all the time.  Skunk?  Skunk OK. I was going for squirrel...  Oh.  ...But skunk's also good. And here's your last category - people and things seen in a church.  Choir.  Good.  Organ.  Organ good.  Musial . Missal. Bible.  OK also minister. Bible is good. All you need's an S.  Let us go string guitar?  I would say sacraments.  String guitar.  Sacraments yes.  Sacraments nice. And I had stained glass window. OK nice job.  Thank you.  Those were fun actually. I enjoyed that although being from Florida it is embarrassing that I did not get more of those. For playing our puzzle today you will get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin as well as puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. Michael what member station do you guys all listen to there?  Two stations - WKSU that is 89.7 and WCPN 90.3  Michael Konopka of Akron Ohio thanks so much for playing The Puzzle today.  Thank you very much for having me.  All right Will what is the challenge for next week?  Yeah it is an unusual one. It comes from Dan Pitt of Palo Alto Calif. The numbers 5000 8000 and 9000 share a property that only five integers altogether have. Identify the property and the two other integers that have it. So again the numbers are 5000 8000 and 9000. They share a property that only five integers altogether have. What is the property and what other two integers have this?  When you have the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit Your Answer link. Just one entry per person please. And our deadline for entries is Thursday January 26 at 3 p.m. Eastern. So include a phone number where we can reach you at that time. If you are the winner we will give you a call and you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzlemaster Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thank you Lulu.  