 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Who done it? You know who wrote the first detective novel? Way before Chandler Hammett or Robert Parker. Maybe somebody who wrote it in the parlor with a quill pen. With all the clues and answers our own literary detective Paul Collin who is done some sleuthing and figured out who wrote the first detective novel. He joins us from the studios of Oregon Public Broadcasting in Portland. Thanks very much for being back with us Paul. Professor  Oh it is good to be here.  So what was it Paul? Prof.  The Notting Hill Mystery. You know the usual suspects are Edgar Allen Poe 'ecause he wrote The Murder in the Rue Morgue in 1841 which you know most people would consider to really be the first piece of detective fiction. It is the first short story with a detective at the center of it. Or Wilkie Collins who wrote The Moonstone and he kind of married Poe's idea with the sprawling novels of Dickens. And that was in 1868. Almost all of the elements that we associate with detective fiction you can actually find in those early works - the kind of eccentric but brilliant detective the bumbling local constables the mystery in a country manor red herrings re-enacting the crime - all that stuff is in there. And so you know they are typically thought of as kind of the parents of the genre. It turns out that there is kind of an eccentric uncle living in the attic though.  So who done it? Prof.  Well Charles Felix did it. But the real mystery is we do not know who Charles Felix is or at least did not. I actually first came across this a while back when I was reading The Moonstone. And there was a footnote in it mentioning most people consider this sort of the first detective novel but by the way there is an earlier one called The Notting Hill Mystery that came out in 1862 and nobody knows who wrote it. And that was pretty much the whole footnote. And I went What?  Prof.  And so I started to look into it.  Wow. And? Prof.  Well...  ...do not leave us hanging man. You know?  Prof.  So yeah The Notting Hill Mystery was this - it is a mystery that appeared initially in a magazine a once-a-week magazine which was kind of a direct competitor to Charles Dickens's magazine which was Household Words. And it started to run in late 1862 and it ran in eight installments going into 1863. And the story behind The Notting Hill Mystery it is set-up as a series of letters from a private investigator to an insurance company that they have hired him because the Baron R who is just identified by his initial - as common with Victorian novels - and his wife Madam R - his wife has passed away. And his wife has passed away because she was sleepwalking and went into the baron's private laboratory - because he was an enthusiastic amateur chemist and in her sleepwalking picked up a bottle of acid and drank it.  Paul? Prof.  And the insurance...  Paul? Paul hold up for a moment. Ready? Prof.  Sure.   Da-da-da-dum.  Go ahead.  Prof.  So it turns out the baron has a life insurance policy on his wife. And in looking at this...  Ooh-ooh. Prof.  Yes.  Prof.  Well it gets worse. They discover that he does not have just one insurance policy for 5000 pounds. He is actually taken out five life insurance policies each worth 5000 pounds with five different insurance companies. They put a private investigator on the case to see if really her death was an accident. And what he unravels is not just one murder but three and that the baron actually is clearly responsible for them. And that is actually made fairly clear actually from the onset of the book but you do not know how he did it. And by the end of the book you know how he did it but you cannot figure how anyone can catch him. He is basically committed the perfect crime.  My gosh. Is it possible for you tell what kind of affect this might have had? Prof.  Well you know it is curious. It came out in magazine form first. And then about three years later in 1865 it was published in book form. And when the book came out it attracted very favorable reviews. And reviewers were really struck by - this had not been done before. The whole idea of a detective novel was basically new to them. And in fact they almost did not even know how to react to it or how to explain it to their readers. One of the reviews that came out said This is best understood like a game of solitaire or like a puzzle that you have been handed to figure out. The genre did not really exist at that point so they had to explain to readers that the whole idea behind this is that you have been handed a puzzle.  Of course the question that remains Paul Who was Charles Felix? Mr.  His identity has been hidden for 149 years but his real name is Charles Warren Adams. And in fact they did not know back then either. There was actually a handbook of fictitious names that came out in 1868 and it has Charles Felix listed in it and when you look next to it there is a pair of empty brackets they did not know the real name. And so I started searching around and at first I was not able to find anything either. There was absolutely no hint of who this was. And in fact I went to the publisher's archives for Saunders  Otley which was the publisher there were no letters from the publisher to the author which was really weird. And so what I started to do is I started to - I noticed that this guy the so-called Charles Felix had written another book called Velvet Lawn that had actually been published by Saunders  Otley a year earlier and so I started looking around for the authorship of that. And after going through hundreds and hundreds of documents and old newspaper articles I finally hit upon it. And I can read it to you. It is the one clue to his identity. This is actually in a literary gossip column from the Manchester Times for May 14 1864. By the way I love the idea that there could have been a literary gossip column.  Yeah those days are gone yeah. Mr.  Yeah.  Mr.  And it is just a single sentence. It reads It is understood that Velvet Lawn by Charles Felix the new novel announced by Saunders Otley and Company is by Mr. Charles Warren Adams now the sole representative of the firm. So the reason there was no correspondence between the publisher and the author...  Oh because he is the... Mr.  He is the author.   Yes. He is the publisher and the author. Mr.  Yeah.  Oh my. Paul Collins our literary detective. His essay on The Notting Hill Mystery appears tomorrow in the Sunday New York Times. Paul thanks so much for clearing this mystery up. Mr.  Thank you. It is a pleasure to be here. 