 Just as there is much work ahead in Congresswoman Giffords' recovery there is much to be done to heal the nation's political wounds. This week Mayor Bob Walkup of Tucson had a proposal. The winter meeting of the U.S. Conference of Mayors Mr. Walkup urged his counterparts to sign a civility accord - calls on mayors to quote strive to understand different perspectives choose words carefully. Mayor Walkup who is a Republican joins us in our studios. Thanks so much for coming in. Mayor  It is my great pleasure.  You met with President Obama. Mayor  I did.  And things were civil? Mayor  Well for the Mayor to - first of all welcome the President to Tucson on Wednesday of last week what an event that was for our community. It changed everything. But now here I am at the conference of mayors and we kind of hatched this as a result of the President's visit to Tucson. And every mayor said oh sign me up. We are ready to do this. And mayors are the guys that are in front of the public all the time at the council meetings and so it just took off and I am very pleased to say it was adopted and we are now moving to the next step.  Well give us some particulars. How would you change political rhetoric at the local level if you could? Mayor  All of us that are in political life today are confronted with the public. Sometimes - or not understand what we are doing and why we are doing it. And like Gabby will tell you if she were here that it seems to have gotten worse over the last couple of years. So we said well let us try - let us try at the base level of the - all elected officials are elected for the moment but we are all human beings. So why do not we shape up our - kind of our personal values and who we are as individuals and let us start there.  After hearing similar vows in the U.S. Congress there was of course debate this week about repeal of President Obama's health care overhaul that passed last year and I think it is safe to say that debate got a little heated. You know words like socialist and Nazi were tossed back and forth. And it raises the question is asking politicians to conspicuously tone down their rhetoric a little bit like asking 12-year-old boys not to make naughty jokes. It is just what they do. Mayor  But they do not have to do. And as a parent you know there comes a time in a parent's life when you take your son aside and say you know we are not using bad language in this house.  He said but dad you know they say these words all the time at school. I said not in this house.  Mm-hmm. Mayor  Oh okay dad. So I think that is what we are trying to do. We are trying to say okay we know we understand the aisle but if there was a group of people that had a chance it would be mayors.  Because you are so relentlessly exposed to the public. Mayor  Twenty-four hours a day.  Yeah.  And mayors traditionally are the ones that have to make judgments not whether you are a Democrat or a Republican and I will tell you all you have to do is be a mayor for a little bit and you will understand that that is what it is all about. So it is a matter of the common good.  Mm-hmm. Mayor  So I think we - the mayors have a chance. If the mayors started doing it maybe we can pass it to our commissions and committees that we have in the cities. So maybe we can take that to the nonprofits and maybe the faith-based organizations and then maybe itll drive up to the state level and then swing over to the federal level.  Mayor  That is the objective.  Mr. Mayor does Tucson have something the rest of us can learn from right now? Mayor  Well...  That youve learned? Mayor  I have learned I could start in on a list of things that I have learned. I have renewed my pride in a city. And I am proud - I cannot tell you how proud I am of the city. And I also when the president said civility come on gang let us be sure our prioritys right I learned that and I am going to carry that ball.  For civility. Mayor  Yeah.  And Mr. Mayor I mean is civility just a matter of saying...   ...of saying please and thank you after you have made a hideous observation about someone or...  Mayor  Of course it is. But its also a place that you are not going to tolerate abusive behavior.  Mm-hmm. Mayor  We have city council meetings people get up there and if somebody has a statement on their particular position boy if I hear one boo in the audience boy I bang it down. I said do not you do that again. You can share a position but I do not want one single abusive remark on anybody's part. Well when I do that and I have kind of sometimes I raise up out of the chair nobody violates that principle. So it is like kids you know we started this conversation with son were not using bad language in this house.  Bob Walkup the mayor of Tucson thanks so much for being with us. Mayor  My great pleasure.   Youre listening to NPR News. 