 Neither snow nor rain nor gloom of night stays these players from the swift completion of their appointed rounds. Sure the East Coast is totally snowed in and we here at WEEKEND EDITION have been eating out of the vending machines for days. But nothing stops the puzzle.   Joining me now is Will Shortz puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master. Hey Will good morning.  Good morning Rachel.  So what is your favorite blizzard activity? Do not say puzzling. Do not say crossword puzzles or table tennis.  No no no. What I love to do is make a fire in my fireplace. What about you? What do you like to do?  Eating. I like to eat.  That is good for any time though.   That is true. But there is something about a blizzard. All rules are off.  Calories do not count during blizzards.  No not at all - negative calories in fact. OK remind us of last week's puzzle.  Yeah I said think of a category in three letters in which the last two letters are the first two letters of something in that category. And the thing in the category has seven letters. Both names I said are common uncapitalized words. What are they? Well there was only one answer as far as I know. It is gem to emerald.  Very clever. So let us see. Almost 600 of you got the correct answer to the puzzle this week. Our randomly selected winner is Josh Park of Tustin Calif. He joins us now on the line. Hey Josh. How is it going?  Hey what is up you all?  Where is Tustin Josh?  It is in Orange County in Southern California.  Cool. So you been playing the puzzle a long time?  Actually no. So this is crazy but I have only heard about you guys three weeks ago from my friend. It is crazy. And then he is like hey you should play this game. It is really fun. And then it is my third time submitting the answer.  Very cool. So do you happen to have a question for Will Shortz?  Yeah I do. It is kind of a little bit of a long question. But I was going to ask Will have you heard or played any of those Escape The Room puzzle games?  Right. You know I have been hearing about them for a long time and I have not played one yet. But my annual crossword championship that is coming up in April we are going to have a giant escape room on Friday night.  Wow.  So OK is this this thing where you get a group of people and you...  Yes.  It is like this live thing where you try to escape from a room?  Yes.  Yeah I have actually done this like four or five times.  Oh you are into it.  Yeah.  See this sounds horrifying. But I guess - I do not know. I guess it is fun - like teamwork you like try to figure out how to get out of a room?  Yeah yeah.  Interesting. So I am not going to do that. But you can tell me how it goes Will when you try it for the first time.  Will do.  OK Josh you ready to play this puzzle?  I am ready.  OK Will let us do it.  All right Josh and Rachel I am going to give you a clue for a word that has two O's. Change both O's to E's to get the answer to the second clue. For exampl if I said a sport played on horseback and a Brazilian soccer legend you would say polo and Pele.  OK you got it Josh?  Yeah.  OK let us give it a go.  Number one is a portal. And you are second clue is a doe or buck.  Deer - door to deer.  That is correct. Number two part of the body between the neck and the waist. And your second clue is succinct.  Torso to terse.  That is it. Select and a dairy product.  Choose to cheese.  Good. Here's your next one. Fill in the blank. Chicken blank soup and your second clue is a sewing item.  Noodle to needle.  That is it. Member of the Church of Latter-day Saints and mythical male creatures that look like fish from the waist down.  Mormon to merman.  That is it. One of the smallest countries in Europe and to threaten. It is on the Mediterranean. It is where Monte Carlo is.  Oh oh oh Monaco to menace.  Great.  That is it. Good. Sciences and some sad poems.  Sciences...  And they are poems written after someone dies.  Oh.  Do you know Rachel?  Elegy? No...  Yeah elegies is right. And then change the E's to O's - or the first two E's to O's.  Oh -ologies.  -Ologies to elegies is right.  Tricky.  That was a good one.  All right here're your last one. Advertiser and English poet Edmund who wrote The Faerie Queene. Uh-oh .  Double sigh. .  Advertiser - I will give you a big clue for that first one. And now a word from our...  Sponsor?  Oh sponsor to Spenser.  Yes to Edmund Spenser is it.  Oh man.  Oh my gosh .  Josh you did great though.  It all right.  You did pretty well. I mean that was pretty good for beginners' luck. And you are going to be very excited to hear that for playing the puzzle today you get this really awesome WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin. I expect you to wear it all the time.  I am so excited.  It is really really amazing. And you get all kinds of puzzle books and games. You can check out your prizes at npr.orgpuzzle. And before we let you go Josh where do you hear us?  I hear you all on KPCC.  KPCC in Pasadena. Josh Park of Tustin Calif. Thanks so much for playing the puzzle Josh.  Thank you.  OK Will what is up for next week?  Yes this may be one of the most challenging challenges I have presented.  Challenging challenges wow.  Here we go. It has a very elegant answer though. And it is from listener Fred Piscop of Bellmore Long Island. Take these three phrases - turkey breast ski slope cash drawer. What very unusual property do they have in common? So again the phrases are turkey breast ski slope cash  drawer. What very unusual property do these three phrases have in common?  When you have the answer go to npr.orgpuzzle. Click on the submit your answer link. Limit yourself to just one entry per person please. Our deadline for those entries is Thursday January 28 at 3 p.m. Eastern Time. Do not forget to include a phone number where we an find you at around that time because if you are the winner then we give you a call. And then you get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master Will Shortz. Thanks Will.  Thanks Rachel. 