 Now that we have covered lying let us talk about stealing. There is been a really big heist in Europe thieves have made off with about 40 million worth of -no not jewels not art - carbon emission permits. NPR's Tom Gjelten reports.  This is every bit a case of 21st century crime both in terms of what was stolen and how. In Europe authorities try to fight global warming by limiting carbon emissions. They allocate a quantity of carbon emission permits to each country and those levels cannot be exceeded. Each country's government then issues those permits to companies that produce carbon  power plants or paper mills for example. Mr.  It is essentially an allowance.  Henry Derwent is president of the International Emissions Trading Association. Mr.  This piece of paper allows my company to emit a ton of carbon dioxide through a combustion process.  So that piece of paper has value. Companies that produce less carbon than they are permitted can sell what is left of their allowance to companies that produce more than they should. There is actually a market where these allowances are traded electronically. And whats happened over the past few months but especially in the last week is that some criminals were able to break into one of the registries where those carbon allowances were recorded. Next says Henry Derwent they were able to change who owns what. Mr.  Then if you make sure that it is transferred to an account that you own and you sell it very quickly then you have essentially got something for nothing sold it for a lot and you get out of town with all the dollars in your bag.  A cybertheft like that would not have happened 20 years ago nor would a carbon emission allowance have had any value 20 years ago. What this theft proves Derwent points out is that in Europe carbon emission allowances are now seen as commodities. Mr.  Like gold like wheat like whatever. That means that people treat it very very seriously. But it also means that it is got value on the market. And if you find that you are not defending it as you would something of value if your security is lax hey people are going to recognize if you you know if you dont recognize that this is valuable we do and we will try and steal it from you.  So from Derwent's point of view there is a silver lining to this story It shows that European attempts to limit carbon emissions must be working. On the other hand if companies start worrying that their carbon allowances could get stolen the whole system could fail. So the European Commission is anxious to put an end to this new crime. For the time being trading in carbon allowances has been suspended. Tom Gjelten NPR News Washington.  This is NPR News. 