 It is awards season again with the Golden Globes the Screen Actors Guild the Oscars all coming up. There is also a brand-new prize this year but do not look for Joan Rivers on the red carpet. Our math guy Keith Devlin joins us now from studios of Stanford University where he is also a professor. Keith thanks very much for being back with us.  Oh nice to be with you again Scott. And a Happy New Year to you.  And Happy New Year to you my friend. What is this new prize Stanford's giving out?  It is the Symbol of the Year Award. It is awarded - for the first time this year - by Stanford's Symbolic Systems program. And the winner is - da da da! The percentage sign.      I am standing too at the same time.  I am sure you are.  But the percentage sign not the  sign that is in every email message?  Here's what the rules said. It said the symbol of the year need not be new to this year - that being 2012 - but should have achieved widespread cultural importance during the year. A symbol is both used and understood to represent a concept object location event or linguistic unit. So first of all it does not have to be a written symbol. It could be something like a flag or a salute or a person or the NPR logo - anything that symbolizes anything else would be a symbol. And the reason the percentage sign - which sort of seems boring in a sense it is an old sign - the reason that was voted number one and here was the citation For continued protest about the 99 percent and the 1 percent to Mitt Romney's 47 percent remark to the fiscal cliff debate the percent sign appeared throughout 2012 on banners and in headlines. Its presence was a constant reminder that income wealth distribution and tax brackets had become the main focus of U.S. politics. So there you are.  Are there any runners-up for whom we should feel sorry?  And of the 20 others that were submitted the ones that came highest was that big stone thingy in Mexico the Piedra del Sol that was discovered I think in the late 1800s.  I am sorry did I just hear a Stanford professor say stone thingy?    Keith Devlin our math guy here on WEEKEND EDITION a professor at Stanford University speaking from their studios. Thanks so much for being with us Keith.  OK my pleasure Scott as always.   This is NPR News. 