 You may have heard this song before.    Put on your face. Know your place. I am MILCK. I am a singer-songwriter. I have found myself on a whirlwind of a journey ever since January 2017.    I cannot keep quiet no.  At the Women's March in Washington D.C. MILCK performed the song Quiet with a group of women who were strangers until just days before. A video of the performance went viral. Now MILCK has a new EP and it includes the song she calls her thesis.    I cannot keep quiet for anyone. It has been stuck in my  throat and my consciousness for years and years and years. I have been trying to find a way to heal myself from the burdens of being silenced. And I grew up in a really traditional background. My family is Chinese-American. My parents moved here from Hong Kong and they lived the classic American dream. My father moved to the States with just a little bit of cash and then worked his way as a burger flipper then a custodian - through pharmacy school then medical school. And my parents and their spirit is a very big part of my childhood and how I perhaps felt a lot of pressure to walk in those footsteps of becoming what they felt was appropriate. They wanted me to be a doctor or a lawyer.    Black sheep crying those rebels tears. It is a battle to survive these lonely years. I was just different even physically. I was a chubby kid and I became really ashamed of how I was different from the standard stick-thin polite classy elegant Asian-American female image.    It runs deep it is insatiable - that hunger to be seen to be understood. Black sheep... I have noticed that I have not really written many love songs for this EP. Most of them are about the things that take up my headspace.    Too long my back's been breaking. Too long I have been crusading for you. I wrote I Do not Belong To You in 2017 as I was watching - the world seemed to unravel - just news story after news story. And I was also being sent around the country and to different countries to sing and share my story. And I was seeing the hopefulness and the pain. And so I was really emotionally charged. I felt like this open nerve ending and I needed to unleash a little bit of my anger.    'ecause I do not I do not belong to you. I am letting the lion loose nothing to prove to you. I am sayin no more needing your permission. My songs I think have a potential to become protest songs. I do not have a power in deciding that. I have realized as an artist my job is to just provide honesty in a time where it is hard to know what is true and what is not.    I do not belong to you.  That was MILCK. Her new EP This Is Not The End is out now.    It is not the end. It is not over yet. I will fight for it till my dying breath. It is not the end. 