 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin.   And this is For the Record. In 10 months Americans will go to the polls to pick the next president of the United States. As a way of digging into the issues facing a lot of Americans this year we are focus on one community that is been going through a lot of change Charlotte N.C. It is in Mecklenburg County and that whole region has been enjoying an economic boom. It is a major center for banking. There is a growing tech sector. At the same time a recent study by Berkeley University and Harvard ranked Charlotte dead last when it comes to economic mobility compared to other major U.S. cities. That has not stopped an influx of immigrants. In fact in the 1990s the number of Hispanics in Mecklenburg County increased by 400 percent. And it is still growing. These changes in the county have led to debates over government overreach income inequality and immigration. There are some of the same issues front and center in the presidential race which makes it an interesting place to spend some time in the coming months. For the Record today Mecklenburg County N.C. Let us start with that economic boom.  The only thing you need to run a good entrepreneurship center is coffee beer and fast Internet. That is really all you need. It is not a complicated formula.  This is Dan Roselli. He is the founder of Packard Place. And he is showing us around his offices in the center of Charlotte. It is an old automobile showroom that is now part startup incubator part community center. I ask Roselli as a businessman as an entrepreneur who he likes in the presidential race.  It would be Bernie then Hillary and then Kasich and then Cruz something like that.  As indicated by his list of presidential preferences Roselli is a registered independent. He says he does not vote on social issues. His top priority is economic growth.  Whenever I talk to political fishers the first thing I tell them is there should be a political Hippocratic oath which is your first job as a politician when it comes to business is do no harm.  Roselli is one of the entrepreneurs who are redefining the downtown area. Other parts of the city are changing too.  I am gradually taking the hair down. I am at a three now was at a four.  This is No Grease barbershop on the west side of Charlotte. All the barbers here wear bowties. The place is decked out in mid-century modern furniture. It is throwback and cutting edge at the same time.  You have got a little spiffy work huh?  Yeah yeah my razzle-dazzle they call it.  Damian Johnson and his brother opened their first barbershop in Charlotte in 1997. He also owns the cafe next door and that is where we go to talk.  From my experience West End is the new frontier of Charlotte. And so when we say the West End it is like we are rooting for the West End to kind of take its rightful place in the development of Charlotte.  Barbershops have long been a place for political talk especially in the black community. And it is important to Johnson to keep that tradition alive. I ask him who he likes in the presidential race.  I have taken none of them really seriously. I have been listening closely to what Hillary is saying. But all the other candidates it is like courting and dating. I have to listen to you more.  That was the case with most of the Democrats we spoke with in Charlotte. They are just not animated by the primary race. And that is not completely surprising considering there are just three Democratic candidates compared to the 12 on the Republican side. Take for example the former mayor of Charlotte Democrat Dan Clodfelter who just left office recently. You paying attention much to the presidential election right now?  Not a great deal actually.  Why?   Well I am already - I already have my candidate. I do not really need to be sold.  Who is your candidate?  Hillary Clinton.  Why?  Always has been.  Meanwhile on the other side of Charlotte's political spectrum there is an impassioned debate happening about the very soul of the Republican Party and one issue in particular.  The word of God says be anger but do not sin. I am angry very angry with the debate on immigration.  This is Maudia Melendez. Her family is originally from Nicaragua. She is a local minister and has lived in Charlotte since 1987. Recently she is been fighting the Republican-controlled state government to give illegal immigrants special driving permits. And it is personal because it is her own party.  Yes I am a Republican. But I am very sad how the Republicans are treating my people.  She does not like to brandish her party affiliation because she works with a bipartisan nonprofit that tries to increase the low voter turnout rates among Hispanics here.  .  We continued our conversation at a Salvadoran restaurant where Melendez gathered a small group of community leaders and friends.  .  .  How are you?  Joining us at the table Astrid Chrinos Amelia Kennedy Rafael Prieto and Ron Cox. Before we sat down to devour a plate of pupusas Maudia Melendez offered up a prayer.  And now we bless this food. And we ask you Lord to be for the nurturement  of our bodies and remember those who are hungry at this time. And they do not have food at their table. And in the name of Jesus we pray. Amen.  .  .  Yes.  So let me ask a question. As we think about where we are right now having this conversation in 2016 looking down the pike at the presidential election where does immigration reform stack up in your personal list of issues?  Oh for me number one because that is...  For me number one.  Really?  That is part of the economic opportunity. If you do not have that you are not going to have progress. I mean we are going to go backwards.  That was Astrid Chrinos and Rafael Prieto. Is it as important to you?  Yes yes. Think of it from a security standpoint.  And this is Ron Cox. He is the only non-Hispanic in the group born and raised in Charlotte. He owns a landscaping company and has employed Hispanic immigrants for years.  I began to see so many of the injustices and got to see a lot of them being taken advantage of. And it reached my core and my angst.  Cox says immigration reform is also a top issue for him. But he does not see any of the presidential candidates from either party proposing a real solution because he says their motivations are different.  It is not about what is actually good for the state. It is not what is good about for the country. It is about what keeps my party in office.  Also at the table Amelia Kennedy who is part of the Republican Party leadership in the neighboring county. She and Maudia Melendez have been reaching out directly to some Republican candidates to talk about immigration reform.  We sat down with Cruz.  You did?  In a conversation with Cruz.  When?  When was it?  It was like...  Two three months ago.  Three months ago.  And did you feel like he heard you and your issues?  No.  No he wants to be president so bad that he has the same speech. We have to secure the border. But - and we ask how is it that you are going to secure the border? You have to have a plan. We spent like 40 minutes with him and we did not get anything.  The next morning we had a very different conversation with another group of voters at the Skyland Family Restaurant.  You are at the headquarters of the conservative movement in Charlotte and North Carolina.  Don Reid has been hosting this conservative breakfast for years. There are about 50 people in the back area of the restaurant. It is overwhelmingly white and male. They are finishing up plates of bacon and eggs while Don Reid introduces some big-picture questions about the future of their party. And for him it is very clear.  And the Republicans are - have been so concerned in the past about appealing to minorities to Latinos and others that they have forgotten their own principles. And now they are out here saying again we must have the big tent. No that will not work. For the most part minorities are not going to vote for a Republican. You can count on that.  Some people nod their heads in agreement although John Powell puts out a different opinion to the room.  From my experience they have felt they are being ignored. And I think if we go out and actually offer our hand and welcome them and be able to supply with them a message of who we are that is going to educate and have a better understanding of what the Republican Party is all about and what we can do to encourage everybody to be a part of the process.  Don Reid likes Donald Trump's plan to build a wall along the U.S.-Mexico border. And in general he is a Trump supporter. It is clear the majority in the room are sick and tired of establishment candidates.  Who knows who is going to win? Would I or this crowd be happy with Cruz? Yep I think so.  Absolutely.  We would be happy with Cruz. Would we be happy with Jeb Bush? Nope. For the first time in my life if it is Jeb Bush or Hillary I do not vote. That is it. I am not voting.  That would be a vote for Hillary.  And that is the central tension in the room establishment candidates versus the outsiders.  If Trump is a nominee he will lose 35 states.  Well if...  If Trump is the Republican nominee he will lose 35 states.  An establishment Republican will not win.  That is what you and Krauthemer think.  No no facts are facts.  This is extremely productive. Change only comes through pain. And I like to - I actually - I have to admit I think Donald Trump's great for our party.  How?  Because he is forcing us to have this conversation.  This is Larry Shaheen. He is a Charlotte native a Republican political strategist with a big smile. Shaheen is technically a millennial. But he says he is not nearly hip enough to qualify. Shaheen tells me the Republican Party has to broaden its base and that means changing the way it talks about immigration reform.  At some point we have to get over this we-were-here-first idea because we were not. And we are better as a society when we are able to find a way for rising tides to lift all boats not just the boats that look like us. And we have to move from the party of opportunity for just a few to opportunity for all.  Opportunity for all is what Charlotte is all about. We heard that from Democrats Republicans and from independents. People here want to ride this economic wave as far as it will take them. And for many that means welcoming anyone who wants to come and help make that happen. We will be returning to Charlotte later in the year to check back in with some of the people you heard from today to see how their views on the election are evolving. 