 And joining us is puzzlemaster Will Shortz. Hey Will.  Hey Liane.  How you doing?  Excellent. How you doing?  Very well thank you. You sound like you might have a bit of a cold but no no?  No. Just clearing my throat that is all. Despite the cold I am fine.  Yeah. By about this time of year that is when the atmosphere kind of dries up a little bit. And I know I have problems with my sinuses. Well enough about our physical health. We are here to exercise our brains. Remind us - you see what I mean - remind us of the challenge you gave us last week.  Yes. I said name an article of apparel in the plural form ending in the letter S. I said rearrange the letters to name an article of apparel in the singular form. What things to wear are these?  And what was your intended answer?  Well the answer is coats to ascot. We also had a few people who suggested taps that you wear on your feet and you can rearrange those to make spat which you can also wear on your shoes. And then there were hose and shoe but hose is not a plural ending in S so we did not accept that answer.  All right. Well you did accept coats and ascot and our winner sent in coats and ascot. Her name is Frances Boynton from Henrico Virginia. Hi Frances.  Hi. How are you Liane?  I am very well. Where is Henrico?  It is right outside Richmond. They changed it a couple of years ago because they were not getting the tax revenue from the online sales.  Oh OK. What do you do in Richmond?  I am a secretary for the state department of general services.  And how long have you been playing the puzzle? That is the operative question.  Well I do not think I ever actually sent in a postcard but I have been playing since the postcard days.  What changed your mind about sending in entries?  It got easier.  That is because you have been listening for 20 years. That is what makes it easier. Well after all this time are you ready to play?  Yes.  All right. Will meet Frances. Let us play.  All right Frances. Today's puzzle has an independent streak. Every answer is a familiar two-word phrase name or title containing the consecutive letters I-N-D as in independent. For example if I gave you the clue 19th century British prime minister you would say Benjamin Disraeli which ends in I-N and starts with D.  OK.  OK. So just to get it straight the first word has to end in I-N and the second word begins with D.  That is correct.  All right.  All right. Here's number one a ceremony performed by Native Americans to end a drought.  Rain dance.  That is right. Number two beauty is only this.  Skin deep.  Uh-huh. President Roosevelt's given names.  Franklin Delano.  That is it. Title character in a Charles Dickens' mystery.  Edwin Drood.  Nice.  Excellent. Fast food franchise with baked goods and coffee.  Dunkin' Donuts.  Good. Action star in The Fast and the Furious and Triple X.  Uh-oh.  Uh-oh. Ran right up against that popular culture wall right?  Yeah. All right. I-N ends in D.  Right.  Could you picture him with a shaved head?  Oh Vin Diesel.  Yes.  Good job. A railroad station.  Train depot.  That is it. Coke Pepsi or 7-Up for example when bought at a restaurant.  Something drink.  Yes. And where would you...  Oh fountain.  Fountain drink good. A soft drink made by Pepsi.  Mountain Dew.  That is it. Cleveland's leading newspaper.   Oh dear.  This is tough if you do not know it.  Yeah. Something dispatch.  No. Because I know I will just give it the Plain Dealer.  The Plain Dealer good. Try this one Duke Ellington jazz standard.  Satin doll.  Nice.  Good job. Person who interprets the news to his political advantage say.  Spin doctor.  That is it. Departure of scientists and intellectuals from one country to abroad.  Oh brain drain.  That is it. An entree.  Entree. Main dish.  Uh-huh. And your last one a book in which you might look anno domini or e pluribus unum.  Well that is Latin right?  Latin and what book...  Oh Latin dictionary.  Latin dictionary.  Thanks Liane.  Nice work.  Anytime. You are phenomenal Frances. You have been waiting this long and you are so good.  Well thank you.  Nice work. And we have someone very special to tell you what you will get for playing our puzzle today. Here's actress Shirley Jones - yes that Shirley Jones.  Oh cool.    Hello world. Here's a song that we are singing...  For playing our puzzle today you will get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin the Scrabble Deluxe Edition from Parker Brothers the book series Will Shortz Presents KenKen Volumes 1 2 and 3 from St. Martin's Press one of Will Shortz's Puzzlemaster Decks of Riddles and Challenges from Chronicle Books and a CD compilation of NPR's Sunday Puzzles.   We will make you happy.  Well Frances are you happy?  Oh yeah.   I am so excited. This has been so much fun.  And before we let you go my dear what is your public radio station?  It is WCVE in Richmond.  Well Frances Boynton from Henrico Virginia you were a great player. Thanks for playing with us.  Thank you.  All right Will. We are waiting for the challenge for next week.  So again take the first seven letters of the alphabet A through G change one of these to another letter that is also one of the letters from A through G. Rearrange the result to spell a familiar seven-letter word. What word is it?  Thanks a lot Will.  Thanks Liane. 