 From NPR News this is Weekend Edition. I am David Greene. And joining us is puzzle master Will Shortz. Hello Will.  Hi David. Welcome to the show.  Thank you I appreciate it. This is my first run at the puzzle. Any tips advice since you are the expert?  Well just the advice is always sit back and do the puzzle just the way you would do it at home. Shout out at the radio. You know stay loose.  And you are so loose I understand we caught you doing your dishes today.  Sixty seconds ago I was doing my dishes.  Is there anything special about the challenge this week and who we are going to be talking to?  Yeah. I understand that our contestant's wife was the puzzle player exactly three years ago to the week. How is that for a coincidence?  So you are going to have to convince people this thing is not totally rigged and that it is very random when we select these people.  Right. You know I have nothing to do with this. This is all done in Washington.  There you go blame us. Well let us get to it. Remind us of the challenge that you left us with last week.  Yes. It came from listener Louis Sargent of Portland Oregon. I said take the last name of a famous actress in two syllables 9 letters. Transpose the syllables and you will have phonetically the word for a common ailment. Who is the person and what is the ailment?  And the answer is?  Well the actress is Bernhardt as in Sarah Bernhardt the famous stage actress. Transpose those syllables you get heartburn.  Well that puzzle must have given some of our listeners both heartburn and maybe even a headache because we got fewer correct entries than last week. Just over a thousand sent in the correct answer this time. And from those correct entries we have randomly selected Whit Morison of Bristol Virginia to play our puzzle on the air with us today. Whit are you there?  I am here.  Excellent. With a name like Whit you have got to be good at puzzles I guess.   We can hope so.  How long did it take you to solve this one?  Well actually my wife and I we collaborate. And so she got the majority of this one. It did not take too long. What is funny is three years ago I think I helped her on that one. So this is always a group effort.  Puzzle team. Did you ever think that you would both be on at some point?  Never did. I mean we always submit.  How long have you been going at this with us?  Well we have actually been submitting since we could do it via email but we have been listening since the postcard days.  It sounds like with that kind of luck maybe luck is on your side today. So are you ready to go?  I am ready.  All right. Well Whit meet Will and let us do it.  Hey Will.  Hi Whit and David. Every answer today consists of two letters of the alphabet that sound like a word or name. Fill in the blanks to get them. For example if I said blank watermelon you would say C-D as in seedy watermelon. And I will give you hints if you need them. The first one is poison blank.  Ivy.  Poison Ivy is right. Number two is blank Couric.  Katie.  Katie Couric is right. Indian blank.  Indian...  It is a dwelling.  Tepee.  Indian tepee is right. Blank listening.  Easy.  Easy listening good. Radio format. Blank doll D-O-L-L.  Blank...  Blank...  Barbie doll.  Blank doll. And it is a toy.  David?  You know this one David?  Barbie? Kewpie?  Kewpie is it. Kewpie Doll. Q-P.  I have to say someone in our studio told me. I cannot take credit for that.  Great.  OK. Try this one blank calories. And your clue is junk food.  High in - empty.  Empty calories good.  Nice.  Blank DeGeneres.  Ellen.  Ellen is right. Baked blank and it is a food. Baked blank.  Baked cake - pie.  It is an Italian food.  Ziti.  All right that just might be a name you do not know. Do you know it David?  Eubie?  Eubie Blake. E-U-B-I-E.  My colleague Charla Bear is just doing some serious work in the studio here. That is fantastic.  I am impressed guys.  How about this one? 19 blank and it is a year.  Eighty?  You got it 80.  Eighty OK.  You got it. Here's the next one. Daytime blank. And it is the name of an award.  Emmy.  Daytime Emmy is right. And your last one is blank pie and it is a term of endearment.  Cutie.  Cutie pie is it. Good job.  Very nice.  Wow.  What is your wife's reaction? Whit is she there watching this whole thing?  No she is not. I am actually in my office at work.  Well there you go. If she had been there if you guys had had the team going it would have been every single one. But that was impressive.  Yes I helped her.   I should not say that. I was there for her when she played.  Well let her know she should have been here for you.  Yeah. Actually well no it is OK.  All right. And to tell you what you have won we have our celebrity guest. It is NPR's own Robert Siegel who is walking into the studio as we speak. Hi Robert.  Hello David. How are you?  I am well. How are you?  All right. How are you holding up?  I am hanging in there. Any advice you have though let me know.  Ah I think this is the only hosting shift where Will Shortz puts questions to you and puzzles you in the middle of the job. It seems more challenging than my work.   It might be.  Hi Will. How are you?  Hi there. Good good.  I think David's doing a knockout job here. And I like the way especially David when you are confronted with fishy coincidence that Whit Morison's wife had done the puzzle three years ago you addressed that with just enough skepticism so that in case it is a total fraud you were on to it...  I appreciate that...  But not so much as to offend them. And I think if you can get that down that gear down you are home free as a host.  On-air praise from Robert Siegel. I am writing the check to you as we speak. And I will hand it to you as you leave the studio.   So you have some prizes that you are going to tell us about.  I do. I - this just handed me. Hi Whit. How are you?  I am well thank you. How are you?  Fine. And for playing our puzzle today you will get a Weekend Edition lapel pin the Eleventh Edition of Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary and Thesaurus the Scrabble Deluxe Edition from Parker Brothers The Puzzlemaster Presents from Random House volume two Will Shortz's latest book series  Will Shortz Presents KenKen volumes one two and three from St. Martin's Press and one of Will Shortz's Puzzlemaster Decks of riddles and challenges from Chronicle Books.  Whit did those sound familiar? Because we have looked back. Those sound like some of the very things that your wife got. So you might be doubling up at home.  Some are. Some are new. So that is OK.  If you need to unload any of them I will give you my name and address. You are more than welcome to - I love Scrabble so send them my way.   if we can do that.   Whit you did a great job. Just before we let you go what member station do you listen to down in Virginia?  We are members of WETS out of Johnson City.  Fantastic. Whit Morison of Bristol Virginia thank you again for playing the puzzle with us. You were great.  Well thank you very much. It was a pleasure.  And Robert Siegel is still here host of All Things Considered. You were not so bad yourself.   Have you done this puzzle thing before?  No I have never done the puzzle thing with Will before but I thought you did admirably. When you instead of a kewpie doll tried Barbie doll I did not know that BAR was a letter in the alphabet.   But it is OK with me.  Will anything for Robert Siegel before we let him go?  No. Just a big fan. I listen.  OK. Before we go Will you have got a challenge for us for next week.  Yes. Take a very common three-letter word. Say the letters phonetically and together they will sound like a six-letter word meaning knockout. What is it? So again a very common three-letter word say the letters phonetically and together they will sound like a six-letter word meaning knockout. What word is it?  Well I am sure we will get a lot of knockout answers. And when you have the answer go to our Web site npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit your Answer link. There is only one entry per person please. And our deadline this week listen up is Thursday at 3 p.m. Eastern time. And please include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time and we are going to call if you are the winner. You will get to play puzzle on the air with the puzzle editor of the New York Times and Weekend Edition's own puzzle master Will Shortz. Will thank you.  Thanks a lot David. 