 Cannot they take a joke? That question came up after the Danish cartoon controversy about 10 years ago and now again after the massacres in Paris. The suspected killers reflect just a minority of extreme religious fanatics but the question made NPR's Neda Ulaby wonder about the role of satire in the Muslim world.  First let us establish that saying the Muslim world is like saying the Christian world or Africa. We are talking 1.5 billion people all over the globe - different races ethnicities languages who believe different things. That said I asked a religion professor Bruce Lawrence at Duke University about Muslim traditions of satire.  I have been studying the Muslim world for I guess now almost half a century. And one of my heroes has always been a ninth-century literary figure called al-Jahiz.  In a golden era for Islamic music art and science al-Jahiz studied everything from zoology to literary theory. He wrote merciless social satires. He was also famously ugly.  He could satire himself as somebody who was very unattractive and yet he could make fun of the rock stars of his generation in Baghdad which was the capital city of the Muslim world in that time.  And al-Jahiz remains says Lawrence a beloved figure in Islamic literature.  It was not because he recorded the glories of Islam it was he poked fun at contemporaries at his coreligionists at anybody who seemed to him to have too great a sense of self-importance whatever their station in life.  Which feels relevant to a Sunni stand-up comedian working in Chicago today.   What is up with the Arabs these days? They do not say  they all say . This is not Arabic by the way - this is Arabonics .   Azhar Usman who comes from India says his comedy heroes are Richard Pryor George Carlin and a 13th-century Sufi saint named Mullah Nasreddin.  He is almost like an Andy Kaufman type of personality.  Usman says there is a famous story about a time Mullah Nasreddin led Friday prayers. He asked the congregation how many of you know what I am going to say?  Nobody raised their hand. So he said well what can I say to a bunch of people who have no idea what I am going to say? . And he leaves.  The people coax him to come back.  So they say oh no no please please please - we promise we will be more cooperative.  So Mullah Nasreddin asks again how many of you know what I am going to say? This time everybody raises their hands.  And he says well what am I supposed to say to group of people that already know what I am going to say? . And he leaves. So finally they coax him back - oh please do not leave you know we want to hear your wisdom - whatever. So he finally gets up a third time and says OK how many of you know what I am going to say?  Half the crowd raises their hands. The other half does not.  So he says well the half that know what I am going to say should tell the half that do not know what I am going to say. .  Satirizing yourself in your own community is a tradition in Muslim literature and arts says scholar Bruce Lawrence. So is mocking people in power.  Political satirists are among the boldest people in the Arab and the Muslim world.  People like Bassem Youssef. He is known as the Egyptian Jon Stewart.   .   .   Youssef's satire took aim at politicians and the Muslim Brotherhood. His show lasted two years. Bruce Lawrence says there is also a strong tradition of political cartoonists in the Muslim world like Syria's Ali Farzat. His hands were broken in retaliation for his cartoons mocking President Bashar al-Assad.  And then did a cartoon of himself in a hospital bed showing that even with his hands bandaged he could still manage to say some things against the regime.  Farzat was attacked for his politics not religion. Lawrence says for devout Muslims satirizing people is fine but not religious figures seen as existing on a higher plane - God Muhammad or anyone else who counts as a saint or prophet.  So you have 122000 prophets.  Including Adam Moses and the Virgin Mary. Muslim comedian Azhar Usman says sure maintaining a bright line between what is holy and what is profane runs counter to a comedic credo that holds nothing sacred. I asked if it is also fundamentally oppositional to universal values that Westerners hold dear.  I think that that is exactly right. I think that is the honest discourse that I wish we could have in the world.  Usman says he greets offensive depictions of saints prophets and God with forgiveness. And he notes if you harshly judge what counts as satire from a rigid cultural perspective you have learned almost nothing from the Charlie Hebdo tragedy. Neda Ulaby NPR News. 