 One of America's least densely-populated states has hit a major milestone. Around the first of the year Montana's population crossed over the million person mark. The governor says it is a good sign for the future. But Montana Public Radio's Dan Boyce Reports some residents say the state's already too crowded.   It must be Sunday in Townsend Montana. Penny's Breakfast Station is frying up hash browns into the early afternoon.  It is a pretty average Sunday. We get pretty busy after the church crowd.  Fewer than 2000 people live in this small farming community surrounded by national forests and just south of the gigantic Canyon Ferry Reservoir. Penny's serves as a regular gathering place for residents like 86-year-old Dorothy Hahn who is lived in Townsend most of her life.  Since 1943.  She says one million Montanans is too many.  Oh that is a lot of people for Montana 'ecause we got a lot of wide-open spaces.  And she says she wants it to stay that way.  I do not like big cities at all. I like small towns.  Nearby youth group leader Carrie Driver does not mince words on her view of newcomers.  Go back where you came from pretty much especially if you are coming from California or these other states and they buy up secondary houses that they do not even use and then expect they can come in and tell us how to run ours because they live here two months out of the year.  The state's entire population has grown about 10 percent over the last decade to reach the million mark. But those million Montanans are stretched over an area bigger than New York Pennsylvania Vermont New Hampshire Massachusetts New Jersey and Rhode Island combined. It is fewer than seven people per square mile.  So we are not crowded by any stretch of the imagination.  Montana Governor Brian Schweitzer.  Now I did see a bumper sticker in Great Falls last week. It said Montana is full we hear there is still room in North Dakota.  As for himself Governor Schweitzer likes the million person figure.  This gives us an opportunity for more jobs more opportunities for our children and grand-children so I guess it is progress.  Back at Penny's Breakfast Station Randy Brown is finishing up his coffee. He runs a concrete company in Townsend and says population equals construction.  In my business it makes me feel good because there is people moving in and that means they want houses or they will buy something that needs to be repaired or add a garage to it so I haul the concrete or redi-mix to them to make me money as they come in.  More Montanans might mean more business for him and for Penny's Breakfast Station. Just do not be surprised if you have to wait in line on Sundays. For NPR News I am Dan Boyce in Townsend Montana.   This is NPR News. 