 Refugees and other foreigners were held at airports across the country yesterday as President Trump's executive order limiting entry into the United States went into effect. By evening a federal judge in Brooklyn had issued an emergency stay on a part of the president's actions. And today two additional district courts issued restraining orders. We are still learning about the details of the ruling. Administration officials have provided mixed messages on the Sunday talk shows about what this means specifically for U.S. green card holders. There is no confusion though about the purpose of executive order itself. President Trump said it clearly in a tweet this morning  our country needs strong borders and extreme vetting. Mark Krikorian is the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies. He has praised the action. Thank you for being with us sir.  Well thanks for having me.  So in this order Mr. Trump wrote that Christians and others from minority religions should be given priority. How do you respond to critics who say that sounds dangerously close to a religious test?  Well it is not a religious test. It is a persecution test. In other words what we are now seeing in the refugee flow - what we have seen for instance from the Syrian refugee flow over the past couple of years - is that almost every single person we have admitted from Syria is a Muslim even though the population is 10 to 12 percent Christian. And they are frankly everybody's target. So there is a - our refugee selection system has been skewed actually against Christians and Yazidis and frankly ...  But Christians are a minority in Syria. I mean Christians are a minority in Syria so it...  Yeah they are a minority and they are sort of everybody's target quite frankly. So I mean that is why they are a minority and have been for a long time. So in other words Christian refugees - and there is a lot of them in Turkey and Lebanon and Jordan - are - do not get resettlement offers. They just - it just does not work that way.  But what Mister - President Trump has done has banned all refugees from Syria indefinitely. How do you respond to that? Do you think Christians should be given you know allowed to come in and not Muslims?  Well I mean this actually addresses the broader issue of why are we doing refugee resettlement at all because the fact is that it is dramatically more expensive to bring a refugee here than it is to take care of people there. Our research shows that the cost of resettling a refugee from the Middle East is 12 times greater than taking care of one in the Middle East. We take refugees in order to make ourselves feel better. That is all it is. Because each person we take represent 11 other people that we are not helping but could have with that same money. I think it is selfish and it is morally wrong to undertake large-scale refugee resettlement. The people we are taking are not emergency cases who literally cannot stay where they are any longer. We are doing this literally to make ourselves feel better and it is just - it is not right.  Many of these people of course are fleeing terrible situations.  They already fled them. They are in Turkey or Jordan. They are not in - they are not being persecuted any longer.  Sure countries that are completely overwhelmed. These are developing...  And we should help them.  And these are developing nations that feel completely overwhelmed. Does not the United States - briefly sir - have a moral responsibility to help some of these you know refugees resettle in the United States?  I think that you can make a case for that and if you make a case for that that is a case against refugee resettlement because if we have a responsibility for helping protect refugees we can - we are doing it in the most inefficient way conceivable by bringing them to the United States instead of improving the conditions in Turkey or in Jordan or in Lebanon. That has to be our goal not to pick a lucky few as lottery winners to move them you know to Sioux City Iowa. That does not help the other 11 people who are not going to be able to be helped with the money that we have to devote to that one person we are resettling here.  Mark Krikorian is the executive director of the Center for Immigration Studies. Thanks for being with us.  Thanks. 