 This week President-elect Trump will take questions from the press for the first time since the election. On Wednesday he will hold what he is calling a quote general news conference. To understand what that may mean NPR's media correspondent David Folkenflik is here with us. Hi David.  Hey there Lulu.  So NPR's politics team has been tracking the number of days since Trump's last press conference. It is been - wait for it - 164 days. Why is a press conference so important?  Well look it may seem like self-justifying banter from the press to say he is got to come down and take questions from reporters. After all the reporters are the ones who get to ask the questions. At the same time this is very much ensuring that there is a degree of transparency and accountability. And let us not forget Donald Trump has on a number of occasions said I will get to that later. You will learn more about my taxes and finances later on. You will learn more about how I will handle the pervasive conflicts of interest that involve his business entanglements abroad. Well later keeps coming and the answers keep not showing up. And I think it is important for the public to hear that the man who is going to lead them for the next four years is willing to address these questions and has answers.  And I guess the idea that you know President-elect Trump will actually be live presumably on the air taking questions from reporters that are unscripted - this will be a big moment.  I think it is very important to be able to hear from our public leaders in ways that they cannot entirely orchestrate seeing them speak live and unscripted and take questions that they themselves have not arranged ahead of time. I think this is a way in which citizens who are deciding what they think of their leaders who govern in their name this is one of the ways in which they can evaluate how they feel about the quality of the leadership.  Well are we sure that Trump will take questions? In his tweet he called this a news conference. We are calling it a press conference. Is there a difference?  You know about 40 years ago as I understand it aides to President Nixon started calling press conferences news conferences to indicate that the president is the one making the news and that the agenda is not set by the press. So I think that you are hearing echoes of that. If he does not take questions it is not a news conference or press conference at all. It is a public statement. He will be making some remarks and then walking away from the lectern. We are going to see what happens.  Have the press really done a good job explaining what their role is?  I think that Trump has succeeded in many ways at making the press look like an actor in this campaign season rather than somebody holding the candidates and major political figures to account. And I think that is really undercutting the press here. Any time it holds the Trump administration accountable he will say well here they are being biased again rather than accepting that that is part of the give and take of democracy and of the accountability we expect. So that is something the press is going to have to earn back I think is its stature with the public as it seeks to do its job and serve its mission and show how it is arriving at its conclusions and will explain why the reporting it does is necessary. I think so much reporting at times seems designed for the Beltway insiders people of the political class who understand why this subcommittee hearing or that nomination is so important without people saying this is what is at stake.  On a final note any thoughts on the timing of this news conference-slash-press conference? Why is he holding it now?  Well so much is going on next Wednesday. The Republicans on Capitol Hill are holding multiple hearings for various nominees some of whom are quite controversial. So it looks as though he intends to dominate the news cycle by having this. You know this also was intended to be a press conference or at least promised to be a press conference about his business entanglements. And yet now he is promising a general news conference which means that he is going to sweep up other controversies in it. And that is fine. I think there are a lot of other substantive issues that need to be explored as well. But it certainly means that there will be a diminishment of attention that can be given to the question of his business entanglements. You know each time that he promises to come forward with something when you actually get to the point of disclosure it seems as though there is a lot less that was promised for the press and particularly for the public to understand.  David Folkenflik NPR's media correspondent. Great to have you on.  You bet. 