  Well do not you know baby? Well do not you know baby? Now do not you know baby?  That is Jamie Cullum singing Ray Charles's Do not You Know. It is just one of the many songs from the American songbook that is featured on Jamie Cullum's seventh album Interlude. Jamie Cullum is the United Kingdom's most successful contemporary jazz musician. He has collaborated with Sir Paul McCartney Clint Eastwood and Pharrell Williams. We will not mention all the awards he is won. We cannot. Time will not permit. And there was a time when you might have seen him performing at a clothing shop. Jamie Cullum joins us now in NPR's Studio One. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you. It is a pleasure to be here.  Playing in a clothing shop?  Yeah well clothes is an interesting word to use. It was actually in the - kind of a ladies' undergarment part of a department store.  That is an even more interesting...  Yes it is really is not it? It was a tough gig that one. It was in Marks  Spencer's. You know Marks  Spencer's over here?  Of course. Yes yes they are famous. There are Americans who will only get their underwear at Marks  Sparks as it is called because it is famously durable.  That is how I earned my living from the age of 15 really. I got my first kind of piano gig. Apart from being in bands you know I would be the piano player in various places. And one day it was 75 pounds for playing all afternoon in the particular department of Marks  Spencer's.  Let us hear a song if we may.  OK. Why do not I play Make Someone Happy for you now?  Wonderful.   Make someone happy. Make just one someone happy. Make just one heart the heart you sing to. One smile that cheers you. One face that lights when it is near you. One girl you are everything to. Fame if you win it comes and goes in a minute. Where is the real stuff of life to cling to? Love is the answer. Someone to love is the answer. Once you have found her build your world around her. Make someone happy. Make just one someone happy. And you will be happy too. Fame if you win it comes and goes in a minute. Where is the real stuff of life to cling to? Love is the answer. Someone to love is the answer. Once you have found her build your world around her. Make someone happy. Make just one someone happy. And you will be happy too.  Boy that is absolutely beautiful.  Thank you.  I have read interviews where you say you are not a particularly good pianist or at least not a natural pianist.  No no I mean I am not. And I say that with no kind of false modesty. It is just that I have never studied. You know I do not read music. I play completely by ear. So I just kind of learned. You know I grew up playing in rock bands and discovered jazz a bit later. And my version of it is something that is still evolving. I am more of a communicator than a technician.  Can we hear another song?  Sure. I will play something a bit more up for you. And you played a little bit at the top of the show. But Ray Charles is a real root into jazz for me. The kind of world he came from I know nothing about but I can hear it through his music. And we can all sing about love and sex and what we need and Ray Charles I think sang that better than anyone. And you know as a teenager that resonated with me and I think I will spend the rest of my life trying to be Ray Charles.  Well do not you know baby? Well do not you know baby? Little girl little girl do not you know? Please listen to me baby. Girl I am in love with you so. Turn your lamp down low. Turn your lamp down low. Woo turn your lamp down low. Turn your lamp down low. Come on now now baby. Girl I am in love with you so. Now you know I have been away for such a long time. But now baby I cannot get you off my mind. So come on now baby. Come on come on now child. Oh listen to me baby. Love your daddy all night long. If you love me like I love you we can do all the things that we used to do. Now come on now baby. Come on come on now child. Oh listen to me baby. Love your daddy all night long. Turn your lamp down low 'ecause I love you so. Baby baby please come on. Baby baby please come on. Hear me talking with my baby. Love you daddy all night long.  That is just terrific.   Thank you.  What is it like to be a kid in rural England and hear Ray Charles?  I had pretty cool parents so they had some good stuff on our record player at home. So I was exposed pretty early to Nina Simone. You know Eric Clapton was a real you know was someone we listened to a lot in our house. My mom and dad never had the chance to be musicians for a job but they used to play in bands. When my older brother was a little boy my mom and dad would go out on the weekends to earn extra money in a covers band. My mom was playing bass guitar and singing. My dad was playing guitar as well. My granddad was playing saxophone.  Can I get you talk about your grandparents? They were very important to you.  On my mother's side she was born in Burma. So my grandmother was Burmese. My grandfather - he was an orphan. And we think he was Indian. And on my father's side he was born in Jerusalem. His mother escaped Nazi Germany at just the right time. But my grandfather on that side was English. He was from Kent.  Can you draw a line between you as a performing artist now and things you learned from any of your grandparents things you heard with them any clues to life?  It is curiosity. And actually one thing I always say about getting to do this for a living is the gift is not the talent. That is you know many people have talent. And the gift is actually being able to follow it up and make it your career. And you know I am certainly the first generation in my family that is been able to just follow a dream that I had. You know I liked - I used to sit around listening to records playing the guitar and working the stuff out on the piano. And I have had the great privilege to make that my life so...  I am fascinated by the debt you owe your parents and grandparents when you say you are the first generation that is been able to follow a dream. That is a very thoughtful observation about generations.  Well my parents grew up having to think about just how to be responsible and have more than their parents did and how to just make life work. They certainly wanted to steer my brother and I in the direction of something that was more shall we say stable. But when they saw that we had talent and desire in music they were like look go for it. You know my dad says I would not choose to be in finance if I could do my life all over again. But it gave us a good life and we are having a good life and you know I admire that as well. And you know we are a lucky generation. I hope we do not mess it up. There is a lot of messy things around that is for sure.  You are going to play us out with another song.  Yeah. I would love to although I am always a bit frightened to play it because it is written by one of my truly great living heroes and it is a Randy Newman song called Losing You.  Well I really want to hear this. And I thank you for being with us. It is been terrific.  Thank you for having me.  Stay tuned while Jamie Cullum plays us out. His latest album Interlude will come out next week on January 27. He will also be on tour in select cities in North America next month. Thanks so much.  Thank you for having me. It is been great to be here.  Was a fool with my money and I lost every dime sun stopped shining and it rained all the time. It did set me back some but I made it through. But I will never get over losing you. Do you know how much you mean to me? Should have told you...  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 