 It is the surprise party all over social media. It is been called the gender reveal party.   .  It is a girl.    It is a boy.  That was a couple finding a box of pink clothes another of a man swinging a golf ball leaving a blue trail of powder. There are hundreds of these videos of expectant couples revealing the sex of their baby using the colors pink for girl and blue for a boy. For blogger Jenna Karvunidis it was through a cake.  We had a knife and we cut into it altogether. We all saw the pink icing at the same time and found out that we were having a girl.  That was in 2008 before Pinterest or Instagram. So how did Karvunidis get the idea? For one she loves cake. And...  I mean gosh I just like to throw parties. I just thought it would be really fun for everybody in the whole family to find out.  Karvunidis' cake idea was written up by a local Chicago magazine. But then...  I started noticing myself more and more of them about a year or two later. And then of course you know I do not know the last maybe five years it is just gone totally crazy.   Newly released video shows the moment a gender reveal party went terribly wrong. The blaze quickly spread.  Now I am seeing them and they are burning down forests and exploding cars bringing alligators into the mix. And it is just become a bit of a nightmare.  There was something else that made her rethink her party 11 years ago and she recently wrote about it on Facebook.  Plot twist - the baby from the original gender reveal party is a girl who wears suits. She says you know she and her and all of that but you know she really goes outside I would say gender norms.  The post went viral. Karvunidis may have been one of the first people to publicly talk about her gender reveal party but she says her views on sex and gender have changed especially when talking to her daughter.  She is telling me Mom there are many genders. Mom there is many different sexualities and you know all different types and I take her lead on that.  Karvunidis does have some regret.  I know it is been harmful to some individuals. It is 2019. We do not need to get our joy by giving others pain. I think there is a new way to have these parties.  And she has another idea.  Celebrate the baby. There is no way to have a cake to cut into it to see if they are going to like chess. Let us just have a cake.   That was Jenna Karvunidis from Pasadena Calif.  