 James Garner died last night at the age of 86. The actor was known for his wise-cracking tough guy characters who were not afraid to bend the rules.   Maverick starring James Garner and Jack Kelly.  As cool cowboy Bret Maverick Garner quickly became an icon of the Hollywood Wild West.    Burt  tells me you put him up to it. Why?  I cannot talk upside down.   You cannot talk right side up but you are going to talk even if it is inside out.  After rocketing to fame on the small screen James Garner became a movie star in films like The Great Escape and The Americanization of Emily. After 11 years on the big screen Garner returned to TV for a few more turns as Western sheriff types then in 1974 got the role for which he is best known.    This is Jim Rockford. At the tone leave your name and message. I will get back to you.   .  James Garner earned an Emmy for his portrayal of private eye Jim Rockford in The Rockford Files. And when that show wrapped in the '80s Garner went back to the cinema and earned even more accolades. We are joined now by author Jon Winokur who worked with the actor on his autobiography The Garner Files A Memoir. Jon Winokur thanks for joining us.  Thank you.  So we just mentioned an impressive variety of roles that Garner tackled. And really it was kind of scratching the surface - by no means a complete list. What legacy does James Garner leave?  I think he will be remembered as a guy who made it look very easy. You know he was once asked by an interviewer how he wanted to be remembered and he said with a smile. And I think he is achieved that.  Garner fell into acting by coincidence. Can you tell us the story?  Yes he was pumping gas and there was a soda jerk in the drug store across the street named Paul Gregory who said that he was going to be a producer some day and that Garner should be an actor. Of course Garner just laughed at him. Time went by. He forgot about it. And he came back from Korea only to find that Paul Gregory was now a very successful producer. Garner was working as a carpet installer and looking for a better job. And he sees a sign over a building Paul Gregory and Associates. And the rest is history.  Wow sounds more like fate than coincidence.  It sure does.  Now you mentioned how he kind of made it look easy. And it was almost so effortless you almost feel like you could just walk up and talk to the guy like he was your buddy. But I imagine there was probably some real work behind that.  I think there was. He never did let you catch him acting. He was what he seemed to be. Behind that good guy image there was an even better guy.  Jon Winokur co-wrote James Garner's autobiography The Garner Files A Memoir. James Garner died last night at the age of 86. 