 Americans are not known for their mastery of history. And we are often quick to dismiss anything before our time. But two singers called the Kentucky Sisters are trying to introduce a new generation to their grandparents tunes. Commentator Gwen Thompkins says it is working because while the songs may be so old they sound so good.  Did you know that John F. Kennedy was a Republican? Neither did I. But that is what one of my college students guessed in a course on news writing. I asked another kid - what period followed the industrial age? And she said - the Golden age? We moved on. But whenever I am tempted to despair about a generation that looks ever forward I buy a cupcake and a big mug of coffee. That is because Launa Reed works at a cafe in New Orleans that sells the best cupcakes in the history of cupcakes. You can quote me on that. And her friend Jo Morris manages a coffee shop that sells a mighty fine drip. They are not yet 30-something.  Well I am Launa.  And I am Jo.  And we are the Kentucky Sisters.   The Kentucky Sisters live on Kentucky Street in the Ninth Ward. And they sing old-time harmonies mostly from the 1920s '30s and '40s. But they do not know much about the songs they sing. Morris and Reed find old hits on YouTube work out the harmonies add the ukuleles and give the songs an even more vintage style - circa 1928. Morris says that is their sweet spot.  I think for me it is - I have always had like a little voice. And I think it is been very - it sort of lends itself really well to this kind of music. And I am a sentimental sucker. I mean we - our favorite things - we love to talk about songs that we choose about how like we romance ourselves while we are singing them. They are just so dreamy and also very classic.  These women who perform in nightclubs right here in New Orleans are on an emotional tour through musical history. They learn songs by Johnny Mercer Louis Armstrong Hoagy Carmichael and serenaders like The Prisonaires. Morris says her skin tingles when a song feels right.  It is like this electric glow. And it is all about the goosebumps.  Goosebumps are crucial to learning. And particularly to learning history because without some form of emotional involvement the past is a snore. Launa Reed and Jo Morris are from a generation whose parents listened to Billy Joel and Queen. So these women found their old-timey songs all by themselves. They are not experts on American musical history but they are working on it. The Kentucky Sisters are curious about the songs that they sing. And curiosity leads to knowledge.    I do not want to set the world on fire.  Right now they are just mad about The Ink Spots who made such an indelible mark on harmonic singing.    And when your admission that you feel the same I will have reached the goal I am dreaming of believe me.  There is a singy and a talky and then they end it with a singy. And I just really think that that is a really sweet formula. And if you listen to an Ink Spot's album from beginning to end it is all exactly the same. Like even the beginning like...   Yeah that is an Ink Spot's song. And it is just...   ...Really sweet and I really love it and I love them for that. So...  So ladies and gentlemen here's a singy and a talky and a singy from The Ink Spots via the Kentucky Sisters. It is called I Do not Want To Set The World On Fire. If they were my students I would give them an A.    I do not want to set the world on fire. I just want to start a flame in your heart.  Gwen Thompkins is a writer and host of New Orleans public radio station WWNO's program Music Inside Out.    I - I just want to set a big old flame in your heart. In my little old heart I have... 