 This is PR News. I am Scott Simon. Mitt Romney is set to depart from London today. After three days of photo ops and closed meetings the likely next Republican presidential nominee met prime ministers past and present. He attended the Olympic Games' opening ceremony and he raised some serious cash. But Mr. Romney who ran the 2002 Winter Olympic Games - in Salt Lake City - managed to deliver an assessment of London's handling of the Olympics that drew a rebuke from Prime Minister David Cameron. That probably was not on the candidate's agenda. Gideon Rachman is the chief foreign affairs columnist for the Financial Times and he is been following Gov. Romney's visit to London. And he joins us from London. Gideon thanks for being with us.  My pleasure.  And maybe we should remind ourselves - what exactly did Mitt Romney say in this interview?  Yeah he was asked whether he felt confident that London was going to handle the Olympics fine. And rather than giving the kind of standard bland reply he made the mistake of actually answering the question honestly and said that there were disconcerting signs - to use his phrase - that some things were not going very well and pointed to the problems that we have had hiring security guards for the Games - they had to in the end draft in a lot of troops and mentioned the threat of a strike at Customs which actually did not materialize and said well it is hard to know just how well it is going to go. And actually that is the kind of thing that people in London itself have been saying for months. But somehow coming from a foreigner - and a prominent foreigner - it provoked a bit of a backlash in London. And Cameron then replied rather tartly by saying well it is much easier if you are going to hold the Olympics in the middle of nowhere - which was felt to be a reference to Salt Lake City.  And Boris Johnson the mayor of London who by some accounts is the most - certainly the most popular Conservative Party member in the country actually by name disputed Mr. Romney in a public ceremony. Now Boris Johnson is a conservative they should be pals.  Absolutely. Well Boris Johnson is actually above all a populist. And I think what he spotted was an opportunity to have a go at a guy who people have not particularly heard of but also to buoy up Londoners 'ecause in fact Johnson himself had said a couple of weeks ago that London was in danger of having a nervous breakdown about the anxieties that things would go badly. There have been a lot of stories which was obviously what Romney picked up on. But I think the night before the Games he was sort of - you know keying up the crowd by saying you know there is this guy Mitt Romney who says we might not be ready. Are we ready? And then of course you get a big cheer back. But of course it is - if not a political risk it is politically unusual to take on somebody who may after all be the president of the United States in a few months' time.  You know American politics. Mitt Romney is not running for president of Great Britain. So how harmful do you think this is really?  You know there is going to be a huge amount that happens between now and November. And the idea that a few kind of negative headlines in the London papers will still be reverberating then seems to me unlikely. There is however an irony I think. If you look at the Romney campaign and the kind of things they have been saying their argument is that Obama has actually antagonized traditional allies. Romney has a foreign policy adviser guy called Nile Gardiner who compiles lists of snubs that Obama has allegedly dished out to the British. These I should add are snubs that the British generally have not noticed. They were removing Churchill's bust from the Oval Office not absolutely unequivocally taking Britain's side in the argument with Argentina over the Falkland Islands that kind of thing. I mean as I say there is not that sort of impression in Britain that Obama is anti-British in any way particularly. But it is kind of funny that given that Romney had been about to play that card that he then puts his foot in it.  Let me ask you a little bit about British reaction. Has it been a huge story there?  Yeah it has actually - I think partly because it is funny and because Romney is a slightly stiff individual and so he looks a bit of an easy target. I also think that Romney inadvertently kind of played into this neurosis that Boris Johnson referred to. I mean the fact is that Londoners and Brits have been very worried about how these games are going to go and still are. But it is a bit like if you were about to take a crucial exam and you yourself were worried that you might mess it up and somebody walked into your room and said - rather than saying oh do not worry it will go fine said actually yeah I can see why you are worried that really could go wrong. You would react quite badly. And I think that was sort of what Romney did. But I would be surprised if this story as they say has legs. This was more a sort of you know kind of gaffe level. I think we will see.  Gideon Rachman chief foreign affairs columnist for the Financial Times speaking with us from London. Thanks very much  My pleasure. 