 We go now to the lovely city of Crystal Colo. where parents will do just about anything to get their adored and coddled children into a new academy for only the most intelligent and talented students. Sounds familiar thanks to the college admissions scandal involving for example two famous actresses multiple CEOs real estate investors and a fashion designer. But Crystal is a fictional place where the novel The Gifted School takes place. And Bruce Holsinger is the author. Good morning.  Good morning. It is wonderful to be here.  Yeah lovely to have you. What was your reaction to hearing of the real-life college admissions scandal?  Well I suppose like everyone reading the news I felt a shiver of self-recognition because I do not think there is a parent in America who has not had anxiety about you know where their kid goes to school. Felicity Huffman her behavior might seem really out of proportion. It might seem that you know we would never do anything like that but you could imagine that it was you know love that drove her in some ways. It was a desire for her kids to succeed. What she did was felonious of course. Not all of us are committing felonies to try to get our kids into a good school. But you know there is a sense that parents will stop at nothing. And in The Gifted School I wanted to explore that dynamic. I wanted to think about the ways that all parents will push that envelope.  The novel focuses on a middle and high school called Crystal Academy. There is a group of four mothers best friends who are dead set on getting their own kids admitted. Give us a brief portrait of them. They are very distinct.  Yes absolutely. So Rose who is the central protagonist of the novel she is a pediatric neurologist a very high-powered scientist also a medical doctor. And then she has three close friends. One is Samantha Zeller who is a stay-at-home mom. She comes from a very wealthy family and is the kind of queen bee of their group. There is another friend Azra who is divorced from her ex-husband Beck who is kind of a Bernie Bro type. And they have two boys twins who are star soccer players. And then the final of the four friends is Lauren. And she is a widow. She has two kids. One is Xander who is a chess prodigy and the other is Tessa who is a troubled teen. She is just out of rehab. She is vlogging with her rehab buddies. And you see those vlog posts as you read the novel.  These mothers and other characters they will go to almost any length. After Emma Zeller does not score high enough on her IQ admissions tests her father tries to get her an ADHD exemption which is...  That is right.  ...One of the things that we were hearing about in the real-life scandal.  That is right. That is right. And there is another parallel. You know it is that idea of using your position in order to - I guess you know you could call it privilege hoarding - in order to buy advantage - more advantage for your child. And in The Gifted School Kev - that is Emma Zeller's dad - he is a member of city council. He is a powerful businessman in the community. And he uses that influence to accrue advantages for her.  Now who are these parents really doing all of this for do you...  Well...  ...Suggest?  ...There is the question. You wonder if these kids in The Gifted School really want to go to this school to Crystal Academy. You know it seems like a fantastic opportunity. The parents are excited about it. They are excited about small class sizes. They are excited about you know what the next thing their kids can get might be. But really do the kids want to go? Do the kids want to take that IQ test? The novel opens with what I tried to write as a very kind of dark suspenseful scene of Emma Z one of the two Emma's - Emma Zeller...  The two little girls.  ...Take...  The little girls.  That is right.  And these are all...  Yeah.  ...By the way about 11 and 12-year-olds.  Yeah they are rising sixth-graders these kids. And so the novel opens with Emma taking an IQ test a very to her mother anyway a very high-stakes IQ test. When the novel opens she is filling in a bubble sheet. And so I wanted to think about pressure from the ground up from the pencil up.  Well I also wonder does it reflect anything you have seen in the mirror with your own children?  Yes. Now the novel is set in a fictionalized town but it is loosely based on Boulder Colo. which is where I taught for a number of years. And that is where our kids were born. It is the kind of place where pressure-parenting is the name of the game. And so you know I think from when our kids were young we really perceived that kind of culture of parental competitiveness. And yeah I think it is inevitable that it affects the way you parent.  Yeah it is hard to not want your kid to be a genius  from the start...  Yeah of course.  ...In some form.  Well and that is why the story is in some ways - it is about all of us because everybody believes their kids are gifted on some level. So what is giftedness? You know how is - again how is it assessed? We all want the best for our kids but we all may be confused in some ways about what that can be.  Writer Bruce Holsinger's new novel is The Gifted School. Thank you very much for joining us.  Absolutely. It is been a pleasure Renee. 