 The story of the battle for Ukraine also involves what might be called a shadow war with a leading role being played by Russia's military intelligence agency the GRU. That is the shadow agency that has always been even more shadowy than the KGB back in the days of the Soviet Union. These days the agency is leading the way in Eastern Ukraine. Mark Galeotti is a professor of global affairs at NYU. In an article for Foreign Policy he called the GRU Putin's secret weapon. He joined us by Skype from Moscow. And I asked him to explain the role of Russia's military agency in the Ukraine rebellion.  You look at two of the key military commanders - Strelkov their minister of defense and Bezler one of their key field commanders. Now both of these were ex - well I say ex-GRU. Officially they are ex-GRU. But this is not a service that you ever really walk away from. So essentially of the three key people running the rebellion all three are Russian two of them are GRU.  Does that mean that these people are taking marching orders from the GRU? Or how deep is the influence?  I think it is not quite so straightforward as just simply saying the GRU rings them up and gives some orders. Certainly in the case of Strelkov for example I mean this is a guy who is gone native in a way. I mean he really believes in the Donetsk cause. And in fact he was grumbling at Moscow when he felt that thought Moscow was not providing enough support. But it is clear that they need each other and what is more on the ground. I mean although most of the insurgents are either Ukrainian or just ordinary volunteers from Russia who thought there is adventure whenever it is clear that there are GRU officers embedded in a lot of the main units probably also responsible for the key pieces of military technology including quite likely the Buk missile system that shot down Malaysian Airline's Flight 17. So we have had everything from leaders in the government's circles in Donetsk all the way down to military units that are either controlled by or recruited by the GRU.  You write that the use of the GRU in this conflict represents what one of the Russian officials called a new way of war. That is the new Russian military doctrine. Could you explain that?  Well I think the Russians have come to terms with the fact that even though they are spending a lot of money on their military and are desperately trying to expand its technological capabilities they are never going to be the equal of the well the United States let alone NATO as a whole. And to be perfectly honest even on their eastern borders China is arming and much more quickly than the Russians. So then they are thinking well look - they have two options - either they rein in their ambitions or they find new ways of fighting. Well the current Kremlin's not planning on reining in its ambitions. So instead they are looking more at their fighting. This kind of a war is not a direct frontal assault but instead works through subterfuge through sabotage through terrorism through stirring up local trouble with your own agents and such like. And this is exactly the kind of thing that the GRU is good at. They have agents on the ground. They have Special Forces. They have very extensive budgets with which they kind of are happy to support groups in other countries that they think might be useful. So in this respect it is Russia coming to terms with the fact that if it is going to try and force itself onto the world scene it needs to find a different way of doing so than just simply the good old Soviet fashion that relied on just simply a massive military machine.  Mark Galeotti is a writer and professor based in Moscow. His article about the GRU appeared in Foreign Policy. Mark thanks very much.  My pleasure. 