 If you are a Harry Potter fan you already know a new book was released at midnight. If you were not standing in line with the other muggles to get your copy you can do something just as magical play The Puzzle.   I am joined by the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master Will Shortz. Hey there Will.  Good morning Elise.  Did you ever get into the Harry Potter craze?  I am afraid not. But you know everything in the Harry Potter books is in the New York Times crossword. You know it is one of the standard things - Shakespeare - anything Shakespeare's fine. Anything The Beatles is fine and anything Harry Potter-related is fine.  So it is part of basic cultural literacy now.  That is right.  OK. So Will remind us of last week's challenge.  Yes I said a spoonerism is an interchange of initial consonant sounds in a phrase to get another phrase as in light rain and right lane. And I said name something seen in the kitchen in two words. Its spoonerism is an article that is worn mostly by men. What is it? Well the article in the kitchen is a pie tin. You spoonerize that and you get a tie pin.  Nearly 800 people sent in the right answer. And one of them is our randomly selected winner this week Ron Malzer of La Crosse Wis. Congratulations Ron.  Thank you.  So how did you get to the answer?  Well I started on Wednesday morning was kind of stuck for 10 minutes. Went to bed Wednesday night and then it came to me thinking about men's clothing that a woman would not be likely to wear.  Ron how long have you been playing The Puzzle?  I started in 1993.  Wow. And do you have a question for Will?  I do. About a year ago I really started getting into crossword puzzles. And I would be interested in hearing what goes into constructing a crossword puzzle.  What do you think Will?  People ask you know what comes first the answers or the clues? And of course it is the answers. You construct a crossword exactly the opposite of the way you solve one. You start with the answer grid. In fact you start with your theme if you have that construct the grid and then you write the clues at the end.  Very good.  Ron are you ready to play The Puzzle?  I am.  All right Ron and Elise I am going to give you two four-letter words. Rearrange the letters in each of them to make two synonyms. For example if I said newt - N-E-W-T - and felt you would say went and left. Your number one is lore - L-O-R-E - and trap.  Role and part.  That is correct. Number two is foal - F-O-A-L - and zeal - Z-E-A-L.  Loaf and laze.  Ever and runt.  Veer and turn.  That is it. Dune - D-U-N-E - and bear - B-E-A-R.  Nude and bare - B-A-R-E.  That is it. Care - C-A-R-E - and shad.  C-H or S-H?  Sorry shad - S-H-A-D.  Race and dash.  That is it. Bake - B-A-K-E - and ones - O-N-E-S.  Beak and nose.  That is it. Drag - D-R-A-G - and maul - M-A-U-L.  Grad and alum.  That is it. Rate - R-A-T-E - and nerd - N-E-R-D.  Tear.  Yes.  Yes and rend.  That is it. Good one.  Thank you Elise.  Leap - L-E-A-P - and grin - G-R-I-N.  Let us see rang.  G-R-I-N so it would be ring.  Ring OK and peal.  That is it. Leap again - L-E-A-P - and shay - S-H-A-Y.  Would that be pale and ashy?  That is it. Tope - T-O-P-E - and drab - D-R-A-B.  Poet and bard.  Good. Cool - C-O-O-L - and stun.  Loco and nuts.  Rare - R-A-R-E - and shut.  Would that be rear and...  Tush.  Your tush is right.  Oh very good.  Good one Elise. And here's your last one. Lath - L-A-T-H - and post - P-O-S-T.  Halt and stop.  That is correct. And Ron I have a feeling you are a Scrabble player.   Yes I am.  You know your anagrams.  Ron you were so fast at that. I was trying to be more competitive.  .   Great job. And for playing our puzzle today you are going to get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin as well as puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. Ron tell us your public radio station.  WLSU here in La Crosse.  Ron Malzer of La Crosse Wis. thanks for playing.  Thank you.  OK Will what is the challenge for next week?  Yes it comes from listener Ed Pegg Jr. who conducts the website mathpuzzle.com. Take the four four-letter words limb L-I-M-B area cork and knee. Write them one under the other and the four columns will spell four new words lack iron mere and bake. And this is called a double-word square. I would like you to find a double word square with six-letter words. And specifically your square must include the words ponies accept seared caviar. Ponies is spelled the way you would think accept is A-C-C-E-P-T seared is S-E-A-R-E-D and caviar. These four words must be among the 12 common uncapitalized six-letter words in the square. Can you do it?  Well when you have the answer you can go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and click on the submit your answer link. Just one entry per person please. And our deadline for entries is Thursday August 4 at 3 p.m. Eastern. Please include a phone number where we can reach you at at about that time. If you are the winner we will give you a call and you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master Will Shortz. Thanks again Will.  Thanks Elise. 