 Jews sit shiva when a loved one dies. Since I am also half Irish maybe I am permitted to explain that shiva is like an Irish wake with more food than drinking. The morning after Dan Schorr's death I want to tell some funny stories about him. I am glad the man who was so famous for winding up on Richard Nixon's White House enemies list and giving Nikita Khrushchev no quarter in an interview was also revealed on this show as playful even whimsical and kind. He sang in the studio before we went on German opera to Marx Brothers nonsense songs and he laughed when our engineers covered their ears and clipped his mic. He wrote notes. At a time when people thumb short ill-spelled text messages for most every major life event Dan took to his typewriter and clacked out condolence notes when he heard one of us on staff lost a parent notes of approval when he heard a story that he liked. One of NPR's foreign correspondents remembers how much it meant for her to open an envelope in a far-off place read a short encouraging note from Dan Schorr. He had been posted overseas in Cold War Moscow and Berlin in the days before email and knew how much it meant to get a note that said We are listening. But even after he had to use a walker to get into our studio Dan scrapped for airtime. With the wiles of a veteran correspondent and the street smarts of his Bronx youth Dan competed for every single second. He called once when 15 seconds of one of his pieces had to be cut. News happened Dan I told him. We had to make room. Look my stuff gets trimmed all the time. It is just the business Dan. I admire your attitude Dan said. I do not share it but I admire it. One day we saw a man in a fine pinstripe suit in Dan's office wearing a ponytail nearly reached the floor. Oh Scott Dan said with elaborate composure. You know Frank Zappa. He would come to ask Dan to join him and his band the Mothers of Invention on a project. We rushed into Dan's office as soon as Frank Zappa's ponytail turned the corner. Frank's a highly intelligent man Dan told us highly intelligent. Well yeah we said. Have you heard his music? Not yet said Dan. He gave me his CDs. I might listen to one tonight. Dan if you have not heard Frank Zappa's music how do you know that he is highly intelligent? Dan said Oh because he came to ask me for advice. Broadcasting is a business that causes a lot of good people to burn out. But for almost a century Dan Schorr blazed with fire and warmth. How he shined.  Ms.    You know this was one of Dan's favorite songs Le Vie en Rose. He would sing it in the hallways he would sing it here in the studio. Although - we have decided to run the Edith Piaf version today. You know - but we can hear him I think he is still singing it just today.  Ms.    You are listening to NPR News. 