 Vanessa Williams sure is multi-tasking singer songwriter actress mother of four. That is multi-tasking. While performing her Emmy-nominated role as the top villain on TV's Ugly Betty she managed to find time to record her 13th album. It is called The Real Thing.  Ms.   Candlelight a glass of wine  for that special time with you babe. Feels like a dream but I am still awake.  Vanessa Williams joins us from our studios in New York. Thanks so much for being with us. Ms.  Oh it is a pleasure. Thank you.  Can I ask an Ugly Betty question first off?  Ms.  Sure.  Is it fun to be so - errrh? Ms.  It is fantastic. The fact that I get a chance to - well our writers are remarkable. So my dialogue is great. Our directing is great. So they let us really kind of expand upon what is on the page and the ensemble is great to work with. So it is the best of all types of worlds.  Ms.   Did you see the look on Daniel's face? Terror. If there is one thing I know how to do it is manipulate fear. Unidentified Man 1   You are a horror movie I wish would never end.  And does it at the same time make it particularly important to keep up your musical career another identity too? Ms.  Well you know it is been interesting because I have a whole new fan base now a lot of young teenage girls that watch Ugly Betty with their moms and also you know I was just in the recent Hannah Montana film which is definitely skewed like nine and 12. A lot of kids had no idea that I could sing. So it is nice to have a flip side of a career where I am seen as a villain every week on TV but I get a chance to show the softer side as a recording artist.  Ms.   Let me hear you say baby. Let me hear you say the word. Send your love in a hurry.  The song we just heard a Stevie Wonder song how did you go about deciding what was going to be on this CD? Ms.  Well the song The Real Thing was from Sergio Mendes' Brazil 77 album and my father who was a music teacher played lots of different types of music in our house growing up. So I always loved Latin music and I always loved jazz and pretty much everything. My dad played classical and Beatles and what have you. So this is one of the songs from my past that I always loved and said you know one of these days I would love to record that song and when I thought about the direction for this album I wanted to do something kind of Latin and Brazilian but also stay in the jazz flavor and Concord Records was the perfect fit.  Ms.   The real thing. . The real thing  Is there a theme to this album? Ms.  The intentional theme was - and as an artist I always approach lyrics and song content like an actor. You know what am I trying to evoke and what is the story that I want to tell? And most of the songs that I tend to gravitate towards have to do with love have to do with history. There is a song called Hello Like Before from Bill Withers and it is just about reminiscing and seeing each other after years and years and it feels comfortable and warm and fantastic. A lot has to do with love and I guess that is been a staple for the hits that I have had certainly Save the Best for Last and The Sweetest Days but it also has to do with telling a story. And you know I am 46 years old. I have got lots of stories and lots of memories to think about love.  Let us listen to a little bit of what you do with that Bill Withers' standard Hello Like Before.  Ms.   Hello like before. I would never come here if I would known that you are here. I must admit though that it is nice to see you here. You look like you have been doing well.  Now I have read that Bill Withers was an important figure in your family. Ms.  Well you know Bill Withers reminds me of the days where my brother and I would be in the Ford Econoline van. We each got our bunk and we would go on these long road trips back in the day when gas was like you know 30 cents a gallon and my parents would complain that it was going up to 35 cents a gallon oh my gosh and you know we would have an eight-track cassette and we would have the Temptations and Bill Withers was one of the favorites. And while I was recording this particular album and doing Hello Like Before John Burk who was the executive producer of the album said that he had a surprise for me and while I was doing the vocals Bill Withers snuck in to the actual recording studio. And it was wonderful to see him but I saw him and I immediately burst into tears. I said oh I have got to call my mom. Hold on a second. And I called I got my mom on the phone and I just said you know mom Bill Withers is in the studio and I am doing a song and it just reminded me of my dad because he passed away three years ago and he looked like my dad and he had the same kind of relaxed presence and it was just just a wonderful moment in the studio for me.  Would you mind telling me a little bit about the Hannah Montana movie? Ms.  Well it was one of those calls that came in. I have got a daughter who is nine years old and has been a big Hannah Montana fan for a couple years now. We have done every possible event that you could for Miley Cyrus. So when my management called and said listen you know we manage Miley. She is about the do the Hannah Montana movie. It is a small role. Would you be interested? And I said Jim do not even send me the script. It is a yes.  Ms.  I made a quick call to Sasha. I said guess what? You are not going to believe it. Guess who is going to be in the new Hannah Montana film? And she freaked out and I got a chance to - you know school was out last summer and I brought her down to Nashville where we were shooting and we were out on a farm and finished the day and Billy Ray said listen you know my house is not too far away from here. Would you like to come and - he knew I was a big fan of horses - and come meet my horses and we can have the girls hang down by the creek and swing on a swing set and I said sounds great. And we loaded them up in the car and you know Sasha got to the house and you know Miley was there and little sister Noah who was her age and they said they wanted to go swimming. And Sasha did not bring a bathing suit and Miley said well you can borrow one of mine and she was in heaving.   It is going to be hard to top that is not it? Ms.  I know. I am done.   Well turning back to this album if we could is there a song that you would particularly like to call to our attention? Ms.  There is one song that kind of bridged the gap from viewers that know me as Wilhelmina and you know my vocal stylings and this softer smoother jazz side and it was an old Lena Horne song that is called Come On Strong and it - you know the sentiment is about you know listen if you are going to love me say it do it bring it and that is exactly what Wilhelmina's MO is. You know do not waste my time. What are you trying to say? And this is in a much subtler way has to do with you know if you are going to love me I want to hear violins. I want to see harlequins. I want you to make sure that I am treated like a lady and that is one of my favorite tracks Come on Strong.  Let us listen to a little bit if we can.  Ms.   If you are going to kiss me do not just merely kiss me. Baby kiss me lovely and long. I want to be  I get the point.  Ms.  And that is only half of the first line.   I had not heard that before. That is a nice - that is an impressive song let me put it that way. Ms.  Thank you.  Vanessa Williams. Her newest album is called The Real Thing. She joined us from NPR's New York bureau. Thanks so much for being with us. Ms.  Thank you so much.  And you can hear more songs from the album at nprmusic.org. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 