 A long-forgotten Harlem event finally gets its due in the new concert documentary Summer Of Soul. The film is now in cinemas and streaming on Hulu. NPR TV critic Eric Deggans has this review.    Baby baby baby about your plan to make me blue.  It is no surprise to learn that a documentary focused on the 1969 Harlem Cultural Festival an event so star-studded they called it the Black Woodstock would be packed with jaw-dropping musical performances including a little group on Motown called Gladys Knight and the Pips.    Do not you know that I heard it through the grapevine? Oh I heard it through...  But the concert footage in Summer Of Soul is just now being revealed to audiences in 2021. The film is subtitled ...Or When The Revolution Could Not Be Televised in a sly reference to a Gil Scott-Heron song. But it is also a wry comment on how such a momentous event for Black people could be overlooked for decades. Summer Of Soul recreates the festival's spirit using the performances as inspiration to talk about a crucial time for Black America.    Hey. You like it like that. Yeah. Uh.  Take for example the Chambers Brothers' ode to Harlem Uptown.    Do it to it. I am going uptown to Harlem.  Using that song as a backdrop the film describes Harlem as a cultural oasis for Black people. In a new interview the Reverend Al Sharpton recalls debates back then over using violence to fight oppression.   The Black community was divided between those that were advocating nonviolence. But most of my friends was with those that were saying self-defense and or worse.  And if that means tearing up the community to gain our freedom we will.   Hey.  If this heady remix of interviews ideas and music feels like the work of a master DJ well that is because it is. Summer Of Soul is the directorial debut of Ahmir Questlove Thompson the renowned DJ drummer and producer. Questlove crams the movie with little-seen eye-popping live performances from stars like Sly and the Family Stone and Stevie Wonder. In new interviews musicians reflect on what performing at the festival meant to them.   We were constantly being attacked because... BILLY DAVIS JR. Yeah.  ...We were not quote unquote Black enough.  That is Marilyn McCoo member of the 5th Dimension tearing up while watching footage of their performance.   Sometimes we were called the Black group with the white sound. We did not like that. That was one of the reasons why performing in Harlem was so important to us... DAVIS JR. Mmm hmm.  ...Because we wanted our people to know what we were about.  One of the film's most affecting moments comes when gospel legend Mahalia Jackson sings Take My Hand Precious Lord.    Lord.  It was a favorite song of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. who would been assassinated one year earlier.    I want you to linger near.  Earlier in the film the Reverend Sharpton explains why gospel is so important in Black culture.   Gospel was the therapy for the stress and pressure of being Black in America. We did not go to a psychiatrist. We did not go lay on the couch. We did not know anything about therapists. But we knew Mahalia Jackson.  The Harlem Cultural Festival drew 300000 people over six free concerts in the summer of 1969. Director Hal Tulchin filmed it all. But the Woodstock festival which occurred in the same year completely overshadowed it. No TV or film companies were interested in the footage which sat in Tulchin's basement for decades. That is why the work of Questlove and his producers in shaping the material into such an emotional nostalgic insightful story is so important. He is reclaimed a crucial moment in history reminding the world of the resilience and power of Black culture. I am Eric Deggans.    Here in my  - clap your hands. 