 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Much of the eastern and central United States remains under an excessive heat warning this morning. Triple-digit temperatures neared or exceeded record highs from Missouri to Massachusetts this week. In Philadelphia the mercury reached a sultry 104 degrees yesterday - 104 degrees. Public health workers mobilized to help the elderly and others affected by the heat as NPR's Joel Rose reports.  You know the heat is excessive when it causes pavement to buckle. That is what happened earlier in the week at this on-ramp connecting the Commodore Barry Bridge to Interstate 95 - just south of Philadelphia. Construction crews had to make emergency repairs to get the ramp open again. If the heat is doing that to pavement imagine what it is doing to people.  It is the most dangerous natural disaster. More people die from the heat in this country than all the other natural disasters combined.  Chris Gallagher at the Philadelphia Corporation for Aging says the young and the old are the most vulnerable.  A lot of times it is the heat exacerbating some other type of medical condition. But sometimes it still is just the heat. You know the core body temperature of somebody just raises too high and they die. But any heat-related death is preventable. So that is why we are here to try to raise awareness and try to keep people out of that dangerous area.  Gallagher directs the heat line a phone bank run by the Philadelphia Corporation for Aging and the city health department. The staff here advise seniors who do not have air conditioning to go somewhere that does like a movie theater or a mall. And when that is not possible they offer other tips on keeping cool without AC.  You do not remember doing that when we were younger? The iceman would bring the ice and we would put it in front of the metal fan. Yes.   Nurses from the city health department are also on hand to talk with callers who may have urgent medical problems. And if they are worried the nurses dispatch emergency response teams to check on the callers in person. Chris Gallagher says the calls tend to get more serious as the heat wave drags on.  If you just have a hot day you know that can be dangerous for some people especially if you are dealing with a lot of activities or something. But let us say at nighttime your house cools off. Next day you start fresh. Your body temperature is regulated. And what gets really dangerous right now is the nighttime temperature does not really cool things off like it does in other times.  Up and down the East Coast public health officials offered extended hours at cooling centers to give seniors and others a place to escape from the heat. The Philadelphia Senior Center also gave away 300 free window fans on Thursday. And seniors Josie Miller and Martin Krasner hung around to take advantage of some free air conditioning.  It was very hot. And I needed some place to cool off because I do not have an air conditioner. And I am dripping wet in the middle of the night. And so I am constantly thinking of cool places to go.  It is cold in here. It feels great. If I go stay home and put the air on it costs me money. Here I do not have to pay for it.  For those brave enough to venture outside public pools were a popular destination. New York officials offered extended hours at state beaches and city pools. The mayor of Allentown Pennsylvania made his city's swimming pools free. In Philadelphia lines were so long at municipal pools that some residents took a dip in the public fountains instead.   This was totally spur of the moment. We just came out to play in the fountain and now we have a really wet drive home.   Melissa Biondi's two kids jumped in - t-shirts shorts and all - to swim with sculptures of frogs and turtles in the city's biggest fountain. Bobby and Sharon Charthern went in fully clothed too.  To cool off it is almost 100 degrees. I had to cool off really. Even sitting in the shade I was hot. So I decided to get in the water.  I live in West Philly. We came down here today to the fountain to cool off.  To cool off.  Yes.  Me and my grandbabies.  And good grief.  Joel Rose NPR News Philadelphia. 