 The author Michael Malone is a prolific writer and during the '90s he was the Emmy Award-winning hit writer of the ABC TV soap opera One Life to Live. He is fans have been waiting for a new novel for 10 years. And The Four Corners of the Sky is it. Michael Malone is in the studios of member station WUNC in Durham North Carolina. Welcome to the program Michael.  Thank you. It is good to be here.  Oh man trying to summarize the plot of this book there are so many different plot lines that intersect. Can we talk about one? I sort of call it the caper. It involves Jack Peregrine our con man and a piece of missing treasure known as queen of the sea. Give us an outline.  Well it is a treasure hunt for this pakamama this statue of the Virgin Mary that is made out of Inca gold. And the search for this golden statue is a caper. It is an adventure story. And it also sends Annie the heroine on a quest that will be a different kind of journey for a discovery of who her mother is. So then it is a statue like the Maltese Falcon the stuff that dreams are made of turns out to be meaningful in a great many ways. Is it a fake? Is it real? Is the criminal con artist's mother tricking her once more or is he helping her on this journey to discover what matters to her?  What matters to her is who her mother is. She looks at her birth certificate and under mother's name the name is written Claudette Colbert. Of all the movie stars' names you could have used in this piece of fiction why did you use Claudette Colbert?  Well I am a great lover of her films. And Claudette Colbert struck me as if a little girl wanted to imagine some very distant but sophisticated and adventuresome and brave and witty woman. And Claudette Colbert and It Happened One Night and Palm Beach Story came to mind.  Mm-hmm. She is the madcap heiress who goes off on her own. She is the strong woman who I mean after all you have made Annie a Navy pilot. That is a pretty ambitious goal.  Yes in the novel - the novel began and an image of our daughter at Annapolis at the Naval Academy on a college tour saying that she thought she might want to be a combat pilot. Well you can imagine your progressive liberal parents going what? But Annie indeed unlike our daughter does become a Navy pilot. And over the time of writing the book 911 happened and Iraq happened and so the fact that she was a combat pilot had a significance it had not had when I began - always the surprise of fiction.  And the surprise of fiction too as this treasure hunt has political overtones because it can be traced back - because you always are invoking the Bay of Pigs and Cuba and the relationships between Cuba and the United States.  And like a novel of mine Handling Sin explores our racial history in America. Or novel of mine Time's Witness is about the death penalty. This is about what has America been in its military history? Where have we gone wrong? And what does it mean for this young woman who is very proud to be a Navy pilot and very patriotic.  The novel just warps and wefts as you are reading it as you said page- turning and adventurous. And so many of the scenes are cinematic. There is a scene for example when it is Annie's 17th birthday and Jack has not seen Annie for 10 years and he comes crashing out of the cornfield in a blue Corvette on her 17th birthday. Do you see these scenes given that movies is such an ?  I actually write by listening rather than seeing so much. I think it possibly has to do with the fact that my mother was deaf. And so I had learned to listen. And in the way that is what Annie is being asked to do. She is going very fast. She is one of the 1800 miles an hour. And she needs to learn to slow down and look in the side view and see what is present in her life.  Your mother was a fourth grade teacher and she once defended you in school by saying He is not a liar. He has a wonderful imagination. He is going to be a writer. Have you always been sort of weaving these fictions? It sounds like that is a great way to create a character like Jack.  I do love to tell stories and always have loved to tell them. And she said you are not only you know southern and Irish really if you do not become a fiction teller you might end up in jail. And I suppose in the way Jack's being a con artist who creates the stories and has been in jail was an alternate possibility. But so much - I was writing plays when I was nine years old. And to this day my siblings who live lived in North Carolina will flee the state if I say anything about putting on a play because they know they are going to have to dress up as a bumblebee or something and be in it.  Michael Malone is the author of the new novel The Four Corners of the Sky. And he joined us from member station WUNC in Durham North Carolina. Thank you.  Thank you. This was a pleasure to talk to you.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Liane Hansen. 