 From NPR News this is WEEKEND EDITION. I am Liane Hansen. And joining us is puzzlemaster Will Shortz. Hi Will. I cannot see you this week.  Hello. And that was great last week. I really enjoyed that.  Oh so did I. I mean really thanks for coming to Washington to play the puzzle in person. It was a really fun way to kick start the celebration of my 20th year as host of WEEKEND EDITION.  Woo.  I know I am not thinking about it. You know our segment was a big hit on Twitter email and Facebook. If you do not mind I want to read a couple of responses that we received. Cindy Iger from Tacoma Washington wrote wow what a blast. Thanks Liane for starting the party early. I so enjoyed the special guests you had Daniel Schorr and Susan Stamberg. Gene Delege of Kansas City Kansas wrote besides the fact that I loved this week's puzzler I also enjoyed the rare NPR crew chat. As a listener from when WEEKEND EDITION Sunday first started I enjoyed the talk of the progression of the show. I also appreciated why everyone laughed when Scott Simon suggested Liane might know who he was.   Doug Wood of Michigan who posted on Twitter as dwood1952 commented - I love this - what kind of an NPR nerd am I? Moved to tears by the puzzle segment. Thanks. That was fun.   And finally on Facebook Chuck Puckett of Alabama posted this comment. I have been listening for the whole 20 years. It was a great way to commemorate it. Oh yeah. Nice. I will remind everyone. If you did not get a chance to catch our special edition of the puzzle last week it is online at npr.org. And you can also watch a video of it. You can look at us on our blog and YouTube by searching for puzzle in person. All right Will I know you have been waiting to speak but I am going to make you hold off a little longer. You know I usually go to you at this point for you to give us the challenge. But last week actor Stacy Keach did the honors so he is going to do it again.  Nice. Mr.  This week's challenge comes from listener Ben Bass of Chicago. A few weeks ago we had a puzzle write the name ng out that when the name is written in capital letters it consists of 13 straight lines no curves. And we asked you also to name another celebrity whose first and last names also have five letters in which each name consists of 14 straight lines. The answer was VANNA WHITE.  Mr.  So here's the challenge name a genre of music in two five-letter words each word consisting of exactly 15 straight lines and no curves.  I could listen to his voice forever.  Hmm what a great voice.  He could repeat that and repeat that but we will not. We have a surprise a little bit later. But what was the answer to that challenge?  Well the musical genre is heavy metal.  Well we had more than 2200 entries this past week. And from the correct ones our randomly selected winner is David Winters of Gloversville New York. Hey David. Mr.  Hi Liane.  Tell me what you do there in Gloversville. Mr.  I drive a gasoline tanker.  You do? Mr.  Yes.  Are you on the road a lot? Mr.  Every day. It is a five-day job. I am home every night.  Ah okay. So you get to - do you hear the puzzle in the truck? Mr.  That is all I do on Sunday mornings first thing.   All right how long did it take you to solve this one? Mr.  Unfortunately about an hour. I say unfortunately because I like heavy metal music and it was the last thing I thought of.  Mr.   that one.  Well you have been playing for about 10 or 12 years right? Mr.  Yes.  Yeah. And I will just say you know I know Gloversville. I know the town that you are in and there is such beautiful country up there so I feel like I am talking to someone from a kind of hometown. Are you ready to play David? Mr.  I think so. Yes.  All right. Will meet David. Let us play.  All right David three of the most common consonants in the English language are R S and T. Every answer today is a word name or phrase that contains each of the letters R S and T exactly once along with any number of vowels. For example if I gave you the clue short-winded you might say terse. And note that the R S and T can appear in any order.  Oh that makes it so much harder.   Here's number one and we will start with five-letter answers. Your first clue is a fixed look. Mr.  Stare.  Stare is it. Number two is unit of a mall. Mr.  Store.  Store is it. The trunk of the body. Mr.  Torso.  Torso is right. Where a chicken sits overnight. You know that old phrase where the chickens go home to Mr.  Roost.  Roost is it.  Mm-hmm.  A stringed musical instrument of India. Mr.  Sitar.  Sitar is it. Now we are with six-letter answers and your first clue is stitch made after surgery. Mr.  What was it again?  A stitch made after surgery. Mr.  Oh suture.  A suture is it. Sign of the zodiac after Aries. Mr.  Taurus.  Taurus. A sound system. Mr.  Stereo.  Uh-huh. Holiday following Lent. Mr.  Easter.  Easter is it. Expulsion. Six-letter answer.  Toss out no. Hint.  It starts with an O.  Is it what one might do with a dictator?  Yes.  All right. Ouster?  Ouster is the word good. Now we are at seven-letter answers.  Oh.  And your first one is Vienna is its capital. Mr.  Austria.  Yeah.  That is right. Very very funny. And it starts with an R.  Oh I am writing a stitch that is not it. Very very funny.   So it is laugh out loud funny. I will tell you that one - that is a hard one - it is riotous.  Riotous. Mr.  oh.  Uh-huh. Okay.  All right how about hit? Still seven letters ventilates. And it is a two-word phrase ventilates.  Air something?  Yes airs ventilates airs .  Out?   Airs out is it. And you got one more.  Oh no.  This is an eight-letter answer and your clue is a path across the ocean two words. Well first of all think of a three-letter synonym of ocean. Mr.  Sea.  Yeah sea yes. And the path across the ocean would be a sea And there is also this whole highway blank 66 across the United States. Mr.  Route.  Route.  That is it sea route good job.  Route. Oh David. These were hard Will.   I had a feeling yeah.  Yeah it is - getting into the seven-letter words is where I started to lose it. Well David you know you always get something for being on the air and you know both of us were doing pretty well there until the long words came.   So you know we had a special edition of our puzzle last week and the actor Stacy Keach surprised us by giving the challenges we just heard. Well we have another surprise for you an encore presentation from Mr. Keach. This time he has a dramatic read of your puzzle prizes. Mr.  For playing our puzzle today you will get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin the 11th Edition of Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary and Thesaurus the Scrabble Deluxe Edition from Parker Brothers. The Puzzlemaster Presents from Random House Volume 2. Will Shortz's latest book series Will Shortz Presents KenKen Volumes 1 2 and 3 from St. Martin's Press and one of Will Shortz's Puzzlemaster Decks of Riddles and Challenges from Chronicle Books.  Well David you cannot take it to the bank but you know what do you think? Mr.  It is great.  I do too. I love his voice. And you are going to get all those things. Mr.  Thank you.  And I want to tell our listeners that if you missed Stacy Keach's appearance on the puzzle or the rest of the special edition again you can still view it on our blog npr.orgsoapbox. Before we let you go David what member station do you listen to in that truck? Mr.  WAMC.  WAMC out of Albany New York. David Winters of Gloversville New York thanks so much for being our guest today. Mr.  Thank you.  All right Will now you do the honors. What is the challenge for next week?  Yes. It is a pretty straightforward challenge. Think of a word starting with G and ending in R. Remove the G and R and the remaining letters can be rearranged to spell a synonym of the original word. What words are these? So again a word starting with G and ending in R remove the G and R and the remaining letters can be rearranged to spell a synonym of the original word. What words are these?  When you have the answer go to our Web site npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit Your Answer link. Only one entry per person please. Our deadline this week is Thursday 3 p.m. Eastern Time. Please include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time. We will call you if you are the winner and you will get to play puzzle on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzlemaster Will Shortz. Thanks a lot Will.  Thanks Liane. 