 Here to talk about the import of all this is NPR's Joanne Silberner. Joanne thanks very much for being with us.  Sure.  What is the FDA advisory committee worried about?  They are worried about your liver. Too much acetaminophen will poison the liver. It can get to the point where you may need a transplant or you could even die.  I mean how many Tylenol would you have to take?  What the Food and Drug Administration now wants is for you to hold the total under 4000 milligrams a day which actually you can overshoot by taking three doses of arthritis Tylenol and then a dose of Tylenol PM at night.  Is this going to translate to what we can or cannot get in drugstore shelves?  Well the FDA is going to consider the advice of its committee and it usually but does not always follow it. My guess is that they will go ahead and cut the doses of acetaminophen both the daily dose and the one-time dose. Right now if you look at Tylenol PM or any of these other products that contain 500 milligrams they say take two at a time that is a thousand. The committee wants to see that cut down to 650 milligrams.  Does this make painkillers over-the-counter painkillers in particular any less effective?  If they drop the dose it could. What the committee would like to see is if a single dose of more than a thousand milligrams is recommended that you be under a doctor's supervision that a doctor know that you are taking it and that you know to check in if you start feeling nauseous or you start vomiting because in those cases you might be having an overdose.  Is acetaminophen more harmful for children?  Well they are smaller. So what the committee wants to see there - right now there are two formulations for kids - one is more concentrated than the other so they would like to see a single dose just to help parents out so they can understand how much acetaminophen their kids are taking.  And if the potential damage to the liver can be so serious why not just ban it?  When it is used right it is a good and it is an effective painkiller and it is got advantages over aspirin and ibuprofen and naproxen because it does not harm the stomach. And when you are taking a drug chronically - if you have got arthritis or some other chronic condition - you want to be on a drug that does not harm the stomach. There is a benefit to that.  What does the committee recommend doing about prescription drugs - Percocet and Vicodin for example - that are very well known to have it?  They do not want the combination prescription drugs marketed. They do not want acetaminophen plus an opioid painkiller marketed because they think that people are unaware that they are taking acetaminophen in those drugs and also with those drugs there is a tendency to have to take more and more over time and you get to a lethal dose. So effectively they are saying take those drugs as we know them now off the market.  NPR's Joanne Silberner. Joanne thanks so much.  Thank you Scott. 