 This summer we are trying to tour the country bite by bite looking for local flavor. Today we go to Sulfur Springs in upstate New York.  We just stopped here for lunch - down here at the bottom of Dahlia road.  My name is Christine. We are here at Dahlia's Delights and we are making one of our favorites. Going to start with black olives green olives parsley fresh from our garden today a little bit of oregano olive oil and some lemon juice. So we put all of that in our food processor.   So what is the delight everyone lines up for?  I will have the Mediterranean Panini.  Christine Miller who does not sound like she is from New York - or the Mediterranean for that matter - serves up a lot of paninis at Dahlia's Delights. She says her menu has everything from muffulettas to the classic New York Reuben.  Being English we do a lot of sandwiches over there. And we try to pack a meal into a sandwich so that was my basis for the paninis. I try to use the freshest ingredients available. We have a small vegetable garden that is grown naturally in the back. And we try to pick our fresh produce when it is in season which we use in our paninis.  How did you wind up there doing this?  My husband and I planned this many years ago I suppose and we started building it. But unfortunately my husband passed away before it was finished. So I ended up opening two months after he would gone with the help of a few friends. I have been in the food business over the years until I met my husband who was a tree surgeon and I worked with him. And we had a very good business here. But it was not a business that I could carry on myself. So I was lucky - fortunate enough - to have this in the process of being built.  It is a lot of work to have your own restaurant is not it? I mean it is opening in the morning it is locking up at night it is...  It is. And I actually owned a restaurant years ago. And with this business I did not really want to have an actual restaurant per se because it is so much work. But I wanted to keep it simple but still have really good food. We have a lot of contractors up here so it is nice that they can just pop in.  And a lot of this coming from the garden you have in back of Dahlia's Delights?  Yes. My passion being English also is gardening.  Oh of course.  So I have always had a garden. And when my husband passed away I was not going to do it but a friend of mine suggested that I keep doing it because it is one thing that I love to do. But after I grew all these vegetables I thought now what?  So I said well we can always use them at Dahlia's Delights. They will just make the sandwiches even tastier than they already are.  Christine Miller of Dahlia's Delights in Sullivan County White Sulfur Springs N.Y. Thanks for being with us.  Thank you very much. 