 We are about halfway through the summer time to update your summer music playlist. And our friends at the Alt.Latino podcast have some suggestions. Jasmine Garsd and Felix Contreras are the hosts. They join us once a month to talk music. And as usual they have brought along a wide variety of styles. Felix you brought the first track. So what are we listening to here?  OK this album is called Hecho En Mexico and the group is called Money Chicha. Now chicha is a style of music from the jungles of Peru developed in the 1960s that can best be described as psychedelic cumbia.   And this group is yet another offshoot of some very talented musicians in Austin Texas called Grupo Fantasma. They also did an amazing Latin funk cover of Black Sabbath last year.  I just learned a whole new phrase psychedelic cumbia.   Now Jas you are usually the one who is really upbeat. But I guess you brought something kind of chill this time.  Yeah you know what? I just moved to New York.   The attitude is getting to you right?  Yeah I kind of found that lately I have been wanting to listen to some more relaxed chilled-out music with a glass of wine. And something that fell on my lap was Stella Santana. She is the daughter of Carlos Santana but she has a totally different sound just really chill and ethereal. Check it out. This is Friends.    Can I sit here baby? You look like you need a friend.  You know Carlos Santana has a son named Salvador Santana who is also making music of his own. And both of the kids are playing nothing  like what their dad was doing.    I want to touch you so do not take this the wrong way.  All right now your next artist's name Jas - the name when translated means conscious pencil?  Yeah Lapiz Conciente another artist that I just recently discovered. And he is from Dominican Republic and he has a new song called Internacional. And I just love the beat. And he is a really good rapper and the beat is awesome. I listen to it all morning long.   .  So yeah this morning I was listening to this track like feeling like such a boss with my sunglasses on coming in on the really sweaty subway.   That is one that just sort of you cannot stop you know moving to somehow.  Yeah...  ...It seems to me.  Great.  Yeah.  It is great. Maybe not so great to listen to it in a crowded subway because you want to start dancing.  Yeah you do.  Yeah.  All right Felix what have you got for us now?  OK now I brought in something familiar but with a slight twist. Check this out. Right?  Nice.   .  I know who this is.  I do not.  Is this El Tri?  This track is - yes it is. It is from an album called Quiero Creedence OK? It is a collection of Latin artists covering Creedence Clearwater Revival OK?  .  But this track is one of my favorites. This is the legendary Mexican rock band El Tri with the vocalist Alex Lora. They are covering the song we all know Proud Mary but the lyrics are changed to reflect the immigrant experience of coming to the U.S. So the chorus...  ...Whoa.  So the chorus of rolling on the river refers to the Rio Bravo or the Rio Grande.    Rolling rolling rolling en el rio.  It is a very powerful transformation that speaks to the spirit of the album. And the entire album is just an amazing selection of artists and arrangement - bands like Ozomatli Los Lobos but also rockers from Latin America like Enanitos Verdes. It is a great great record. It is a perfect album for summer road trips.  And as always this is a great and interesting and eclectic selection guys. Jasmine Garsd and Felix Contreras are the hosts of Alt.Latino NPR Music's weekly show about Latino arts and culture. They also double as summer music playlist consultants. Hit them up on their website for suggestions. They are at npr.orgaltlatino. Thank you again guys.  Thank you.  Thank you. 