 It is hard to grow old in America. Annette Baslaw Finger is almost 90 lives in a comfortable apartment in Manhattan lined with books art and family photos. She made it out of Nazi-occupied France has children and grandchildren in the area and says she knows she is blessed. But...  I thought that when you are getting older it comes in little steps. You know slowly. First one thing is a little bit weaker then another then another is. You know? But it turned out that everything happens at the same time. And all of a sudden you find that well you do not hear so well and you do not see so well. And all of a sudden you inhabit a body you do not even recognize.  People can live longer but lose a lot of everyday abilities which can frustrate and depress the elderly. Then they lose people close to them - children who grow up and move around the country spouses and siblings who die friends who begin to fade.  I lost one friend who died as a result of Alzheimer. And she at the end did not know who I was at all you know? So you lose them before they die.  Yeah.  And cancer and all kinds of things. That is one of the most difficult things.  And here we should say that parts of this story will be hard to hear because it is about this sobering statistic. People 65 years of age and older now account for nearly a fifth of all suicides in this country. And older people who attempt suicide are much more likely to die.  I think you begin to question your value. You begin to question your purpose.  Dr. Jerry Reed is the senior vice president at the Education Development Center in Washington D.C. where he works to prevent suicides among the elderly.  If you start to feel like you do not belong and you are a burden and you have access to lethal means - whether it is medication whether it is a firearm or whatever - and you do not think there is hope or resolution in the future those dynamics can contribute to you starting to think about maybe the world would be better off without me.  Many experts cite many reasons why this may be true but often begin by saying a lot of elderly people no longer feel useful.  I think we have a culture of when you work you have value and when you no longer work we kind of dismiss you.  Dr. Julie Rickard founded the Suicide Prevention Coalition of North Central Washington state in 2012 following a rash of suicides nearby.  The thing I get asked often is you know why do we care? Right? And I think you know people say well they are going to die anyway. They are seniors and is not that part of being older? And so people feel that and seniors feel that. And I know that part of the struggle that my mom has had is a loss of identity.  Dr. Rickard brought her mother Sheri Adler to our interview. She is 72 has suffered two strokes and says older people with frailties can in her words hide in their houses.  Sometimes I am afraid to drive. And sometimes I am afraid to go anywhere because I am afraid I am going to fall and I hurt myself really bad when I fall. So it kind of leaves me in the house and it is sad. You get lonely. I mean that is why I go like to Walmart and talk to all the old people 'ecause nobody else will talk to me. But they like to talk.  A few months ago during a holiday dinner a member of their family who has a mental illness said something hurtful and personal to Sheri Adler. His family loves him and understand his struggles.  But I think that it was just more than I could handle. And I just made a stupid mistake. I guess I just wanted to give up because I felt like I was not a good mom. And that is all I ever wanted to be.  I have got to ask you what that stupid mistake was.  . Well tried to kill myself.  Yeah. Yeah. That was a tough call I received.  Dr. Rickard was on her way home at the time. Her mother had driven her to the airport and she had to change planes on her way back to Washington state.  And so during that layover she called and said I just want to say goodbye I love you and I just appreciate everything you have ever done. And normally I would think that is a sign of suicide. But it was during my layover. So I had just left her and my whole life she had always cried when I left and you know would always say I love you and - this time...  I am sorry.  ...It was goodbye.  It was very painful for both Julie and I.  It is one of those things where I question myself because of my work that I do and I am preventing suicide with everybody but not my mom.  But it was not her fault. It is not like I told her anything. 'ecause I did not tell her anything 'ecause I did not even know that things got so bad that I was just numb.  Sheri Adler got professional help including medication and says she is no longer so despondent. She thinks she might move closer to her daughter in Washington state. Dr. Rickard says her own mother's suicide attempt reminds her why many elderly people find it hard to seek help. They are often parents and grandparents who have seen a lot of life. They feel they should be the ones who offer help.  Well yeah. I have always been the one to do it.  She is always been the strong one right? I mean my mom was the warrioress in my life. And so now roles are reversed. And I think it is hard.  I raised my kids alone. And I have just always been there for all my children. And now it is the other way around. It is hard.   Hey Annette. How are you?  A young woman named Amanda Weiss often stops by to visit Annette Baslaw Finger in her New York apartment.  What have you been up to today?  Well I would not call it too exciting. Part of it was in the morning I went to see the eye doctor to see how I was progressing. And it was not...  She is a volunteer with a local group called Dorot Hebrew for generations that provides services to elderly people. The two women think of their visits as a friendship between generations. As the number of elderly people in the United States grows and their challenges multiply simple human contact can remind them of the gifts of life. Annette Baslaw Finger told us...  It is really good to be alive. It is really good to smell a flower or to see things bloom or to see the sunset or to hear the voice of somebody you love - all the things that really make a day special.   And if you feel you are in a crisis please call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline 1-800-273-8255. 