 Hillary Clinton became the Democratic nominee for president this week - the former secretary of state a senator from New York and the first woman to be nominated for president by a major party. But Donald Trump did not stay out of the news especially when he seemed to invite Russia to hack Hillary Clinton's emails as they apparently have the Democratic National Committee. We learned the breach includes servers the Clinton campaign was also using but according to the Clinton campaign not their own servers. A lot to chew over with NPR's Ron Elving back from the conventions. Ron thanks very much for being with us.  Good to be with you Scott.  Do the Democrats look united to you?  Well considering we are talking about Democrats yes. You know it is a relative term. But polls do show that Clinton is getting a very high percentage of the Democratic vote including the vast majority of the Bernie Sanders supporters. They are getting on board now. It sometimes seems that - or seemed that the Sanders folks who were not getting on board were all present in Philly. And some of them were quite vocal even in the convention hall itself. But on the numbers and in the main yes the Democrats look united.  Michelle Obama who opened the convention with that eloquent heart-piercing speech was criticized in 2008 when she said quote for the first time in my adult life I am proud of my country. But this week she said do not let anyone ever tell you that this country is not great that somehow we need to make it great again because this right now is the greatest country on Earth. What changed?  To some degree it is Michelle Obama. She has become much more politic in the things that she says. And to some degree it is the country that is changed. You know I heard a young Hillary supporter this week saying how much the party had embraced diversity just in her political lifetime in terms not only of race and ethnicity but language immigrant status. And it is - especially in the terms of the LGBTQ community it is really been leaps and bounds in less than eight years. And this young woman coincidentally said she felt really patriotic and proud of her country for the first time in her life.  So did the Democrats to you - seem to you to be consciously trying to take over what we think of as some traditionally Republican appeals with you know generals and USA USA and waving flags?  Oh yes they did and flags the size of the ones you see sometimes over car dealerships along the freeway trying to get your attention. There were very strong postures on defense - General John Allen on stage with 37 Iraq and Afghanistan veterans - lots of talk also about family and faith.  Bernie Sanders won more than 12 million votes in the primaries. Is Hillary Clinton now obliged to conspicuously adopt some of his positions?  Not obliged in any legal or technical sense but politically yes. And certainly she has - certainly minimum wage college costs and college debt. The trade pact known as the Trans-Pacific Partnership TPP which was getting so much protest in Philadelphia that is something too she has backed off that she had supported for quite a while.  Is there any reason to think that when Donald Trump seemed to invite Russian hackers to hack into Hillary Clinton's emails particularly the State Department emails - he said later that was just sarcasm - did he touch some kind of third rail in politics?  It surely would have been so in the Cold War era if you think about the '60s '70s even into the 1980s. For any prime candidate certainly a Democratic candidate to have said such a thing would have been seen as a fatal blow. But we are - are supposedly in a post-Cold War environment. Are we still or has Vladimir Putin brought on a new Cold War? And it would probably make a difference if Donald Trump continued to or stopped saying so many things about closer ties with Russia and closer ties with Vladimir Putin. So we are going to have to see how this one plays out in the weeks ahead.  NPR's Ron Elving thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you Scott. 