 When you are feeling under the weather one of the first stops is Doctor Google or you can find a symptom checker online and plug in your ailments. There are dozens of programs to choose from - the Mayo Clinic and WebMD each have one and they are designed to provide you with a diagnosis. It turns out these symptom checkers do not do such a good job of it. That is according to a new study by researchers at Harvard Medical School. Scott Hensley hosts NPR's Shots blog and he is with us to explain. He is in the studio with me now. Thanks Scott.  Hi Lynn.  And you have a perfect guinea pig right here because I have been sick all week. You may hear that in my voice a little bit. So we can put in my symptoms and see what deadly disease I have.  Let us try it.  OK let us do it.  All right so we are at the Mayo Clinic Symptom Checker. Let us find out what your symptoms might be. There is a long list here that we need to check.  All right cough difficulty or painful swallowing yeah.  Hoarse or muffled voice.   Yes.  .  Sneezing.  Wow you have get - you are checking off a lot of boxes here.  Sneezing watery eyes.  OK let us click Find Causes.  OK let us read what is on this list.  Hay fever.  Influenza.  Acute sinusitis.  GERD. Epiglottis.  Epiglottitis I think.  Epiglottitis OK. Laryngitis which I might be heading towards.  Strep throat.  But top of the list is common cold which is probably what I have.  Yeah.  OK all right. Let us talk about the studies. So they - the Harvard researchers tested 23 online symptom checkers. What did they find out?  Yeah so they did a pretty interesting test. They fed in 45 different conditions - some rare some common - with standardized kinds of symptoms and saw what the symptom checkers spit out. And when it came to the top suggestion for what was wrong with people they were right about a third of the time. If you scrolled down the list the way that we did and went as far as 20 on the list then they were right about half the time.  So is there anything that these kinds of apps - these symptom checkers - is there anything that they do well?  Quite a few of them went the next step and gave you advice about should you stay at home and take care of this yourself go see your doctor or nurse practitioner for a regular appointment or get yourself to the emergency room right away - they did better at that. So in the case of the emergency care in particular they were right 80 percent of the time. The thing that the researchers point out which is an important caveat is that the checkers tended to be a little risk averse. So they tended to send people for care more often than they needed to. So in the case of things that the researchers thought you should be able to take care of yourself they only said that that was right about a third of the time.  Yeah and I would think if you are in a situation where you are ready to go to the emergency room you might be really getting yourself to the emergency room without going to the computer. You would know in other words.  You would but I think for instance in the case of a heart attack sometimes the symptoms are pain in the arm and things like that where the person might not connect the dots. But I think you are right. If it is something that is really a full-on emergency it might be that you are not going to take time to boot up the computer or turn on your phone.  So when all is said and done how useful are these tools?  I think they are not too bad as a first step but I think new models are going to be a lot better. So as the technology gets better I think they will improve.  Scott Hensley hosts NPR's Shots blog. Thanks so much Scott.  You bet. 