 It was literally a dark and stormy night here in Washington D.C. last night an appropriate backdrop for the crowds of eager readers in wizard robes. They packed a local bookstore for something no one thought would ever happen again a midnight Harry Potter book release party. NPR's Petra Mayer who does not like to admit she is probably a Hufflepuff was there.  There are a lot of people in costumes here tonight but Erica Murray stands out.  I am dressed up as  Moaning Myrtle.  She is the ghost who haunts a Hogwarts bathroom so Erica is sporting a toilet seat around her neck.  So I have a toilet over my head to dress up as her . It is kind of uncomfortable but it makes the outfit.  It is almost midnight. Erica and her fellow Harry Potter fans are crammed into D.C.'s Kramer Books packing the aisles and lining up out the door all waiting for the minute that Harry Potter And The Cursed Child will go on sale. It is the eighth installment of Harry's adventures though it is not an actual novel. Instead it is the script of a play that just premiered in London. There are activities while we wait for the magic moment - coloring quizzes homemade Marauder's Maps and Erica is sipping a definitely-not-for-kids butterbeer.  They are making them strong .  And that is fine 'ecause there are barely any kids here. I have spotted a few in the crush but this is a pretty grown-up crowd. And they all grew up with Harry Potter.  I am not sure how old I was. I was in the fourth grade. It was like the first book that I really enjoyed.  Outside Jaleesa Johnson is way back at the end of the line.  We are around the block . Kramer's Books is like in the middle of the block. We are around the block.  It is Jaleesa's first time at a midnight release party. As a kid she was not allowed out and her parents did not want to stand in line. I asked her how she felt about the new book.  I did not read any like articles that gave synopsis or anything. I wanted to be surprised. So I do not know what to think right now.  Back inside Mariah Carray...  I know. It is not the singer.  ...Says she loved the book so much she was angry at actor Emma Watson as a kid because she was convinced that she could be a better Hermione. Mariah's excited for the new book but a little scared.  What if it does not live up to my expectations or to the rest of Harry Potter?  Finally the moment arrived.   Eight seven six five four three two one. .  I do not cry at movies. I did not cry when Hillary Clinton got nominated but I burst into tears at midnight.  That is Samantha Zenlea. She and Debbie Kobrin and two of their friends are clustered on the sidewalk with their brand-new books in hand. Samantha says she is going to try to stay awake and read.  But I am not in high school anymore. So I am...  You can do it.  Do it.  She is been trying to encourage me to read it all night.  You can do it.  Do it.   Petra Mayer NPR News Washington. 