 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Linda Wertheimer. The search for answers in Aurora Colorado continues after Friday's deadly shooting at a local movie theater. The man suspected of killing 12 people and injury more than 50 also filled his apartment with dangerous explosives. Experts spent hours dismantling the labyrinth of trip wires and incendiary devices from the home of the suspect 24-year-old James Holmes. NPR's Carrie Kahn reports from Aurora Colorado.  Yellow police tape stretched for blocks surrounding the apartment complex where shooting suspect James Holmes lived. Ambulances fire engines and police cars filled parking lots and streets. Maria Carlos says she cannot take it anymore.  I do not feel safe now here. So bad right now.  Carlos' apartment is just outside the evacuation area. She says she did not realize there was so much police activity outside until she saw her building on TV.  I cannot believe like never may not like this happen like that. I do not know what happened but I am leaving.  She packed up and did leave and apparently just in time. About an hour later police began a delicate and tense operation to disable the dozens of homemade bombs in Holmes' 800-square-foot apartment. The best way to do that experts said was with a controlled explosion. So they sent in a remote-controlled robot to leave the device inside. Minutes later police sounded a warning signal.  Fire in the hole.   And then...   The device went off. Besides a few birds scattering into the air there were no other explosions or smoke. And that was exactly what everyone had hoped for said Cassidee Carlson of the Aurora Police Department.  We have been successful in disabling a second triggering device. We are hopeful that we have eliminated the remaining major threats.  It was not until late Saturday afternoon until authorities were able to remove all the hazards from the apartment including jars and other containers filled with liquids and what one official described as black powder. Residents in most of the apartment buildings except for the one the suspected shooter lived in were allowed to come home last night. Aurora's Police Chief Dan Oates said in the past four months Holmes had received a large number of deliveries and investigators will determine what was obtained legally and what was not. But Chief Oates said this shows that Holmes had been planning the attack with calculation and deliberation.  Make no mistake. This apartment was designed I say to kill whoever entered it. And who was most likely to enter that location after he planned and executed this horrific crime?  Oates said it was clear Holmes wanted to kill a police officer.  And if you think we are angry we sure as hell are angry.  A public defender has been assigned to represent the suspect. He will make his first court appearance on Monday. Meanwhile the coroner released the names of the 12 people who died during the attack. They include a 6-year-old girl whose mother remains hospitalized in critical condition and a man who died on what was his 27th birthday. Colorado Governor John Hickenlooper said the community will help the survivors and their families.  There is no way we can reverse what has happened. But we can take this aberrant inconceivable event and do everything we can to make it better.  More than 100000 has already been donated to help pay for the injureds medical bills. Carrie Kahn NPR News Aurora. 