 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. President Obama wanted to stay on message about health care this week but made an extraordinary appearance in the White House briefing room yesterday to say that he would called Sergeant James Crowley the Cambridge Massachusetts police officer who would arrested Harvard professor Henry Louis Gates Jr. for disorderly conduct. Mr. Obama said he told Sergeant Crowley he did not mean to malign him when said the Cambridge police had acted stupidly. President  Even when you have got a police officer who has a fine track record on racial sensitivity interactions between police officers and the African-American community can sometimes be fraught with misunderstanding.  Cambridge police dropped the disorderly conduct charge against Professor Gates but many officers including African-American policemen on the Cambridge force defended Officer Crowley and the president said that he and officer Crowley talked about meeting with professor Gates at the White House over a beer. NPR News analyst our friend Juan Williams joins us in our studios. Juan thanks for being with us.  Good morning Scott.  This story seemed to build throughout the week. Details came out as it turned out Officer Crowley had taught classes how to avoid racial profiling. He had saved the life of Boston Celtics star Reggie Lewis in 1993. How did the incident play out politically this week?  Badly for President Obama. It damaged him. You know President Obama has tremendous appeal and much of it is tied to his image as a racially healing force in American society given our history. And this week he seemed all too at ease with lobbing presidentially powered words into what was a local racial fracas and he did so without the facts. He is now backpedaling trying to retreat but not apologize while saying and admitting he ratcheted up the controversy unnecessarily and he did not intend to malign the police officer or the police department. But at this point this is the kind of thing that pulls at him and changes his image in the American mind.  Juan you are not only news and political analyst here one of America's foremost historians on the civil rights movement and a real philosopher about the importance of race in society. Help us understand what factors do come into play here.  Well you know Scott I think at the press conference on Wednesday the president spoke about racial profiling the history of racial tensions between police and black people which is very real in American society a continuing issue. The president said he did not understand the controversy exactly did not understand - this is what he said then Thursday as the controversy got going. He said he did not understand why his words were viewed as anything but just rational and logical. Because he said why should the police arrest a middle-aged man in his own house who walks with a cane after the man showed his identification? That is when I think the thing really spiraled because it was obvious not only did not he have the facts but he was not pursuing the facts. It seems like he was just content in his own mindset. And when it comes to race you really do have to look at the facts. And the facts were of course that as supported by black Latino and white officers that there was a break-in and that is why the police came. There was no racial profiling involved there is no history here neighbor calling because a break-in's occurring. And then professor Gates being abusive - professor Gates has not denied anything in the police report that describes him as introducing the issue of race talking about the officer's mother using highly charged language and being loud and angry persistently even after the officer is trying to explain the situation.  It was pointed out this week that mayor of Cambridge governor of Massachusetts president of the U.S. are all African-Americans. But there are African-Americans who resent the conclusion that all of these gains suggest that racism is not a factor in American life anymore. And I wonder if this was an instance where people took an actual local police matter and tried to make it into some kind of metaphor and maybe it was not.  I think that is exactly right. I think people tried to make it larger than it was. I mean all this talk about this is what it is like to be a black man in America. Let me just say on a personal level Scott I mean I have had times when the alarm's gone off at my house the police show up. Having grown up in Brooklyn in the midst of the '60s I have an uneasy relationship with white cops showing up. But you know what? I am always quite deferential. It is what I have said to my kids my sons especially. You know if you are reaching for your wallet make sure the cop knows that you are reaching for your wallet. Say yes sir. And so when the cops come they want to come in my house they want to see my identification they want to look around. I guess they want to make sure there is not someone hiding in a closet and telling me to get rid of the cops. That is all there and I think that in this situation President Obama and Professor Gates did not hold up that line.  NPR's Juan Williams thanks very much. 