 As congressional investigations continued this week into possible collusion between the Trump presidential campaign and Russia there have been private meetings arrangements for more private meetings subpoenas issued subpoenas rescinded. So it got us wondering what goes on behind the scenes? And what can we learn from past investigations? Charles Tiefer has some insight. He served as special deputy counsel of the House Iran-Contra committee 30 years ago this month. Mr. Tiefer thanks for joining us.  It is a pleasure.  So right now there are multiple congressional committees investigating this issue. We have got them on the House side. We have got a couple on the Senate side. I guess I want to know why is there a need for multiple investigations and how do these congressional investigations differ at their core from what Special Counsel Robert Mueller is conducting?  Well Senate Intelligence looks at intelligence matters primarily. Senate Judiciary looks at matters that fall under the broad scope of the Judiciary Committee. All these congressional investigations differ very much in function from what the Special Counsel Mueller does. Mueller works in secret and long long deep studies of things like finances. And he does not bring his results public. If he finds something that is really important he will not let you know until it is time to indict somebody. Whereas the congressional committees when classification allows them to be in the open they live for open hearings. They want people to know what they found.  And what about compelling witnesses to testify? The subpoena is that a last resort thing or is it just a negotiating device?  Oh the subpoena is the basic working tool of these investigations. It can be a single piece of paper that demands that the witness show up on pain of contempt. Or it can also be a subpoena of the kind that seeks documents including digital material like emails. By bringing in a witness they cut through a lot of the stalling. And by demanding the documents they have the materials to pin the witness down in the questioning.  And what about the value of closed-door sessions? Jared Kushner the president's son-in-law and top adviser met with the committee behind closed doors this week. What is the value of that to the committee even as it frustrates the public a bit?  Well there are pluses and minuses to it. It is best if it is a preparation for a public session. Committee staff for example will do a behind-closed-doors questioning very thoroughly and minutely using documents in a way that you do not see so much in a public session. So it can be good preparation. It is also in this particular situation it is possible that there is a mixture of classified and non-classified material and you sort that out during the behind-closed-doors.  It sounds like you are describing a dress rehearsal or something like that.  Well I think that is right. It is kind of funny because the committees and their staff who are questioning are adversaries of the witness. And they are struggling. And yet they cooperate in a dress rehearsal so that they can then put on the open session and show their differences in public but in a way that does not violate the classification system.  How important is public interest - maybe public intrigue is a better way to put it - as all this plays out?  Oh public interest is the fuel that drives congressional investigations. The willingness of senators and representatives to devote their time and energy both to the background work the negotiations the documents study and to the public work of hearings - they do it because they know the public is interested. They are not doing - this not a game of Solitaire. They are not playing it for their own amusement. They are doing it - the special committees do it for the public.  University of Baltimore Law Professor Charles Tiefer. Thank you very much for joining us and explaining some of these things.  Thank you.  