 There is another dimension to that unfolding LIBOR scandal which cost Barclays the British bank its CEO and 450 million in fines after it was revealed that the bank had been manipulating international lending rates. Attention has shifted to why U.S. financial regulators who knew about the rate rigging did not move to stop it more swiftly. We are going to put that question to Robert Smith correspondent for NPR's Planet Money. He joins us from New York. Robert thanks for being with us.  My pleasure.  Please give us a short refresher. What is this LIBOR scandal all about?  Well the scandal is whether banks lied about this rate. This rate is an indication of how much banks trust each other. It is how much they charge to lend to each other. But the problem was they were coming up with this number by simply calling up the banks and asking them hey what is your estimate of how much it would cost for you to borrow money? And the banks would tell them and then that number would end up being this benchmark for loans around the world. They think hundreds of trillions of dollars worth of financial bets were based on this number. And it is come out recently that Barclays was functionally lying about this rate when they were making this estimate. These emails came out where traders were betting billions and billions of dollars on this number would say to their friends at the bank hey can we manipulate this number up a little bit or down a little bit? And that is the fundamental part of the scandal that this number that everyone had counted on as sort of gospel has no basis in reality.  How can it be that interest rates for so many mortgages and loans are based on something which as you describe it is essentially a shot in the dark a guess?  Well I think part of it is this goes back to the sort of trust of the London banker and why would they like about such a thing? But it is also they thought they had this under control. They poll a number of banks 16 18 banks. They average them. You know normally rates move in very tiny increments. And they figure well if we throw out the top rates and the bottom rates we average everything it is going to come out with a number that is kind of hard to manipulate. But then when then financial crisis happened all sorts of rates started to just rocket up and rocket down. And that is when they started to see that you know maybe this rate that everyone thought was sacrosanct maybe this is too easy to manipulate.  Now Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke told Congress on Tuesday - at first he said  his words is structurally flawed. He said he knew about the interest rate fixing back in 2008 and so did Timothy Geithner now the U.S. Treasury secretary. This raises the question not just what did they know and when did they know it should they have done more to ring the alarm bell?  Right now people are pointing fingers at each other across the Atlantic. The people at the Fed Tim Geithner - he was at the New York Fed at the time - he wrote a note to the Bank of England which is their Fed. And he said in this note well you know you are going to need to fix this LIBOR thing because people here in the United States had talked to bankers who said yeah yeah we are manipulating. It is being manipulated all over the place. And now the Bank of England says well you did not give us any evidence. You just gave us a list of recommendations. What are we supposed to do with those? You know they looked back and they said if you Tim Geithner knew all about this why did not you do anything? And Tim says Well I sent you an email. So they are sort of stuck in this back and forth over who should have done something.  Is this a British bank scandal or are American banks going to be caught up too?  No. There were American banks who were contributing to ically J.P. Morgan Chase and Citibank. So they are being investigated right now. We do not know if specific banks are going to be charged if they are going to have the same sort of settlement that Barclays did. But we are expecting other banks to be implicated. And we are expecting a lot more explosive inside emails revealing exactly how this manipulation was going on.  Is there a better alternative?  There is already talk about something that can replace LIBOR. I mean who is going to sign a document now that you know your home mortgage or your credit card is based on some variant of LIBOR? I mean it is just embarrassing at this point. But you know there are still trillions of dollars of bets all tied up to y have to transition over to something new. And already they have talked about various things that could stand in for this - overnight lending rates. Ben Bernanke even suggested that perhaps you could use Treasury bills as a benchmark. But basically you are looking for something that you can prove this time. It is not just a survey.  Robert Smith correspondent for NPR's Planet Money. Thanks very much.  You are welcome.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 