 The California primary is next Tuesday. And among the possibilities is that Bernie Sanders could win California and Hillary Clinton could clinch the nomination all on the same night. Democrats are divided. Governor Jerry Brown who was sort of Bill Clinton's Bernie Sanders in 1992 endorsed Hillary Clinton this week saying this is no time for Democrats to keep fighting each other. RoseAnn DeMoro is the executive director of National Nurses United. She is been campaigning for Bernie Sanders and joined us from the studios of Youth Radio in Oakland. Thanks so much for being with us.  Well thank you for having me.  Is party unity important to you?  At what cost?  I am just asking the question in an open way any costs you want to ascribe...  If it is party unity to essentially validate an agenda that is harmed America so badly over the last several decades then party unity is irrelevant. What is relevant is what the party stands for what the soul of the party is. And so this is not like a basketball game - the Democrats are better than the Republicans. This is far deeper. And it is a far greater moment in history frankly. I mean it is the social movement in the Sanders campaign to heal America not to continue the suffering.  What issues inspire you to support Bernie Sanders?  Well first of all you know with the nurses every hour every day are stories about the suffering of patients. And every social problem presents in the hospital. And even with the new mandate of the ACA which has some positives obviously what we are finding is that the quality is decreasing. The premiums are increasing. Patients are cutting their pills in half. The out-of-pocket costs are enormous. I mean our health should not be a commodity. And that is what is happened. And so fighting for a single-payer system has become a bedrock issue in this campaign. It is always been a bedrock issue for the nurses nationally. And when we joined with the campaign Bernie Sanders amplified all of the issues of the nurses.  Hillary Clinton who served the Obama administration and quotes the president a lot on the stump says that it is just not practical to expect - in the political landscape today to expect the U.S. Congress to approve a single-payer health care system. And she wants to expand the Affordable Care Act. That is...  Hillary Clinton...  ...Not good enough for you?  Well first of all...  Yeah?  I believe she lacks political will to get the job done which is one of the reasons that the nurses are supporting Bernie Sanders. If our health is not achievable then what is she doing running for president? You do not give up on health. You can give up on a lot of things. And there is compromises to be made. But when it comes to the health of my children of our families of our communities you do not give up on people.  You know of course that the math is against Senator Sanders becoming the Democratic candidate.  I - you know I look at the things far beyond math. I look at the mass momentum just like in sports. I mean Bernie - you know we look at sports teams...  Hillary Clinton has won at the moment I believe something like 3 million votes more than Senator Sanders.  The momentum Bernie has and the role of the superdelegates in the convention can be enormous because the threshold question is going to be with the mass momentum behind him and the motivated voters - who is going to beat Donald Trump? Bernie brings with him the critical vote the independent vote. He has inspired a new generation a generation that will ultimately control this country - and thank God for them because they are the ones who are going to carry this vote for the Democratic Party. And if it is not Bernie Sanders I do believe they will be massive disaffection.  Massive disaffection that translates to not voting for the Democratic candidate?  To not voting yes.  Would not voting as you suggest you might not do - would that amount to giving Mr. Trump just a greater possibility of winning if you do not vote for Hillary Clinton?  You know I do not know how I am going to vote if that is - if that happens. And I do not know what the nurses association's going to do because that is a discussion that is later on down the line if Hillary Clinton were to prevail. I mean ultimately what you are asking is - are we going to choose between what we would consider or most people would consider the lesser of two evils? And I just - you know I think it is early. I think it is early. And I - you know honestly this is not business as usual. This is not what we need in America to just say - oh sorry. Your team lost. Go home. That is not how it is going to be.  I do not think Hillary Clinton's supporters are saying - your team lost go home. On the contrary I think they are saying your team is about to lose. Join our team. They are not asking you to go home. And I am not asking you go ahead.   And I would ask them to tell me what Hillary Clinton represents.  RoseAnn DeMoro is executive director of National Nurses United. Thanks so much for being with us.   Thank you. 