 After the president questioned BP's spending on its image the company announced it would pay more money to people who filed claims for loss of income. The move comes after a week of apologies from the company - apologies that some coastal residents say are not enough. NPR's Debbie Elliott reports.  BP's public relations push this week included this television ad featuring CEO Tony Hayward in a coastal setting seabirds chirping in the background.  Mr. TONY o those affected and your families I am deeply sorry.  We will make this right he promises. But in towns on the Gulf Coast BP has a credibility problem. Representative  Words are cheap. It is time for action.  That is Alabama Republican Joe Bonner whose congressional district is on the coast. He says nobody has handled the spill properly. Rep.  We are dealing with a catastrophe that we were not prepared for. The company was not prepared for it the government regulators that permitted it were not prepared for it the administration was not prepared for it. It is frustrating beyond words to see people pointing fingers and wasting time about you know this that or the other thing while the monster keeps growing.  The monster being just a few hundred feet from where he sits at Gulf State Park overlooking a wide expanse of sparkling white sand and blue-green surf.   Even as kids ride waves on their boogie boards oil paddies are washing up less than a half-mile away and there is a lighter fluid-like odor in the air. Lifeguard Richard Roberts points to patches just beyond the water line. Mr.  About the size of a baseball just a blackish-reddish color.   This oil is not the only mess BP is trying to clean up. Early on CEO Hayward made comments that did not sit well with coastal residents.  Mr.  Well it was not our accident but we are absolutely responsible for the oil for cleaning it up.  That was May 3rd on NBC's Today Show. Four weeks later on the same program there was this attempt at an apology.  Mr.  We are sorry. We are sorry for the massive disruption it is caused their lives. And you know we are - there is no one who wants this thing over more than I do. You know I would like my life back.  He later apologized for that remark and this week promised to stay until the cleanup is complete. Mr.  Because our commitment is to work with the communities and societies of the Gulf Coast to give them back their livelihoods and their way of life as fast as we can.  In Orange Beach Alabama boat captain David Walter has lost his patience. He builds artificial fishing reefs and has not been able to work since the oil started leaking. BP gave him 5000 but he says that did not even cover a week's expenses. Mr.  At first I was like accidents happen. You know BP's going to do what is right. And I defended them. And do not worry they are going to make us whole. Did not happen. Not happening.  In Florida Escambia County Commission Chair Grover Robinson has also lost confidence in BP after being blindsided by reports that oil was nearing the Pensacola shoreline. Mr.  No one from unified command called us to tell us this and we found that out through actually a captain that had sent it to a private citizen. We got an email a text message. We trusted that somebody would tell us before that came up.  Yesterday the oil reached Pensacola Beach. Four Gulf Coast states are now feeling the effects of the spill. As if to counter BP's public relations push this week Gulf Shores Alabama musician Brett Burns created a song from the locals to BP.  Mr.   I am sorry's not enough. You have gotta mop it up. Stop tap dancing all around this crew. You tried to save your butt now we got all this muck. Keep cleaning till it looks brand new.  Debbie Elliott NPR News Orange Beach Alabama. 