 Last Thursday's decision by U.K. voters to leave the European Union sent the world's financial markets into something of a tailspin. The British pound plummeted to its lowest level in more than three decades and the Dow Jones tumbled more than 600 points. We are joined now by NPR's Jim Zarroli who is been following the impact of Brexit. Welcome Jim.  Hi Linda.  So what can we expect this week?  Well I am sure a lot of people on Wall Street want to know the answer to that too. There are just too many uncertainties. I mean look at some of the questions that we are facing. We do not know what is going to happen to foreign companies that do business in the U.K. We do not know what is going to happen to British exports. Nearly half of British exports go to the EU. We do not know anything about immigration. You know what about banks? Are they going to stay in Britain and muddle through or are they going to relocate to places like Dublin or Brussels? So there is a lot we do not know and my guess is that is going to be reflected in the markets this week.  Last week we saw the pound fall sharply against other major currencies especially including the dollar. Is that a silver lining for Americans?  Well that is - that is what Donald Trump says right? He says this could boost tourism in Britain which is - will not accidently help - not coincidently help his golf course in Scotland. And he is right about that. It will - it should be cheaper for people to go to Britain as a tourist at least for a while. But there are so many other things to consider. I mean if you are an American company you know Starbucks or McDonald's and the pound falls as it did on Friday then your revenue is going to be hurt because the money you earn in Britain is worth less. And then much more important than that - what if you make products in Britain and you sell them in Europe? Well you know presumably you will not be able to do that as easily now as you used to or at least you will need to you know you will need to pay a tariff maybe. So over the next few months and really the next few years you are going to have to decide do you want to stop doing business in the U.K. or at least gradually or are you going to shift some of your operations into the EU?  What do you think is going to be the timetable here for Brexit?  Well that is - you know Britain has to invoke what is called Article 50 of the EU treaty which says they want to leave. It begins the process. Then they have two years to leave. A lot of people including you know government officials in the Netherlands and France are saying you know do not drag this out. All this uncertainty is not good for the EU. If you are going to go go. But of course they cannot force the U.K. to leave. And a lot of people like Angela Merkel the chancellor of Germany are saying you know do not go so fast. It is almost like they are hoping there is some way to rescue this.  NPR's Jim Zarroli reporting from New York. Thank you Jim.  You are welcome. 