 Congress in many cities states and counties say that they want to reform police practices. But any reforms will need to go through police unions. Michael Williams heads the Memphis police union and joins us now. Thanks very much for being with us Mr. Williams.  Good morning. How are you?  Fine. Thank you sir.  Good. Good.  I want to ask you about - Commercial Appeal newspaper there points out that the 2019 city budget called for 260 million in police services but just a little over 4 million to housing. And they suggested that maybe giving more people shelter might be a wiser way to spend tax dollars and even bring down the crime rate. How do you feel about that math?  It is. It is. I agree wholeheartedly. I do not necessarily agree with defunding police but you know this is something I have been working on not just as a union president but as a citizen as a native Memphian. We have started to spend too much money on economic development. We have diverted too much money of core tax dollars into pilots. When you live in the second-most violent city in the nation which is Memphis aside from what happened to Mr. Floyd - which was a heinous act - and there is money it is just a matter of prioritization. We are not a bank. We are a city that the citizens pay their hard-earned tax dollars which I am one of and we deserve to have better amenities better core services and not necessarily spend all of our money to make the rich richer.  Well let me ask you something that might be a little tougher than just money if I might put it that way.  OK sure.  2018 there were reports that maybe the Tennessee Bureau of Investigation should be the responsible party for investigating officer-related shootings - officer-involved shootings in Shelby County which is Memphis. You advised your members not to submit to interviews and instead give statements to the union right?  Well this is the deal. For some reason everybody thinks that because you are a police officer you want to separate me from being a citizen. Everybody's entitled to their Fifth Amendment rights. Just because I am a police officer do not necessarily mean that I give up my constitutional rights. And we encourage officers to give statements. But if you are going to compel them to give statements then they should be covered by what we call - God I cannot even think of a name now.  Well that is all right. That gives me a chance to follow up anyway. Recognizing that they are citizens and every U.S. citizen is entitled to...  That is correct.  ...The right...  Even criminals.  ...Not to self-incriminate - yes exactly. But what about the idea that of course police officers are also public servants who by the way are entrusted with sometimes lethal force and that they ought to submit themselves for interviews to responsible parties as soon as possible in the public interest.  Sure. And that is not a problem. But also you know just as anyone - this country - I love this country - and what this country is built on No. 1 everybody's innocent until proven guilty. No. 2 everybody is entitled to representation. You know you try to paint - not necessarily you but there are individuals that try to paint unions as this organization. We do not set policy. So when they talk about reform and all of that we do not - the city of Memphis the state Tennessee legislation they set policy. We do not. We just abide by the policies that they enforce. Now are we...  Let me...  ...Just like any other organization that has the ability to say that we like this or do not like that? But that still does not determine what policies are going to be set. So you know I think that there is a bigger agenda at play when it comes to unions across this country. Everybody's represented.  Yeah but let me ask you and we just got half a minute left.  Sure.  What about the 48-hour waiting period before an officer accused of misconduct can be interviewed about it? Would you be willing to give that up in collective bargaining?  No because just like with anything everybody's traumatized when they go through a traumatic situation. I am a combat veteran and I definitely understand post-traumatic stress disorder. I also understand trauma. So therefore when you start coming at an individual right after something happens you know it is just like a citizen. A citizen has the ability to either talk or not talk. And that is something that everyone continuously tries to take away from police officers. And I just do not think that that is right.  Michael Williams of the Memphis police union thanks so much for being with us.  You are so welcome. 