 Memphis music critic Robert Gordon says that Don Bryant's life is a three-act drama. He sang gospel with his family as a child and became a songwriter as a teen writing scores of hits over two decades including co-writing the 1974 hit Cannot Stand The Rain made so famous by Ann Peebles to whom Don Bryant is married. For the past 18 years or so Don Bryant has been in act three back in front of the microphone and in the recording studio.    You make me feel like a man wants to feel when hes getting all the love he can bear. Oh I dont have to look no further just knowing that you will always be there. Nothing in my life is the same. Your love is to blame.  Don Bryant's new album is called You Make Me Feel. And he joins us now from his home in Memphis. Thanks so much for being with us.  It is my pleasure.  We are listening to Your Love Is To Blame and I want to ask you about a really piercing line. Nothing in my life is the same. Your love is to blame. So it is in a good way yes?  Yes it is very much so. The one that I had did not work out but when I found the right one hey I blame her for everything as far as my love is concerned.  You have been together for 50 years or close to 50 years I gather right?  Oh yes. Yes indeed. Yes indeed.    I cannot stand the rain against my window bringing back sweet memories. Hey window pane...  How did the two of you co-write Cannot Stand The Rain?  Well it is a little story behind it. We were on our way trying to get to a concert by Bobby Bland I think it was. And it started raining now real real real hard. And I do not know if it was me or not at this point but somebody said I cannot stand this rain - because we did not - we would not have a chance to go to the show. And most of the times when I heard a line that I thought was a good line my mind would go into a writing mode. And that is exactly what it did. And we would sit down at the piano and start coming up with the lines on the song and wrote that song that night.  Wow.  We did not go out. We wrote a song.    I cannot stand the rain against my window bringing back sweet memories. I cannot stand the rain against my window - just keeps on haunting me. Hey rain...  May I ask how your wife of 50 years Ann Peebles is doing?  She is doing OK. She is doing OK. And I am thankful for that.  She had to give up performing a few years ago did not she?  She did. She had a stroke and it damaged her voice. And yeah she had to give it up.  Let us listen to a song that is on this album that is about a heartbreak Is It Over.    Is it over? Baby please tell me. Do not just keep me hanging on. That is all I am asking of you girl 'ecause my heart just as not that strong.  Real life story?  Sometimes you know coming up growing up in a neighborhood and school and different things you know you always fell in love with somebody you know? And sometimes it did not work out you know? And when you have experienced those situations you know it can be a part of the story that you are trying to tell in the song.  Not every song in this album is new. And I want to ask you about one that I guess you and Ann Peebles wrote in 1971.    She is 25 lbs. of pure cane sugar in each and every kiss. You would not know what I am talking about if you never had loving like this...  99 Pounds. What is the story of this song?  Well the story was Ann Peebles. She weighed 99 pounds.   Aw.  When she came in and started at the studio recording she weighed 99 pounds.  What keeps a love story going for 50 years Mr. Bryant?  Love. That is what keeps the story going love you know?  Yeah.  Coming up you experience a lot of different situations falling in love but you get something out of each one until you find that one that you really want and you know it is going to be a great thing for you if you can pull this one together and make it stick .  Don Bryant's new album is called You Make Me Feel. What a pleasure talking to you. Thanks so much Mr. Bryant.  All right. Thank you very much. You have a good one.    She is 99 lbs. of natural born goodness 99... 