 Like a lot of fathers I tell stories to our daughters. They revolve around the adventures of a mischievous little boy named Ralph and his goody two-shoes sister Patti who lived in my apartment building as a child. Ralph once decided he was going to pour boxes of lime Jell-O into the Chicago River. Patti says Ralph you cannot turn the river into Jell-O I am so embarrassed. But everybody in town enjoyed bouncing on the Jell-O river. Theres a whole cast of characters Duncan the Dolphin who lives in Lake Michigan but leaps out to snatch cheese and caramel corn with his beak. Beulah a good witch who watches over us and gives broom rides around skyscrapers and tiny little wicked witches - Kee Jo Ella Mary and Katie -who hide and cackle in our drawers and closets. Theyre actually nice at heart but they like to play pranks like putting a clowns nose on Ralph when hes asleep. There is Scully a skeleton who sleeps in Patti and Ralph's closet whom we dress up in old clothes to sneak him into school. And Ethel Mermaid who clambers onto the Oak Street Beach to sing You will be swell you will be great. The stories I tell have no moral whatsoever except to make our daughters laugh and wonder - and maybe persuade them I was once a little boy. But over the past few months our daughters have started making suggestions to my stories like Hollywood producers at a script conference. If I begin it was nighttime theyll say Make it morning. If I say it was winter theyll say Make it summer. Our imaginations mingle. They have grown into co-conspirators. Now this delights me and sometimes depresses me. Its a fathers dilemma We want our children to grow up to be strong and good yet in some ways we dont want them to grow up at all. We want them to be sure of our love and stand on their own yet we despair of a day when they think they no longer need us. Sometimes when I put our 7-year-old to bed she sees lights blinking above the river and asks is that Beulah Witch? I go to the window peer out and say yes baby. She is out there winking at us. Ask her to stay our daughter says. I want her to stay. I put my hand on my daughters head and tell her so do I.  Mr.   Someday when I am awfully low when the world is cold I will feel aglow just thinking of you and the way you look tonight. Oh but you are lovely with your smile so warm and your cheeks so soft there is nothing for me...  Fred Astaire. You are listening to NPR News. 