 Time now for a weekend-long listen. Some high schoolers think of applying to colleges as almost a full-time job. There are essays and tests loads of financial documents to assemble and calculations to make - and then a big decision. For high-achieving students who come from low-income families the challenge is particularly difficult. Research shows that 1 in 4 juggle all of that - the writing the studying the researching and applying - completely on their own. One approach to make this whole process easier - pair students up with someone who can help a mentor or adviser virtually. Elissa Nadworny of the NPR Ed team reports.   It is Tuesday night a school night and Johnny Dang a high school senior in Austin Texas is sitting on his bed getting comfortable for a long-distance phone call.  Hello?  On the other end Theresa Heitz a 24-year-old college adviser based in Minnesota.  Hey Johnny?  Hey Teresa.  How are you?  I am doing really well. I am stressed out of course.  Johnny and Theresa have been checking in like this all school year paired up through a program called CollegePoint that is funded by Bloomberg Philanthropies. Here's how it works. When a high school student like Johnny takes the PSAT or SAT and they do well and they come from low-income or moderate-income families they get an e-mail from the program offering them a free virtual adviser.  I was thinking maybe we could just like dive in and you could kind of walk me through what you are thinking right now.  This will turn out to be a big night for Johnny and we will come back to that phone call in a bit. All over the country advisers like Theresa are doing this - listening guiding and answering students' many questions. The goal - help gifted students go to schools that match their intellectual ability. Connor Rechtzigel an adviser based in the Twin Cities says that means helping his students select the right schools.  It is just sort of combating stereotypes or kind of dispelling some myths.  Things like yes you can study science at a liberal arts school or no the state school is not always the cheapest option. And research shows that low-income students are far more likely to undermatch - to apply and attend schools that are not as challenging or competitive - in part because they do not think they have what it takes to get it and because many do not even know what schools are out there.  A lot of students think that there is no middle between your state flagship institution and the Ivy League.  One of Connor's students Justice Benjamin he thought that. He is a senior from East Orange N.J. and the first in his family to apply to college.  I was just thinking whatever college accepts me for the most money I can get - scholarship or whatever it is - I am going there.  After he talked with Connor he started thinking about all of his adviser's questions.  What is your ideal learning experience? Do you like a big college town?  He narrowed in on smaller schools where he could study environmental science. His final choice - Skidmore College in upstate New York. He says he felt empowered by the process.  You do not have to choose like whatever comes to you. You get your own choice.  Johnny Dang the senior in Texas on that evening phone call he was not totally lost at the start. He is the child of two Vietnamese immigrants and he goes to a public magnet school. It does have good supports for students applying to college. So when he got the notice saying he would qualified for a CollegePoint adviser he thought nah I do not need special help.  I was not a student who identified as like I do not know what to do. Like I did my research and I knew how to approach college.  He already knew a few people who went to Rice University a small private research school in Houston. It is close to home excellent science programs. It was his top choice. But eventually his adviser gained his trust.  Having Theresa there was just really like reassuring. And I think it was good like mentally to like have a person say like yes you are doing this correctly.  Theresa helped him craft his college essay about the TV show Golden Girls and its influence on little Johnny. And with her urging he decided to apply for some Ivy League schools. In early April the letters came. He would made it into an Ivy - the University of Pennsylvania Penn. He also got into Rice which is why now on this Tuesday night chat they are talking about one of the biggest decisions in Johnny's life.  I think I shared with you the Rice and UPenn pros-and-cons document and I think you are on it right now. Are you?  Yes I am. I can see it.  They go down the list. Academics are both strong. Penn has an excellent medical school. Johnny's interested in medicine. And Rice has the Texas Medical Center.  The one thing that we have not talked about...  Yeah.  ...Has just been like the whole financial side.  Navigating the finances - it is not just Johnny. Paying for college is a huge part of the CollegePoint program.  For a big chunk of my job I feel like a financial adviser.  That is Kate Nakhle. She is an advisor in North Carolina. She is working with McKenna Hensley a high school senior in Ohio.  McKenna and I we spend a lot of time comparing and analyzing her financial aid award letters.  And there are a lot of those letters. McKenna got into nine schools. McKenna's dad did go to college. When I ask her if that made it easier...  Listen. My dad went to college in the '80s.  I could not rely on him for an answer to a question that I had.  But she says she had adviser Kate. For all those award letters Kate used a spreadsheet on Google...  Here it is.  ...Where McKenna could enter in all her college costs then compare. And that money spreadsheet it saved her.  Let me make it full screen. So I have all my colleges here and then I have the breakdown of expenses so tuition fees room and board book.  McKenna's parents are not helping pay for school. So for her the money is a huge part of the decision.  It makes a difference when like you are paying yourself. So you have to be extra careful.  When McKenna did her calculations she ended up with an option where she pays nothing - Ohio State University. Staying in-state was not her first choice but it is the best option for her.  I just always wanted to have that out-of-state experience spread my wings .  But she says she is the kind of girl that can be amazing anywhere.  Can you say more what you mean by that?  Back in Johnny Dang's bedroom he and Theresa are still on the phone. They too have gone through the finances. Penn is giving Johnny more money. But with Rice his parents say they can make the finances work.  Yeah I am in like a weird situation right now where it is kind of like I know what I am walking into but I just like do not know what I am walking away from.  One minute Johnny is convinced he will go to Rice. It is smaller feels more residential. It is close to home. But then there is Penn a school he did not even know he would dream about. Plus his classmates are pressuring him to pick the Ivy.  A lot of my friends are just making it sound like if I leave UPenn that is the equivalent of just going to community college.  It is hard to say do not listen to them. But the prestige factor like all of that stuff sort of neutralizes once you actually step on campus and then you are like real experience begins.  Theresa pauses aware perhaps of her influence in this moment.  And just so you know like I hope you do not feel like I am trying to sway you one way or another. I do understand that like the Ivy pull is really strong and I just do not want you to feel like you have an obligation to go to Penn just because you got in. Like you should feel very proud.  And then an hour into the call it happens.  I think you just like convinced me to go to Rice though.  I think you convinced yourself.  Yeah.  That was the end of April. Weeks later I followed up with Johnny. On decision day did his choice to go to Rice stick?  My dad went to bed and then he gave me the credit card and he was like whenever you are ready. And I logged into the Rice application portal said yes and paid the deposit.  I ask him now that it is all over how does it feel?  It feels amazing. And it feels wonderful.  He will start orientation - they call it O-Week at Rice - on August 12. Elissa Nadworny NPR News. 