 Rice beans orange juice motorcycles bourbon are just some of the American products expected to cost more in Europe after the EU slaps a tax on them in retaliation for U.S. tariffs on imported steel and aluminum. Mexico has already applied tariffs to U.S. goods. Canada's counter-tariffs begin July 1. And China will levy 34 billion worth of tariffs on U.S. products beginning next month. Jeff Padnos helps run his family's scrap recycling business in Holland Mich. that was started by his grandfather in 1905. Mr. Padnos thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you Scott for the opportunity.  Will these tariffs affect you?  They already have. While other people are talking about what might happen China quickly put a 25 percent tax on aluminum scrap from the United States. Then on May 4 they suddenly announced a complete moratorium on all scrap shipments from the United States into China. And it was effective immediately. There was materials already on the water that could not be diverted. And so when they got to China they were stacked up in the ports. They have been in limbo. We still have some material that we shipped that has not been able to clear through and get to the customer. So that is created a lot of uncertainty. And then after that effective May 31 they put on new inspection requirements. They have said that every load has to be inspected by one of their inspection people. And they have only got three offices in the whole United States so it is still going to create a great bottleneck for us.  Mr. Padnos the intent of these tariffs is to create more business and jobs in the United States obviously. So can you replace any lost business overseas with U.S. customers?  Well in our case we are dealing in worldwide commodities and so we do look for new places to ship and we will. But it is hard to make up a market like China. And we are only talking about things that have already happened. We are not talking about the impacts of - on our business of the other effects of a generalized trade war. I mean all the things with steel are yet to be seen.  Well and you must have to worry about that in your business. What things concern you that might happen?  Well the things that might happen is that our local manufacturers lose orders because they have to pay so much more for their steel that they are not competitive with the products that they make. An example might be somebody that makes a file cabinet. And if they punch out a hole for the lock we would get the scrap from that. But if steel becomes too expensive and they import the whole cabinet from another country we do not get the scrap. But more important the people that were making the product in the United States could lose their work as well.  If people in the administration are listening to you today would you - what would you tell them about the tariffs?  Well I would quote George Will. Putting in a tariff is like putting up a blockade on your own country. Historically when you put a blockade on someone it was considered an act of war. In a way it is like an act of war on ourselves. And actually this applies to China as well interestingly because we provide scrap aluminum that goes to them and they need it. And if they have to use primary aluminum ore that uses vastly more energy and it works directly against their own environmental goals. So I would look for different solutions.  Jeff Padnos is chairman of e recycler in Holland Mich. Thanks so much.  Thank you very much for the chance Scott. Appreciate it. 