 James Brown the late Godfather of Soul once crowned the pop singer Usher the Godson of Soul.    You make me want to leave the one I am with. Ooh yeah. Start a new relationship with you. This is what I think about the things that come along with. You make me Make me...  Usher's dance moves and high-energy performances are often compared to some of Michael Jackson's best work. With praise like that it is no wonder that Usher is one of the best-selling artists in American music history with seven Grammys to his discredit.   This song Climax is the lead single off his new CD and its already hit number one on the Billboard charts.   Nearly 20 years have passed since Usher released his debut album he was just 14 years old believe it or not. His latest studio project titled Looking 4 Myself is his seventh. I spoke with Usher recently about what it was like to start out in the music business so young and how he kept himself from buying into his own hype.  Actually I believe in it - not the hype - but the reality that it could become a reality. If you do not believe it then you do not have a motivation to keep you moving forward with. So I only said OK well if I am this then I have to live up to it. And in my mind I never quite arrive in that place. I just continue to move forward in trying to be that thing even though I do not know if I believed it 100 percent.  So this is your seventh studio album. I mean...  Seven it is seventh heaven.  Its seven - lucky number seven. I imagine you do not get too spun up about how it is received.  Actually I do. You know because...  Do you?  I mean I do. I am very much so into making the greatest you know impression. But at the same time I think I have reached the point where I have this creative license to just go for what I feel. And those who have believed in me in the past I am not going to let you down. I am going to give you some incredible records and hopefully they suit you.   There are a lot of interesting collaborations on this album. This one called Twisted featuring Pharrell Williams. Let us take a listen to this.   It is kind of a throwback vibe. But at the same time it feels completely current and modern.   Well that is what it was. It was nostalgia. It was like a nostalgic record right? That kind of takes you back to I would do not know the '70s? And even the '60s you know what I am saying? I have always talked about earlier influences of Jackie Wilson and also James Brown and that kind of era. But I wanted to do it in a way that will be very modern.    What do you want to do musically with this album that you had not done before?  I wanted this record to be enjoyable to every person that will listen because what I have recognized is that there are not really boxes anymore. And what I mean by that is whereas an artist would be an RB artist or a pop artist or a rock artist or a hip-hop artist now those barriers are kind of broken. So as I make songs as I do you know these albums and records I always try to be cognizant of who is listening.   You have your own record label now and you signed Justin Bieber to your label. What did you see in him?  It was a moment I recognize that this kid has something that you just cannot manufacture. He lit up to every little thing every little detail wanted to ask a million questions always wanted to sing always wanted to move. Every time I would come around him he would want to dance - show me a dance move you know. Look at this. I got this. I learned this. And you could tell that it was the beginning of a true student.  There is a song on this album called Sins of My Father.   What is the story of this song?  I think a lot of things that we as men experience are really a product of our upbringing or lack thereof. I did not have a one-on-one connection with my father. And for whatever reason be it it was too complicated for him substance abuse whatever it may have been he had a varied life and I have no judgment. I made peace with my father in the making of this album. Actually before even started working on it he passed. It was unfortunate that he was unable to be there for me. But that is what makes me fight so diligently in being the father that I am. Because there is a lot that comes up against me in terms of priorities but nothing is more of a priority than my children and being there for them. They are my greatest investment and greatest accomplishment.   Considering where you are in your life and your career now if you could talk to that younger version of yourself what advice would you give?  Slow your ass down.   What are you in a rush for? You know there is a lot of living to do. I definitely would say have fun man. There is so much you know out here. And do not get me wrong. It is I am not going to make it seem easy. I really took on a lot of the job. You know what I mean? I took on a heavy responsibility being the artist that I am and being the person that I am.   Usher joined me from NPR News West. His new album is called Looking 4 Myself. It comes out this week. Usher thanks so much for talking with me. It is been really fun.  Thank you so much.   And you can hear more songs from Usher at nprmusic.org. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin.  