 This weekend Miramax films released its new movie Cheri about a woman who was winding down a long and illustrious career as a prostitute. The film is set in Paris at the turn of the 19th century during the lavish period known as the Belle Epoque. And as the narrator tells us the ladies of leisure of this era were no ordinary call girls.   Mr.   There was Emilian Delonson who fancied herself as an actress but was better known as the woman who had all but bankrupted King Leopold II of Belgium.  Mr.  There was Liane de Pougy who when shown a million and half Francs worth of jewels by her lover of the moment became paralyzed with indecision thus obliging him to buy her the entire display. She later became a nun.  And the list goes on. These were real women. More about Liane in a moment but Lea the main character in the movie played by Michelle Pfeiffer is fictional. The film is based on a 1920 novel Cheri written by Colette. Cheri is directed and narrated by Stephen Frears who in 1988 was behind the lens for the film Dangerous Liaisons which also featured Michelle Pfeiffer and he is in our London studio. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Hello hello.  First I really want to mention the courtesan the real one Liane de Pougy whom you mentioned at the beginning I am actually named after her. Mr.  Congratulations.  I guess. Mr.  Or commiseration one or the other.   I guess it is. I always ask my mother where did you get the spelling of my name L-I-A-N-E? Mr.  Yes.  And she said oh I read it in a you know in the paper. And Liane de Pougy died in 1950 when she was pregnant with me. So I have always thought - I bought her biography so I thought you know you kind of skated over her a little bit but   I will allow it. Mr.  How distinguished for you.  I guess. Does this mean I become a nun at the end of my career? And I have never seen that many jewels in my life.   But enough about me. Let us talk about your movie. For our listeners who have not seen it yet is it possible to just to give us just a brief kind of thumbnail synopsis of the new film Cheri? Mr.  Well these courtesans lived extraordinary lives. They were very very rich women. They were you know like sort of movie stars really except they kept to their own world very much. And as you said Michelle Pfeiffer plays a woman at the end of her career but who is persuaded by her friend to look after her and to educate and to have a relationship with her son with whom she rather unexpectedly falls in love.  Hmm. That is the gist of it. Mr.  Yes.  And there is pain there is sex and there is great costumes.  Mr.  Well it is both frivolous and tragic at the same time.  That is it there is a duality there. Mr.  Yes.  I mean we are looking at this sumptuous scenes of these beautiful couches and Mr.  Yes.  all of this. But underneath there is this current of blackness maybe? Mr.  Well people do not stop being human do they?  No. Mr.  No matter how pretty the clothes are.  But it seems particularly poisonous during this time. Mr.  Well it was a decadent time because it all came to an end with the First World War just the wealthy times we have lived through have come to an end now.  Hmm. What was it that attracted you to the project? I mean it is a Colette story and you almost cannot go wrong with that. But on the other hand you have done these costume dramas before Dangerous Liaisons to connect. Mr.  Well I am very - I am very very lucky that I am introduced to French literature by Christopher Hampton who wrote the script of Dangerous Liaisons and this script. So it is always filtered through this extremely witty surface that he constructs. So I read his script and liked it very much. And then I read the book and liked that very much. So I had a good introduction.  And then it was a matter of coloring in Mr.  Yes.  you know. I read in an interview with you in The New York Times and I was - you say you direct with your ears. What do you mean by that? Mr.  You can hear when - you can hear conviction in people's voices. You can hear when people believe what they are saying. You can hear when they hit the right notes.  Hmm. Mr.  You can more hear conviction than you can see it. What you see is whether actors hit their right marks and things like that. But what you hear is the truth.  Well let us actually listen to a little bit of dialogue between Lea played by Michelle Pfeiffer and Cheri played by Rupert Friend after they have shared their first kiss.  Ms.   I am not sure that was very intelligent. What? Oh you think I never kissed a handsome mouth before? You think that is going to make me lose control? I mean even if we were to - not that I can see that happening. Mr.   You raised the subject. Ms.   Let us say no more about this shall we?  And if they said no more about it there would not be a movie would there?  Mr.  Absolutely absolutely.  But there is again one can hear there is the surface line. Mr.  Yes.  And then there is the tension under it. Mr.  Of course of course. And that is what - it was a very difficult film to make because you were trying to find that the whole time. Do you play the surface do you play the underneath?  Right. Mr.  And of course you have to do both.  You do. And the audience has to be in mind of both. Mr.  Yes.  What which of the characters do you think needs this relationship more Lea who is a woman who is so used to being beautiful and desirable but now she is getting on or Cheri who is this you know flippity young playboy but is really lost. Mr.  Yes. I could not answer that question. I would have thought they both needed it.  It does seem so does not it? Mr.  Yes yes.  But it is Cheri's mother played by Kathy Bates that seems to throw the two together. Mr.  Yes without quite - you cannot work out quite what is in her mind.  Oh she is a Mr.  She is a shocker.  She is a shocker. Mr.  Yes.  She is Cheri's mother. She is a retired courtesan herself. Mr.  Yes.  And it is just - it looked - I think we should let our listeners hear just a little bit of her.  Ms.   You are getting him back in very good condition. I have kept him away from opium and cocaine and the cheap imported drink. I believe you will find he is a credit to both of us. Ms.   I am sure. Ms.   Does not mean that little girl is going to able to handle him. Ms.   Young women have their methods. Ms.   You may be right. I cannot say I remember.  Ms.   You smell so good. Do not you find now the skins a little less firm it holds perfumes so much better?  Yes Kathy Bates is a real piece of work in this character.  Mr.  Yes. She is the most magnificent actress.  Yes. Mr.  She should be on Mount Rushmore I always think.   Why is the relationship between Lea and Charlotte Cheri's mother so important to the story? Mr.  Well because in a sense the root of the boy's problems is that the mother was rather neglectful. So in a way she is asking Michelle's character to do what she had failed to do as a mother.  Hmm.  Mr.  So as it were maternalness is central to it all.  And Michelle Pfeiffer's character Lea becomes a one-woman rehabilitation center? Mr.  Absolutely.  Mr.  That is what we are all looking for.   And that is so interesting that 20 years ago you were directing her Mr.  Yes.  in another French drama. Mr.  That is right.  Do you feel like it was like chapter two of your relationship?  Mr.  No I just think we are all children when we made Liaisons.  Mr.  We were like you know children allowed into the garden.  I wonder if Michelle Pfeiffer ever talked to you about that. I mean she does not strike me as a woman who is worried about aging. Mr.  She was very very courageous about her and she made no attempt to conceal anything or she was not whispering to the cameraman or talking to the makeup people or anything like that. She just wanted to give her the performance. If that meant looking her age so be it.  Hmm. Mr.  As a man I spent my time kicking and screaming and moaning about how old I am. I think men handle it far worse than women.  I would not have thought that. Mr.  I could see that the moment of acceptance is very painful. But then all the women around me become very very cheerful and they stop flapping about their appearance the whole time.  Mr.  I imagine it is a great weight off their mind.  Yeah. Do you mind if I ask how old you are? Mr.  I am 68.  Oh you are still young. Mr.  Um does not feel that way.   Is there something else anything else you would like to say about the film? Mr.  No not at all.  But - no Mr.  No except that it is - it makes me laugh a lot and makes me cry. I do not know what more there is in life.   That sounds like a good movie. It makes you laugh it makes you cry. Mr.  Yes yes.  Stephen Frears is the director of the new movie Cheri starring Michelle Pfeiffer. It was released in theaters this weekend and he joined us from our London bureau. Mr. Frears thanks so much. Mr.  It is been a pleasure. 