 Nearly all the Democratic presidential candidates are campaigning in South Carolina this weekend. How do they have the room? It is intended to be a feel-good weekend - fundraising glad-handing fried fish served at an annual fish fry. But former Vice President Joe Biden's comments this week about his ability to work with Southern segregationist senators during his time in the Senate shifted the tone of what has been so far a relatively friendly primary. NPR correspondent Susan Davis is there and joins us from Columbia S.C. Thanks so much for being with us Sue.  Good morning Scott.  South Carolina is a state where most Democratic voters next year's primary will be African American. Tell us what people were talking about last night at the fish fry.  So I got there pretty early. I spent about three hours talking to African American voters waiting to get into the fish fry to get a sense of where they were at. And everyone I spoke to was aware of Biden's comments this week. But to the one they really - I do not want to say they shrugged it off but it really did not change the way they view Joe Biden and this applied young and old generationally. No one was really happy with exactly what he said. But I think people gave him a break and understood that that was not what he was trying to express. They do not - it does not change their views of him. It does not make them think Joe Biden has racist views or anything like that. What they really said they did not like about the whole episode is how it exposed for the first time this wave of infighting among the Democratic primary candidates. You know he was taking heat from people like Cory Booker the New Jersey senator Elizabeth Warren from Massachusetts. To the one voters said over and over they do not want to hear the negativity just yet.  What did Joe Biden say for himself?  So he did not bring up any of his comments earlier in the week nor did any of his opponents even though they were willing to talk about it going into the news event. I think the biggest news about Joe Biden was how short he spoke. Candidates were jokingly told by Jim Clyburn - he is the highest-ranking African American in Congress. He hosts the fish fry - to keep it short this time. Joe Biden actually did. He is clearly positioning himself as if he was already the nominee. He is already the front-runner in South Carolina on the back of a lot of support from African American voters. He already sounded like he was giving what to me sounded like a convention speech. Here's a little bit of what he had to say.   You all know in your gut this election is more important than any one - no matter how old or young you are - you have ever been involved in not because any one of us are running but because of the man who occupies that office. We can make up the four years of damage he is done but eight years of damage will be almost impossible to get back.  He did not offer any new policy proposals but he did make a big call for the party to rally around the nominee. That went over really well in the crowd. He also stayed later than any other candidate Scott. He was there until almost midnight working the crowd taking selfies - still does the retail politics better than almost anyone in the field.  Twenty-one candidates onstage last night - what else stood out for you?  You know the one word I did not hear a lot - impeachment. No one brought up impeachment about Donald Trump - very different conversation happening inside the Beltway. The things that went over really well in the crowd were when they talked about economic proposals. This was especially true for people like Vermont Senator Bernie Sanders Massachusetts Senator Elizabeth Warren. Here's just a little bit of Warren.   How about a wealth tax on the top one-tenth of 1?  Yeah. You hear - the crowd really liked that. She said she talked about how she would use that money to pay for things like universal pre-K teacher salaries free college. Sanders' support for raising the minimum wage removing student debt - those were all really big things. I did notice tonally when candidates talk about other things like the Green New Deal or climate change - did not go over as well. Also Scott I learned a little bit about the Yang gang. Tech entrepreneur Andrew Yang is one of the candidates in the field. He is trying to break through and he ended his speech on a really funny line. It is really short. This is what he said.   I am the man for that job because the opposite of Donald Trump is an Asian man who likes math.  And he dove off the stage into the crowd. And that is maybe one way to try and break through in a very crowded primary field.  NPR's Susan Davis in Columbia S.C. Thanks so much.  You are welcome. 