 An education success story here in Alabama - in the past eight years advanced placement exam scores for math science and English have grown more than any other state in this country. And that is thanks to a partnership between the Alabama State Department of Education and a program called A College Ready. Its president Mary Boehm joins us now. Thanks very much for being with us.  Scott thank you so much. We are really proud to be number one in something other than football - education achievement.   And that is why I want to have a whole separate introduction and if I may an ovation for an A College Ready superstar a senior from Leeds High School here in the Birmingham area Vanessa Layfield. Thanks so much for being with us.   It is a pleasure to be here.  How did this initiative come about Mary?  So in 2008 Alabama received a 13.2 million dollar grant from the National Math and Science Initiative. And A College Ready was established as a part of the A education partnership. And we really have four missions. One is to encourage and entice schools and districts to step up to higher levels of rigor. The second is everything we can do to support them while they do that for three years. Third is deep support for teachers. We are really a teacher training and support program. We build curriculum and help them. We have teachers - master teachers that support them. And then fourth just keep the state government the national government and others on task with policy and support to keep this work going forward.  Vanessa may I call you Vanessa? What classes - what AP class did you take?  Junior year I took AP U.S. history and AP language and composition. This past year I took AP literature and composition AP biology and AP calculus AB.  Aced them?  I hope so.   She has two 5s already under her belt.  Oh mercy. And you are going - I understand you are going to be going to Auburn in the fall right?  Yeah.  Sorry about that Bama.   Tell us a little about your family.  Well my mom is disabled. And my dad works as a mechanic. I have two sisters - Kate  and Alicia  - and an older brother Michael .  Anybody in your family go to college before?  My mom did a few semesters. But she is not really very academic. So she went on to train to be a rescue worker. And that is about it. It is just me.  I think you are quite enough.  Thank you.  I bet they are quite - they are mighty proud of you. Mary is this an expensive program?  Well so I want to tell you about Leeds High School where Vanessa goes to school and give you a sense of that. We are spending about 85000 a year for the next three years to support Leeds High School in doing this. This is a school that has a 58 percent free and reduced lunch population - about 35 percent minority 10 percent Hispanic - kind of mirrors Alabama's demographics. And the things we do are - do cost money. So money matters here. We - 10 days of training for brand new AP teachers - right? - that have never had this experience. Vanessa's teachers had never taught AP. And yet they got her to two 5s just last year. So that was very remarkable and partly because 10 days of training is important and curricular materials. We had Saturday study sessions for the students. We put equipment in place. We helped pay for exams. So there are things that we do to help make this happen - everything we can to support a school. And yes it does cost money.  Any anxiety that that money will go away?  Not - in Alabama we have bipartisan support. The national resources that we have gotten in the past could be at risk I think.  What - Mary what do you think you have got that a lot of other programs have missed?  So what we got is that when schools and teachers are given the chance to step up to this level of rigor they do it. We can get this done. So the - the data shows that just - that is the main thing we do is support and help teachers do what they know they can do and students to step up. Vanessa's English teacher did not think she could do it. But we helped her. And she got 15 5s. We also gave them some incentives for doing that by the way Vanessa and her teachers. So you know that is a little controversy. But we feel like it is important to do that.  Vanessa what do you want to do at Auburn? Where do you want to go in life?  I am studying anthropology as my undergraduate. And I hope to study forensic anthropology as like a graduate degree.  Well thanks so much for being with Vanessa Layfield and Mary Boehm. Thanks so much.  Thanks Scott.  