 Few species transform their surroundings enough to make big ecological changes. Humans are one of them. Beavers are another. And once upon a time hundreds of millions of beavers used to populate North America - not anymore. And their loss has caused immeasurable damage to mountain ecosystems. As Luke Runyon from KUNC reports efforts are underway to bring the beaver back.   It is early in the morning. And Juli Scamardo and I are wearing grayish-green chest waders trudging through the mud to find a beaver meadow inside Rocky Mountain National Park.  These are like mazes. It is hard to get through a meadow and know where you are going.  Scamardo is a master's student at Colorado State University. She is studying how beavers alter landscapes.  They definitely are engineers. And they change their environment to suit them. And it also happens to suit a lot of other species...  ...Like birds fish and insects. And scientists have shown that we get lots of benefits too. Beaver dams improve water quality trap and store carbon and replenish groundwater. That is why reintroduction projects are underway in states like Nevada Utah and Wyoming. And the idea is popping up in some unexpected places.  Hi. My name's Scott Helker. I am running for governor.  Beaver reintroduction is one of the main planks of Helker's entire campaign. He is running as a libertarian in Colorado.  Honestly the first time I introduced this I had one minute. Trying to explain the importance of beavers in a minute is impossible.  Like how a dammed stream could provide a cascade of beaver ponds with water infiltrating into the ground.  It is one part of many solutions. But it is a cheap solution. It is easy to do. And it will fill up the aquifers. And that is what we want to accomplish I think.  Bringing beavers back into areas that have not seen them in a long time has been done before. Not long after World War II the Idaho Department of Fish and Game relocated beavers throughout the state.   In preparing for the operation beaver must be sorted for even size and weight.  In this promotional film game wardens load beavers into wooden crates with parachutes attached. Yes at one point we dropped beavers into the back country from airplanes.   Now into the air and down they swing down to the ground near a stream or a lake.  Reintroduction efforts today are more targeted and have a varied track record of success. In his new book Eager The Surprising Secret Life Of Beavers science writer Ben Goldfarb says a state like Utah only has about 10 percent as many beavers it could actually support given the available habitat.  And I think that is probably pretty typical that we are at a very small fraction of the potential beaver abundance.  Back in Rocky Mountain National Park Julie Scamardo says sections of the park and vast swaths of the American West seem primed for a beaver comeback. But they are not showing up.  So we are still kind of asking the question of like what else do you want? And having a beaver psychologist would really be the best for these projects but we do not have any of those so...  We might not know their innermost thoughts. But that is not stopping researchers like Scamardo from trying to boost beaver populations. And while they do not have any set plans for reintroduction at this park officials have considered bringing beavers in to help regrow vegetation along streams though they probably will not drop them from airplanes. For NPR News I am Luke Runyon in Fort Collins Colo. 