 What is behind the man who is below The Blue Room? This week conservators at the Phillips Collection in Washington D.C. revealed that there is a mustachioed man in a jacket and bow tie resting his face on his hand that is painted below The Blue Room. Pablo Picasso as noted 1901 scene of a woman bathing in the artist's studio. The Blue Room has hung in the Phillips since 1927. Art experts have long suspected something more must be below as there were brushstrokes that did not match the composition of the nude bluish woman. But advanced infrared technology has now revealed the man with the mustache who also wears three rings on his fingers. Just last May a Picasso painting of a vase of flowers sold at auction for nearly 7 million. But in 1901 one of the most influential artists of all time was down and out in Paris. Picasso was 19 years old depressed and painting Paris scenes in mostly just blue and blue-green. Historians now call these four or five years of his life Picasso as blue period. A close friend Carlos Casagemas had shot himself in the head at a cafe. Picasso walked the streets of Paris despondent and alone. Where so many other artists saw sun color and joi de vivre Picasso found and painted people who were blind or visibly hungry corpses cheerless drunkards neglected beggars and haggard street walkers. See a startling 1904 etching The Frugal Repast where a blind man sits with skeletal fingers around the bony shoulders of a woman. They are so thin and hungry you may cringe just to look. And the lone plate in front of them is bare. Or the old guitarist who appears barefoot lifeless and gaunt more holding onto than playing the strings of a guitar - or are they the last strings of life? These melancholy blue portraits were not the Paris people wanted to hang in there homes. Picasso painted prolifically during his blue period but his pictures did not sell. He painted portraits of the poor and was poor himself. And that is why there are partial paintings underneath some of Pablo Picasso as most famous works. Curator Susan Behrends Frank says that in 1901 the man who would become perhaps the most important artist of the 20th century could not afford to acquire new canvases every time he had an idea that he wanted to pursue. The man with the mustache below The Blue Room is so far unidentified. But this week he helped remind us how failure and genius can be revealed in the same frame.   Picasso performed by Coleman Hawkins. And you are listening to NPR News. 