 The Tour de France is to professional cycling what Wimbledon is to tennis - the crown jewel. The tour was first organized by a French newspaper editor Henri Desgrange in 1903. He also had a hand in the creation of a very different type of cycling event the Randonnee. It is a long distance ride that prizes camaraderie and self-sufficiency over speed and even over winning. Angela Evancie explains.  If you ask a randonneur how they got into the sport...  Oh I had a friend...  They will give you an answer kind of like a randonnee - long and circuitous.  You know I would seen the word randonneuring or you know brave bravette - I do not even know what the correct pronunciation is.  Michael Wolfe like a lot of riders is somewhat new to this world and its lexicon. Some say randonneuring others say randonniering. The simple definition of a randonnee is a long distance self-supported ride. There is no direct translation into English. It can mean a long outing or a trip.  I think ramble or a randonneur is a wanderer.  But everyone can agree on what as randonnee is not - a race. There are time limits which means riders cannot go too slowly or too quickly. Hence my conversation with Michael Wolfe which is happening on the road during a 400-kilometer randonnee that loops from a town south of Portland Oregon out to the coast and back. Wolfe is in the lead but he slows down so I can ride next to him.  Do you want me to hold that or?  He is on a recumbent sitting low to the ground peddling with his legs in front of him so he even holds my recorder.  We will be turning left here.  Definitely not a race. Today's ride started without fanfare at 00 A.M. At this point it is 30 and Wolfe has already covered his first 100K. He is fast but he says racing turns him into a nervous wreck and that is why he likes randonneuring.  I think at its heart it is very cooperative although when it comes down to it you are alone on the course. It is up to you to get yourself to the finish right? But it is like life in that way. It is a sort of shared struggle right and somebody else doing well does not diminish your own accomplishment you know.  A friend of mine in Germany once defined it as the search for the complete cyclist.  Jan Heine is the editor of Bicycle Quarterly a magazine out of Seattle about the history...  ...the technology and the culture of cycling.  He says that in randonneuring you have to be prepared for anything.  It is not like in racing where it starts raining and somebody hands you a jacket out of a car window.  Riders carry everything themselves - tools food lights. And if they get support anywhere but the official checkpoints they are disqualified. This may sound like hell on two wheels but the challenge was what tantalized the first randonneurs. They were riders at the turn of the 20th century from two camps in cycling culture. The French camp was led by healthy-living guru nicknamed Velocio who touted the benefits of long-distance rides fresh air and vegetarianism. In Italy a style of group riding called Audax Latin for audacious became popular and was later imported to France by Henri Desgrange. Both styles attracted amateur cyclists cyclo-tourists as they were called who did not get along with professional racers.  Because there was a lot of animosity in France actually between the tourists and the racers. You know the tourists said we are going in the mountains and we are a participatory sport.  Participatory meaning that women could ride alongside men and people could ride basically whatever they wanted. This drove innovations and bicycle technology that today are widespread.  Derailers to shift gears aluminum cranks.  But perhaps the biggest difference was socioeconomic. Racing was a working-class sport. Prize money was a way out of the coalmines or factories.  We do not have the liberty to say well the other guy deserves to win if you are living depends on it.  Randonneuring was more of a refined hobby.  But if you are doing this for fun like a lot of amateur racers do in the United States today suddenly the distinction between winner and second becomes meaningless.  The pinnacle of randonneuring today is a ride called Paris-Brest to Paris. You can probably guess the route. It is held every four years 1200 kilometers in 90 hours non-stop. Americans can participate by completing a series of qualifying rides here organized by Randonneurs USA. Michael Dayton is its president.  It is maybe the best time you will ever have on a bike but a lot of people do not want to make that trip to France.  Hence the 1200Ks now held here in the U.S. There is seven scheduled for this season. Randonneurs USA has 3200 members this year up 260 percent from a decade ago. Dayton says there are clubs popping up in almost every state and he says manufacturers have started to sell bikes and equipment specific to the sport.  You know when and industry sits up and takes notice you can tell that something's happening and that is what is happened.  At mile 168 of the Oregon ride I meet up with Lesli Larson and Michael Young both from Eugene.  Hi.  How is it going? We are on an empty road in Kings Valley rolling through open fields. Mount Hood glowing white anchors the far horizon. Nothing but sun and Larson is pleased.  Usually we are under - we sort of do this under rainy conditions and you know hovering in Safeways and getting hypothermia.  Then again it seems like these two would be having a good time no matter what.  Who could carry stress with them for 200-plus miles? You just have to leave it behind.  And with that they ride around the next bend. For NPR News I am Angela Evancie in Western Oregon.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 