 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. Im Scott Simon. In summer some people like a light fun summer novel. Others like to read about the world being overtaken by blood-thirsty vampires who savage the planet and threaten to extinguish the whole of civilization. Hey surf's up. The biggest book of summer so far is Justin Cronin's The Passage a massive novel in which a band of people attempt to survive in a small colony surrounded on all sides by vampires. But these are not the sexy debonair vampires of TV and Twilight. Justin Cronin's vampires are real monsters. Justin Cronin joins us now to talk about this book. It was released this week by Ballantine Books. He joins from member station WHAD in Milwaukee where he is on tour. Mr. Cronin thanks so much for being with us. Professor  Oh thank you for having me.  Let me ask you about the premise. A government experiment goes amiss mass death and destruction ensue. Prof.  Catastrophe yes.  Yeah. And 90 years later I believe there are a colony of survivors living in California. An important part of the novel is the way human characters - may I say human characters? Prof.  Yes you may.  And a few people in particular react to disaster. Tell us why that was important to you. Prof.  I decided that I would go about writing this book the way I wrote all my other books. The difference here was one of scale and I suppose also urgency. All novels come down essentially to moments in which characters make choices that they cannot un-choose - where things change they cannot be changed back. You can do this at you know with an awkward dinner party. Or you can do it by strapping your characters essentially to a runaway train of a plot which is what I decided I was going to do. Plot is different from story. Plot is something you can describe in the abstract it is a series of events every book's has got one. But story is where plot and character meet - thats where they combine. And I would learned to be a writer by writing about people by writing about characters. And that just because I had this very large canvas and very energetic plot I wasnt going to go about it differently in any way. I have never met even a secondary character that I didnt want to spend time with and figure them out. For the duration in which Im writing them they feel like the main character to me. And the way I go about this is I always make sure that I know every character's secret what they are not telling anybody. And once I do that their humanity just kind of ignites. But the range of characters in this book is you know much broader than anything I would attempted before. And each time I went into a new character you know a homeless man in Houston Texas who ends up on Death Row an FBI agent a sort of mystical nun from Sierra Leone - I mean this is the kind of range that I had in this book and it was  it was a lot of work and required a lot of concentration. But it was also really a lot of fun to do it. I got to have this whole vast cast of imaginary friends for the duration of writing the book.  Do you still have them with you? Prof.  Yes I do. And the good news is that I get to use them again because Im writing two more books in the world of these characters. And that means that Im going to be living with and making these people really probably for another five years. It is sort of the great  it is become the great project of my life. I dont think anything else will ever even quite come close.  We want to mention the two previous books that youve written Marion O'Neal - you will not the PennHemingway Award for that and the Stephen Crane Prize and a book called The Summer Guest. How does somebody who is known as a writer of literary fiction and smaller books go to writing something like this? Prof.  I think in some ways it is very much part of a continuum of my other work. But in the fall of 2005 my daughter came to me and suggested that I should write my next book about a girl who saves the world and that it should be interesting. I think she was concerned that my other books were perhaps a little boring.  Prof.  And...  How old was your daughter then? Prof.  She was eight years old just about nine years old so we are talking about a third-grader. But my daughter is just a great  a great reader a great consumer of story. She reads while we are walking while brushing her teeth. We have actually had to make rules about not reading at the dinner table. I have actually seen her bring a book onto a rollercoaster for the dull parts.   That dull 10 seconds when it is just approaching the top... Prof.  Exactly yeah. So when she came to me with this suggestion I could only take it fairly seriously. And I said well all right. But you have to help me. And so for the next three months every day when she was done with school when I would take my - I tend to end my work day by going jogging. She would come along on her bicycle and we would play Let us Plan A Novel Together. It was a version of a creative writing exercise really that I had done for many years with my students at Rice and before that at La Salle University in Philadelphia. But those were college students. I was doing it with a nine-year-old. But somewhere along the way it began to feel like I was really working on a book and I decided that I would write a first chapter just to kind of see how it felt and I never looked back.  We should know your daughter's name. Prof.  Oh her name is Iris.  Iris. By the way we are talking with Justin Cronin who is author of the big new book The Passage. Big in all ways I should say. Prof.  Yeah. Dont drop it on your foot.   May I ask do you have this all - do you and your daughter have this all plotted out? Or... Prof.  I do and I had it plotted out from the start. I am one of those writers who really is pretty systematic. I try to plan out as much in advance as I can. I feel like the day you start to write the book is like the day you launch a missile. You better have it aimed pretty carefully or you will kill all your friends in England so I try to make sure that I have targeted things as carefully as possible. When I realized this was going to be not just one book but three I really had to know not just what the final moment of book three was but actually what the last sentence was. It is always been my I dont know my psychological habit or perhaps even a crutch that once I know the last sentence of something then I feel like it is writeable so I had to know that before I started. And indeed I did. I knew the final moment of all three books before I started writing the first.  Tell us about the role of children then - about the sanctuary in the story. Prof.  Yeah children are really central to the book. And it was part of my original idea for the story that it was really a book in some ways about what we owe to our children. The vampire narrative is a narrative of immortality. The temptation of immortality is one that essentially the human race takes up in my book. I mean a certain - a group of scientists decide let us you know let us tap into the biological ability to be immortal. This is a kind of deep greed that they commit because they fail to notice that we are already immortal because the future we do not personally live to see is the one our children live in. The sanctuary is a protective enclave within this colony of survivors. It sits at the center. Its an old elementary school. It is fortified. It is the last retreat in the event that the Colony is invaded. And all the children in the Colony live there until the age of eight and they live in a bubble of not knowing. The world in which they live is one that is so potentially psychologically traumatic that the founders of this society have decided well we will give people eight years not to know the truth. And so the children live there sort of sealed away not just from other people but from the knowledge of what the world really is. And one person who is called Teacher it is her job when you turn eight to tell you what the truth is so that you dont hate your parents for it actually. So she bears the collective trauma of this resentment.  You know what I think will strike any parent reading that? Prof.  Tell me.  That is what we want for our children anyway is not it? Prof.  Yeah. That is right. Yeah. It is interesting that I chose eight because I didnt realize you know I didnt quite realize what I was doing at the time but that is how old my daughter was when we had this conversation. And the book is full of all kinds of symmetries that have to do with my life as a parent. And you know at its heart The Passage is really a story about a father and a daughter. And that makes perfect sense because it was the father and a daughter who dreamed the whole thing up to begin with.  Mr. Cronin thanks so much. Prof.  My pleasure. Thanks for having me.  And have a wonderful summer you and your daughter. Prof.  Thank you. I hope - I am sure we will.  Justin Cronin. He is a professor of English at Rice University. Moreover the author of The Passage released this week by Ballantine Books and already skyrocketing up the bestseller list. He joined us from WHAD in Milwaukee. He is author of the previous novels The Summer Guest and Mary and O'Neal. 