 Imagine your job is to convince young women to drop everything happening in their lives and go on a reality dating show. You then pretend to be their friend manipulating them into letting their guard down and revealing their most personal information on national television. And when you make that happen you are rewarded.    You get cash bonuses for nudity 911 calls catfights all right? Have a good show everybody.  That is pretty much that situation that Rachel Goldberg finds herself in. She is the main character on the Lifetime drama Unreal. Now stay with me because this gets kind of meta. Unreal is a fictional behind-the-scenes look at life on a reality TV dating show. The show is called Everlasting which is not unlike the ABC show The Bachelor. The second season of Unreal premieres tomorrow night. It is co-created by Sarah Gertrude Shapiro who in real life used to be a producer on The Bachelor. She got the idea for Unreal when she realized she had become in her words a monster.  It was when I was working on The Bachelor and I had just done an exit interview with a girl and really really done something pretty terrible to her. And she ended up calling me and telling me that I had ruined her life. And that was the moment that as a feminist a dyed-in-the-wool feminist that I sort of realized I had gone beyond where I  wanted to go in terms how I was spending my time on Earth and what I was doing.  We should for the benefit of people who have not seen The Bachelor or Unreal explore a little bit about what this can look like. And there is a scene in the new season of Unreal - when I watched it my stomach turned a little bit because it illustrates the emotional manipulation. It is when - there is this young producer who very much wants to be very good at her job and she is instructed that she needs to conduct an interview with one of the women the potential brides on the show. And Rachel the main character does not trust her to get the job done so she is doing this Cyrano De Bergerac thing whispering to her telling her the words to say that will get this woman to cry on camera. That is low and crazy.  I am like is it? It just seems real . Yeah I mean I think that you know Broadcast News has always been a big inspiration to me...  ...The movie.  Yeah the movie. And I think that reality TV and the era of reality TV is just that on steroids. I mean it is just a more extreme and sort of ruthless version of getting what you need to make a television show. And what is really hard is that when there is a market for it and there is a appetite for it you have to feed the beast. And people want to see girls cry. I aim to sort of have sympathy for all the characters on this show. And I think that Rachel as a boss who is training a young employee is doing what she has to do to get the job done. It is terrible but it has to be done.  How long did you work on The Bachelor?  I was on it for three years. And I think I did about nine seasons because they do a lot of seasons back to back.  And why did you stay after you had this epiphany? Or what kept you there? What did you like about it?  I actually - I was sort of trapped in a contract and that is the surface answer. But I think what I liked about it was feeling powerful at a time in my life when I did not feel very powerful. And I think in your early 20s for a lot of people it can be hard to define like who you are and where you belong. And sort of being a member of this cult I did not have to make any decisions. And then I think eventually when I started feeling really bad about myself I was getting off on the power of hurting other people.  Whoa.  Yeah that is not cute. Hence the show.   So let us talk about the show Unreal. This next season of the show is interesting. There is a twist. The suitor - you do not call them bachelors in Everlasting. They are suitors.  Right.  The suitor in this season is a football player named Darius. He is an African-American and that is a big deal.    He is black.   Yeah he is the first black...   ...No he is not that black - all right Gary? He is like football black.  We should say the show Everlasting has never had a black suitor. Neither has The Bachelor. Why is this a plot point that you wanted to explore?  It just sort of felt like the best thing we could do with the platform that we had and also really wonderful for story because we always break story from Rachel and Quinn's point of view first.  We should say Quinn is her partner in crime kind of her peer-slash-mentor competitor.  Complicated weirdo.  Yeah .  Weird mom creepy mom bad mommy whatever. So it was two things. Like Eric Garner I think was a watershed moment for me in terms of just feeling like racism in this country is out of place right now that there is hardly anything more pressing to talk about. So I felt really strongly about doing it. But happily it also worked really well for the narrative for Rachel because I think where she is at is that she needs to try and feel like her life means something. And so she is - on the show Rachel is responsible for casting Darius. And she is doing a lot of self-congratulation and patting herself on the back and in a very like white lady liberal way. It is a conversation that I was interested in having in terms of sort of liberal self-congratulation and white guilt.  Let us explore a little bit the relationship between Rachel and Quinn because they love each other they hate each other they got matching tattoos...   Oh my God the tattoo.  ...That are semi-profane. What is interesting to you about this particular female relationship?  Well you know as a woman who is sort of a workaholic and also an overachiever I feel like I have spent most of my life at work. And I just do not see a lot of those relationships talked about on TV - like women really talking about their jobs and their relationships with other women at work. And I - it is interesting in season two we had a couple new writers come in and I kind of had to figure out a rule of thumb to help calibrate some of - the way the dialogue is written for these characters. And the reference that I found that worked the best was saying just make sure you write them like Jesse and Walt from Breaking Bad...  Nice.  ...As opposed to Sabrina and Blair from Gossip Girl. And when I took apart that rule of thumb and was like what is it that I am really saying I am just saying that like the things that Quinn and Rachel talk about are power efficacy strategy winning. They do not trade in emotion and they do not talk about guys. I mean if they talk about them it is just sort of like a passing...  ...Objectifying yeah.  Yeah.  Who is a guy on the show who you like and respect a character?  I love the producer Jay one of the black producers on the show.    I did not think I had a line. But it turns out derailing a strong black woman's education that is it.   Seriously we are making a huge statement just by having a black suitor. So if we have to sacrifice a few people along the way for the greater good so be it.   Yeah you are right. We are like the Aztecs or Hitler.  Is he the moral center?  You know in season two I think he kind of is. He is hitting a glass ceiling. And one of his big frustrations is that Rachel is rising through the ranks like helium and he just keeps staying exactly where he is. And another sort of idea that I am pretty fascinated with is just the way that racism and sexism perpetuates itself like because people tend to relate to and promote people that look like them or feel like them. And especially with Rachel coming in with a black suitor and taking all the credit for it and then mangling it terribly it is a really rich place to play this year because Jay sort of has found his line in the sand ethically. And he is a little bit the moral center of the show this year.  Do believe in true love?  Oh my God I totally do believe in true love.  You do?  I am like a ridiculous romantic. I like read Edith Wharton. I totally believe in love. I believe in humanity. I believe in hope and all of these things. But I think I also just have had some pretty eye-opening experiences in the world and I think that our show tries to take a look at things with pretty open eyes.  Sarah Gertrude Shapiro is the co-creator of Unreal. Sarah thanks so much for talking with us.  Thanks for having me. 