 This is Weekend Edition from NPR News. I am Jacki Lyden.   This is a story that begins on a winter's day in Brooklyn and ends in the Judean foothills of Israel. I was sitting in my neighborhood cafe last December. It was crowded and I was sharing table space with an interesting- looking young woman with wild blonde hair. I did not want to interrupt. And then it happened I spilled my coffee on some papers she was grading. I looked down and heard myself say is not that Aramaic? And it was.  A friend of Aramaic is a friend of mine.   But it is not that hard. It is the lingua franca of the Middle East historically.  Sure absolutely especially after the Achaemenid Empire...  It turned out that her name is Karen Stern an archaeologist and assistant professor in the history department at Brooklyn College.  I actually always tell my students - I always encourage them to study Aramaic because once you understand how to read Aramaic you can read Phoenician you can read Ugaritic you can read Biblical Hebrew. I always call it the little black dress of Semitic languages.  Karen Stern told me she was collecting Aramaic graffiti. Aramaic is one of the roots of modern Hebrew and it is found in Jewish tombs in Israel in what would then have been Roman Palestine. Tomb graffiti from before the time of Christ? This I had to see.   In May I met Karen Stern in the Old City of Jerusalem and we went up to the southern Galilee where she is doing her research on tomb graffiti. We visited one of Israel's most historically rich burial sites called Beit She'arim a national park dating back to the first century B.C. Today it is a necropolis or city of the dead.  It is amazing that what seems to just be a series of hills or fields is actually covering over the largest concentration of burials from the Roman and early Byzantine periods in the entire region.  The park's manager who would love to see it become a Unesco world heritage site is Revital Weiss.  So Jewish people came here from all over the ancient world. We have a burial place of the chairman of the Lebanon community from Syria. The farthest one is from Yemen.  You can see that international quality in the more than 30 excavated catacombs in this Jewish city of the dead. Revital Weiss leads the way to the gray rock tombs cut into the chalky slopes of the hills to a burial chamber called the Cave of Coffins.  The custom of burying people in a sarcophagus here was copied. It is not a Jewish custom. The Jewish custom is to bury...  In the ground.  ...in the ground. So Jewish people were influenced by the culture of the Romans those days. They believed that if they will behave like the Romans talk like the Romans call themselves in the names of Romans they will live better life.  Of course people had many hopes for their afterlife - and many fears. That is precisely what Karen Stern is focusing on with this graffiti. We descended into the Cave of Coffins.  They cluster where oils lamps were stuck in the wall.  A lot of times when you see the lamp marks you will see soot around it. You will see sort of a darkened area because again they used the oil lamps here to light as people entered.  As ubiquitous as Aramaic is in the Ancient Middle East ancient Greek is also common. Karen Stern pointed over our heads to two tiny Greek inscriptions. My first graffiti.  These are both in Greek. This one says Take courage holy parents of Pharcitae udes adonitas. So take courage holy parents or fathers no one is immortal. So the dead who are being brought in to the catacomb they should not feel bad that they are particularly weak just because they have passed away. And then this message over here says good luck on your resurrection.  Good luck on your resurrection - you can see that inscription on our website.  Resurrection is not in Jewish tradition actually. It is very uncommon for Jewish tradition.  Emma Mayyan is an art historian and Byzantine scholar at the University of Haifa. She is teamed up with Karen Stern.  But if you turn the corner here there is actually a menorah.  And just for people who might not know the menorah is the symbol of light of constancy faith.  From the temple after the destruction of the temple it became a symbol of Judaism. And this is how we know that it is Jewish.  The tiny menorahs are scattered through the tombs. Karen's husband Ezra Gabbay born in Jerusalem studied Aramaic as a boy. He reads us a curse against tomb robbers.  . Anyone who shall open this burial with the person who lies therein shall die in a unfortunate end.  Either the grave robbers were illiterate or they did not really care because the tombs are bare except for the writing - yet they are alive.   Standing alone in these tombs especially in a tomb decorated with as many little figures and menorahs and lines as this one is you almost get the feeling that you can hear people talking sleeping that you can hear people who were buried here who were entombed here. And it is a quiet and pleasant feeling.   When we left Beit She'arim I got a sense of the graffiti of the ancient world as a giant Facebook page written in ancient languages. Before you dismiss that as a totally lightweight thought let us listen to the head of the classics department at Tel Aviv University Jonathan Price.  Many cultures who lived in this area were graphomaniacal - that is they just wrote everything. They recorded their personal lives they recorded their public lives empires recorded themselves there were actually reactions to empire there are personal letters there are public declarations - everything. So I think that in this part of the world at that time it was not only hyperlinguistic but it was also intensely literate.  Price has reviewed Karen Stern's paper called Graffiti as Gift - referring to the past of course. Graffiti he says adds a spontaneous verbal dimension to the historical record.   I brought the ladder and also some ropes.  It is another day in our search for what might be called Writers of the Lost Ark. Only this time we are south of Jerusalem.  We are in the Judean foothills - in the gently rolling hills - and you can see the Mediterranean maquis.  Boaz Zissu is a rugged man in his early 40s. He twists and turns our jeep off the road. A Bedouin rides past on a donkey and for a moment the world looks as it must have in the time of Christ. In this Mediterranean landscape Boaz Zissu is looking for a certain fig tree. Figs were planted by tombs so that ancient mourners had something to eat.   And looking at nothing but the high desert and scrub Boaz Zissu has found his cave which he has not seen since 1998.   The archaeologist who consulted his maps shoves a spindly 25-foot-long steel ladder past the fig branches into a Byzantine quarry. At the bottom is the mouth of the cave. We descend very carefully.  So now we are in the vestibule. You see a small opening easy to block. And now your goal is to find the graffiti. Where are the graffiti?   Who is going to look for the graffiti?  Need a treasure map Karen?   You are finding it I think.  Yeah.  Tiny little scratchings. Is that Greek?  Mm-hmm.  Wow. I need to write this down.  I do not know how you found that Karen. I could have looked all day.  If it were an  long then I imagined here a secret. But it is not a secret. It would be like a ...  Right right right.  And Boaz Zissu admits when he was here 14 years earlier he never saw it.  You know that the original excavator missed it.  Well I do not remember seeing this in the publication.   You just found something Boaz missed.  I think that we should leave him here to finish his homework.  This is exciting.  Congratulations. What a moment. We are so proud to be here with you. This is so exciting.  It is exciting.   Karen Stern takes notes on her find. I want her to read the inscription out loud but the letters are scrambled she says. Some of them in Greek say Theos - T-H-E-O-S or God backwards - to make a magical spell. In the ancient world faith and magic intermingled.  Today we would sort of divide it between something like magic or science or religion. And I think in the ancient world all of those categories - medicine too - all those categories overlapped. Here it is right?   It is something like a fishbone...  In Beit She'arim in the north of Israel and in the Judean foothills in the south we would been seeing little designs in the tombs that looked frankly something like those dream catchers American Indians weave. And we both wondered what they could be. Karen said she had a crackpot theory.  They could possibly be placed like nets to keep the dead in.  The bad spirits.  And the bad spirits out.  Yeah exactly. It is a multipurpose.  Yeah. Or you want to keep the bad spirits here because you do not want them in the settlement.  Right. So that is what I think the - at first I was thinking about protection of the dead. But then when you think about this more - right - you want to keep the dead inside. You do not want them wandering about and doing bad things.  No you sure do not. You just want to record them - their messages of hope encouragement human spirit - their voices no longer so very very silent.   To see pictures of our exploration of tomb graffiti in Israel go to our website NPR.org 