 President Obama visited the Standing Rock Sioux Reservation yesterday on the border between North and South Dakota. At a celebration honoring Native American veterans he quoted the tribe's best-known member - Chief Sitting Bull.   He said let us put our minds together to see what we can build for our children.   The president then emphasized his commitment to improving education and creating economic opportunities in Indian Country. Standing Rock has many of the same concerns as reservations across the country including a lack of jobs health care alcoholism and suicide. Scott Davis is the director of the North Dakota Indian Affairs Commission and a member of the Standing Rock Sioux tribe. He joins us now from Cannonball North Dakota. Mr. Davis thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you very much. It is a pleasure joining you today.  What does a visit from the president mean to you and other folks there at Standing Rock?  Well from - I think from a leadership perspective you know it is respect to our tribal leaders. I think for our youth obviously it is hope. I think it is inspiring our young that someday maybe they could be a president. You know our elders - probably the most important - you can just see it in their eyes the sparkle the excitement.  I gather the president met with a group of Native American youth . Can you give us an idea of what they said to him about their concerns and challenges growing up on the reservation?  Sure. You Know I can only speculate what was talked about but I think what the president wants to know is what is it like growing up here. You know are you going to college? Do you have a father in your home? Do you talk your native language? Do you play sports? We have such talented athletes in our tribe. So yeah I am sure they had a good conversation.  President Obama announced a plan to overhaul the Bureau of Indian Education. What would you like to see done there Mr. Davis?  We all agree that it is time for our tribe to take over education systems - run it teach it the way we want to be taught which I ultimately believe is going to create higher graduation rates retention rates and more college graduates. So it is really the foundation of self-determination.  Mr. Davis I want to take the opportunity for you to tell us just two or three things you think can be done over the next - let us say two years - to make life there better.  Well two things for sure is you know the tribe took a huge step last week in passing the UCC code the Uniform Commercial Code. You know what that means is it created a huge open economic door - the beginnings of tracking more outsider businesses investments for native-owned entrepreneurs. The second part I think is the Affordable Health Care Act. For us as Native Americans I feel that it is a true fulfillment you know. When we gave up our lands decades ago there was an agreement made - treaty. It is a law that one fulfillment would be health care.  Do you hope the kids you hope to send off to the college will come back to Standing Rock?  Well that is always - that is kind of been instilled in our DNA if you will. The same message as always. You know go away get your education. Come back and help your people. I think we are at a time where we are graduating enormous numbers of doctors and lawyers professionals - something I hope our ancestors I am sure are looking down upon us and smiling knowing that change is coming.  Scott Davis is director of the North Dakota Indian Affairs Commission. Mr. Davis thanks so much for speaking with us.  Thank you very much sir. 