 The story is as old as the amphitheater Girl meets boy from a rich and powerful family boy marries girl man cheats gets caught woman divorces man woman gets even. The new novel Queen Takes King is the latest variation on that theme from Gigi Levangie Grazer. Her first book The Starter Wife became a TV series. A second novel Maneater became a Lifetime mini-series. But this new one moves from the hills of Hollywood to the avenues of Manhattan. Gigi is in our New York bureau. Welcome to the program. Ms.  Thank you. Thank you for having me.  Why move location from the known territory of Beverly Hills to Park Avenue? Ms.  You know I was - well let me just be frank I was tired of Hollywood.  Ms.  I was just tired of it. After I had written two books about - actually three. My first one was Rescue Me but that was a more serious take on coming-of-age story in Los Angeles. My second and third one dealt with Hollywood and its environs. And when I was done with those I felt that I was done with Hollywood itself in that you know I would go to a 500-person valet party for Easter and I could not write about it anymore. I just did not have it in me.  Exhausted. Ms.  The satire was exhausted and so it was stone-cold reality and I was finished. And we moved my husband and I - my husband at the time moved to New York. He had to make a movie and I thought why not choose this time to delve into New York and society there?  You moved to New York with your then-husband. Your then-husband is Hollywood producer Brian Grazer. Ms.  I call Brian I love him I call him my was-band because I think that sounds nicer.  Oh. Ms.  Does not it?  That is what you have your character calling her husband the was-band. Ms.  Yes. The was-band not the ex.  Okay. Now go back to the time when it was not as - you were not as nice to one another and you began to write when you broke up. Was there a line between personal and private? Were there things about that relationship that you considered verboten as inspiration for fiction? Ms.  Oh that is so interesting because people assume that I wrote The Starter Wife when we had trouble in our marriage and that was not true at all. Because as you know The Starter Wife is about divorce in Los Angeles -powerful couple breaking up. This was long before we had any - I mean I am sure there was an inkling probably more on his side than mine but I did not know that we were going to break up. I just had this character in mind. And I guess I always did. I would have girls nights at my house and I could see that other women really wanted to be in the position of the producer's wife. I mean I loved Brian but I could see what they wanted. They wanted the setting the garden the staff you know.  Ms.  I was not really - that is not my orientation. I feel that it is much more important to do what you want in life to find your own way. I come from generations of women who worked and in some cases the husbands did not. So I come from a very powerful line of a matriarchichal society. So I do not relate - I did not relate to Brian on that level.  Do you see this as a product almost? It is kind of a guilty pleasure a little like soap opera and paperback romance novels. Even this Queen Takes King I mean it is you know you are reading it and it is like you know it keeps going it is a page turner. Ms.  Well with all my books except for probably Maneater Maneater I just knew this character and I had seen her - I had seen her in a composite of different women in L.A. I saw how they went after men. And one woman I know had already planned her wedding without the groom. And then she picked the groom to fit what she had in mind for the wedding. And I had not grown up with people like this. I mean I grew up you know sort of quote-unquote On the wrong side of the tracks. And in fact my father would not even let me step foot in Beverly Hills because he thought I would be arrested because I did not have any money I was not wearing the right kind of clothes and that sort of thing. Beverly Hills terrified me. I feel like I am a person and still I have issues with it who is on the outside looking in. And so it is not just a group of you know a gaggle of girls with their designer dresses and everything. What makes them tick that is what interests me. I mean I am a girl. I have been reading - I read Dear Abby from the time I was six years old. People's problems interest me human interest stories consume me. It is not just the action it is what happened beforehand. Especially with Queen Takes King I wanted to write a love story about the nature of love and how you can fall in love and it changes everything in your life. And in fact there are chemical changes in your brain that happen when you are in a state of infatuation. It is a drugged state and I wanted to write about that. But of course what happens with me - and this is what happens in my life - is I cannot help but make it funny and that is just who I am. I mean I can have -there have been tragic moments in my life and if I wait long enough it becomes a joke and that is how I deal with life.  Gigi Levangie Grazer's new novel is Queen Takes King. It is published by Simon and Shuster and she joined us from New York. Thanks a lot. Good luck with this. Ms.  Thank you so much Liane. 