 Summer officially began this past week and for musicians who may have spent the winter in dark rehearsal studios or street players who toiled away in cold damp subway corridors this is the season to play outside al fresco.   This summer on going to bring you some audio postcards from musicians outdoors. And we begin this week by listening in on some bluegrass players who gather every couple of weeks in Lyon Park in Arlington Virginia. They are members of the Capitol Area Bluegrass and Old-time Music Association. And their president is Bruce Day.  Playing outdoors seems to be a very important part of this kind of music. It is just nice to have the fresh air and the bugs biting and the birds tweeting and sharing it in the open air is much different than being canned in the building. In the winter we play inside and it is not as much fun.   My name is Mike Mears and I play the banjo and fiddle. I was president before Bruce there was. We have had up to 200 members at one point. The number of people that show up are a function of the weather and the Redskins games.   Tara Linhart on mandolin. I teach music lessons normally. And I try to get a lot of my students to come because you can actually - it is like you know music's a language and bluegrass is a really like user-friendly language. So it is like you know you study it just like you are studying German or French or something. But you need to actually try practicing speaking it you know.   Bill Taylor I am playing the bass. I mean I learned here. Thirty years ago I learned to play bass just by being here - here in the park yeah. It is just a place where everybody can get together and pick. You have got seasoned musicians that is played for 20 30 years and you got new guys that is out here that is only been you know this is the first time they have picked up an instrument. But nobody runs anybody off.   Bill Thompson mandolin. And I just want to say that this is Americana. You know this is an important part of the musician history of America. And this old-timey mountain music and it is great that people are still enjoying it playing it and right here in Washington D.C.   Well thanks for jamming. You sounded great.  Always a pleasure.  Members of the Capitol Area Bluegrass and Old-time Music Association play every couple weeks under the tall trees at Lyon Park in Arlington Virginia. This is NPR News. 