 President Trump is heading to the U.K. this week for a state visit. And even before arriving he has stirred controversy. He used the word nasty when referring to Meghan Markle the Duchess of Sussex and has weighed in on who he believes should succeed outgoing Prime Minister Theresa May who is stepping down in a few days. Joining us now from London is Dominic Waghorn diplomatic editor at Sky News. Welcome.  Thank you very much.  So this is obviously a very delicate time in the U.K. with Brexit stalled and the leadership of the country being decided. Enter our president. He said that he believes Boris Johnson the former mayor of London and a controversial figure should be the next PM. How are his opinions being received?  Yeah. I mean and also a man who - before Donald Trump's election Boris Johnson said that Donald Trump showed such stupefying ignorance he was unfit for office. And clearly relations between the two men have improved since then. Donald Trump sees Boris Johnson and Nigel Farage the leader of the Brexit Party that stormed to success in the recent European elections as kindred spirits. And certainly Boris Johnson seems to have been given permission to meet him next week on the sidelines of this visit. And I think you know that is certainly one reason why the government - Downing Street - is apprehensive about this visit. But I think certainly the people are nervous in London as any host is I guess ahead of a Donald Trump visit.  Yeah. Is it being viewed as meddling though? I mean expressing an opinion is not common for the leader of one nation to do.  No it certainly would be unacceptable for any other president. But this is a president that the people have got used to living by different rules. So I think for most British people looking on they are wondering why he is been invited. He is a very unpopular man a very unpopular president. But there will be huge protests as there were last time. We will have the same Donald Trump blimp - that big inflatable that shows Donald Trump as a baby - floating over London.  In diapers.  In diapers exactly. But the London police have not quite given the final say-so on that yet. But you know there will be a lot of protests. That may upset the president. It is controversial but the government insists and the diplomats insist that he is a vital part of nurturing a special relationship which they insist is very good for the U.K.  Because he is not only going he is getting literally the royal treatment.  Yeah. I mean this is as good as it gets if you are a head of state coming to the U.K. It is bells and whistles. It is pomp and circumstance. It is a banquet at Buckingham Palace although that seems to be being boycotted by Meghan Markle the Duchess of Sussex also by Jeremy Corbyn the leader of the - of Her Majesty's Opposition and Vince Cable the leader of the Liberal Democrats. But I do not think that is going to take the gloss off it too much for Donald Trump. He is someone who has made it very clear this is what he wants and we are expecting him to look like he is lapping it up.  Let us talk about Meghan Markle who is originally American. She is no fan of Trump and she is skipping the events in his honor. Has there been any response from the palace about his nasty comment which was we should say in response to President Trump being informed that Meghan Markle had called him a misogynist back when she was an actress?  Yeah I do not think there is been a response to it yet - not that I have seen. And I guess you know it puts a cloud on it. The special relationship was given a boost by the birth of Meghan's and Prince Harry's baby. And that was seen as sort of a good omen ahead of this visit unfortunately now is being obviously overshadowed by what Donald Trump has said. That may be a prelude to what he may say about other people here. And I think the concern is that Donald Trump will use this and kind of abuse the invitation. He will be given all the kind of welcome that he can expect in a royal visit. But is he going to return the favor or is he going to bring up these tricky diplomatic issues which are kind of flies in the ointment in the relationship as it currently stands?  So Dominic what I am hearing from you is that there is a great deal of apprehension from the actual government that invited him. So is anything likely to come out of this trip that might be beneficial to the United Kingdom?  Well if you talk to diplomats that - and their answer is that these state visits are hugely important. But in the background there is a lot of sort of diplomatic nitty-gritty going on. There is a lot of business deals being made. And the hope is that this continues to cement that relationship which we are told is greater than the sort of personal relationship currently in the heart of it. Well I would not say that is a given. We may end up at the end of this visit with egg all over the government's face Donald Trump speaking well away from the script and embarrassing its host. Or he may just enjoy the ride and for this time behave himself.  Dominic Waghorn diplomatic editor at Sky News thank you very much.  Pleasure. 