 This is PR News. I am Scott Simon. And I wait all week to say Time for sports.   Finals time - on ice and hardwood. The Heat and the Spurs are tied at two games each in the NBA Finals. And tonight the Chicago Blackhawks take on the Boston Bruins in Game 2 of hockey's Stanley Cup. Howard Bryant of ESPN.com and ESPN the Magazine joins us from the studios of New England Public Radio in Amherst. Howard thanks for being with us.  You know Scott you are a bit too cheerful right now for my taste.    Just right now?  I know what it is. Chicago's...  It is the Blackhawks yes.  That is right. Chicago's Simon one Boston's Bryant zero. But it is a seven-game series not a one-game series.  Well...  However I got to say it took 87 years for these two teams to play in the Stanley Cup and everybody's a winner for it because Game 1 was absolutely terrific. And if the next six are like this...  The best pro hockey game I have ever seen. A couple of Olympic games maybe a little bit better. But this was great - and Corey Crawford Chicago's goalie was like Sears Tower in that goal in overtime.  Standing on his head making saves left and right. And that is the difference in hockey. I always say that there are some sports where you can be rewarded. The better team wins. Basketball best team usually wins tennis best player wins. Soccer and hockey you can dominate a game - or you can control sections of the game - and come up with nothing. And that is what happened to the Bruins in the overtime. They were the better team in the overtime. I think Chicago was the better team during regulation and then you win on a deflection. Fluky game but unbelievable action.  So the Bruins have all the equipment to come back roaring right?  No absolutely. I think outside of the drama of the Bruins blowing two two-goal leads which is going to hurt Chicago's a better team. Chicago is a tough team. They are fast even though Jonathan Toews the captain only has one goal in 18 playoff games. They are still - I mean they are a great team. But the Bruins are a tough tough team. And they did not lose anything really. Chicago's supposed to win game one at home. They are really supposed to win game two at home. And then the series will - you know most playoff series really begin when a home team loses. And so if the Bruins get one tonight then they go back to Boston with the advantage because they have got home games. So this thing is far from over and it is just outstanding to see. Also somebody must be smiling on the NHL for locking out the players for having a work stoppage and then coming back with this kind of playoff.  Yeah. And so that syndrome where the teams go back and forth and it really begins if somebody loses at home is that what is happening with San Antonio and Miami in the NBA Finals?  Well absolutely and I think that obviously tomorrow night's game five is a huge game. I stay where I have always stayed which is trying hard not to hit the snooze button on this series simply because the Miami Heat have not lost a must-win game in almost two seasons. And San Antonio has got to win tomorrow night otherwise I think Miami's going to close it out. The one good thing about this series - there have been many good things about the series - but one thing I love about it is that both Indiana and San Antonio are good teams. It is not like LeBron James is going to walk out there and win every single game by himself or that it is not going to be competitive. The games are competitive but Miami is just a little bit better because once again in basketball when you have got that X factor which is the best player on the planet usually he is the difference maker. And now Dwyane Wade suddenly who looked like he was 85 years old the last few games now he is back and he had a great game. So it is a best of three series and let us see what happens.  I have seen a few minutes of this series where the best player in the world seems to be the flying Frenchman.  Tony Parker.  Tony Parker yeah.  Yes who is got a bad hamstring and that is going to be another factor that San Antonio's going to have to overcome. But once again best of three series. It would not surprise me if San Antonio won but Miami is definitely still the favorite.  Howard Bryant of ESPN.com and ESPN the Magazine. Thanks so much Howard. Take care.  Stop gloating. Bruins.   Hawks Hawks. 