 We will spend the first part of this hour trying to wrap our heads around the political chaos we are witnessing. In a few minutes we will hear the latest from London on their electoral surprise and the pickle that is put Prime Minister Theresa May in. First Washington - and for that we turn to NPR political correspondent Mara Liasson. Hey Mara.  Hi Lulu.  OK. So we had former FBI Director James Comey's testimony on Thursday. And he certainly alluded to more to know about Attorney General Jeff Sessions' contact with the Russians. And now Sessions is going to testify in front of that same intelligence committee on Tuesday. What do we know?  We know Sessions was supposed to testify before the appropriations committee this week. But in light of all the questions about his role with Russia he is now going to testify before the Senate intelligence committee probably behind closed doors. He will be asked about his own contacts with the Russians and why they were not disclosed. He will be asked about what happened when President Trump cleared the room on Valentine's Day to talk to FBI Director Comey alone. He was there at that meeting. He will also be asked about why - if he had recused himself from the Russia investigation why was he involved in firing the guy who was conducting the Russia investigation?  All right Mara elsewhere in the program today Senator Ron Wyden said secrecy behind closed-door testimony has no national security value and it is only being used to protect the administration. What is your view?  Well there are just classified matters that people cannot discuss in public. And that is why the committees go behind closed doors.  All right. Donald Trump of course has tried to make the case that this is all done and dusted. But it is clearly not. He would already be in much more trouble fairly or not if he did not have the Republican majorities in the House and Senate. So how are congressional Republicans swallowing things right now?  Well Republicans on Capitol Hill might not have the same bravado as the president claiming total and complete vindication. But they do think that on the narrow legal matter of obstruction they think the president is on firm ground as Trump himself said. He denied what Jim Comey says he said. But he said even if I did say that quote there would be nothing wrong. As Lindsey Graham the senator from South Carolina described it he said Trump might be rude and crude but not criminal. But Republicans still are worried about where special counsel Mueller's investigation goes next. Comey made it clear that if the president was not under investigation for collusion he probably is now under investigation for obstruction. And they are also worried about how the president is handling this. So much of these problems were caused by his own actions. In his frantic effort to get out from under the cloud of the Russia investigation he now put himself under a cloud for possible abuse of power and maybe obstruction.  Has any congressional Republican whispered to you what they think the breaking point could look like?  That is the big question everyone is talking about this week. No matter what the White House says this was a bad bad week for the president. The FBI director under oath accused him of lying. And what Republicans say is that as long as his numbers stay in the high 30s or low 40s he is probably OK. But if they see those numbers slip into the mid-30s - if his base stops drifting away that will be a big big problem.  Just briefly - we only have a few seconds. Republicans are advancing some agenda items right?  They are. The agenda might be behind schedule. It is not hopelessly stalled. The House took steps to undo the Obama-era Dodd-Frank banking reforms last week. And in the Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell appears to be making progress on an Obamacare replacement bill. So Trump's troubles have not rendered his party totally ineffective.  NPR national political correspondent Mara Liasson. Mara thanks.  Thank you. 