 Last week Hillary Clinton made history.   We have reached a milestone. The first time...   The first time in our nation's history that a woman will be a major party's nominee.  It is an historic moment. But how much of it is a factor in this election? We spoke with two pollsters who have been tracking voter reactions to Clinton Democratic strategist Margie Omero and Republican Kellyanne Conway. We started by asking Conway if she thinks Americans are prepared to elect a woman president.  Well the question around Hillary Clinton is not is the country ready for a woman president but that woman president. The country has been ready for a long time for a female president. But it is absolutely impossible to divorce Hillary Clinton from Hillary Clinton's gender in many voters' minds.  So what do you think Margie? How do you see it?  Well it is challenging to measure bias. I mean people have biases that they do not want to volunteer and they have biases they do not even know about. And that makes this question of are people ready to vote for a woman challenging to ask because people are not quite sure how to answer it. You have to glean it from people's responses. And as Kellyanne points out it is not always easy to separate out the question of what woman president you are talking about.  One of the special things about this election of course is having a woman running at all the first time. That is a very big deal. But having a woman running against Donald Trump is also a very big deal I think. He is producing a gender gap that is unusually large. How does that change the equation?   Well it is a real challenge for Republicans who after the last presidential election said we need to focus on reaching out to women and to minorities and to younger voters. And in all - a lot of those respects Trump is really not following through with that commitment that a lot of Republican folks really rightly had. And as a result he does very badly with women. I mean he - you know married women's a group that actually went for Mitt Romney by seven points and even despite that he still came up short. But yet in the last poll that I saw among married women Trump was down 12 points against Clinton. So if he cannot make up that ground he is going to have to make up the ground somewhere else. And that is going to be a very very high hurdle for him.  What do you think Kellyanne? Is this gender gap going to destroy his chances do you think?  Let us talk about the gender gap Hillary Clinton has can we? I mean men do not like - they dislike her. They distrust her. And they do not want her to be commander-in-chief. George W. Bush lost women in two consecutive elections to Al Gore and John Kerry neither of whom had a particularly uplifting compelling message. But he lost women twice and won the White House twice. The fact is the gender gap has always existed. And Hillary Clinton has a really hard time with men. And Donald Trump is losing to her among women right now. So it is not like we are encountering something new to these two candidates. One thing that is of fascination to me is where do all - I mean literally the millions of women who voted for Bernie Sanders go now? There is very little indication that they are all going to march towards Hillary Clinton. They could have done that all along. It took real courage to vote against her in the first place.  What about Elizabeth Warren? There are people who have actually suggested that she might run with Hillary Clinton on the ticket. But would it work? I mean do you think the Democrats would actually nominate two women?  I think you would have a lot of folks who would be really excited. I do not know how you test if America's ready for two women. I mean you know certainly we have been ready for two men for a really long time. Nobody asked that question. So I think the only way we know if we are ready is if it happens. If we wait until some moment comes when we think we are ready then we have waited too long.  Kellyanne do you think that would be a ticket you would like to be running against?  Yes it is. The asset of putting in Elizabeth Warren on the ticket is she is a proxy for Bernie Sanders. They come from same wing of what is becoming increasingly liberal progressive way outside the mainstream Democratic Party. The liability for Hillary Clinton in choosing Elizabeth Warren is very easy to see. She could be easily upstaged by Elizabeth Warren. And Hillary Clinton does not like to be upstaged.  Now since Clinton ran against Obama in 2008 do you think the polling shows any kind of a change in the attitude of voters and their readiness to accept a woman president? Has Obama changed anything do you think?  I do not know if we can really measure that. I mean that - again it is hard for people to report that properly or honestly or even know their - how they feel about it. I do think that the more we have women running for office of both parties it demonstrates readiness. And it also encourages women and shows to men of both sides that there are lots of different faces possible for elected office. I do not know if it is because of Obama. I do not know if it is because time has passed. But it just seems like a good development.  Kellyanne?  Even someone like me who does not support his policies was incredibly moved when Senator Obama was elected president of the United States. I thought it was a wonderful moment and milestone for this country. In some ways it is very difficult to see polling where you can parallel the elevation and election of an African-American to the presidency and a woman. And I think that is been almost a miscalculation by the Clinton forces. It certainly was a miscalculation in 2008 when I guess they figured hey there are more women than African-Americans in the Democratic primary therefore we will have more votes. I mean that is just not the way people look at themselves. And of course he won. And I think he won by appealing to everyone within his party. And it is not clear - in fact it is very unclear that Secretary Clinton has been able to do the same.  Kellyanne Conway Margie Omero thank you very much.  Thank you.  Thank you. 