 Technology is making a lot of things quieter. A dozen years ago we recorded a lot of our interviews on magnetic tape.  This is WEEKEND EDITION. I am Liane Hansen.  Rolling the reels back and forth at high speed made a memorable whirr and human voices sound like chipmunks. You would hear the thunk of buttons. These days people write words on surfaces. No more click and clatter from typewriter keys. Even the scratch of a pen is getting a little faint. A group of graduate students hear sounds disappearing from our world and they have created a website called The Museum of Endangered Sounds.  We are sorry. Your call cannot be completed as dialed.  It preserves the sound of everything from the ring of Nokia phones...   ...to dot matrix printers...   ...to a VCR accepting a VHS tape in its bay.   Two of the website's creators Marybeth Ledesma and Phil Hadad told us of the forgotten sounds they remember most fondly.  I really love the 56k dialup modem.   I just remember staring at that thing and listening to those sounds and wondering what is going on.   You know everyone kind of had a little frustration I think at times with that. But now we sort of can look back at it and laugh and say you know hey we used to have to wait to get online.  My favorite is the cassette rewinding.   Because it reminds me of when I was growing up how I used to record my favorite songs on the radio that would play at night. And that was like the old way of making your own mix tape.  What is important about these sounds?  That they are disappearing first off.  Yeah.  And we kind of arrived at this idea in making this site that it is the memories that're tied to the sounds for most people.  So we put the question to you. What obsolete sounds conjure up your fondest memories?   Hi my name is Angie Jajelo and I am in South Deerfield Massachusetts. The tick-swish of my grandmother's rotary phone. That is exactly the sound. Can you imagine how long it used to take us? I mean I sort of miss having that moment to compose my thoughts. You could actually frame that message in the time it was going to take you to dial that number.   My name is Carla Blazek. I am a photographer in Spokane Washington. For me the typewriter because I mean ever since I was like 5 years old I would write books on the little old Remington that we had. Especially with the old typewriters you had to put some force into your fingers.   Oh the ding. Oh I would forgotten about that sound. There is nostalgia right there.   Some of the sounds we do not hear so much anymore. This is NPR News. 