 Lordy it is been a busy week here in D.C. but of course the real news headline this week is the puzzle.   Joining me as always is Will Shortz. He is puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master. Will good morning.  Good morning Lulu.  OK remind us of last week's challenge.  Yes it came from listener David Herbst of Inverness Calif. I said name a well-known U.S. city with two words in its name. The second word sounds like the last name of a famous 20th century writer. And the first word is something found in virtually every work of this author. Name the city and the author. Well the city is Corpus Christi Texas. That last word Christi sounds like the Christie of Agatha Christie. And the first word is corpus which is a body especially a dead one so Corpus Christi. And I tell you a lot of solvers sent in an interesting alternative St. Louis referring to C.S. Lewis who wrote religious works. And some of his works may have included saints so it was interesting.  All right. This week we got more than 850 responses. And our winner is Muriel Kranowski of Blacksburg Va. Congratulations.  Thank you.  So Muriel how did you come up with the answer?  It just came to me immediately as soon as I heard it.   You heard it in your head.  Yeah.  All right what do you do in Blacksburg?  I am retired. I used to be a computer programmer at Virginia Tech.  Awesome. We always like to hear women in programming. And do you have a question for Will?  I do. The New York Times crossword puzzle fairly often includes the names of living people and the clues are the solutions. Do people lobby you to be included in a puzzle? And do you ever accede to those requests?  Will include me.  I will think about that Lulu.  So the answer's yes.  Last week Liane Hansen had her name in the puzzle but she did not have to lobby me. It has happened a couple of times where sort of semi-famous actors or somebody send me their resumes which I think is hilarious. But no I do not take lobbying for appearances in the crossword.  Oh bummer. And I thought I had an in. All right we also have a very special guest who is here too Roy Wood Jr. Hey Roy. ROY WOOD JR. How are you all?  We are awesome. How are you?  I am good. You know what? Let me go ahead and just delete this draft email that I was going to send to Will with my semi-famous resume.  Well let me say your semi-famous resume is not so semi-famous. You are of course on Comedy Central as a correspondent on The Daily Show with Trevor Noah. Do you you know play puzzles? WOOD JR. I am a Sudoku devotee of Will.  OK. WOOD JR. And I am a jigsaw puzzle guy. Those are my two things jigsaw Sudoku and video games.  Let me just ask you something. You are a comedian. Do you think there is just too much material right now? Is it just like too much? WOOD JR. It is too much of one type of material. You know it is like going to a buffet restaurant and they just go all we have is steak.  Cooked really well. WOOD JR. And it is orange. And you can help yourself to it.   All right. Muriel here is how this is going to work. Roy is your lifeline. If you need hints or help he is your man. Are you guys ready to play the puzzle?  I am.  Roy are you ready? WOOD JR. I am very prepared.  All right . That is good. Take it away.  All right Muriel and Roy. Today's puzzle is called BBC as in the British media giant. I am going to give you two words starting with B. You give me a word starting with C that can complete each of my two words to finish a compound word or a familiar two-word phrase. For example if I said Bob and Burmese you would say cat referring to a bobcat and a Burmese cat. Number one and we are starting with three-letter answers. Your first one is baseball and bottle.  Cap.  Cap is right. Number two is buzz budget.  Is that buzz?  B-U-Z-Z.  Roy you got any tips? WOOD JR. Yeah. Our administration often has done this to our budget.  .  Oh cut.  Budget cut very good.  That was a good one.  It was.  Good hint. All right. Now we are on a four-letter answers now. Bar building.  Code.  Code good. Now five-letter answers. Booster basic.  Cable.  There you go booster cable basic cable. Basketball bankruptcy.  Court.  That is it. All right now a six-letter answer. Body brownie. Six letters.  It is something that that the police are now required to wear.  Oh camera.  That is it body camera and a brownie camera. And here's your last one.  OK.  It is a seven-letter answer. Bean - B-E-A-N - and bargain.  OK. Counter.  Bean counter and bargain counter. Nice job.  Muriel you did a really great job. Thank you so much for playing the puzzle. What is your member station?  It is WVTF in Roanoke.  For playing our puzzle today you will get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin as well as puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. Thanks so much.  Oh thank you very much. It was fun.  And Roy thank you for coming on and coming by our studios too. What do you got going on this summer? WOOD JR. Oh well we will be working hard hard hard away at The Daily Show so just check us out - Comedy Central Monday through Thursdays at 11 p.m.  There you go you got your plug. All right.   Will what is the next challenge?  Yes. Consider this sentence - Benjamin the Greenpeace ombudsman in the panorama was charmed by the chinchilla fragrance. Now this sentence contains seven words of seven or more letters. They have something very unusual in common. What is it? And can you think of an eighth word with the same property? So here it is again - Benjamin the Greenpeace ombudsman in the panorama was charmed by the chinchilla fragrance. There are seven words in there with seven or more letters. They have something very unusual in common. What is it? And what is an eighth word with the same property?  Roy do you have any suggestions for this puzzle?   Good luck on that. WOOD JR. Ooh .  Ooh it is hard. When you have the answer go to our website - npr.orgpuzzle - and click on the submit your answer link just one entry per person please. Our deadline for entries is Thursday June 15 at 3 p.m. Eastern. Include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time. If you are the winner we will give you a call and you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thank you Lulu.  