 It was either a really good week for President Trump or a hugely bad one. Former head of the FBI James Comey called him a liar in three hours of sworn testimony that was intense. And Lordy it was even folksy at times. Mr. Trump returned the accusation. But he also claimed that Mr. Comey had somehow vindicated him in the investigation into Russian meddling. Let us find out what Ron Elving NPR's senior political editor and senior rock on tour thinks shall we? We are so glad Ron you can join us onstage here in Birmingham. Thanks so much.  And Scott it is so great to be here in Birmingham with you.  What did you get out of the Comey hearings?  You know I thought the most important thing that happened was that we got refocused on what the initial - initializing acts were in the entire controversy about this. And that is the Russian interference or attempted interference in our election last year. Comey talked about that quite a while. He said that there had been something like a thousand or more than a thousand different cyber attacks last year on all kinds of different government entities not just the DNC and the RNC not just the Hillary Clinton campaign but hundreds and hundreds of government and non-government agencies in an attempt to discredit our election process. And that is a pretty serious matter. And he said it ought to matter to all Americans.  What do you make of on the one hand Mr. Comey saying Lordy I hope there are tapes. And President Trump saying you will have that answer soon and saying look I am willing to go on the record and talk about this.  Presumably the president will have that opportunity. What we do not know is whether or not tapes existed. That is been rather teased as opposed to really reported. We do not really know if there were tapes. We do not even know if there is a taping system operating in the White House right now. The Obama people took it down. We know that there was one during the Nixon administration and previous administrations all the way back to Franklin Roosevelt. So it is conceivable that someone was taping that conversation. And perhaps we will someday hear that actual tape. But in the era in which we live perhaps even the evidence of a tape would be disputed.  Are we in now for an anticlimax of long careful protracted investigations?  We are going to have several months of relative silence as the investigation goes forward in a confidential way broken only of course by leaks and tweets. And as far as the leaking goes I do not expect any leaks out of Robert Mueller's team. I think that is a pretty professional outfit. And they will not be leaking. But there'ill be a lot of other people who have a notion of what is going on on the inside. And when it comes to - well let us put it this way. If you did a heat map of Washington D.C. on the basis of leaking the redest  spot would be 1600 Pennsylvania Ave.  Since we are in Alabama I want to ask about reports this week that Attorney General Sessions may have had another meeting with the enigmatic Russian ambassador who so many people can never seem to remember meeting but he sure gets around. Does that affect his status his ability to be attorney general?  It is another murky element of his status. Apparently there was an occasion when he was at the Mayflower Hotel. And that is one of those hotels - there is one in every city - where things just seem to happen. And...  Right. That was the Eliot Spitzer case.  I am afraid it was and...  Not that interesting as far as we know. But go ahead yes?  No another case where the initializing acts were important. But the point here is that he was at the Mayflower Hotel at the same time as a number of Russian officials. Now were they there to meet with each other? Jeff Sessions says no.  Does all of this just suck up a lot of oxygen in Washington D.C. and prevent Congress from doing business or concentrating on business?  It is not hard to prevent Congress from doing business.   That may be the easiest assignment anyone could have. And that is actually a fairly serious matter at this point because while it is June for the rest of us we are already heading toward the end of the year in terms of Congress. They will be around for a few weeks in June a few weeks in July a few weeks in September and then we get to the end of the fiscal year. After that it gets much more difficult to pass anything with a bare majority in the Senate. So if you want to talk about health care or keeping the government from shutting down or lifting the debt ceiling or rewriting the tax code or all the other things they have said that they would do by the end of September time is running out.  NPR's Ron Elving what a pleasure to have you here on the road with us. Thanks so much.  Thank you. What a pleasure to be here. Thank you all.   Excuse me Ron. That is thanks you all.  Thank you Scott. 