 This past week the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the state of Arizona did not violate federal laws that require schools to help students who do not speak read or write English. Despite the federal mandates these kids often fail to do well in school. And as NPR's Claudio Sanchez reports that raises a much bigger question.  So why have not schools figured out the best way to teach English to non-English-speaking students? That is the question. Ms.  Well you know the research certainly has in the past shown that dual-language programs are the most effective.  Nancy Rowe oversees instruction for English-language learners in Nebraska. She swears that building on a child's native language rather than discarding it has proven to be the best way to help kids make the transition to English. But that is neither here nor there because the actual programs schools use have less to do with research than with politics and funding. In Nebraska for example Rowe says school districts cannot find dual-language teachers or pay for dual-language programs so the state has no choice but to allow them to use whatever they can afford even discredited methods like sink or swim. Ms.  In small schools sink or swim may actually occur. Nebraska is a very rural state. But to me sink or swim would be like saying to teach children to read we are just going to throw them into an environment but we never have to instruct on how to read.  Again based on the evidence says Rowe dual language or bilingual instruction is the answer. Ms.  A dual-language program allows both English and in the case of Nebraska Spanish speakers to learn both languages together.  Like many parts of the nation the non-English-speaking population in Nebraska has exploded creating enormous problems for schools that have really struggled to keep these kids from falling behind in science math history while they learn English. And that is the key experts say that they learn English so that they can function. The politically-charged question though is should the goal be to teach a child English as quickly as possible or should a child learn English more gradually while maintaining his native language so that he grows up bilingual? Mr.  There is nothing wrong with having a kid - being bilingual.  That is Rob Toonkel of U.S. English. It opposes any program that delays a child's transition to English-only classrooms. Mr.  The problem with the old form of bilingual education was that it said the kids will become English proficient at some point. It did not say three years or five years or seven years.  Which means these kids are often stuck in so-called dual language or bilingual maintenance programs indefinitely says Toonkel. Another problem he says is that schools have gotten little or no guidance - not from the states not from the federal government or the courts. All the courts have said is schools must take appropriate action to help students overcome language barriers. The result says Toonkel is a hodgepodge of ineffective poorly-funded programs and poor academic results. Low test scores low graduation rates and high dropout rates especially among Spanish-speaking students. Mr.  You are seeing it in places in the South and the Midwest suddenly going okay we have to look at these programs and figure out what is best for us because we have a lot of people moving here.  Right now the little guidance states are getting from the federal government is wrapped up in No Child Left Behind the sweeping eight-year-old law that evaluates schools based on students' academic progress and test scores. James Crawford a longtime proponent of bilingual education and president of the Institute for Language and Education says No Child Left Behind poses another hurdle for kids who do not know English. Mr.  What No Child Left Behind does is attach very high stakes to tests that are given primarily in English.  Crawford says schools are throwing kids into English-only classrooms too quickly. Mr.  Because the schools are so worried about the consequences of not making adequate yearly progress for English-language learners.  In other words says Crawford instead of adopting proven programs that help non-English-speaking students do well in school we are back to sink or swim. Mr.  It is ironic that as more and more research comes in showing the benefits of bilingual education we are seeing a political trend toward minimizing the use of bilingual education.  Why? Mr.  It is tied up with the immigration debates. It is also a reflection of the kind of culture wars that we have had.  And as long as that is the case Crawford says politics will trump the research and continue to put over five million students classified as English-language learners at risk. Claudio Sanchez NPR News. 