 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Linda Wertheimer in for Rachel Martin. And there goes our weekly toe-tapping tune that says it is time to do the puzzle.   Joining me now is WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle-master Will Shortz. Good morning Will.  Good morning Linda.  Now could you remind us what the challenge was?  Yes. Last week I said to write down five words aide A-I-D-E heart tough gelatin and emanate. And I said there is something very unusual they have in common - what is it? And to signal you have the answer provide another word that has the same property. Well the answer was each word can be transformed into a new word by moving the first letter to the end. So for example aide - most the A to the end and you get idea heart becomes earth and so on. And other words with the same property are plum dread and tangs.  And this week we got more than 900 correct answers. Our randomly selected winner is Gig Moineau from Newtown Massachusetts. Congratulations Gig.  Thank you.  I would think you would be Gigi with a last name like that.  It has been said that way. It went into my high school yearbook as Gigi.  It is a very interesting name because you got all the A-E-I-O-U. It is all there.  And I understand that Moineau is French for sparrow. And did you know that the French word for bird oiseau O-I-S-E-A-U in just six letters has all five vowels. There you go.  Well let us get to it. Are you ready to play?  Sure.  She says hesitantly.  OK. Will you are in charge.  All right Gig and Linda. For the Sunday before the Fourth of July weekend I brought a presidents puzzle. Every answer is the last name of a U.S. president which I would like you to answer from their anagrams. For example if I said shrub minus R you would say Bush. Number is frond F-R-O-N-D minus N.  Ford.  Ford is right. Number two is fatty F-A-T-T-Y minus Y.  Taft.  Um-hum. Hyenas minus N.  Hayes.  Hayes is it.  Well you are really just rolling along here.  Garnet minus E.  Grant.  Is right. Realty R-E-A-L-T-Y minus A.  Ooh I am having a tough time with this one.  Tip a canoe.  There you go.  Oh Tyler.  Excellent. yes. Amoeba A-M-O-E-B-A minus E.  Obama.  That is it. Terrace T-E-R-R-A-C-E minus E.  Carter.  That is it. Tantrum T-A-N-T-R-U-M minus T.  Truman.  That is it. Flowing F-L-O-W-I-N-G minus G.  Wilson.  That is it. Arrange A-R-R-A-N-G-E minus R.  Oh Reagan.  That is it. Royalty minus Y.  Taylor.  That is it. Diamonds D-I-A-M-O-N-D-S minus D.  Madison.  Madison is it. How about handgrip H-A-N-D-G-R-I-P minus P.  This is not arranging it in my head either.  It is a 20th century president.  Oh Harding.  Harding is it. And here's your last one narrowish N-A-R-R-O-W-I-S-H minus W. And your hint is it was the name of two presidents.  Is that Harrison?  Harrison. Nice job.  Very nice job. I am very impressed. And for playing our puzzle you will get the WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin plus puzzle books and games. You can read all about that at npr.orgpuzzle. But before we let you go what is your public radio station?  I am a listener and member of both WBUR and WGBH both in Boston.  That is fabulous. I can never decide between them either. Gig Moineau of Newtown Massachusetts. Thank you very much for playing our puzzle.  Oh thanks so much for having me. It was great fun.  So Will do you have the challenge for next week?  Yes I do. It comes from listener Al Gori of Cozy Lake New Jersey. It involves a spoonerism in which you reverse the initial consonant sounds in one phrase to make another phrase. For example if you spoonerize light rain you get right lane. So name part of a truck in two words spoonerize it and you will name something FEMA uses. What is it? So again part of a truck in two words spoonerize this phrase and you will name something that FEMA uses. What is it?  When you have the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit Your Answer link - one entry per person please. Next Thursday is the Fourth of July so our deadline will come a day early. It will be Wednesday July 3rd at 3 P.M. Eastern. Please include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time. And if you are the winner we will give you a call you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle-master Will Shortz. Will thank you.  Thanks a lot Linda. 