 Biz Stone is the co-founder and the creative director of Twitter. He joins us from the studios of On the Path Productions in San Francisco where - of course - Twitter is based. Mr. Stone thanks so much for being with us.  Oh thank you Scott for having me. It is a pleasure to be here.  You know I sent out a tweet inviting Twitter users to ask any questions. You know what question I got - by far - more than any other?  I have no idea.  Why 140 characters?  Oh right.  And?  I have a good answer for that.  OK.  Well from the very beginning we built Twitter to work over SMS or simple mobile text messaging. And so the limit internationally for text messages is 160 characters. So that meant we needed to fit all of our tweets within that limit but we also needed to reserve room for the name of the author of the tweet. So we decided to standardize on 140 characters. And that way you can read and write tweets in their entirety on any mobile phone on the planet.  And how when why did you get the idea for Twitter?  Well that is an interesting story because we were not supposed to be working on Twitter. My co-founder Evan Williams and I had left Google together and we were working on a new start-up. And that start-up was not captivating us as much as it should have been really for us to be taking a risk with other people's venture capital money.  Why do not you guys just take two weeks and build a prototype and we will see if people like it.  Well neither is ice cream should we ban ice cream - and all joy? And the answer was no. We were having fun. We were emotionally invested in this because it was something that captivated and held our interest.  And how do you get from something that was just fun - like ice cream - to something that has been credited for at least playing a role in revolutions around the world?  So how did we get here? We got here because people are basically good they are basically smart. And when given a simple tool that allows them to express that they will prove it to you every single day.  Question from Rav Fox over Twitter What is the actual business model for Twitter? I mean how do you guys make money doing this?  We are really just at the beginning of it. This is our revenue model for now and it is by - sort of invite only the partners we work with at this point. And we are going to grow that as the year goes on.  Let me ask you about whatever role Twitter may have played in a revolution in Egypt in uprisings in Iran in Libya - political movements around the world. At the same time are there people who confuse sending a tweet with actually doing something?  And I would be the first to admit that you know forwarding an email or sending a text message or writing a tweet is not exactly the same as true activism. But it is in support of activism and it helps. You know when the Berlin Wall came down I am sure there were phone calls being made. But no one said that the telephone brought down the Berlin Wall you know?  You mentioned that when you and your partner were beginning Twitter people asked yeah but what good is it? And you said What good is ice cream? Cannot you just enjoy it?   Can you at this point in your life just enjoy tweeting?  Yeah it is interesting. Tweeting for me has changed a little bit because what is happened over time is that I have switched from tweeting a lot to consuming a lot of tweets. And that is based on the idea that you do not have to build a web page to get value out of the Internet. And the same is true for Twitter. You do not need to actually tweet to get value out of Twitter. And I have learned that to be true.  Mr. Stone thanks so much.  Oh thanks so much for having me.  Biz Stone - he is the co-founder and creative director of Twitter as the site marks its fifth anniversary. 