 Going to take a deep breath because it is time for sports.   Spring has sprung. The flowers bloom but not in Chapel Hill this morning. Not only did UNC lose but Duke won. NPR's Tom Goldman joins us. Good morning Tom.  Hey there Scott.  Auburn seeded five defeated the No. 1 seeded Tar Heels and they did not have to sweat too much either did they?  They really did not. And No. 1 fan and former star and March Madness broadcaster Charles Barkley - that is a lot of titles - gets happier and happier. Auburn need...  He is also bald too. OK. But go ahead.   Four titles.  Yeah.  Auburn was the lower seed  but they were the better team surged pass the Tar Heels in the second half for a 97-80 win. But there is a lot of concerns Scott about the team's best player. Forward Chuma Okeke - his knee buckled on a drive to the hoop in the second half. He had to be helped off. And it looks like a serious injury.  And Duke won but they barely held on against Virginia Tech.  Man for a second straight game Virginia Tech had a chance to tie at the end of regulation missed a point-blank shot I mean from a foot. And Duke escaped - reminiscent of that second round game a classic versus Central Florida. Remember that when Central Florida had two chances to win at the end but the ball just would not go in? Last night Duke also had to deal with an injury issue. One of its star freshmen Cam Reddish did not play because of a sore knee. So Duke's other super freshmen including the superest  of them all Zion Williamson did just enough to move this team to the Elite Eight versus Michigan State. Scott I should say this Duke team may be a bunch of one-and-done players you know in college for a year before moving on to the pros but they are getting a college career's worth of NCAA tournament experience.  Over on the women's side UConn got a scare against UCLA did not they?  Yeah the Huskies did. UCLA's a good team and UConn held on for an 8-point win. You know there was some surprise going into the tournament that UConn was only a 2 seed. UConn had been a 1 seed every year since 2006 but the Huskies have not looked as strong as this tournament's No. 1s. Louisville Mississippi State Baylor Notre Dame those teams have - they have been cruising winning easily by double digits each game - each of their games. You know there is no real March Madness in the women's tournament - meaning major upsets in the women's tournaments so far.  Yes. March method it seems to be.  Right. Right. Exactly. But you know that just means the excitement comes in the later rounds when all of the best the 1s and the 2s get together and start to play each other.  Major League Baseball started again this week on North American soil.  Yeah.  Chicago Cubs are undefeated after two games. I am willing to call it a season right now.  Sure Scott. At 1-0 the Cubs already have a death lock on the NL Central division. Even though they are tied with Cincinnati no way the Reds keep up as Chicago builds to its inevitable 162-0 record this season right?  San Diego Padres might be for real this year - right? - not just moving to Montreal or Mexico but they might be a real factor.  The Padres are off to their best start since 2011 and here's what is to like about them. A small market team that is made it clear it wants to win now which is not always the case with major league teams these days. In fact it is a real sore point between management and the union. The players say a number of teams are not spending enough on rosters. But they are doing that in San Diego. They paid Manny Machado 300 million over 10 years. They want to win now and the Padres should be fun to watch.  NPR's Tom Goldman thanks so much.  You are welcome. 