 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Linda Wertheimer. The conflict between Libyan leader Moammar Gadhafi's forces and anti-government rebels runs from east to west along the coastal highway with much of the fighting located near the oil port of Ras Lanuf. NPR's Peter Kenyon stepped off the highway and found a glimpse of the hardship ordinary Libyans suffered under Gadhafi. He also found a wide range of views on how this rebellion could end.  The narrow strip of two-lane blacktop snaking along the Mediterranean coast between the oil port of Ras Lanuf and the Gadhafi stronghold of Sirte is the scene of explosions and gunfire charging rebels and circling fighter jets. The highway is filled with young men with guns they have rarely if ever used before and fleeing civilians.   But wander just a short way off the highway and you sometimes find a semblance of normal life laced with anxiety for the future.   Al-Ogeil is a village between the oil ports of Brega and Ras Lanuf. Normally a somnolent place its gas station has become a hub of rebel fighter activity this week especially when the rebels abandoned parts of Ras Lanuf. But just up the hill quiet prevails. On one side of a dust and sand road ramshackle stone houses are scattered in various states of disrepair. On the other side sits a neat row of unfinished new houses. Residents say construction began six years ago but they were never finished. Why not? Because Gadhafi is our leader comes the reply. A tall slender young man with wire-rimmed glasses and a knit cap with a Chicago logo ambles down the street. Thirty-year-old Mohammed Omran has never been to Chicago. He was an accountant at the oil refinery in Ras Lanuf until the artillery shells and rockets started to fly and everyone fled. When asked why so many people instantly sided with the rebels in the east Omran laughs and wonders how much time a reporter has to listen. Mr.   Life was bad beyond your imagination. Go to any small house see three families living there. For the few who had jobs the salaries were terrible. We could not build houses the government owns the land. Everyday I saw huge money being made from our oil wealth and we got nothing.  Omran said because he had an accounting degree he got hired at the refinery but most jobs went to Gadhafi supporters or foreigners. When asked if he is married he laughs displays his ring-less fingers and says how can I marry when Gadhafi's in charge? He said internal security men routinely terrorized the population especially when they got wind of a labor strike at Ras Lanuf in early  Mr.   They heard about the strike and started arresting people. There are still people from Ras Lanuf being detained in Sirte. But of course we spoke out anyway. We went on strike in august of 2009 and the local police attacked us with live fire but no one heard about it. It was a total news blackout.  Omran says Libyans want to be reunited under a new leader. But if the world does not help quickly  with a no-fly zone and weapons  he does not believe the rebels can advance further west. That opinion is shared by another young man coming up the dirt road but he has a different view on how this will all end. Mr.   Chaos civil war. There is going to be a war among the tribes. It will never calm down.  Thirty-one-year-old Salah al-Sourir has slicked-back hair dark glasses and a fedora and he brings news from Sirte the Gadhafi stronghold where some of his elite military units are based. When asked how he got here he shrugs and says it is simple Just get off the highway and use the desert roads. He has family here and he is coming to visit. Sourir says people in Sirte are convinced that the rebels are a bunch of poor young men from the east coming to take whatever material wealth they can steal from the west. He also says he doubts this country now split into a rebel-held east and Gadhafi-controlled west can be put back together again. In his view Gadhafi will just hang onto the west with its untapped oil resources and allow Libya to turn into another Somalia or Sudan. Mr.   The country is already divided. And Gadhafi is going to leave the east. He does not need it. It will never be one country again. The west is stable now it has no problems.  Sourir says he will be heading back to Sirte soon  back through the desert steering clear of Libya's highway war. Peter Kenyon NPR News. 