 And now NPR's Mara Liasson is here to get us up to speed on yesterday's voting. Good morning Mara.  Good morning Rachel.  Where do things stand?  Well we had a bunch of primaries and caucuses on the Democratic side. Bernie Sanders won the Nebraska and Kansas caucuses. That keeps his campaign alive. But Hillary Clinton won Louisiana which was the big prize of the night so she ended up winning more delegates than he did yesterday. On the Republican side there was a little setback for Donald Trump. He won Kentucky and Louisiana but Ted Cruz got more delegates last night because he won very big in Kansas and in Maine. Cruz is now less than 100 delegates behind Trump and he is clearly established himself as the alternative to Trump. Cruz is calling on Rubio and Kasich to drop out. When you look ahead the upcoming contests probably favor Trump - Michigan on Tuesday then the Ohio and Florida then - way down the road - New York and California. But we have learned a few things. Once again Republicans are more enthusiastic than Democrats - big turnout for Republicans. In Kansas for instance it was double what it was in 2012. We learned that closed primaries for Republicans only favored Cruz because Donald Trump gets a lot of his support from independents and even Democrats. Caucuses favor Cruz because he has a superior organization. We also learned that the Romney strategy suggesting that voters give Rubio and Kasich their home states in order to deny Trump more delegates has fallen on deaf ears. Cruz yesterday said he is going to compete hard in Florida and Ohio in the hopes of making Rubio and Kasich drop out so he can go one-on-one with Trump.  All right. So Trump - yesterday he skipped this scheduled speech at the CPAC the conservative convention that is held every year in Washington. He skipped it. He was out on the trail and then he held a press conference. And it seemed that he was kind of tamping down his rhetoric. He is pivoting to a general...  Well I think he is trying to pivot to a general election - trying to be an acceptable candidate to a wider array of voters. But he still has got a very fierce battle on his hands. Yesterday he called on Rubio to drop out. He agrees with Cruz that it is a two-man race now. He disparaged Ted Cruz. He said he only won Maine because it was next to Canada where Cruz was born. And he is been warning that if the establishment of the Republican Party runs a third party against him as some have suggested he might not bother to campaign and give the election to Hillary Clinton. And as you heard from your Trump supporter if he feels that he is been treated unfairly and if the nomination is wrangled away from him he could bolt. He could run as a third party and he would take his take his voters with them.  So what do you make of all these establishment attacks on Donald Trump? I mean obviously most recently the speech by Mitt Romney - is any of this moving the needle as the Republican establishment so desperately seems to want?  Well it is possible that the new infusion of ad money against Donald Trump kept his margins in Kentucky and Louisiana down a bit. But we are also seeing something that we have never seen in 100 years which is we are seeing the crackup of a major American political party. The base has chosen or is choosing a candidate that the establishment says is absolutely unacceptable. And what that means is this marriage of an elite big business-backed establishment and a blue-collar downwardly mobile base has really come to a divorce. The establishment is divorcing itself from its base - from voters who are choosing a candidate who says he stands for things that are anathema to the establishment. He is against free trade deals immigration. He says nice things about Planned Parenthood against reforming entitlements. So if you talk to Democrats they will say this is chickens coming home to roost. You know for decades the Republicans have courted these white downscale voters with social issues crime welfare abortion school prayer gay marriage. But they have never had an economic program for these voters. They promised them if the GOP had both houses of Congress they could stop Obama in his tracks. That has not happened. And as you heard in your interview earlier these voters are mad at the Republican Party.  Indeed. Mara Liassonm NPR's national political correspondent. We will talk again. Thanks Mara.  Thank you. 