 Susan Spencer-Wendel sure knows how to spend a year. She left her job as an award-winning criminal courts reporter for the Palm Beach Post and then went to the Yukon to see the Northern Lights. She went to Cyprus to meet family she never knew. She and her husband John took their children on trips in which her daughter got to try on wedding dresses and Susan got kissed by a dolphin. She also got a new dog put a splendid hut in her backyard and she wrote a book. It is a memoir about the year she says she wanted to devote to joy before she is claimed by ALS a neuromuscular disorder often known as Lou Gehrig's disease. A few months ago we spoke with Susan Spencer-Wendel from the studios of WPBI in Fort Lauderdale Fla. And because muscle damage caused by ALS affects speech she was joined by her husband John. And Susan told us how she felt after being diagnosed with ALS in 2011 at the age of 44.  I am equally grateful ...   I am equally grateful ...  ...for life of perfect health...  ...for life of perfect health...  ...and determined to face it...  ...and determined to face it...  ...with bravery.  ...with bravery.  She is also faced her terminal illness with a great sense of humor. As for how she shared the news of her illness with her children...  Very carefully.    Very carefully.  Do not overwhelm them with bad news.  Do not overwhelm them with bad news.  Just a little bit at a time.  Just a little bit at a time.  My Year of Living with Joy which she wrote with Bret Witter and a little help from technology. You wrote this book on your iPhone.  I did...    ... 89000 words...  Eighty-nine thousand words all on the iPhone.  All I have is my right thumb.  She only has use of her right thumb and that is the only way she could type.  Would you like us to read...  Would you like us to read an excerpt of how she did that?  Please.   By June I had lost the ability to use my iPad. The keyboard was too big and it tired my right hand to move it back and forth. I decided to write the book using the notes function on my iPhone instead. John would slide the phone into my useless left hand where by serendipity my curled fingers formed a perfect holder. I would type each letter with my right thumb - tap tap - the only digit I could use. When I typed the last letter of the first draft in mid-September three months after beginning in earnest I could not believe what I had accomplished. I felt as if I would pulled myself up a mountain with nine fingers tied behind my back. I let the moment linger the thrill of a triathlon completed. I looked at John who was sitting across from me in the tiki hut. I expected to smile to beam with the dream fulfilled. I cried and formed the words as best I could What will I do now?  Susan help us understand why you wrote the book - for your children but also you have always been a writer.  First and foremost I wrote the book...   First and foremost I wrote the book for my family and friends to have to jog their memories after I am gone.  And I also realized as a storyteller...  I also realized that as a storyteller it is an amazing tale of twinning good and bad fortune themes that touch everyday people - friendship devotion and discovery.  Let me ask you about some of these trips. You went to the Yukon to see the Northern Lights with your best friend Nancy.  Yes.  But the lights were off.  As you know life as not perfect.   As you know life as not perfect.   The lights did not show.  The lights did not show. We still had a wonderful time there.  John may I ask you a question?  Of course.  What is this period been like for you?  Well - difficult. Every day I wake up I feel sad. That is my first emotion. And then I roll over and I look at Susan. And I realize that she is not allowing herself to feel that way so I cannot - and I do not.  Susan how are you doing?  I have very very down moments.  She can have down moments.  But generally I have doing pretty darn well.  Generally doing pretty darn well.  This book is so funny.  I am so glad to hear you say that.   Glad to hear you say that.  I really do not want people to think...  She does not want people to think it is a maudlin book.  If you say it is funny we have made it home.   If you think it is funny then we have made it home.  Yes.  Well Susan Spencer-Wendel and her husband John Wendel in Fort Lauderdale. She tells a story of a year in her life with ALS in the new book Until I Say Good-Bye. Thank you so much.  Our pleasure too.  Thank you. Our pleasure.   We checked in with Susan this week. Asked how she is doing she wrote My pat answer is as well as can be expected. My body and voice become weaker every single day but my mind becomes mightier and more quiet.  You do indeed hear more in silence. You can read an excerpt from Susan Spencer-Wendel's book at npr.orgbooks. This is PR News. I am Scott Simon.  