 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Jacki Lyden. It is Carnaval in Brazil - that time of the year when people take to the streets and celebrate before the austerity of Lent begins. And while you may think the Rio de Janeiro when you think of Carnaval we are going to take you north to Recife. It is considered one of the most diverse carnivals in Brazil. NPR's Lourdes Garcia-Navarro reports from Recife.  Boom Carnaval. I am on the streets of Recife during one of their biggest moments of Carnaval the Galo de Madrugada or the cock of the dawn so called because the party starts as the sun breaks out into the sky so the legend goes. And all around me people are partying hard. There is drink there is food there is dancing there are costumes of every single imaginable description. But Carnaval is a lot more than the explosion you see on the streets these few days. It has a long history and an interesting future according to some musicians. And to talk about that we are going to take a step back from the streets right now.   We are sitting in the house of Nana Vasconcelos a renowned Brazilian musician and percussionist who was born in Recife. He is playing for us an instrument called the berimbau. Its' a kind of bow with a gourd attached that is used in Capoeira the Brazilian martial art. He is been chosen to open the Carnaval festivities this year because of his long association with the city and its music.    He tells me other Carnavals like Rio has been commercialized but not Recife. They do not sell out their art here he says. Things here are still innocent in a way. It is a street party and we cannot lose that he says. Unlike Rio de Janeiro where samba is queen here in Recife there are three types of music.   Frevo which originated in the military marching bands of the late 19th century.   Maracatu which has deep links to Afro-Brazilian religion and slavery.   And caboclinhos which pays homage to the indigenous roots of the people here. That all speaks to the history of the state. The Portuguese and briefly the Dutch were the overlords here and that brought an imprint of both northern and southern European cultures. Africans came as slaves joining the indigenous peoples who lived here. Maria Alice Amorim is a researcher who specializes in Pernanmbuco's Carnaval.    The culture here in Recife is a complex and varied and the truth is these cultures have been mixing between themselves and that has made them vibrant and allowed them to grow she says. But grow into what?    Antonio Nobrega is considered one of Recife's most famous artists and this year's Carnaval was dedicated to him. He is known for using the rhythms and beats of Recife's music in his own work. The honor though has made him reflective and he talks about how the strong musical traditions here need to expand beyond Carnaval to become less insular.    Our music is circumscribed he says by the seasonality of Carnaval. It has difficulty transcending the moment of Carnaval like samba has done for example he says.    I think Brazil is going through an important moment he says and our music here does not speak to that. We have had a year of protests and we should be talking about that in our Recife music he says. Brazil needs that the world needs that he tells me. That is our future. So now we are now back on the streets of Recife's Carnaval and the party is still going strong as you can hear. This is Lourdes Garcia-Navarro at Recife's Carnaval. 