 You might want to put your breakfast aside for just a few minutes during our next story. A company in Tasmania has found a way to make paper out of excreta from wombats the Australian marsupials. The Creative Paper Company in Burnie on the northwest coast of Tasmania. The company has already won attention for making roo poo paper from kangaroo dung and they are now expanding their line. Darren Simpson is a paper maker for the company. He joins us from Tasmania. Mr. Simpson thanks for being with us. Mr.  My pleasure. Thanks for having me.  And of all the things you could make paper out of why this stuff? Mr.  When we did the roo poo paper we really got a lot of attention not only here in Australia but all around the world. So roo poo really gave us a great opportunity to - people coming to the business and checking out -what the hell are you guys doing making paper from this stuff? So we had to keep in mind that you know we need to keep coming up with new and interesting papers all the time. And one of the things that we kept finding out when people come through and we explain that we are making paper from roo poo they throw questions at you like can you make it from you know horse poo? Can you make it from sheep poo? And the one that kept popping up was in fact wombat poo. Can you make it from wombat poo? So we thought we better give this a go. And it turned out to be a very good fiber to work with once the poo had boiled up and got rid of all the bacteria and so forth.  What color is it dare I ask? Mr.  Well the funny thing is we are finding it is going to be a bit of a seasonal thing. Because when we first started doing this the samples for the wombat poo paper we got some dungs that were more or less during the springtime. So the grass was kind of nice and lush and green meaning that when we made the paper it turned out to be a really nice greeny color. But when we then started going into production of this stuff we found that you know we get to this mid era summer and the grass had dried up and suddenly we get a more  Mr. Simpson? Mr.  of this golden yellow. So  Mr. Simpson I think we can cut off this line of inquiry right here.  Mr.  Oh okay. I am giving you too much detail.  No. I beg your pardon. I think we get the idea. Well I do not mean to put you on the spot. Mr.  No.  Do you write letters on this? I mean is it your officialwhat is your official company stationery made out of? Mr.  This stuff is actually going to be produced into writing papers. As we did with the roo poo we had a lot of problems actually getting anyone wanting to lick the envelopes.  Mr.  So we had to come up with another option with that one. But it is a good writing paper. But yeah we now use like a glue or a top or double-sided tape on the envelopes. We cannot get anyone to lick those.  Mr. Simpson been very good to talk to you. Mr.  My pleasure. Thank you.  Darren Simpson is a paper maker for Creative Paper. He joined us from Tasmania of course which is an island-state of Australia. Back to breakfast. This is NPR News. 