 The man who is been called the world's tallest flower child has written a memoir. Bill Walton the basketball great. His book Back From The Dead Searching For The Sound Shining The Light And Throwing It Down traces Bill Walton's happy childhood sensational high school and college sports careers where all of his teams won titles and end of the NBA where he brought home a championship for the Portland Trail Blazers and another one nine years later with the Boston Celtics all while being a conspicuous groupie for the Grateful Dead. Bill Walton who may be the only person to be inducted into the basketball sports broadcasting and Grateful Dead Hall of Fame joins us from New York. Thanks so much for being with us.  Scott thanks for having me.  I got to tell you I was a little - I knew you did not come from an outstanding athletic family but I was a little amused to read how un-athletic your parents were.  I never shot a basket with my dad. I have the greatest parents ever but they had no interest Scott in athletics or sports either as participants or as spectators. But our life was books. My mom a librarian my dad who went to Berkeley. My dad who fought in World War II came home from World War II and he spent the rest of his life trying to convince people to get along. So I had this incredibly positive supportive educational experience not based on sports at all. That came through our coach at the elementary school that we all went to.  We should explain this is San Diego.  San Diego where I grew up and still live to this very day the greatest city on Earth. But I am a lifelong stutterer Scott. I could not speak at all. Academics and athletics have always been the easiest part of my life. My challenges in a life that has been defined by meteoric rises and climbs to the top the top of the highest mountains and then these catastrophic health crises that would just take me down. I was born with structural congenital defects in my feet I tore up my knee for the first time when I was 14. And then when I was 21 Scott I was playing for UCLA and I was high above the basket making a play on the ball. We had not lost a game in five years. And the guy on the other team in a despicable act of violence and dirty play he comes across the court and takes my legs out from underneath me and flips me over. And I land flat on my back. I broke my spine that day. And I live with these orthopedic challenges and problems and pain and limitations.  Of course you won two national championships at UCLA.  Should have been more. John Wooden would always say Scott he said every day never measure yourself by what you have done but rather by what you could or should have been able to do. And Coach Wooden another one of his mantras - he had a mantra for every situation like - he was like Bob Dylan and the Grateful Dead and Neil Young. I mean these guys they were...  A lot of people would not necessarily see John Wooden you know in the same category as the Grateful Dead or John Lennon. But you do.  John Wooden Jerry Garcia and Larry Bird are the same person.  I will say. I opened your book Back From The Dead thinking that was a reference to the Grateful Dead. And so it may be. But I closed the book thinking Back From The Dead really talks about your spinal problems and the health challenges you have had.  So I have lived with these forever. And then with the lifestyle that I had of being super tall being on the road 200 nights a year which basically means 280 to 300 days a year and living in a world built for preschool children where you cannot stand up anywhere you cannot sit in the furniture you cannot use any of the normal chairs desk cars airplanes you name it. None of it fits. And so here I was on that road chasing the dream trying to be part of something special. And then in February of 2008 my spine finally collapsed. I was flying 600000 miles a year every year. And I got off the plane one day at home in San Diego and I could no longer move. And everything fell apart. And I spent the next years - a long - this is the longest stretch of my life.  You could not get off the floor essentially.  I could not move I could not think I could not eat I could not drink I could not sleep. I could not do anything. The radiating nerve pain - and anybody who is ever had that knows exactly what I am talking about. And people who are on that ground and cannot move they have three things in their life Scott. They have within arms reach we all keep a bottle of pills a bottle of whiskey and a gun. And we do not know what we are going to reach for because nothing works. And then I had my spine surgery seven years six weeks and four days ago. And now I am back from the dead and I am back to life. And so I live by these constant songs that are playing through my mind and my heart my spirit and my soul all the time. And the things that come to mind right now. I am going to just throw out four different lyrics from the Grateful Dead but I could pick a billion of them from Neil and from Bob and from Jimmy and from Bruce and Mick and Keith and all the guys and Glenn Frey and Joe Walsh and Don Henley and all these people who sing the songs to me about me and for me. So let us just throw this out right here from the Grateful Dead. When you get confused listen to the music play. We used to play for silver. Now we play for life. Once in a while you get shown the light in the strangest of places if you look at it right. It all rolls into one but nothing comes for free.    It all rolls into one and nothing comes for free.  Bill Walton - his book Back From The Dead Searching For The Sound Shining The Light And Throwing It Down. Thanks so much for being with us.  Best of luck. Here's to a full and pain-free life for you Scott.    And when you hear that song... 