 The brothers in the Emanuel family are known for their success and for their chutzpah. The youngest is Ari Emanuel. He is a high-powered Hollywood agent. The HBO show Entourage actually based a character on Ari Emanuel. And he is a bit blunt.   That is Jeremy Piven playing the Ari Emanuel character. Then there is Rahm Emanuel the middle brother. He is the mayor of Chicago a former White House chief of staff and a congressman. And he has developed - let us say tough reputation from his time in politics. Here's Rahm Emanuel describing his relationship with President Obama.  We just do not share a home state. We also share exotic names that were given to us by our fathers. Barack which in Swahili means Blessed. And Rahm roughly translated from Hebrew go screw yourself.   Rahm was for many years the quiet brother.   I know that is hard to believe today but it is true.  Then there is the third Emanuel brother. And you want me to call you Ezekiel?  No. No one does. My mom never even called me Ezekiel. So...  So Zeke Emanuel is the oldest of the three Emanuel brothers. He is a doctor a professor at an Ivy League university and an expert on health policy. And now he is the author of a new memoir about his family and growing up in Chicago. It is called The Brothers Emanuel. And Zeke Emanuel says his brother Rahm's public persona now is really nothing like his shy personality growing up.  As a matter of fact early in his life I think around age three or something my parents took him to a neurologist and had his examined because they were worried that he was so quiet maybe there was some developmental delay. And the neurologist assured them there is no developmental delay. The kid has every neuron firing. It just - he chooses not to talk. He is just observing the world taking it in. Ari was always the what we call in Hebrew the shovav the sort of devil kid always pushing just to the limit but holding back before people explode although sometimes he could step over the limit.  This is more than a book about you and your brothers. It really is a holistic kind of family portrait of an American immigrant family. Your father was Israeli your mom was from Chicago. How did they meet?  Yeah. So my father left Israel in 1946 to go to medical school in Switzerland. And he finished his medical school and then came to the United States to do internship and residency. And he came with 25 in his pocket and a very very treasured Parker pen and comes to Mount Sinai Hospital in Chicago. And my dad is you know working hard to be a doctor and taking care of patients and then he goes down to the emergency room one night to get an X-ray taken of a baby. And my mom happens to be the radiology technician. He is dog-tired so he lays down on a stretcher. And she finishes the X-ray. He is asleep. She lets the stop on the wheel of the stretcher she disconnects it and he goes flying out the door into the cold October air. And so he walks back in he likes her sense of humor and they start dating. And literally before you know it in just a matter of weeks they are engaged.  So you write in the book about a particular hobby that your brother Rahm had. And there is been a lot of publicity over this but he was into ballet. You all took ballet lessons but for Rahm this really kind of touched him a special way. It stuck. So my question is if Rahm had gone to your parents and said you know what I think I have a gift I think that a career in ballet is really where my heart is would they had been OK with that?  Oh my mom would have been thrilled. She would have been happier than if he would gone into politics I think actually.  Oh really?  Oh yeah. It is lost in the mysteries of time exactly why when she thought we all should take dancing lessons the dance she picked was not safe - ballroom dancing or modern - but classical ballet. We were the only three boys got to be on the North Shore who ever took ballet. Fortunately we had private lessons - there were just the three of us. And she made us all take it for a year. You know I remember first position second position fifth position.  Wow. Fifth - this is hard.  And we did a lot of stuff at the bar. And it is true that Ari and I could not get out of there fast enough. First of all I have no ability to dance whatsoever. Rahm really did take to it and was very good. And despite lots of teasing as you might imagine persisted with it and became quite good. And absolutely true that my mom had her druthers and he really wanted to go into ballet as a career option she would have supported it 1000 percent.  What about your dad?  My dad was always a more narrow - not narrow in a negative sense but you know cautious about his kids.  Well dancing that is kind of that is risky. That is not a lot of stability.  I also think it is typical immigrant mentalities. He wanted his kids to do something safe. So when Ari said he wanted to be an agent he is like no no no get an MBA. You know risk adverse for his children. Fortunately his children do not listen to him. And taking the risks have been the most important things in making successful careers for each of us.  Ezekiel Emanuel. His new book is called Brothers Emanuel. He joined us from WXPN in Philadelphia. Zeke thanks very much for making the time to talk to us.  Thank you. It is been really nice.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 