 Its not often that a newly-elected senator goes rogue and delivers a stinging rebuke of the president of the United States - especially when they are both from the same party. Yet that is exactly what West Virginia Democrat Joe Manchin did this week. Not only did he lash out at President Obama as NPR's David Welna reports. Manchin has also been cultivating new friends on the Republican side of the aisle.  Joe Manchin the 63-year-old former governor of West Virginia now holds the seat of the late legendary Senator Robert C. Byrd. Manchin apparently did not get the memo about freshmen senators keeping a low profile. On Tuesday he rose on the Senate floor and held forth on the partisan battle over federal spending that is tied lawmakers in knots and threatened to shut down the government. Senator  Now I may just be a freshman senator but I will be blunt This whole process does not make a lot of sense to me. And I am afraid it does not make sense to a lot of West Virginians or a lot of our fellow Americans.  Manchin spoke shortly before Senate votes on rival bills to keep the government in business. One passed by House Republicans chopped 61 billion from federal programs over the next half year - what Democrats called the meat ax approach to austerity. The Democrats proposed far more modest cuts. And everyone including Manchin knew in advance both measures would be rejected. But Congress he said cannot break this stalemate. Sen.  This debate as important as it is will not be decided by House Republicans or by Senate Democrats negotiating with each other or past each other. The debate will be decided when the president leads these tough negotiations. And right now that is not happening.  Later in an interview Manchin explained his presidential tongue-lashing. Sen.  As the governor I had to put budgets together. You have to basically sit down with the parameters and put your priorities in what we believe. And that is all I am asking.  But Manchin's swipe at the president rankled fellow Democrats. I asked West Virginia's other Democratic Senator Jay Rockefeller about it and all he would say was quote It is a nice day. And Majority Leader Harry Reid defended the president. Senator  The president's engaged in this. He is got a few other problems I have indicated with what is going on in the Middle East and many other things. So no the president's been very easy to deal with as usual.  For other Democrats Manchin's apostasy was hardly surprising. Senator  He understands his state and he understands its conservative bent.  That is the Senate's number two Democrat Dick Durbin. Manchin's outburst? No big deal he says. Sen.  Senators take on presidents all the time and I understand Joe is new here but he sure is not new to politics nor new to West Virginia and their feelings.  Manchin does have good reason to distance himself from President Obama  he is up for re-election next year in a state where Mr. Obama lost to John McCain. Last fall Manchin's GOP opponent John Raese ran ads that had Manchin voicing support for the new health care law.  Sen.  And I am behind that. I am totally behind health care reform. Unidentified Man Sorry Joe. Our seniors cannot afford you to be a rubber stamp for Barack Obama.  Nor can Manchin. His speech attacking the president seems to have been a hit with constituents. Mark Kraham is news director at WHAG an NBC TV affiliate watched in six West Virginia counties. Mr.  The replies I heard from our viewers and listeners in our area was that it was refreshing that it was different. And it was something that they hoped to see more out of Washington.  Such as senators sitting together for bipartisan lunches something Manchin recently inaugurated. He is doing them with Illinois Republican freshman Senator Mark Kirk. Senator  Joe Manchin and I have decided to break loose and have meetings as Republicans and Democrats - really Americans. And I cannot tell you how much I am beginning to admire him and his independent streak.  Manchin is also forging ties with other GOP senators. Already he is met with 20 of them. Why? Sen.  That is just how I do. I do not know any other way. I guess I go back to my comfort basically is when you work with everyone and everyone is involved in the mix you get a better product.  And is President Obama going to be the person you vote for in the next election? Sen.  Well you know that is a that is not a very fair question on that because basically everybody wants - should want their president to succeed. I want my president to succeed whoever it may be.  If that does not sound quite like a yes or a no maybe it is because while Joe Manchin may be a Democrat he is doing his best not to be tagged as an Obama Democrat. David Welna NPR News the Capitol.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 