 Julia Nunes grew up in New York state but she went to college far away from her hometown friends and family. So to keep in touch she posted videos to YouTube - music videos and goofy scenes from her tempest-tossed dorm room.  OK. News time. I am beating Tila Tequila in the most subscribed musicians on YouTube. It is just about my dream come true. OK. I love you guys. Bye.  Did not take long for Julia Nunes to gain a fan following online including the singer Ben Folds who asked Julia to open for him on tour. And now she has her own CD out. It is called Settle Down and it was financed by her Internet fans through the website Kickstarter. Julie Nunes joins us in NPR Studio 4A along with guitarist and singer Mike Comite. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you.  Thank you.  This has happening pretty quickly for you has not it? Did Ben Folds discover you or what happened?  Yeah. He found me doing his song Gone. And actually when I got the email saying open up for Ben Folds this May I thought that they were spam.   Yeah I get that I get that all the time.  So yeah. He discovered me in a way. But I think a lot of people came to me on their own.  First song you are going to play for us is Stay Awake.  Stay Awake.  OK.   Julie Nunes accompanied by Mike Comite guitar and singing in the song Stay Awake. Is there a specific story about this or is this a story of 100 nights?  Oh just so many nights. Everything seems so important at 5 in the morning. And in the cold light of day it is always a realization that I totally should have gone to sleep. But I never do. I never learn my lesson.  Yeah. Tell if you could the corporate success side of your story. Because a lot of people have turned to places like Kickstarter to get some projects done. What was that like for you?  I was really apprehensive at first. I did not think that fans would understand why all of the sudden I needed money. Like I have been making CDs and videos for years without it so why now? That is easy to explain. I was working with friends and I was not using the best production or the best equipment. At this point in my career I guess I really wanted to make the best thing that I possibly could. And I made a budget for 18000 for all 18 songs. We are going to do it in 16 days at the studio - no room for breaks. And I thought that even that was too high for people to grasp.  You raised 78000 right?  Yeah.  May I ask what'd you do with the rest? I mean if it is cost 15000 or 18000 the way I do the math...   I was already in the studio when the Kickstarter money started coming in. And we realized that we could spend more time. So I definitely gave ourselves room to breathe and make mistakes 'ecause the way we had it scheduled before there was just like no breathing room at all.  The next song you have for us here I am told is Comatose.   You guys are great.  Thank you.   Julia Nunes accompanied by Mike Comite. Does it get a little more challenging as you become more of a pro at it?  No. I think it is gotten easier since I have started to really take it seriously. I have realized that I should be spending the time on myself to like work on my voice and drink water whereas before I was like warm-ups? No way.   Yeah. But you keep writing? I mean writing I mean writing every - if  not every day every few days?  Yes. Yeah. Whenever my mind wanders it wanders to a songwriting place. I just stop immediately and write it down. I guess that is another way to come easier since I started taking it seriously. Like before if I thought of a song idea I am just like nah I do not remember it whatever. But now it is something that I really want to make sure that I get together later.  This CD has about 18 songs on it and a lot of them are shorter than three minutes.  Yeah I am concise. I like to say what I want to say and once it is out it is done.  We would like to hear one now. Pizza.    I think I am catering to my own attention span with those songs. I just wanted to like sing a 30-second song about pizza. Sometimes I write about like deep emotions and all that and sometimes all I got is pizza.  Well a two-minute song about pizza would be excessive.  It would.  Julia Nunes along with her guitarist Mike Comite have joined us in NPR Studio 4A. The new CD Settle Down. It is out now. Thanks so much to both of you.  Thank you.  Thanks.  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 