 As the massive coronavirus vaccination effort has gotten underway we have talked a lot about vaccine hesitancy people who do not plan to take the coronavirus vaccine. Roughly a quarter of both white and Black Americans do not plan to get the vaccine according to the latest NPRPBS NewsHourMarist survey. Thirty-seven percent of Latino respondents said they would not get the shot. White Republicans though are more vaccine-hesitant than any other group with 49 of Republican men saying they do not plan on getting vaccinated. And rural residents were more likely to say that they do not want the vaccine too. In the small town of Fort Scott Kan. 1 in 11 people has been infected by the coronavirus. Even so reporter Sarah Jane Tribble found some are still questioning how severe the virus really is.  Seventy-year-old Linda Findley lives just outside of Fort Scott. She is always been active in the community helping with the Elks and fundraising. Like a lot of people here she does not think COVID-19 is that dangerous.  I do not even know what I think about it. I do not know if I trust the testing if - because it is so messed up or - I have had nieces and nephews that have it. I have lost good friends to it or supposedly it is to that. It seems like no matter what is...  Findley pauses to calm her two little dachshund dogs. They get excited when she is on the phone.  Everything seems to be coronavirus. I mean it is just - no matter what somebody has it is coronavirus. I do not know whether it is or is not.  Her husband died about two years ago. Robert ran a popular auto body shop. He slipped on the ice and hit his head hard at the end of a workday. The emergency room along with the hospital had closed days before. Fort Scott is one of nearly 140 rural communities that have lost a hospital in the past decade. But not having a hospital does not really come up when people here talk about COVID.  You know when I got it I was in good health and it did take me a while to recover.  That is Dave Martin. He is the former city manager and he is pretty sure he caught COVID-19 at work last August.  I do remember waking up one of my bad nights and thinking - when I was running a temperature and not feeling very well. And I am thinking oh wow this could kill me - that I can get killed the next day too. So it did not really stick with me.  After recovering Martin went ahead with his retirement. He took his wife to Disney and then they hiked Yellowstone. That casual disregard for the dangers of COVID worries health care leaders here. Jason Wesco helps lead the regional clinic that took over primary care services when the hospital closed.  Me my family - I think we are a significant minority. I think most people just keep doing - have maybe modified a little bit. Maybe they put on a mask in public. But I - the way I see it is I think life here has changed a lot less than it is changed in D.C. And I think we are seeing the impact of that right?  Like much of rural America the coronavirus skipped over Fort Scott last spring. But the pandemic hit hard in the fall peaking in December. Across the county two dozen have died from st people know someone who had the virus and survived. But residents just seem tired of talking about it. And Findley says she will not get the vaccine.  How did they come up with a vaccine that quickly? And how do they even know for sure that it is working?  The three vaccines approved by federal regulators in the U.S. are being given out to millions and their efficacy has been shown through massive clinical trials in the U.S. and globally. But Linda's skepticism is not unusual in southeastern Kansas and that also concerns health leaders like Wesco of the Community Health Center.  Yeah I mean yeah there is hesitancy. I am sensing that it is less. But I guess my point is when directly provided the opportunity to get it it is probably a different discussion when the vaccine is widely available.  Wesco says he is hopeful attitudes are changing. His clinic has a waitlist for vaccines and is giving out as many doses as they can get their hands on. I am Sarah Jane Tribble.  That reporting came from NPR's partnership with Kaiser Health News. 