 Love Survival and Family in the New Iraq. Christina Asquith is in the studios of Vermont Public Radio in Burlington. Welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  If you were to look at the best outcome of this election one that would benefit women of Iraq the most what do you think that would be?  And right now the Islamic candidates very much support the role of Islam in the constitution and in the government whereas the secular candidates are much more moderate in their position about this. Now that can mean many different things for women. Up for discussion is the age which women will be allowed to be married divorce laws child custody laws.  Who is going to be interpreting Islam and what kind of interpretation are they going to have of it? If you have a woman who interprets the Quran - or a man for that matter - who has a very moderate interpretation of the Quran you might see them making an Islamic case on behalf of women to raise the marriage age closer to 18 than 14 or even 9. You could also see however a conservative Islamic candidate using the Quran and Islam to make the exactly opposite case.  Employment for example for divorced widowed and unmarried women.  That is a huge issue whether or not women will be able to work. Again I think a secular government would take a more favorable stance towards professional career women but it does not always have to be the case. It just really depends on the candidate.  Given that 25 percent of the seats in the parliament will go to women does this quota this mandate work for or against women? Because one of the candidates that is running an independent Jenan Mubark said that the political parties exploited the quota the first time around and packed the parliament with women that could be controlled.  And what is also interesting is that you see the women candidates are not running on women's issues. You see all of the candidates talking about the same thing which is basically security stability rule of law. So I think that you know the women while they may have been quote unquote used the first time around that is happening less and less now as women are able to re-emerge. They are really coming forward. And if not for the quota I just do not think we would see women at all.  Christina Asquith is the author of Sisters in War Love Survival and Family in the New Iraq. It is published by Random House. She teaches about women in Islam at the University of Vermont and she joined us from Vermont Public Radio in Burlington. Thank you very much.  Thank you so much for having me. 