 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Kenneth Pattengale and Joey Ryan were doing just fine as solo performers then one night Kenneth was playing this song in a bar    The food was as I like it cold wet and in that wonderful tin can shape. I had it marked in a pawprint on the dog door the day that I finally planned my escape...  And Joey walked in.  I heard Kenneth perform a song that he would written from the perspective of a dead dog only very recently having been hit by a truck. And it was that sort of uplifting material that drew us together.   I was about to say I do not think I have ever heard a song quite like that but...  Well neither had I. I mean we struck up a friendship over that typical brand of levity that has become ours.   And now they are a duo - the Milk Carton Kids. Their new album is The Ash  Clay.    Swing sets are empty like dirt turned darker than night. Center of this town it used to whirl in the glow of twilight.  Kenneth Pattengale and Joey Ryan have been compared to Simon and Garfunkel for their close harmony vocals and songs that are precise softly uttered poems. And their banter - well they sound a bit like a long-married couple.  We are not super bright. We have a very bright audience. In fact the album title itself The Ash  Clay we were on stage in New York. I think Joey was giving me the business about the punctuation that I put into song titles. And so I think just offhandedly I mentioned something about the ampersand being a symbol. And somebody very quickly raised their hand in the audience and corrected us that it was a ligature.  Our audience is full of English professors.    You look around you one day what you once knew did not stay. Let us come home before the girls all go. Let us come home tonight...  Let me ask you about this title track. Is this a song about taking hold of the moment in life?  Perhaps. I think there is a very particular moment - and this is Joey here but I give all due credit to Kenneth for taking the lead on the writing of the title track here The Ash  Clay. We you know both of us sitting here and you cannot tell necessarily from the radio have turned 30 recently. And I think for the first time we are in a unique position of having as much to look back on and to miss you know to remember fondly and also to regret as we have to look forward to.  I like the way you put it Scott - is it about capturing a moment? And I think the answer is yes. But I think the answer is yes if you also allow that the song is just as much about not trying to miss the moment.  Let me ask about another song on this album Snake Eyes.    Slow holy roller it is just rock and roll. Hold your tears where they have hung all these years down from the heavens above...  I love the lyrics particularly that line that goes hold your tears where they have hung all these years down from the heavens above.  That is one of the more impressionistic songs lyrically that has come out of our collaboration. And it is sort of a meditation on nostalgia. You are looking back on something usually fondly it implies but at the same time it is a very sad notion to acknowledge that it is gone. So I think the lyrics in that song circumspectly I think get at a meditation on that theme.   Tell me about your guitars if you could.  I play a 1951 Gibson J45.  This is Joey Ryan yeah.  This is Joey here. And I have got it tuned down a whole step. And it leaves off on the low end right where Kenneth's picks up on the high end. He plays a 1954 Martin O15.    Seems to have forgotten me. If it has...  Well and they have character and they have their own senses of humor. They have got their own their real strong identity. You know it is obviously not very active.  Mine really messes with me a lot. It plays on my insecurities.  It does.  I want to ask this question delicately but how did you meet your guitars? If it is none of my business I apologize.  Well that is very forward of you. But mine is actually a really lovely story. A fan back in the days when I had no business having any fans at all decided somehow that she wanted to give me a guitar. And that is the only guitar that I have and it is the only guitar that I play.  I still do not know how you got through that one. Was your...  Kenneth does not believe in altruism or good will.  No I certainly do. I just do not know how your wife would ever allow you to give your personal address to somebody who clearly had sort of stalkerish tendencies.  Well I was not married at the time and I did not give my personal address. I am not stupid.  Oh all right.  Hi. We are over here.   Just thought I...  Just a second. We are almost done.    In the air that is the way they use to find their own way home. By the stars on their own by the stars on their own...  Joey Ryan and Kenneth Pattengale are the Milk Carton Kids. Their new album The Ash  Clay is out next week. But you can preview a few of their tracks right now at npr.orgmusic. 