 Her voice is alluring her looks compelling. She is a singer and musician who is not afraid to be dramatic and vulnerable at the same time. She harkens to another era while remaining utterly contemporary. Anna Calvi is the kind of singer who makes you sit up and listen.  Ms.    find you and through the desert for so long...  Anna Calvi's self-titled debut album is out now and she joins us from the BBC studios in London. Thanks for being with us Anna. Ms.  Thanks very much.  So Anna here are some of the singers that I have heard you compared to Edith Piaf Nina Simone Maria Callas even - that is a pretty impressive group of women. Do you really see yourself as kind of part of that group or following in those footsteps? Ms.  Well they have definitely been a huge inspiration to me. When I started singing I - well it was about five years ago - and I just really learned from listening to them sing which is an extremely inspiring thing to do.  You have played music since you were very young. You started on the violin. Is that right? Ms.  Yeah.  And then switched to guitar. How did you begin singing? Ms.  I always wanted to be a singer but I felt because I am quite shy I did not think that I had it in me. I mean a lot of it is an emotional thing. When you sing your emotions just completely are conveyed in your voice. So if you feel afraid of being open you can hear that. So a lot of the challenge was to just let go of that feeling of wanting to be held in and just really go for it.  Ms.   No boy never ever ever ever be alone. ...  Which singer would you say has had the greatest influence on you? Ms.  In a way I would say Maria Callas because the tone of her voice is very rich and there is something quite confrontational about it. Well it is quite ugly in some way but that is what gives it its beauty and I really listen to her a lot when I was trying to find my own voice.  I love that description confrontational. Is that something that you then aim for as a singer that idea of being somewhat confrontational in your singing? Ms.  I think what I aim for is really just to be as true and honest and emotional as I can which you know I something that someone like Edith Piaf had just a sense of completely giving everything and not being afraid of how raw and vulnerable that made her which is what gives her so much power as a singer.   Well you really do take risks in some of your songs. I am thinking of a song like The Devil for instance. Do you think of that as a song where you did take some risks and you know perhaps it is a style that will not necessarily appeal to everyone? Ms.  I think that is the beauty of art that it is objective - and some people hate something and some people actually fall in love listening. And when I was making my record and when I was writing the songs I really just wanted to make you know what is true to my own particular artistic vision. And The Devil is a sample of that. It just comes from a very honest place.  Ms.   The devil the devil the devil the devil has come.  The album begins not with your voice but with a sort of fairly long sort of musical riff.   Why did you start the album that way? Ms.  It is like the idea of to go really deep into your imagination or to really be taken away somewhere else. It is like being hypnotized and you cannot just hypnotize someone and expect them to be in that place. You have to take them there. So I wanted to have a piece of music that began the album which really slowly took you into this world.   How did you choose the song to come out of that piece of music? Ms.  Well I think No More Words worked really well because I mean I could have gone with a really bombastic song singing really loud but I really liked the idea of retaining mystery.  Ms.   Oh he does not hold me close tonight. Shhh. 'Til you want I will feel you by my side... In other words I did not really sing with more than a whisper. So I still at that point have not given everything away.  Ms.   All my love all my love... I think it is nice 'ecause I think an album should feel like a journey and that is what I really wanted to try and achieve.   One of my favorite songs on this CD is Desire. Can you tell me a little bit about that song and what inspired it and what you are going for there? Ms.  What I wanted to do in Desire was to have a melodic motif that just kept building and building. And it is kind of like a metaphor for desire -it is that you hear it in harmonium and then you hear it in the guitar in the same melodic refrain. And it just goes throughout the song as the desire becomes stronger.  Ms.   Desire desire I wanna  the  is gonna fall here when I die. I know that you put this devil in me this devil is gonna take my ... This melody is heard in more and more instruments until at the end it is almost bursting. To me it is really important that the music is telling you half the story. It is telling you as much about what the song is about as the lyrics are.  Ms.   You do not have to be loved. You do not have be loved. You do not have to be loved.  I wanted to ask you also about your stage presence. I have not seen you perform live but you are very dramatic on stage. You have what is been described as a kind of flamenco look slicked back hair very red lips. So what is it that you want to convey in your performances as well? Ms.  I mean I feel that every aspect of my art it is all encompassing so that ranges from obviously the music and the artwork on the album and how I look as well. And I really wanted to find clothes that expressed the passion in my music. And I really got inspiration from flamenco outfits because they express so much the romance and passion of flamenco music. And I mean I think playing live is a very fulfilling experience for me because it allows me to be very fearless and strong.  Ms.   Oh Blackout now this glow has come you are in the dark. I could be anyone...  Anna Calvi - her self-titled album is out now. She joined us from London. It was really great talking with you Anna. Thanks. Ms.  Thanks very much.  Ms.   All this movement is running out of time...  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. Liane Hansen returns next week. I am Lynn Neary. 