 Chuck Mead has made a name for himself as a country music singer songwriter and musician. He lives in Nashville but every song on his new album is about Kansas his home state. It is called Free State Serenade and it includes true stories of love murder and UFOs. He calls the music Kansas Noir. Frank Morris of member station KCUR takes a listen.  Chuck Mead fits right in at the bar at Robert's Western World...  Boys let us step down to the bar a little bit.  ...a storied Nashville honkytonk.  What is this kid's name the guitar player?   Nashville's where you go to make country music. And there is a certain vibration down here. There is a whole songwriting culture and playing culture that really does not exist outside of maybe New York or Los Angles or Chicago.  Mead left Kansas 20-some years back to go pro. He formed the group BR-549. First thing you know they are on David Letterman touring the globe.  But when they introduce me on stage they always say from Lawrence Kansas.  Ladies and gentleman the pride of Lawrence Kansas. Please put your hands together for Chuck Mead and his Grassy Knoll Boys.   Mead's written several songs about how he longed to bust out of Kansas but he loves coming back.  Both feet are in Nashville but my heart is still back here in this specific place actually.  The place he grew up 15 acres of gently rolling country side south of Lawrence Kansas - a ranch-style house with a couple of old cars and a pole barn off to the side.  Yeah I saw one of our colts born in this stall named Tasha.  That your old bike?  It is.  His folks still live here. Uncle Larry's place is just across the pasture and old friends greet him all over Lawrence but it took Mead two decades in Nashville before he finally got down to writing about home.  I do not know I started thinking about Ivy Honeycutt this little girl that was a year older than me in school that I went to grade school with out here at the Kaw Valley Grade School who got murdered by her cousin. And it was one of those things that kind of scarred all of us for life.   Little Ivy's killing was young Mead's first brush with evil but not the state's. Mead's written about that Clutter family murders made famous by Truman Capote's In Cold Blood. There is another song about the day Confederate guerillas slaughtered abolitionists in Lawrence who were here to make sure Kansas entered the union a Free State.   As Mead says Kansas can be scary but it but does not show up much in popular song according to music journalist Steve Wilson.  It happens it happens but not a lot and particularly not in the rock era. We do have one of the more famous state songs certainly.  Can you sing a little of it?   Home home on the range where the deer and the antelope play.  Right but Wilson says Mead knows what he is doing devoting an album to challenging the state's uber-bland Dorothy and Toto image.  Yeah he grew up in the era of the concept album. So you know he is a smart enough student of the music to know that this is kind of unusual kind of a novel thing to do and it will attract attention.   The Bottleneck in Lawrence is just about empty late in the afternoon as Mead and the Grassy Knoll Boys do their sound check. Mead's mom Lois Fay Mead leans on one of the tables.  Chuck has never forgotten where he came from. That is one of the things I am so proud of him about is that he is always been a Kansan.  But growing up Kansan was kind of a wild ride for Mead.   Out in the alley in back of the bar he recalls a close encounter in his 20s.  We were having band practice and you know someone had a little LSD and we took it. And then I realized that I had to drive pizzas around from 6 to 8. So I had a couple of guys in the car with me and we saw this thing in the sky. It was not a star. And then it kept getting bigger and bigger. And then all of the sudden we realized we were looking at a UFO.   Mead says he had to leave the orbit of Kansas to get a global view of the place.  Since it is a lot of years really since I have really lived here it is all you know different perspective. I am far enough away from it that I feel like I am removed from people enough that I cannot pull any punches and get real. And all these songs are real to me. And I feel like with that distance I can write those songs.  So this new record Free State Serenade is about Kansas but it could never have happened without Nashville. For NPR News I am Frank Morris. 