 NPR's David Schaper reports.  The Upper Peninsula or UP is a vast rugged and sparsely populated place. And the people here UPers as they call themselves are kind of a different breed with a unique favorite food.  It is called a pasty.  Brian Harsch is the owner of Jean Kay's Pasties in Marquette Michigan.  It is the combination of meat potatoes onions and we put rutabagas in ours.  On our way into Gary's Quality Foods in the small town of Stevenson Juanita Delaurelle says she supports Stupak.  I am against abortion. So yeah I do feel like it was the right stand. But I do think we need health care in this country better health care than what we have.  After dinner at Schloegel's Bay View Restaurant in Stupak's hometown of Menominee high school teacher Tom Baraboo says he likes that Stupak challenged his own party.  He held the line pretty steady and pretty tough and said you know we are not budging on this without that being signed in. So I give him a lot of credit for that. He put up with a lot of slack.  But others in the district accuse Stupak of selling out.  I do not agree with what Stupak did.  In her tidy hair salon called The Hair Zone in Stevenson owner Jane Stroll says she wishes Stupak would have stuck to his guns.  I just do not understand what changes your mind at the last minute.  Republican Dan Benishek is one of those hoping to be that someone.  I think he is betrayed the district.  Benishek is a surgeon from Crystal Falls who is never run for office before.  I do not believe he represents the UP very well. He votes very far left on most of the issues. The two issues that hold him to the constituents have been his support of the Second Amendment and his pro-life stance. And now he bailed on the pro-life stance.  Meantime Michigan Right to Life and other anti-abortion groups are pulling their endorsements of Stupak. But not everyone sees Stupak as suddenly vulnerable.  I do not believe in my heart of hearts that this vote was all that risky for him. I really do not.  David Schaper NPR News in Menominee Michigan. 