 This week PBS viewers will get an American introduction to three of the best-known voices in South Africa.   .  The Bala Brothers - Zwai Loyiso and Phelo. Zwai Bala became the first black member of the Drakensburg Boys Choir. That was six years before apartheid ended. Before long the brothers became national stars performing RB kwaito gospel opera. They sang in English Afrikaans and their native Xhosa. Now the Bala Brothers are featured in a live performance that is broadcast on PBS stations and out on CD this week. The Bala Brothers join us from the studios of the BBC in Johannesburg. Zwai Bala thanks very much.  Thank you very much hello.  Loyiso Bala thank you.  Thank you for having us.  And Phelo thanks very much for being with us.  Thank you very much.  And first how is my pronunciation? Z.  Not too bad at all. We have heard much worse than that otherwise that passes.  That passes good thank you.   There are a couple of traditional church hymns that are on this CD. Let us listen to a little bit of your rendition of Going Home.  L.   Going home going home I am going home. Quiet light some still day. I am just going home.  Boy that is beautiful. And whose voice do we hear? P.  That is Loyiso there. Our voice sound so much you know like alike that at times we get confused at who is singing what.   We get a little confused too but it is wonderful. That is terrific. That is part of the special power too of brothers singing. P.  Yeah.  As we noted you broke the color barrier in the renowned Drakensburg Boys Choir of South Africa. You went first Zwai and you were 12 years old. Z.  Yeah absolutely. At the time I did not realize just how intense it was really going to be. But it is a funny thing in the sense that you know  I was young and the kids that I was amongst all white. A lot of them gave me a lot of grief and I think I came to work it out that you know they do not know much. They just grew up being told that black is just wrong black is not good enough black is this and that you know? So you know as they were discovering more and more things about me you know they would have the odd cliches like oh wow your blood is red . It is like wow you think ?  Oh my word. Z.  And also you know coming from the Eastern Cape which is the home of great political leaders in our country by the time I was 10 years old I knew a lot about the armed struggle of the ANC and the underground and the political aspects of the movement and what was going on in the country. So by the time I went there at 12 I knew so much much more than even these kids' parents did. So I was quite all right. And I stood it through and I saw it through. And I am happy that you know I did do that because when my dad was on his deathbed my very first year - my first term in fact - I went back home and I said no I want to leave. It is horrible. The boys are you know they are horrible to me and . And my dad said no you have got to stay because if you stay then your brother can get to go then ultimately more black boys can get to go there. Now if you look at the choir about 50 percent of the school is black so I guess it was a good decision to make at the time.    Where oh where oh where oh where...  The Drakensberg Choir is featured in one of the most moving songs on this CD.    Where oh where oh where oh where...  Let us here from Something Inside So Strong.    The higher you build your barrier the taller I become. The further you take my rights away the faster I will run. You can deny me. You can decide to turn your face away. No matter 'ecause there is something inside so strong.  This is a famous anti-apartheid anthem. Z.  Yeah.  You sang at Nelson Mandela's - at the concert in Cape Town after Nelson Mandela died. And what did that mean for you? P.  Well for me as the born free they will call it...  P.  ...I think I have it the easiest.  For you as the what? Z.  Phelo. P.  This is Phelo.  Yes. Z.  Born free.  You were the born free?  P.  Yeah the born free. That is everything was good. And I was like OK then I can come now. L.  You freaked me out now.  P.  So still the effect the former president had was - were lost for a very long time because a lot of things became possible also for our group as well to be able to sing for all sorts of people - different kinds of people that we never thought - probably our parents never thought we would ever sing for. So yeah it was quite an honor to sing for his memorial.  We want to play an excerpt from another song and despite my newfound fluency in  Xhosa... P.  Xhosa. L.  Perfect.  ...Perhaps I will rely on you to help me pronounce the name of this wonderful song that begins with an M. L.  Masibuyelane.  That is it yes.   Well let us hear a little bit if we could please.   .  It is a beautiful song. L.  Thank you.  Tell us about it please. L.  Yeah that is a song that Zwai and I wrote together you know. We thought OK wow you know it sounds like it should be an Italian song. But Xhosa actually if you take the clicks away it probably sounds Italian too. So we could actually probably write beautiful classical Xhosa songs and that is how the song was born.  You sing in  Xhosa and in English and also Afrikaans. Now a lot of black South Africans rejected Afrikaans as the language of the oppressor. Why do you sing in it now? Z.  You cannot run away from it. It forms an integral part of our - not only of our history but even our like our society right now. Why we decided at one point to do an Afrikaans album was because when we were at the Drakensberg Boys Choir the only two languages spoken - just English and Afrikaans. And in the mornings as it was a Christian school we used to have assembly and we used to sing hymns.   . Z.  So when - one day to be English hymns and the next day it is Afrikaans hymns but the Afrikaans hymns are so beautiful. And actually when we launched Bala Brothers we seemed to attract a lot of the Afrikaans audience. So we thought let us do an album that is entirely dedicated to the Afrikaans people.  You all I gather have pretty solid solo careers right? Z.  Yeah yeah in a way.  L.  Yeah we do. You know Zwai started a group. And then after that I sort of came in. So when we actually found out - when we heard Phelo sing - Phelo I think at the time was only 14 - we did not know that Phelo could sing at all you know. And he actually had to do a demo tape for us...  Oh oh you are brothers are not you?  L.  And when we heard him sing we are like wow you know this could be something special. And so when we sang you know like we thought OK wow let us sing together. And this was during a tour that we were doing as the Bala Family. And the response that we got and just how wonderful it felt for us we just knew that we were on to something special. Yeah so here we are.  The Bala Brothers Zwai Loyiso and Phelo Bala. Their self-titled CD is out this week. Gentlemen just a pleasure speaking with you. Good luck. L.  Thank you so much. P.  Thank you. Z.  Thank you so much anytime. L.  All the best to you too. 