 There was a time when libraries would reach out to readers by sending bookmobiles to school parking lots city street corners and rural byways. Now those rolling reading rooms are becoming scarce - too costly and outmoded some say. But one town in northern New England is struggling to keep its bookmobile on the road. Charlotte Albright of Vermont Public Radio has the story.  If you want to hear first-hand what it is like to go through a whole month without a single visit from the bookmobile just ask the preschoolers at Stay and Play a day care center in Lyndonville Vermont.  'ecause we miss the bookmobile.  Yeah we miss the bookmobile until it comes here. I miss it a lot more.  I miss it a lot more.  Now that the bookmobile has broken down librarians have to bring books in their own cars for story hour. Day care provider Anneka Bickford says that is not as thrilling as having a big brightly painted vehicle roll into the driveway and open its doors wide so kids can browse and choose their own books.  It is getting the children involved with what a library is how to check out books how to return books. They would do programs with the children singing dancing themes. So it is the excitement of the library that we cannot give to the children.  It is not the first bookmobile to bite the dust. In fact over the years Vermont's large fleet has dwindled to three or four. Lyndonville's Head Librarian Cindy Karasinski says replacement costs have skyrocketed.  The first bookmobile was out of the dump. New bookmobiles when this was new it was over 90000. So I mean that seems not be not the way we are going to go.  Sadly Karasinski says the kind of grants that used to fund bookmobiles have all but dried up. But one Vermont librarian remembers when rolling libraries were all the rage even a little scandalous for single librarians. Ninety-two-year-old Eleanor Simons drove one around back in the '40s. Her great aunt had something to say about that.  Intimate is not it? Well the idea of riding around all day with a strange man that is what she thought was intimate of course.  But for Simons it was a dream job. She hopes Lyndonville puts a bookmobile back on the road. For NPR News I am Charlotte Albright in Lyndonville Vermont.   This is NPR News. 