 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Time for sports.   Hey does not any team want to be number one? College basketball's tournament selection is just a couple weeks away but three of the top six teams lost this week and another came within just a whisker. Maybe had some help from some friendly reffing. And Rory McIlroy maybe just get hungry for a Slim Jim or something and walk off the course? Howard Bryant of ESPN.com and ESPN The Magazine joins us. Howard thanks so much for being with us.  OK Scott. How are you?  I am fine thanks. College basketball let us begin there because Indiana Duke and Michigan were ranked number one three and four last Monday and then they all lost. Is there something in the Gatorade?  I think Gonzaga wants to be number one. Until of course they get to number one and they do what everyone else is doing which is lose. It is amazing. It is an incredible year this year in terms of the parity. We have been talking about this for years that at point you were going to feel the effects of all those great young talented players going directly to the NBA or only sticking around college for one year because of the age restrictions in NBA. And now you are starting to see the effects. You are starting to see that anybody can win this year. The talent is diluted. We have been waiting for this year and I think this is finally the year where you are going to get to that NCAA tournament in two weeks and you may have something that is never happened before which is a one-seed lose to a sixteen. Because every team seems to be kind of right in the middle of being good. I think Indiana is still the best team in the country but nothing would surprise me in this tournament coming up.  Now to underscore this is this the effect of the fact that in the college game now the top-ranked players with some exceptions often stay in school just long enough to get seen by the pros.  Oh yeah. You have to stay in college or you cannot go into the NBA for one year. And so because of that - remember Florida? They won back-to-back championships because they were a four-year team. You had that continuity. You do not have that anymore. The defending national champions Kentucky that whole team went to the NBA last year and so John Calipari is starting from scratch. And so UConn Georgetown - Michigan State is one of the few teams where you still get your good top ten team and you still get to keep four-year players. But for the most part every coach in the game realizes that their best players are going to stay for about a year. Even Duke you are going to get great players stay for about a year and then they are out of here. And when that happens then you are going to just get as much parity as we are getting this year.  Switching to football three players in the NFL draft Combine have reported that at least one NFL team has asked them quote Do you like girls? Now this is 2013.  It is 2013.  We live in the times when the personnel manager of a hardware store might be bounced for saying something like that. How does that happen in the NFL?  Well because the NFL's a closed business. That is the first thing. It is a private industry and they have been able to do whatever they have wanted to do like a lot of businesses. But also it has to do more with the culture. It has to do with the fact that in professional sports we still - and especially in American - in the four major sports we have not had an openly gay player. And it is one of those areas in the locker room where there is outstanding amounts of tension. Some players say they would not mind having a gay teammate and others like Chris Culliver during the Super Bowl was forced to apologize to the fans for saying I do not you know I do not do gays and if there was a gay player on our team they would have to get out of here. So if you are in a situation where you are being interviewed as for potential employer in the NFL you know it is a very very very bad thing to me. I think it is not illegal it should be illegal...  You want to put yourself across in an interview...  No. And why would you answer that question if you were gay? Why would you put yourself that position? In fact you are opening yourself up. I think the NFL has opened itself up to a lot of potential legality issues here simply because at some point you may have a player who says well look the Patriots really really liked me until me interview and I told them that I was gay or I did not give them the answers they wanted. And all of a sudden I did not get a job or I was not drafted. So I think it is a very slippery slope.  And finally Rory McIlroy number one ranked golfer in the world walked off the course after the eighth green of the Honda Classic in Florida yesterday saying he just could not concentrate or maybe he had a toothache though someone saw him eating a sandwich. Does this violate...  You can still eat a sandwich if you have a toothache.  You have to have nourishment after all. But does this violate some kind of code in professional sports?  Well you are not supposed to quit and it looked like he was quitting. And I think it is obvious. What it underscores is that Rory McIlroy's head's not right. He changed clubs this year. The pressure of being the best golfer in the world as supposedly being the number player in the world has clearly gotten to him. He is not playing well. And you see it sometimes - you never see it in team sports because obviously you do not want to quit on your team. But individual sports you see it every now and again. But it was very rare unorthodox but what it really does underscore is that he is not right and he is not playing well and he is got to get it together.  Howard Bryant of ESPN.com and ESPN the Magazine. Thanks so much.  Thank you. 