 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. The state of Michigan is stepping in to take over the finances of Detroit. Yesterday Governor Rick Snyder who is a Republican said the city's 14 billion debt impoverished city services and dire economic prospects amount to a financial emergency. Now under the plan Detroit is city government will likely to be forced to hand over its authority in many areas to a state board and emergency manager chosen by the governor. Detroit is a signature American city which gave birth to the U.S. auto industry and Motown. When a manager is appointed it will become the largest American city ever to have state control over its finances. Now coming up we will hear more about this latest effort to save Detroit but first we are joined on the line by Michigan's Governor Rick Snyder. Governor thanks very much for being with us.  Happy to be with you Scott.  Detroit is been in a tailspin for years. Why did you choose to assume control now?  You can go back to 1950 when there were 1.8 million people in Detroit. Now there is 700000. And it really comes down to the fact that this decline just keeps going and it cannot go on forever. It needs to be turned around. And a lot of great things are going on within the city of Detroit. So the real issue is the citizens deserve better services the finances need to be turned around and we need to grow the city of Detroit. So we are at a crisis point now that my view it is time to bring all the resources to bear that we can. And it is not about fighting with Detroit it is about recognizing it is Detroit Michigan. And so let us bring all the city and state resources together to do the best job possible to simply solve the problem.  Why not let the elected officials of Detroit Mayor Bing and others do their jobs without your interference?  Well that is been a challenge for not just the current situation in terms of the mayor and city council but this has been going on for years where the elected officials have been unsuccessful in turning Detroit around. I did a consent agreement with them back in April where they outlined a number of actions to be taken and those actions have not happened. Or a number of them did not even get started to work on until a September timeframe.  And emergency managers I understand can have almost absolute power in some areas - ending union contracts take over pension funds sell public assets. Do you think any of that is necessary?  Well you are looking at both a short-term cash crisis and 14 billion of liabilities. And so the goal here is not to cause hardship on the city it is to actually stabilize its finances and turn them around. And the goal is not just to simply tell everyone what to do. It is to really say we have additional powers and resources that the state can bring. Let us partner with the city. Let us try and get the mayor and city council onboard to say in a collaborative fashion should not we all want to solve this problem and let us do it together to make Detroit a great place again.  Governor as I do not have to tell someone who is run for office statewide Detroit is an overwhelmingly Democratic city politically. Would it be perhaps fair and wisest for you to choose a Democrat as an emergency manager?  Well it is largely a nonpartisan position. 'ecause I have talked to a lot of citizens. The real issue is is they just want results because they have been suffering through this for again as I said decades. So I am looking forward to bringing in whether someone's Republican Democratic anyone who wants to help this problem let us just go.  Nevertheless do you have any discomfort at the prospect of a governor who happens to be white and Republican taking over the management of a city that is predominantly black and Democratic?  Well you always want to be sensitive to the racial issues in particular. And those are important because there is a lot of legacy and history that needs to be respected and understood. So it is to do it in the best fashion possible but that is about - this is not just about me and it is just not about an emergency manager. It is about bringing people together to say a lot of good people have worked on trying to solve these problems in the past and they have not been successful. But should not we really redouble our efforts to say it is not about fighting it is not about blame it is just about showing results. And so that is the approach I am taking to this is I call it  positive action. Let us just solve the problem.  Can you raise revenue for Detroit without tapping into state coffers?  Well I think there are opportunities to do that. In terms of better collection systems in terms of what is owed to the city in many respects. There can be improvements there. And because ultimately if you look at the citizens they are not getting the services they really need. We need better public safety in Detroit better lighting better transportation. And as we turn the corner on those things I think we will have more people wanting to move in the city. There is a lot of good things going on in Detroit besides its finances that should be recognized.  The governor of Michigan Rick Snyder speaking with us from Ann Arbor. Thank you very much for being with us.  Thank you. 