 If your full name was Dido Florian Cloud de Bounevialle Armstrong you too might decide to just go by Dido.    And I will not leave and I cannot hide I cannot be until you are resting here with me...  That is Dido's debut 1999 hit Here With Me from the album No Angel. Dido has sold nearly 30 million albums since then. Her newest is out this week and it is called Girl Who Got Away. I spoke with her about her music and where she is in her career right now. But first I had to ask her about that extremely long name her parents gave her.  I was always called Dido. And then on the day of my christening and filling in my birth certificate they came up with all these other names.   How very fancy.  Yeah. And confusing. Bit of an identity crisis.  Your mom does have a penchant for words. She is a poet right?  Yes.  And that obviously I would assume kind of rubbed off on you in the form of songwriting. But did it trigger some kind of love of poetry for you in particular?  Yeah I mean I think so. Just a love of words. You know I think I come from a family you know my brother's a great writer too. And I just think that love of words and finding images to describe the things you see is innate in me probably from them.  Let us talk a little bit about your new album. The title track is called Girl Who Got Away. Let us take a listen to this.   What is the story behind that song?  It is actually a song that my brother wrote most of the lyrics for and then I just loved. And I was in a hotel room in California and it was a very hot day and I basically just sort of sat there and read these lyrics he sent and wrote the song in 10 minutes.    You mention your brother. He produced his album with you. And you two have had a long professional relationship. What is it like working with him?  We are both sort of incredibly passionate about music. So we get on great as brother and sister but sometimes we have phenomenal arguments about music.  Who wins?  They go on for months. Well it is quite tough. The problem is is he is my older brother so I cannot help but be a bit unsettled and think he might be right because I worshiped him from when I was a little girl. That does not really go away. But then it is my record and I feel comfort in that I know what I am talking about. So that is where you get the sort of you know if I was nine I would just give in and agree with him. But you know I am not 41 and I have done a few records.  As you mentioned you have worked together for a long time. I mean when you were just starting out - some people may not know - you sang vocals and toured with his group Faithless. I imagine there was a power dynamic that shifted somewhere.  Oh definitely.  I mean as you mentioned you are the younger sister and then you became this huge success.  It was funny 'ecause when I started you know I would just be like his little sister hanging around and if the singer did not turn up or was late you know maybe I would get to like sing something in preparation for the real singer that was turning up. I would sing a lot of his demos and stuff for the real singers. And then what happened that certain producers and DJs started hearing the demos and they were like who is singing on that? And he is like oh it is just my little sister. And they are like well can we use her? If you are not going to use her we will use her. And I think that is when he started realizing that something was afoot.  Let us get back into the music a little bit. I would like to play the first single from the album. This is called No Freedom.   It is a lovely song and I have to admit that as someone who plays the acoustic guitar very badly what I do love is that sometimes you build a song with really simple chord structure.  Yeah. No you can play that one.  That is what I figured.  I can teach you that in three seconds.  Can you?  Yeah.  What are the chords?  It is so easy. It is literally C-G-A minor-F.    How do you feel about performing? Is it something that comes easy to you?  Thinking about it makes me quite nervous often because I guess when I write the songs I am so sort of insular and I am forgetting about having to perform them. And then before every gig I actually get super nervous. And then the minute it starts I just think oh this is where I like being. This is great.  I did read that you used to suffer from panic attacks. Were those directly linked to performances or was that something else?  Actually no not at all. Strangely enough singing is one of the few things that would stop them. But yeah no that was just a random thing that just suddenly hit me years ago in my early 20s. And you want to get away from yourself and you just cannot get away from yourself. And it is when you realize that really sanity and your health is just the most precious thing.  How did you work your way through those attacks? That was just a chapter in your life but was there something specific that helped you cope?  Music for me was a huge comfort during that time and making music and making No Angel. I mean that is what I did while I was having them.  So that was the album you made in - it was released in 1999. Many people might remember that Eminem sampled your song Thank You.   What was that like for you?  Unbelievable at the time. I mean I was a big Eminem fan. And I got this letter in the post you know old school when people actually sent letters and a CD from Eminem saying you know I have sampled this I love it and can I use it? And oh I was so excited. I still remember that feeling. I remember where I was. I remember everything. And I was just like what a brilliant track.   Lyrically on his part Stan was just incredible.  Before I let you go I would like to ask kind of a big meta-question. But was there ever a song that you could point to and say that song changed my life? That song has made me want to be a songwriter.  I think maybe Nothing Compares 2 U by Sinead O'Connor. Obviously she did not write it - Prince wrote it - but her version. I think that made me want to be a singer. As a songwriter Carole King I would just love one day to sit in a room with Carole King and write a song. That would be my dream come true.  Let us make that happen. Cannot your people call her people and?  Yeah. I know they should right? It is almost like too much of a dream. You know when you do not want - you sort of almost do not want your dreams realized. You just want to have it as a dream. But Carole King oh that would be a moment.   Dido joined us from the BBC in London. Thanks so much for making the time.  Total pleasure. Thank you.   Dido's new album Girl Who Got Away is out this week. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. 