 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. There is a new plan to get Detroit out of bankruptcy and the city's mayor has promised that quote Change is coming. This morning we are looking into what those changes mean and how they could help heal some longstanding wounds that have divided this city along economic and racial lines.   And we begin on a bus. It is a weekday late morning and it is packed.   So we are headed up Gratiot Avenue. We are on the No. 34 bus trying to head out to the suburbs. There are a couple of businesses a couple of mini mart convenience stores but really most of the structures around here have just been totally abandoned. There are people though at every stop. So people are still living in these neighborhoods still trying to get on with their lives get on with their day-to-day business.  Right now we are headed to Eastland Mall. It is in Harper Woods which is an outskirt area of Detroit.  We met lifelong Detroiter Fred Kidd on the No. 34 bus. He works at a car parts manufacturing plant in another one of Detroit is suburbs.  They are going to put us out when we get to the mall.  They are going to kick us out.  Yes and we have to get on another bus.  There is very limited bus service from Detroit to the suburbs and there is no regional bus system. Is the bus system pretty reliable?  Absolutely not 'ecause they do not arrive when they are supposed to and when they are not here people get upset. It is just a bad situation here.  So there is a frustrating fairly broken system in Detroit. And then there is a separate better public transportation system in the suburbs. And the city and suburban lines are not integrated which says a lot about the dynamic between them Macomb County Oakland County communities all just a couple miles outside Detroit as the crow flies but in many ways a different world.  This is what is called the Clinton River. It runs through the entirety of Macomb County right through the center. I call it our Main Stream Main Street.  This is Mark Hackel. He is the executive for Macomb County northeast of Detroit. He points out his office window at the river front below which he plans to fashion into a bustling boardwalk with condominiums and restaurants. Macomb County is doing well. Businesses are moving in there is a solid tax base here because the population has grown while Detroit is has been decimated.  They are coming from the city of Detroit for the various reasons I mentioned affordable housing better quality of life and as well safer neighborhoods and better schools.  Hackel says Macomb County needs a healthy Detroit but there are limits to what he is willing to invest to make that happen. Detroit is emergency manager has floated a plan to regionalize the city's water system which already serves the roughly four million people in and around Detroit. The idea is to get the suburbs to pay millions of dollars to lease the water system but Detroit gets maintain ownership. Hackel says that is a bad deal.  I mean I do not understand why we would do that. I mean how do explain that to the ratepayers. The ratepayers are going to sit back and say what do we get out of it?  Hackel says he is all for regionalization. But his constituents are more concerned about fixing the public transportation system rather than bailing out Detroit.  We are not getting people to and from jobs. I think regional transit is much more of a high profile issue - it needs to be addressed. But again we are sitting on the back burner because they are going through a bankruptcy. And we are more than willing to be regional but I got to be responsible too. You know there is got to be a willingness on behalf of the city of Detroit to reach out to the suburbs to want that support and that help where that did not exist in the past.  Sheila Cockrel has felt that us versus them mentality for a very long time.  The big question in Madison City Council would be well where do you live? Like it was a badge of honor to live in a city where services did not work where police did not come where lights were not on but it was ours. And therefore if you were really one of us you would live here too.  She quit the Detroit City Council a few years ago and now she teaches at Wayne State University. Cockrel says cooperation has improved recently. The suburbs helped save the Detroit Zoo a few years ago and implemented a tax to raise money for the city's struggling art museum.  So you have got these really good indicators but you also have unresolved under the surface issues that really need to be addressed in this region. And the biggest issue is race. The pattern of residential racial segregation in the city of Detroit is one of the most intense in the country.  I think that the politics of division of race have been drilled into the fabric of 8 Mile for so long that you know you just have really some dividing lines that need to be broken.  This is Charles Williams. He is president of the National Action Network's Detroit Chapter and pastor at historic King Solomon Baptist Church. And when he refers to 8 Mile he is talking about a complicated piece of real estate - the road that essentially divides the city from the suburbs where thousands of white residents moved after the 1967 riots. Williams says there is definitely a racial element to the tension between the historically white suburbs and the predominately black city they left behind.  Hey you know we serviced the suburbs and we built what the suburbs have become. And at the same time what urban dwellers would feel the suburbs have done much to stab us in the back.  That kind of resentment sharpened after recent comments by the executive of one of Detroit is suburbs. In an interview with The New Yorker magazine L. Brooks Patterson was quoted as saying that Detroit should be turned into an Indian reservation where quote we herd all the Indians into the city build a fence around it and then throw in the blankets and the corn. Patterson has since rejected the remarks. He says it was a sentiment he expressed 30 years ago that was used out of context. But when you listen to Charles Williams it is clear that damage was already done.  We feel like those are not regional partners those are regional - that we are regional enemies.  Despite the history of animosity between the city and the surrounding communities Williams says there are signs that things are changing.  We are definitely going to you know be optimistic about you know what the future holds for Detroit. But on the other end of that we have been let down many times before. But we are going to continue to operate with the face that says that we all want a better Detroit.  The divisions are closing. One big sign says Williams the new Mayor Mike Duggan is the first white mayor to lead Detroit in 40 years elected by a population that is more than 80 percent black. And before he ran for mayor Duggan was living in the suburbs.  