 Konrad Wert is a teacher by day but when he plays his country folk music for fans in Austin and elsewhere goes by the name Possessed By Paul James. Konrad Wert's been making music professionally since 2006 and is often what amounts to a one-man band playing banjo fiddle and guitar stomping his foot for percussion and singing.    Well sometime in the morning when the sun come up well I know what I am gonna do. I am gonna grab my coffee cup...  When he is not filling up a room with his one-man band Konrad Wert teaches disabled children in an elementary school outside of Austin. He is father to two young children of his own all of which influenced the songs on his new album. It is called There Will Be Nights when I am Lonely. Konrad Wert also known as Possessed By Paul James stopped by our studios.    Herrera Herrera El Diablo. Herrera Herrera El Diablo. No mas no mas no mas no mas no mas...  Very nice. And I did not realize before - we should explain you have got what I would call a stomping board.  Just a piece of plywood just to get some resonance just for kicks and giggles.  Is there a story behind this song?  Well when we recorded Soy Muriendo sometimes we would record with just hey press record. So what you really heard just now is not verbatim of what the recording of the song is. I think it is partly how we approach the music. In the recording studio it is a great way to present something. But in a live show in an interaction with you Scott for example whatever's going to come is going to come. And for me that is the purest pleasure of playing music. It is almost a conversation with a listener and a musician. So the story behind that song really is just working as hard as you possibly can Monday through Friday 60-hour weeks and finding your release finding your release in a song.  Yeah. And when all is said and done we are all muriendo are not we?    I want to get to an explanation for your name. But seeing you in person I think I understand it better. I am being absolutely respectful.  By all mean by all means.  So when you sing are you possessed by Paul James?  Well the story is meant to be sincere. Paul was the name of my grandfather Paul Wert and James is the middle of my father who is living. He is down in southwest Florida right now - Melvin James Wert is his name. The way we have always found music coming through is in that manner which you just kind of saw. It is not meant to be pretentious or pushed it is simply meant to express the power of music. And sometimes the power of music takes over completely. And as a schoolteacher it is also a nice way to keep your professional career and your musical hobby if you will in two different areas.  Have your students seen you perform?  My students have seen me perform in the context of being the schoolteacher in the classroom setting. They know we use music as a teaching tool but I try to keep those things very separate because the goal is to always really engage the children and to have families' trust in what your intent is. And that is to drive and push and love and care and inspire students.  Actually I bet you are a great teacher.  I like to think I am. I really sincerely enjoy it.  Do you want to play something?  There is a song called We Welcome You Home. It is not from this current release but it is a lovely song I would love to hear.  By all means. Thanks.    I have resolved all my demons oh by singing and screaming my shame. Well I have opened up all those dungeons and I have laid with the bodies I have slain. I have seen the Christians and the pagans break the bread and they drink the wine. Join hands sings the chorus oh tonight no we will never die. Yeah yeah. Well we welcome you home. Oh we welcome you home. Yeah. Well welcome you home. Well it is so good to have you back home. Go ahead. Well these are your friends. Oh and some of them lovers. Bombs bursting in air oh as we run for cover. Join hands sing the chorus oh tonight no we will never die. But if we should happen to lose you we will sing in the sweet bye-and-bye. Yeah go ahead go ahead. Well we welcome you home. Well it is so good to have you back home. Hey hey. Well we welcome you home. Well it is so good to have you back home. Well we welcome you home. Well it is so good to have you back home. There you go.  Very good indeed.  Thanks very much.  Really. You grew up in a Mennonite community?  Yes sir. Yes sir. My extended family still - my mother and father - still very much Mennonite. It is a lovely story. Where my parents moved down to southwest Florida on the Gulf side in a small town called Immokalee Florida. And there with a few other families that moved down started the church community. And my sister and I were raised there until we moved away. But for a time mom was wearing her covering and we were attending church easily you know three times a week with our community meals and our gatherings. It is a real eclectic community in Immokalee. There is Haitians there is Native American there is African-American there is the farming community and whatnot. And so sometimes services would be trilingual - a very unique flavor of the Mennonite church down there in southwest Florida.  Yeah. Now I now Mennonites are often misunderstood...  Fair enough.  ...and there are you know several different varieties of Mennonites throughout the length and breadth of the United States.  That is right.  I am not familiar with Mennonite music let me put it that way.  Sure sure sure.  Do we hear any influence in your songs?  I think possibly with the writing. There always seems to be intent about community. And we generally approach live performances as 50-50. It is 50 percent the musician 50 percent the audience. It is an equal approach of how we can gather together and share our strengths and share our burdens. Some say it is better than church. I have heard fans say hey this is better than church - not disrespecting church in any manner. But there is definitely a theme that - come on in. We know you are broken. So am I. Let us gather together and have a good time and let us share some song.   That is Konrad Wert. And you can watch a video of Possessed By Paul James performing in the studios of our member station WAMU on our website npr.org. By the way WEEKEND EDITION's theme music is composed by BJ Leiderman. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 