 She is the stage-stomping frontwoman for the rock trio the Yeah Yeah Yeahs.    I got a date with the night burning out my finger...  And he is a Grammy-winning musician. He is worked with artists like Adele The Black Keys and Gnarls Barkley.    I remember when I remember I remember when I lost my mind...  Together Karen O and Brian Burton better known as Danger Mouse are combining forces for the new album Lux Prima. Both are joining us now from NPR's studios in New York City. Welcome to the program.  Thank you.  Thank you hi.  Hi. The title track Lux Prima is a nine-minute track that features these spacey sense  and orchestration. Let us listen.    No eyes open no eyes closed no smoke on your breath no eyes closed. No sun on the glass no darkness no eyes nobody but you.  So tell me about this song.  Yeah well so that was our - our entry point into making music together.  Yeah.  Yeah it was like the first song that we wrote. And I think Brian had just played me something he would produced off of Michael Kiwanuka's Love  Hate that had like a really quite beautiful grand intro. And then also we were just like playing some long songs. And I think that we kind of had like an idea like you know.  Yeah yeah. It was our first week. And I just really wanted to work with Karen and see where it went. You know I love her voice. And immediately it was just - we kind of wanted to make something beautiful. We just wanted it to be beautiful. And so whatever that meant that is what kept kind of coming up.  Karen what is your favorite song on the album?  Ministry pops out.   So talk me through this song.  Yeah do you want to...  Sure.  You can start with the sample.  Yeah yeah. So it is actually - it is funny because that song is - it is not - the guitar part's not a sample. I cannot play guitar very well. So what I did was I just was strumming the guitar underneath and then used guitar notes...  Oh that is what it is.  ...On a keyboard. And I just played it for Karen and said hey what do you think? This is one of the few times where there was something sitting around and she quickly - like something came to it.  Yeah I immediately came up with the bridge actually .  Yeah yeah.  Which I thought was like there is just no topping the bridge. And then Brian you know broke the bad news to me that that was not - you know that we needed a verse that went before it. .  Yeah.  But yeah it is been a song that is kind of been like almost a therapeutic song for me to listen to since we have - since we wrote it. It is a warm - it is a warm place for me.    So day by day I will turn my dreams into a ministry a ministry a ministry of her love. Day by day I will turn my dreams into a ministry a ministry a ministry of her love.  I think I read that you two think writing lyrics is torturous.  .  I think everybody...  Yeah I - bring me someone who...  Exactly.  No no I - no I have met people who love writing lyrics actually and fill like books. Like you know over - like Patti Smith is like that actually - just like overflowing books of lyrics. I am like definitely the opposite. It is like blood - blood from a stone with me. It is a process of kind of stream of consciousness and also like self-editing at the same time. So it is tough but you know the art of it is important to me.   Will not you come be my friend? Will not you come be my friend? 'ecause the only other friend I could ever be is to me.  Tell me about the song Woman.  Yeah.  Yeah that was just I think maybe - what was it? - maybe second or third...  Session.  ...Recording session something like that. And we were trying to do something a little bit more uptempo just because we had been really in you know feel-sorry-for-ourself mode for a while.   It was just - it felt good.  Sad world.  Yeah it was good but - and this happened really quick. You just went in and started singing.  Yeah it was like a pretty primal - a primal output that was going on.    I am a woman what you see. I am a woman what you see. I am a woman what you see. What you see as not what I be.  Is not that how you have to collaborate? When you are collaborating you have to sort of get into space. And you are like we are going to do sad now. And then maybe...  No.  No. .  No that is not how it works?  I think you can...  I am just trying to imagine.  You can turn around and look and see what you have done and go oh we have been sad for two weeks.   Or it is just - it is mostly I mean - for myself it is mostly influenced by other music. You know that is the thing is something that puts you into a certain place. And you are like man this would be great to put myself or other people in this place too.  Right.  And that is kind of your starting point.  That was Danger Mouse and Karen O. Their new album Lux Prima is out now. Thanks to you both.  Thanks.  Thank you. 