 When huge stories break reporters have to be careful about the language they use and how it may define a story. This week that word has been suicide after the crash of Germanwings flight 9525. French German and airline officials have said the co-pilot brought the plane down intentionally. Can you call that suicide? Joining us is Mark Memmott NPR standards and practices editor. Mark thanks so much for being with us.  Glad to be here.  By Thursday investigators were saying that the co-pilot's actions were deliberate but neither the investigators or the officials nor NPR have called it a suicide. Why not?  Well we always want to be factual. The best thing we think is to focus on credible reports avoid speculation be precise with our language. And the word suicide - yes it is about intentionally killing oneself but some dictionary definitions go further. Merriam-Webster for instance adds that suicide is the act of killing yourself because you do not want to continue living. In the early stages of the investigation we could not know what that man in the cockpit wanted or what he was thinking. And then there is this - the word just seems inadequate. A chief executive of Lufthansa put it this way - when one person is responsible for 150 lives it is more than suicide.  Is there a precedence you look to in this case?  Yes our colleague Scott Newman reported earlier this week since the mid-1970s there've been at least eight similar cases. You might remember the October '99 crash of EgyptAir flight 990 south of Nantucket Island - more than 200 people died. Investigators concluded one of the pilots intentionally brought down the jet but they did not use the word suicide because they could not reach a conclusion about his intentions his state of mind.  A number of people might be thinking as they listen to us we routinely refer to suicide bombers. And after all these are people who kill other people with actions in which they know they will knowingly also kill themselves. So what is different about this case?  Well in those other cases the word is being used as an adjective. And the two words together do convey a great deal of information about what had happened. But I should note that the phrase suicide bomber can be problematic and I want to be very careful with what I say next. I am not suggesting anything about what happened aboard the Germanwings jet but especially when information is scant it is important to remember that what seems obvious may not be. For instance there is evidence that some of those who have been called suicide bombers have been forced to or tricked into carrying explosives into buildings and crowds. Should they be called suicide bombers? I do not think so. I do not think most people would. And I know I am a nag on this topic. It is usually best to avoid labels and the phrase suicide bomber is a label. Unless you are sure those labels apply stick to the facts be precise with your words choose them carefully.  And at the same time 'ecause we are speaking in the middle obviously of a breaking news event in a news cycle the use of language is under review as more facts become known.  Always. You know as investigators continue they may get evidence. There may be something on the recordings. They have said there is not but there may be something else. We may learn more and it may indeed conclude that there was a suicide involved here but it looks more like a mass murder does not it?  Mark Memmott NPR standards and practices editor and you can write to him at word matters - all one word - at NPR.org. Thank you Mark.  You are welcome. 