 Also 100 years ago - this week in fact - a ballet premiered that changed the art world.   Igor Stravinsky's now-famous opening notes for The Rite of Spring were first heard by the public May 29 1913 in Paris. Staged by Sergei Diaghilev and choreographed by Vaslav Nijinsky the radical new ballet became a kind of signpost for the 20th century as Tom Vitale reports.  As the orchestra played the swirling introduction to The Rite of Spring the audience at the Champs-Elysees Theatre began to murmur. Then the curtain opened.   Dancers dressed in folkloric costumes began to move unpredictably to the pounding chords. In the theater the rumbles grew to pandemonium - hoots and jeers arguments and even fist-fights between traditionalists and modernists in the seats. It became difficult to hear the music. The composer who was sitting in the theater described the scene in a 1965 interview included in the documentary Igor Stravinsky.     Stravinsky shocked the audience with a revolution in harmony says New Yorker music critic Alex Ross.  You have these two chords slammed together. E major - actually F flat major as it is spelled in the score - and an E flat dominant 7th chord. Two adjacent chords. They are dissonant. They are being jammed together. And that is a harsh sound and he keeps insisting on it. That chord repeats and repeats and repeats pounding away.   And then there was Stravinsky's revolution in rhythm.  It seems as though at first he is just going to have this sort of regular pulse. But then these accents start landing in unexpected places. And you cannot quite get the pattern of it. It goes 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 and it is as if you are in a boxing ring and this sort of brilliant fighter is sort of coming at you from all directions with these jabs.   As unsettling as the music was the audience at the premiere of The Rite of Spring was even more shocked by Vaslav Nijinsky's choreography.  This was not ballet. It was a style of expressive performance that was extremely violent and that seemed to depart completely from conventional ballet vocabulary.  Lynn Garafola is Professor of Dance at Barnard College and author of a history called Diaghilev's Ballet Russes.  It included a lot of stamping. It included jumps that did not aspire to be ethereal. In other words to look like jumps that could hang in the air but rather were hard. They seemed to go up simply to crash down into the earth. And then there were parts where their hands were in fists doing something that seemed for all the world to be primitive.   The story is primitive an ancient Russian tribe makes a sacrifice to the gods of fertility a virgin is chosen and she dances herself to death. But Ballet Russes founder Sergei Diaghilev was also intent on presenting modern works. Stravinsky had already composed two scores for the company. He said the idea for The Rite of Spring came to him in a dream. He also claimed a sort of mystical creative process.    However it came to the composer critic Alex Ross says the music still has an impact.  The Rite felt completely different. And that has remained a very powerful influence on even the youngest composers coming to the fore today listen to The Rite and think oh my God this still sounds new to them.   The Rite of Spring influenced 20th century composers from Bartok and Stockhausen to Steve Reich and the American Minimalists. Within a year of the premiere the score was hailed by critics and audiences as a masterpiece. As for the ballet Nijinksy's original choreography was abandoned after the initial run and not seen again until the 1980s. But historian Lynn Garafola says the choreography had an equally dramatic impact on the world of dance.  I think it was the beginning of what eventually becomes modern dance. It meant that it was possible to create a large-scale work - not a work for a soloist- that departed from the traditional vocabularies of ballet. This was a new kind of ballet a new kind of choreography and a new kind of music.  In the century since its premiere The Rite of Spring has become a symbol of what is modern. And Igor Stravinsky knew better than to try a sequel. For NPR News I am Tom Vitale in New York.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 