 Holly Herndon mashes up experimental sounds electronic dance music and pop into a singular sound that defies categories. From her new album Platform this is Home a song about the personal relationships we have with our electronic devices and how that can make us vulnerable.    I can feel you in my room. So you can hear a sample of a ball dropping. It has this kind of exponential rhythm where it gets faster the closer it gets to the ground.    I feel like I am home. And that is kind of how I built the verses of the track on this rhythm because I felt like when I was running around the world touring I was running around trying to find WiFi and hot-spots. And I felt like if I could find my inbox and I could update my inbox then I would not drop the ball. So the ball dropping is kind of like a literal take on me dropping the ball when I cannot get access to my email.    I feel like you feel all around. As I was writing it I started coming to terms with the fact that I was calling my inbox my home. And then I started thinking about OK well if my home is my email account what does that mean if it is being violated if someone's in there kind of snooping around? And I started coming to the conclusion that it actually felt more violating than you know having someone in my actual home going through my sock drawer because there is so many kind of emotional and private things that are mediated through my devices now.    I know that you know me better than I know me. And so this lyric I think is pretty poignant. I know that you know me other than I know me is kind of a comment on how much our devices know about us. Sometimes our devices can know even more than we know about ourselves about our habits about you know things that we do not even like to be honest with ourselves about. So the idea of someone else having access to something that might even know more about yourself than you in some regards is kind of terrifying.    It is even something better than you... Some of the sound design in that breakdown - I was using a system developed by Mathew Dryhurst. And he calls it net concrete. That is kind of drawing on the French tradition of music concrete which is largely field-recording based. But instead of field recording my environment I am in a sense field recording the sound of my browsing.   And then you can kind of rearrange and smash those sounds together into a new palate.    You know that I feel. I think sometimes when we talk about issues like security we can be really dry and we can forget about how it affects us emotionally. And it actually affects our relationships. So I wanted to kind of take a love song approach to this to uncover some of the more emotional aspects to this issue. I sometimes say that it is nice to use pop as a carrier signal and then you can embed another message within that signal. And it will travel really far.  That is was Holly Herndon talking about the song Home from her new album Platform. 