 Henry Aaron has always been known as will always be known as Hammering Hank the man and Brave that many people still consider the real leading career homerun hitter of all time. But Henry Aaron never liked that name or what he thought it implies. A new biography has just been published The Last Hero A Life of Henry Aaron. The author is our friend and sports voice on this program Howard Bryant of ESPN.com and ESPN the magazine. He joins us from New York. Howard thanks so much for being with us. Mr.  Thanks for having me Scott.  And you open with this really unforgettable scene of Henry Aaron at a sports memorabilia convention. And you know people talking about oh I was here when you hit number 715 to break the record - and thinking they are getting on his good side but you offer another view. Mr.  Yes. Well one thing that is very interesting about Henry Aaron is that there is this great gap between Hank Aaron public figure homerun hitter and Henry Aaron human being. And I think one thing that is very interesting about him is that it is very  it is not uncommon with professional people and superstars to have a private side and a public side naturally. But the gap between his was so great. And the night of April 8th 1974 when he broke Babe Ruth's record was not a joyous time for him. It was joyous for the fans who wanted to see him succeed. But for him it was not happy it was not a happy moment at all.  Yeah. That was a difficult time for him. He was under a lot of pressure and not just pressure. Mr.  Well I think the thing for him that is very difficult for him to reconcile is this notion that something was taken from him that he could never get back. And the only reason that this was not a joyous occasion was because he was an African-American. And the irony of it all is that during his moment which was not very joyous and then 33 years later when Barry Bonds broke his record also a moment that was not joyous for the country for other reasons based on the steroid era it was Henry Aaron that the baseball public wanted to turn to to remind it of its values. And I think that it was a collision or a conflict that Henry was never quite sure how he felt about. And I think it is a very interesting moment for him now because I know there is a part of him that is thinking well where were you in 1974 when it was my turn?  How do you explain the rivalry between Willie Mays and Henry Aaron? I mean all team rivalries aside pro players know they could be teammates tomorrow and rivalries tend to be personal rather than across team lines. Mr.  I think Henry Aaron admired Willie Mays as much as he admired any ball player not named Jackie Robinson. He had always said in interviews how much he admired Willie how much he loved Willie's skills and Willie's electricity. And was in a lot of ways I would not say envious because I do not think he took a backseat to anybody as a hitter but he certainly loved Willie's game. And as his career...  Well Willie Mays is arguably the greatest outfielder of all time. Mr.  The best five tool player ever in terms of being able to do everything well. And I think that Willie truly was a hero of Hank Aaron's. But on the other side I think that it was very difficult for Willie Mays. The narrative for Willie Mays had always been that he was going to be the one to break Babe Ruth's record. He was going to be the one who challenged Ruth. But Mays' career slowed down and Aaron's picked up by the late 1960s. And by '68 '69 '70 it was very clear that it was not going to be Mays it was going to be Henry Aaron who had the chance to challenge Ruth. And I think that Henry was such a proud man and so sure of his accomplishments that I think what he wanted Willie to do was just to say congratulations and it was very hard. And I could imagine that it would be hard for anybody when you are that good for that long to have to give up the spotlight.  To complicate that your book throws yet another spotlight on the years in which Barry Bonds of the San Francisco Giants - by the way the godson of Willie Mays - is advancing on Henry Aaron's all-time home run record and Henry Aaron had to say the least complex thoughts. Mr.  Well the hard part with the Henry Aaron story in general has always been that he is always been compared to someone else throughout his career. He was compared to Mays when he came up. And then as he challenged the record he was compared to Ruth. And now that his record was being challenged in 2006 and 2007 ultimately he was now being compared to Barry Bonds. And for me the question had always been why cannot we look at this man on his own terms? Why cannot we assess him in his own terms? Why does he always have to be part of this unfavorable comparison to another player? And during 2007 when the record was broke Henry Aaron decided that there was no way he could win in this comparison. If he had come out and said that he was in support of Barry Bonds breaking the record then he was giving tacit approval to the use of steroids and performance-enhancing drugs since Bonds was caught up in that controversy. And if he came out against Barry Bonds then he would look like a bitter old man who did not want to see his record broken. So his conclusion was was I am going to say nothing. I am going to just let history decide. And ultimately he ended up winning even more respect from the public because he was the person who maintained his dignity. Barry Bonds may be the record holder now but Henry Aaron is the standard bearer and that is much more important today.  Yeah. Howard you are a man who uses words carefully. Why do you call Henry Aaron a hero? Mr.  I call him - not only do I call him a hero I call him the last hero. And that title is not just for effect. I think one of the reasons why I was drawn to this book in the first place was because of my second book Juicing the Game was about the steroid era. And obviously when you are dealing with that era you begin to wonder about the value systems of this county and of the game and of what stands for cheating and what does it mean to do things the right way? And as I found out over 2005 and 2006 it was not just the steroids. It is the housing crisis and it was Enron and it was this feeling that the only thing that matters is to accumulate as much money as you possibly can and nobody cares how you got it. And I began to think especially in baseball when they have the saying if you as not cheating you as not trying and I really was offended by that. And I began to think about not just the game but who was I interested in? Who did I think represented these values of accountability and integrity and such that seem quaint today? And it was Henry Aaron because he wanted to be a person of substance. He did not just want to be a baseball player. His record the home run record was the last record that was not tainted by drugs.  Did Henry Aaron cooperate with you? Mr.  That is a very good question Scott. It took two years for Henry Aaron to agree to talk to me about this book. I started to work on the project in May of 2006 and we did not speak ironically until Jackie Robinson's birthday January 31st 2008. And I spent a lot of time trying to convince him that I was interested in the full sum total of his life as an American icon as a person that I respected. And I remember the first time that we had spoken he had said nobody cares nobody cares about the fact that I raised five children or the fact that I was trying to use my baseball celebrity to create a foundation to help young people. They only care about what I hit on a 3-2 pitch or which home run I hit off of which pitcher or what I have to say about steroids. And I said to him Mr. Aaron do you honestly believe that that is what you think the public feels about you? And he said yes because that is all that people ask me. And I said well sir I am calling for your blessing because I would like to do a little bit more than that. And he agreed. It was not an authorized biography. He never asked me for a dime. He never made the phone call that all biographers hate which is to say hey this guy is doing a book on me do not talk to him. He let me into his life as much as he could and I was very very thankful for that.  Howard Bryant his new book The Last Hero A Life of Henry Aaron. Thanks so much Howard. Mr.  Thank you. 