 Hundreds of women die in Turkey each year at the hands of a husband or family member. It is a society that critics say too often ignores violence against women. After years of frustration one organization has shaken up the debate with a controversial proposal to arm women and train them to defend themselves. NPR's Peter Kenyon reports from Istanbul.  Looking back on it Yagmur Askin thinks perhaps she should have paid more attention on her wedding day when her husband's family welcomed her by saying you enter this house in a bridal gown and you will leave it in a coffin. But as a 15-year-old forced into an arranged marriage to a man she barely knew she is not sure what she could have done differently. After four years of sexual assaults from her father-in-law and then beatings from her husband she learned the chilling meaning of that sentence while hiding at her family home on one of several attempts to escape.   It was August the windows were open. I heard a noise and pulled back the curtain and it was my mother-in-law outside and she had a gun. I jumped and she fired six rounds and with each shot I swear she was laughing. I was hit twice in the legs.  When the shooting case went to court the husband's family began to threaten Askin's mother and brothers and a terrified Askin withdrew her complaint. The mother-in-law spent only 17 days in custody. Activists say on average a Turkish women dies every day in a domestic or honor-related homicide all too often in cases where the police or prosecutors have failed to protect them. Occasionally a killing moves from the police blotter to the national media as with the case of Guldunya Toren in 2004. Shot and left for dead allegedly by her brothers she was lying in a hospital bed when a man claiming to be a relative and was allowed to visit her and he killed her. The case prompted huge demonstrations and a song in her memory became a hit.    When Guldunya was shot there was a criminal case she was in the hospital but no one wanted to protect her. The state had no interest in protecting her.  Ilke Gokdemir with the women's rights group Mor Cati says the Guldunya forced Turks to recognize that the justice system to protect too often fails to protect even obviously at-risk women. She blames a macho patriarchal culture that she says leaves many women feeling powerless to escape from violent situations. In Yagmur Askin's case after years of beatings she did finally demand a divorce. She says after that her husband took to beating her in the face with firewood.   He would say things like I am going to make you not so pretty anymore. I do not want anyone else to see how beautiful you are. He would not let me use the phone I could not go to the store I could not take the kids to the park.  For years women's rights advocates searched for a way to shake up the debate. Last fall someone did. Hayrettin Bulan with the women's group Sefkat-Der which means compassion foundation shocked some people with a call for a vigorous self-defense program for women including giving them guns and teaching them how to use them. Bulan says it is just one of a series of measures his group recommends but it is gotten by far the most attention.   We are telling these battered women if the government will not protect you learn to protect yourselves. Carry pepper spray learn martial arts and yes go to the range and learn to shoot a gun. It amazes me that people think it is fine for a shop owner to have a gun to protect his money but a woman cannot have one to save her life.   That is the sound of NPR translator Gul Tuysuz firing a handgun for the first time in her life. A very good first shot says instructor Ibrahim Yildirim especially considering it was fired from a Glock loaded with a .45 caliber bullet larger than the ammunition used by the Turkish police. A retired policeman himself and a nationally-ranked marksman Yildirim was not shocked by the suggestion that at-risk women learn to use a gun. On the contrary he says if properly trained in how to handle a gun and especially in when not to use it it is a sound idea   What I have seen is that women are actually better at this. They are more receptive to learning and we can teach them faster. Men who have been in the military always want to treat the handgun like a rifle and retraining them is more work than starting from scratch.  Yildirim operates a facility known as the Princess Shooting range. No it was not named to attract female clients. That is the name of the building which used to house a hotel. He says turkey does not require gun safety training before issuing carry permits for firearms but it should for both men and women. Yildirim recommends a three-month training program as required in many European countries. He says he has around 500 women customers at the range these days including some whose goal is self-protection.   For those women I emphasize how to use a gun so that only her attacker is endangered. Sometimes an attack occurs in a crowded public place and whenever you pull a gun you are taking other peoples' lives in your hands. There are ways of reducing the risk to bystanders and these are very important to learn. So is knowing the law when using a gun is justified and when it is not.   The proposal to arm battered women has its critics including domestic violence survivor Yagmur Askin. She cannot imagine living in a household where the husband is violent and the woman is armed.   And then there are the children. The child will see her father beating her mother and she is going to wonder is mom going to kill dad tonight? Also I have been shot with a gun so I am against them. But I like all the other self-defense ideas - the pepper spray the athletic training those are all good things.  After seven years of abuse Askin finally fled and has now been in hiding for 16 years - cut off from her family unable to go to work afraid to rent a house in her own name. Even so in a country of 70 million people with only 2500 shelter beds she considers herself lucky to have found refuge and support. Women's advocate Ilke Gokdemir says if anything anecdotal accounts of violence are on the increase recently. But she hopes that is because more cases are being reported which means more women are standing up for themselves.   So even though it sounds really pessimistic to say there is more violence against women it might be a backlash against women who are becoming more assertive about their human rights.  Turkey has a new domestic violence law that does offer some hope perhaps most importantly the ability for women to get a new identity. Activists say it remains to be seen however whether it will be actively enforced by police and prosecutors. Peter Kenyon NPR News Istanbul.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 