 Bhi Bhiman grew up in St. Louis. He played baseball. He listened to Michael Jackson. He watched Back To The Future. He grew interested in music and today Bhi Bhiman writes and sings songs that have an international character.    I am moving to Brussels. I am moving to Spain. I am moving to Harlem. It is all the same.  Bhi Bhiman's new album is called Rhythm  Reason. It is out on Monday. He joins us now from the studios of member station KQED in San Francisco. Thanks so much for being with us.  My pleasure my pleasure.  You grew up the son of immigrants. Do you think that gives you a different sense of place?  I think it does. One thing that maybe does more for that is my family's so spread out over five continents and...  Your Sri Lankan ancestry.  Yeah. So my mom's - mom and dad's brothers and sisters landed in Australia New Zealand England Africa still in Sri Lanka Canada. So my sense of place was - is not limited to my county or my state or my country. Really it is like a international feeling of community.  Well let us listen to one of your songs now Up In Arms.    Two hundred years as not but two things have changed. It is safe to say I have had a price upon my head. Bobby Seale and I have made important progress. It is safe to say that my glory has fled. Up in arms up in arms up in arms...  Who is the narrative voice of this song?  It is written in the first-person of Huey P. Newton the Black Panther Party founder in Oakland. And he is a person that fascinated me since I was a teenager. And his story is really a fable of a rise to power and glory and squandering it. But the reason why this song is important to me right now is what is going on in this country regarding race relations and police brutality all things that were problems when the Panthers were founded. And the race relations issue in America it smolders and then it ignites again and again. And we sort of turn our heads  and then we maybe turn away and then it smolders again. And it is a fable in that way in that - in that very little has changed in certain ways.  At the same time it is a very clear-eyed song.  Definitely. He was a clear-eyed person. He had a very distinct vision of what he wanted and he squandered it. He became a drug addict ultimately.  Let us listen then to another song with a kind of mundane title - the song will not play out that way - Bread And Butter.    'ecause every day I get up early in the mornin' mind my watch and get to work at the crack of dawnin'. Everybody wants to be a star but no one seem to want to love the cause. When I win the world when I win the party ...  I wrote that song - basically there is a thread throughout the album about immigration and immigrants. And to me some of the hardest-working people in America are immigrants and they have a sense of family time that is very strong and work ethic. And they seem to balance those out. And on a parallel note writing that song it is about the seven deadly sins and how prevalent they are in our society and how accepted they are and maybe celebrated even. I am not overly religious but that is a departure from the religion that founded America you know?  What do you make of the fact that so many of the people you are singing about are hard-working people and you are a hard-working musician?  Is that not oxymoron?  Well I...  .  As a non-musician I cannot say that.  No I am just kidding. Yeah no it is a different sort of work ethic but I remember distinctly growing up that my parents are very education driven and they come from Sri Lanka which is an island south of India. And education is a blood sport almost there. And there is like a saying - you are number one on the island. You tested so high that you were the top-rated student on the island. And that sort of mentality kind of comes along with me when I am writing songs. I want to write the best song I can write and push people's boundaries and expectations of what a song can be.  We want to hear another song of yours. This one is called The Fool.   Do you want to set this up for us?  It has political connotations to me in terms of getting the wool pulled over your eyes in a political situation and you know people taking advantage of you. But it is also disguised as a love song a relationship song.    Now that the worst part is over I can get on with the rest of my life. If I only knew you broke the rule and your talk was filled with lie after lie. You made me the fool.  You have such an extraordinary voice.  Thank you - my speaking voice right?  Well that is a fine voice too but I meant your singing voice.  Yeah. I am just kidding.  It is amazing to me that you did not begin to use it until you were 20.  Yeah I was never trained. I just sat in my car and sag my heart out to my favorite records - Ray Charles and Sam Cooke and many others.  Yeah but friends would say you really ought to take this outside the car.  Yeah but it is such a battle to become a musician making a living that it was never really a reality but it is a compulsion honestly.  Yeah.  And I am very glad I have stuck with it. I am starting to bear the fruit of the labor.    Every triumph every heartbreak brings me closer to thee.  Bhi Bhiman - his new album Rhythm  Reason out on Monday. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you so much. It was a real pleasure.    Brings me closer to thee. When it seems the distance gets farther and farther I do not know...  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 