 We are going to focus now on one of those scandals that preoccupied the White House this past week. IRS officials will be back on the Hill Tuesday to testify before a Senate panel. They are trying to explain why they singled out conservative groups for special scrutiny. The IRS started targeting the groups back in 2010 but some liberal organizations say their applications for tax-exempt status were also scrutinized during the same period. NPR's Brian Naylor reports.  2010 began a busy period for the IRS office in Cincinnati the home of the tax-exempt determinations unit. In January of that year the Supreme Court handed down its Citizens United decision which loosened the rules governing contributions to political causes and candidates. Applications flooded into the office from groups seeking tax-exempt status many with a political agenda. The IRS has admitted it flagged applications from groups with tea party or patriot in their name. But applications from other groups were closely scrutinized as well. An Austin-based progressive group Progress Texas was one. Its executive director Ed Espinoza says it took almost a year and a half for the IRS to review the application from his organization. The process included answering a very detailed questionnaire.  It was nine pages and 21 questions and inside those 21 questions there were additional questions. So it was fairly extensive and it was fairly thorough.  In 2010 some 1700 applications for what is known as 501 tax-exempt status came into the Cincinnati office. That number nearly doubled by 2012. Yet according to the IRS Inspector General's report just one person was originally given the task of sifting through the applications deemed politically sensitive. Marcus Owen a former IRS official says that is a lot of work for one staffer.  It is a thousand applications and these were applications that were identified because they were likely to have issues that were complex which means that they are going to take more time. So it seems like that would be more than one person could easily handle.  Another application that seemingly got caught up in the backlog came from a group of journalists in Chicago. The Chicago News Cooperative provided news for the Midwest edition of The New York Times. The co-op also sought tax-exempt status. Veteran journalist James O'Shea a former managing editor of The Chicago Tribune was in charge. JAMES O' There were political organizations trying to get these exemptions and I think the IRS was concerned - and probably appropriately so - that some of these news organizations were really political organizations. And so they were examining that and we just got caught up in that.  For more than two years the Chicago News Cooperative waited for an IRS ruling. But without tax-exempt status foundation support dried up and the co-op went out of business. Progress Texas did eventually get its tax-exempt status. And director Ed Espinoza says he has no trouble with the scrutiny his organization underwent.  Look if you want a tax exemption you have got to jump through some hoops. You need to be able to demonstrate that what you are doing is legitimately a tax-exempt activity and that is what we saw it as.  There is no sign the backlog of applications for tax-exempt status at the IRS has eased. Marcus Owen now a tax lawyer in Washington says according to the IRS website the agency is now looking at applications made in March of last year. That means there are some 20000 applications still in the queue. Brian Naylor NPR News Washington. 