 President Trump says he may pick a nominee for FBI director before he goes overseas on Friday while the investigation into Russian election interference gets hotter and the fight to repeal and replace the Affordable Care Act continues and the effort to revamp the tax code grinds on. Let us check in now with some people who voted for Donald Trump. How is he doing? And how would they like to see these battles play out? Kevin Eisbrenner joins us now from Livonia Mich. Hi.  Hello.  And Rena Tolson is from Columbia Md. and she is here in the studios with us. Good morning.  Good morning.  All right let us start with this week's banner headline story. How do you think the president handled the firing of James Comey? Rena let us start with you.  I think he handled it pretty well. It seemed pretty diplomatic and step by step following a process that seemed to already be in place.  OK. Kevin do you think he did the right thing?  As far as firing Comey yeah. I would say that was the right thing to do. That is his prerogative. You know they keep trying to tie it to this Russian collusion.  The investigation that is going on right now in the FBI in the Senate...  Right.  ...And in the House.  You know the investigation really starts out with Flynn because he could have been compromised as national security adviser yes. Look - they have got to definitely look into that. Now feel free to look into the collusion part too but I doubt very much they are going to find anything that affected the election. So - but hey if they want to - if the FBI wants to investigate it go right ahead you know. I have no problem with that.  Investigations do take time. Rena speaking of Russia you have just heard Kevin's opinion there. I am curious to know what you think about the investigation.  Sure. And I think like Kevin said everything is subject to investigation. But I think to say that the Trump campaign was in collusion and the campaign was part of this that is way out there. That is really  way out there.  Yeah.  Do you...  And as a side note...  Yeah.  ...I really think that if Putin was interested in interfering in Washington then Ovechkin and the Capitals would have had a different outcome in Game 7 against the Penguins you know. How well does he know Putin? I do not know. I did not see any interference there.  All right let us talk about the things that the president promised on the campaign trail - building the border wall affordable health care bringing back jobs. There is a lot there but I would like to know where you think he is done well and where you would still like to see him do more. Let us start with you Rena.  Well I think he is done well for jobs. Obviously the statistics out there are showing that jobs are on the rise. I think the border wall - he is getting a lot of opposition there. But I think his stance on trying to move forward with illegal people coming into the country - we see that those statistics are down so I think he is making progress there. So I think that those two things are definitely part of what he is wanting to move forward. And that seems to be getting support in moving forward. I think that health care is just a mess and he is obviously trying to move something forward on that. And I think that everyone needs to be behind the president and working together to get this taken care of for the people. Whether it is eradicating Obamacare or making something new the people are suffering and we need to be united and be behind the president to help the people. And so I think he is really trying to move that forward. So I would give him a lot of progress points on that.  Well Kevin do you think that the GOP health care bill as passed really does the best for the majority of Americans?  You know I think it is a slight improvement. I do not think it is the answer though. I really do not. I do not think it is going to help everybody across the board - no. And that is why my belief is keep the government out of health care. The government really anything they get involved in for the most part in my opinion they do not do a good job at it. You know my daughter had to go get an Obamacare policy and it saved her bacon you know with some things going on. She got a policy. But then for every story of my daughter there is 50 where people went the opposite way. It really screwed them over.  So just let me clarify this - your daughter was helped by a policy under the Obamacare legislation?  Right. She was in between jobs and instead of having to pay the penalty she figured she could put those dollars to use and get herself a policy. You know it helped her out in that situation. You know for somebody in her age bracket in her situation it worked.  OK Rena just one more question on health care - I would like to bring it back to President Trump. Do you think he has a clear vision for what health care reform entails?  I think as a business person he has a clear vision in terms of the final outcome. I do not know necessarily if the first round is the best solution but something has to be done. And Obamacare great in its idea - maybe President Obama had a vision as well but we did not get there.  Kevin I am going to ask you a different question. The president has given a lot of interviews this week and in many he is contradicted himself. In one with The Economist he claimed to have invented an economic term that was coined in the 19th century. Many of his critics say - and even in The Economist article it said - that he is erratic and that he lacks knowledge. Does that worry you when you look at his words and they do not necessarily match up with other statements that he is given at different times?  You know that is one - that is why you know - they say how do you grade him on 1 to 10? And I say maybe 7.5. That is one of the little things there that - you know that and his Twitter I wish he would stop a little bit of that you know the reactionary part and you know talk to his advisers because sometimes just shooting from the hip you end up shooting yourself in the foot.  And you?  I think that there is a overanalysis  of all of that and that he...  You think this is all inside-the-Beltway obsession. It is just the journalists and the pundits talking to each other and the...  If you really talk to people outside of all of it they really do not care and they are turning it off. And what they really care about is the big-picture things and how it affects them you know how it affects their day to day. And we are all caught up in - is he contradicting himself? Look we contradict ourselves every day. We say one thing. We do another. The next day comes and we feel differently about it. And I understand that we put the president in this position where he has to be perfect or be consistent. I understand that. But at some level we need to be a little bit more gracious.  All right Kevin Eisbrenner and Rena Tolson thanks so much for coming in.  Well thank you.  You are welcome. Thanks for having us. 