 Time now for your letters.   A story last week about an organization in California that finds homes for dogs with war veterans prompted many letters.   Im an animal advocate who is rescued many a sad dog and know of the love that they can give some wounded soul writes Elaine Livesey-Fassel of Los Angeles. So very proud of the ingenuity and compassion of the founder Clarissa Black and will attempt to help her in her noble and loving quest to better the lives of man and dog. Some disagreement from some listeners about a statement made by NPR senior news analyst Dan Schorr in our Week In Review. Kathy Colura of Atlanta writes I was shocked to hear Daniel Schorr report that no one will be able to say that President Obama did not act quickly on the gulf oil spill. If Mr. Schorr were to scan many of the current news stories and editorials talk to those of us who care deeply about the gulf he would find the opposite to be true. Many believe that the Obama administration has completely mishandled this situation and its response has been far little and far too late. In my essay last week I spoke about the incident in which Prime Minister Gordon Brown called a Labour Party constituent a bigoted woman when he thought his mic was off. I doubted the woman deserved the insult but also expressed some sympathy for Mr. Brown. Robin Comstock emailed us from Stockton California to say I missed the mark. She writes Whats really important and worth comment about this incident is the attitude of a Liberal Party politician that any mention of concern over a perceived problem with immigration policies is seen as bigoted. This is a recurring theme that clouds any reasonable discussion about those that believe in smaller government and those who feel differently. Last week's show we talked to Jonathan Eig whose book Get Capone unveils new information about the infamous crime boss. Mr.  And his big job was to make sure everybody stayed happy. So paying off the cops paying off the courts making sure that his guys didnt go to jail - he was very good at that.  Larry Dennison of Port Townsend Washington says he tuned in a little late to that interview. Without context to the lead-in story I thought they were talking about the Washington political scene over the past three decades he writes. Imagine my surprise to learn the payoffs threats and underhanded strategies they were talking about were those of the Chicago mob.   We welcome your payoffs - oh Im sorry your comments. Email us. Go to NPR.org click on Contact Us. You can also reach us on Twitter. I tweet nprscottsimon all one word. The rest of our staff is nprweekend all one word. 