 Last week's shooting at STEM School Highlands Ranch near Denver left one student dead and eight injured. And it took place just miles away from Columbine High School where 20 years ago 13 died in Littleton Colo. Patrick Neville was a student who survived that massacre at Columbine. And today he is the minority leader of the Colorado House of Representatives. And he joins us now. Welcome to the program.  Hey thanks for having me.  As a survivor it must be hard for you to see all these school shootings.  It is hard. You know we definitely want to work to fix the policies and fix what we can. Find some comfort in just this latest one - I mean there were some real heroes there that day. And I think we have come a long way where after Columbine everyone knew those shooters' names really well. But they did not really know of too many of the heroic acts that happened that day at Columbine. So we are seeing some different reactions today and I think that is important.  You are a Republican a proponent of gun rights in Colorado. And in 2018 you introduced a bill to allow concealed handguns on school grounds. That bill did not pass. But do you feel students would have been safer with concealed firearms at STEM School?  I do. You know I think that probably would not have - the shooting probably would not have happened in the first place. One of the reasons I propose this bill year after year is the fact that it is a major deterrent. If they know they are going to go in there and face opposition and they do not know where that opposition's going to come from they will probably think twice about doing it in the first place. So I think they probably would have been safer had it actually broken out. But I think it probably would have prevented it from even happening in the first place.  Where do you get your information that it is a deterrent? Because of course people on the other side would say actually more guns mean it is less safe.  Well I do not know where there is any logic in those kinds of statements from the other side. But I will say that if - people target these areas specifically and they have targeted them more and more since we have had gun-free-zone policies.  You put out a statement after the most recent shooting urging support of school safety programs. Tell us what is needed in your view for Colorado schools.  Well obviously I do propose the bill every year to lift the ban. But there are some other things that we have been able to come together on. Two years ago we were able to push forward a bill that provided 30 million for school safety improvements whether it is infrastructure improvements whether that is training for resource officers whether that is training for staff to have the proper assessments. Unfortunately all our efforts to put more money into that fund this year were defeated.  Many of your peers from Columbine and other kids who have survived school shootings over the years have come out in support of more regulations on guns. They point to the fact that America has more school shootings than any other developed country in the world combined. The only difference between the United States and them is that the United States has more armed individuals. Why do you think your position has diverged in the way that it has?  Well many of my friends - to correct to you - I would say actually came out and supported my policy. I had quite a few friends and colleagues from Columbine High School who came out and testified in favor of my bill. I have met many of them just through this process. So I think there are some out there. There is people on both sides of the issue just like there is with any other issue. But I would point to the fact that we really have not seen this problem in our schools until Americans adopted gun-free-zone policies throughout the states. And that is what is actually contributed - not the only cause but contributed to this happening.  Patrick Neville is the GOP leader of the Colorado House of Representatives. Thank you so much.  Thank you.  We are joined now by Martin Kaste. He covers law enforcement for NPR. Martin we heard Patrick Neville say that if a school is in a gun-free zone it is more likely to be targeted by a shooter. Is there data to back that up?  Well there are competing sort of studies. They tend to be aligned with advocacy groups. It is a real problem to study that in any serious way because what you are talking about is trying to discern motivations. You know the idea that yes of course schools are in gun-free zones. These school shootings happen at schools ergo they attacked it because it was a gun-free zone - that is hard to make that connection. And yet that correlation is often held up as evidence that people were picking on the school because it was a gun-free zone. But the real fact that people have to remember in America is that you know despite these horrific headlines about school shootings actually schools are statistically the place where a kid's least likely to get shot. If you are a child in America you are more likely to get shot in the street or at home.  Do we know why shooters choose their targets?  It really varies a lot. A lot of this tends to be about the place where that person spends most of their day. You know the few times when these shooters survive and are debriefed they tend to talk about just the situational anxieties and angers that they had where they were either going to school or going to work. It is not necessarily you know a place that they picked out randomly. It is usually a place they had a life.  They have a connection to.  Yeah.  You cover law enforcement. How do - how does law enforcement view the presence of guns in schools?  They are very tentative about this. When I talk to them about - especially tactical officers SWAT teams that kind of thing - they are very worried about the idea of civilians with guns. They barge into a school that is having an active shooter situation and if they see someone with a gun in their hand and that person is not wearing a uniform that person's very likely to get shot in that situation. So they are really worried about good guys with guns in the chaos of a school shooting. The other thing that educators worry about a lot when I talk to them - and again we have no direct evidence of this because it has not been tested. But there is a worry that the knowledge that some teachers have concealed weapons on them may cause troubled adolescents especially to seek out confrontation in the classroom situation. Very similar to the phenomenon you see in the street of suicide by cop you may have children seeking out presumably armed teachers for suicide-by-teacher situations perhaps threatening classmates. So we do not know if that is going to happen. But that is certainly a fear that educators have.  That is NPR's Martin Kaste. Thanks so much.  You are welcome. 