 Russian rock - it is not just Pussy Riot.   A band called Pompeya has made its way into the international music scene with danceable grooves and funky baselines.    It is funny how it takes me away .  I bet you did not even think I could say the word funky. Pompeya has a new album out. It is called Real and Daniil Brod is the lead singer of Pompeya. He joins us from the studios of the BBC in Moscow. Thanks very much for being with us.  Thanks .  Does your music cast back a little to the '80s Duran Duran Journey The Cure Britain American pop?  Yes totally totally.  .  And I really appreciate when people notice that because sometimes especially young people they comparing our music to modern acts which is not exactly correct. But when people notice the bands like you did it is totally what we are about.    Who is going to cry about it? Oooo no one's going to cry about it.  Did you grow up listening to that kind of music?  Unfortunately not. I grew up in '90s so I grew up listening to Nirvana Pearl Jam. And I opened '80s music just when I started to play that kind of music. We started to play that kind of music - people started to compare and I started to dig. What was there in '80s - Fleetwood Mac Kate Bush Talk Talk - all this music inspires me a lot.  Another track from the album this one is called Anyway.    Any day  was it only love inside my valentine 'ecause to mute my soul ...  Now what is one of the funniest jobs you had to have while working as a musician?  I had a job as a designer - crappy designer - just a small - business cards fliers. And I understood that it not working so I had to quit and I had to be only a musician.    When the days of playing the fool...  We have been a musicians without making any money for maybe a year but that is something that any musician should go through I think.  Yeah. Although I am just going to guess it must be really hard to be a musician earning no money and live in Moscow in February.  Well yeah  but we had families so that was not that hard. That was fun time. I remember this time with tears in my eyes. We were really romantic and enthusiastic about everything. It is probably like we feel right now about the states because in the states we starting from the new and this very excited feeling.  I want to hear the title track of this album. It is called Real.    Sometimes I feel like I can hide behind the stone. Sometimes I think I might be wrong.  This song means a lot to me. This is the first song when I tried to think about who do I want to be really? And this is the first song musically that we tried to do a ballad and people in Russia loved this song live. Usually people listen to Pompeya as a dance band and here's the first song that is very slow but it is very emotional.    Want to be right down on my own.  There are tens of thousands of bands in the United States and Great Britain that never do a political song in a funny way because they are free to a political song anytime they want. But I wonder if that is different in Russia.  Yes. Most people do not write a political songs in Russia for the reason that they can get in trouble. Maybe they will not get in trouble like in a jail or something but they probably will be declined from some venues or promoters. Who knows?  Yeah.  But the funny thing is right now English can give you some kind of safety in that case. So people would not understand exactly what you are singing about. So English speaking bands probably can do a political song but should it make sense for the Russian audience? I do not know.  Yeah. One more song I want to ask you about - appropriately the last one.    Do not you pull me from the shelter please. These days I will win the race. Do not do nothing to make my mistakes. With this let them take the reins .  Your music could be the definition of pop. What makes you want to make this kind of music?  It happens naturally. I think we found our style. I used to play in a punk rock band and I cannot say that I am happy on stage when that much noise on stage. Our band Pompeya is very good sound live because this is not loud to burn your ears but it is loud enough to make you want to dance. And this style of music will be fine fun for entire of my life.  Daniil Brod - he is the lead singer of the Russian band Pompeya. Their new album is called Real - speaking from Moscow thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks .    Last one ever do not need no other. Your last one recovered. I do not need no ... 