 Record-breaking floodwaters have soaked the Midwest this spring. A historic snowy winter and heavy rainfall turned into floods that burst levees in Nebraska Iowa and Missouri. Andy Dallwitz lives in the city of Portage Des Sioux in St. Charles County Mo. just north of St. Louis. He owns several businesses on the banks of the Mississippi including a bar a marina and a boat repair company. Mr. Dallwitz thanks so much for being with us.  You are welcome. Thanks for having me.  This has been going on for - what? - more than a month. What is it like for you?  We have been underwater since March 17 you know pretty much out of business.  So your businesses are shut down?  Yes completely. My restaurant Saloon which is 14 feet up in the air has 4 feet of water in it. And what really just does not make sense is how the government does things you know? Anybody who lives along the river with a bulldozer can build a levee and keep the water off their property and it just goes down river. And it is just - I am sure it is like that all up and down the Mississippi River. The water's got nowhere else to go but rise and go up higher on your neighbor next to you.  What about your house Mr. Dallwitz?  My house - it is got 3 12 feet of water in it. And my nephew's house has got 5 feet of water in it. And when I bought those houses seven years ago they had only been wet twice in 20 years. They have been wet four times in the last seven.  Mr. Dallwitz how are you living sir? I mean where - may I ask?  We are living out of a motorhome. My father had a bus. You know he did it once in '93 you know? And this is the fourth-largest flood ever in St. Louis. I mean we are 4 feet from reaching the '93 flood levels.  Can I delicately ask how your insurance is?  It is high. You know I mean we can barely afford it you know? And the only thing the insurance pays for is the buildings. I mean we have to redo the grounds and the asphalt and the grass. And I am right next to another levee you know that just protects farmland. And whether that land gets wet or not they get paid. And it is just not like that in our industry. I just do not feel we are at a fair playing field.  I got to ask Mr. Dallwitz do you ever think of finally collecting whatever recompense you get from the insurance companies and moving to Arizona?  No I do not you know 'ecause I mean my dad built the place there and I am taking after him. And you know I want to keep building and leave a place for my son to have you know and his kids. We just - you know we just could use a little help.  Andy Dallwitz in Portage Des Sioux Mo. thank you sir.  Thank you.  