 A few years ago Clairy Browne was teaching elementary school in Australia shushing children. Today she wears sequin dresses and belts out songs as front-woman of her band Clairy Browne and the Bangin' Rackettes.  CLAIRY BROWNE AND THE BANGIN'   My baby's on the phone while I was out of town...  The band just released their album Baby Caught the Bus in the U.S. It is already been a hit in Australia and the band's been catching fire here since their performance at South by Southwest earlier this year. Clairy Browne joins us now from the studios of NPR West. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  You grew up in a musical household I gather.  I sure did. My dad had a band in South Africa in the '60s called Browne. And so he really brought that into our home and we were always you know around the kitchen table with a guitar and four-part harmonies and playing on late into the night.  What did you grow up singing? Do you recall?  A lot of Crosby Stills Nash  Young because the harmonies are quite intricate. But he was very into the Beatles so we were well versed in all the old stuff.  You know you have been called by various reviewers as soul group doo-wop ska gospel '50s and '60s rock and roll blues jazz gritty funk - I am even leaving off a few other descriptions that we could find. How do you react to any of that?  You know musically the influences that you described are all there. I think it is mostly couched in old RB and soul but there are those tinges of hip-hop or industrial sounds in Love Letter you know that doo-wop of Far Too Late. But I think mostly it is quite reflective of an old sound but it is reimagined for now because we are all young people playing the music and we are telling the stories that we are experiencing now.    I am gonna write you a letter oh baby for good or for bad or for better you believe me darling darling I am yours once you are ready I am yours never ever forget it...  Where does this song come from the first track on your album Love Letter?  This song was written by Dorothy McNulty. And the first time I heard it I was sitting at The Pound with him at the piano and he sang it to me. And...  Sitting by The Pound...  Sitting in The Pound yeah. It is not where the dogs live. It is the old coffin factory where we rehearse.  You anticipated I was going to ask you a question about that. OK. So there you were in the old coffin factory in which you rehearse.  Just sitting by this big old piano. And he played me this song and it really did strike a chord with me straightaway.    Ooh I got a love letter...  It is a blues essentially but it is about this unspoken desire and frustration of wanting someone.    I am gonna write what I want you to do to me in a letter. Ah yes. I am gonna write it for good or for bad or for bad or for better. Ah yeah love letter. I am gonna write it for you so that you can be my lover. Be my lover ooh...  When we recorded it it just took on this whole other feel.  Is there something to be said for working in a band with nine people after you have been an elementary school teacher?  Sometimes it feels like taking out a group of grade six kids on an excursion and you are endlessly counting to make sure that you have not lost one of them at the zoo on tour.   And I think that there is that kind of excitement as well because we you know we come from Melbourne and we were just a sort of small-time band. And we just put out a record without any kind of major planning about where it was going to end up. But I am glad I am not shushing the children anymore and I am just shushing the adults.  This is a very upbeat album in sound but some of the most poignant tracks - I am thinking of the song You Do not Owe Me Nothing. It is a very - well let us listen to a little of it if we could.  OK.    And you do not owe me nothing no no no. We had our time and now our time is through...  That is - and I have heard they call that a tender breakup song?  It is. You know it is honest. If you listen really closely you can hear the rain beating on the roof.  I heard something. I did not know that was rain. Really?  It came through on the mics which is beautiful I think.  Sure.   It really helped with the mood that day. And I cried from start to finish recording that song. It was very touching.    ...oh no no we had our time now our time is through. Sometimes when things are over ooh yeah yeah there as not no one no one to blame...  Is it in a way harder to write a happy song than it is a breakup song a sad song?  Absolutely. I am constantly trying to think of you know happy tunes. And we all are - we write as a group. We write collectively. So we are also trying to come up with happy songs and they always tend up to be heartbreakers.  I wonder - is that because in a group of nine people there you know at any given moment there are always three or four going no no that is not true or something like that?  We are a fairly emotional group of weirdoes. So it is pretty common for us to share those sort of feelings. And the album is really reflective of love in so many ways. Something we know that and we feel it touches us and it is a way to connect I think with people through music.    One two a-one two three four. Ooh. Yeah I will be fine yeah. Ooh...  I have been told your stage shows are quite a production.  That is true. A lot of work goes into the stage show.    The good Lord knows it  been behind. I am gonna be fine yeah make my mama ...  It is live and sweaty and gritty and over the top and aesthetically dynamic.  I want to listen to another track if we can.  Sure.  This is Vicious Cycle.    You say it is no big surprise the way it is always been. You get scrutinized criticized fantasized ostracized when you step up to sing so you better be tall. Do not you let them aim...  This sounds like the kind of song someone would write after being pursued by paparazzi through the streets of London or Santa Monica or something.  It does does not it? It is kind of a story of all these artists that we look up to that you know have become eaten up by too much of the wrong kind of exposure. It is kind of about killing your idols and the tragedy of that. You know it is dreamy and nightmarish at the same time.    I do not wanna shed no more tears.  When you are out on the road are there moments you think this is not the life you want to lead?  No not once. You know we get tired and grumpy and all those sort of things but everything we do on tour is every day is working to that one show - although there is many shows - but that one show that day is the focus. And if you do not give 120 percent you do not feel the benefits. And I think the best thing about it is the reaction that we get from people. And that makes me realize every time I get on the stage it is exactly where I want to be it is exactly what I want to be doing. It is you know it is a dream.    What color was Frankie's eyes? Was a vampire in disguise. It is time that I got wise. I know that it is a killer. Killer place in ...  Clairy Browne of Clairy Browne and the Bangin' Rackettes. Their new album out this week is called Baby Caught the Bus. She joined us from NPR West. Thank you very much for being with us.  Thank you very much.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 