 Time now for your letters.   First a correction from last week when we followed up on Wade Goodwyn's story about a miscarriage of justice in Texas. Michael Morton was accused of murdering his wife in 1986 convicted a year later and put in prison. DNA evidence cleared him just last year. Mr. Morton is pursuing a case against the prosecutor for withholding exculpatory evidence from his trial not DNA evidence as we mistakenly said. The Texas Supreme Court has appointed a court of inquiry to investigate. We heard from listeners with fond memories of the Ford Mustang after our conversation with Paul Ingrassia about his new book Engines of Change A History of the American Dream in Fifteen Cars.  The remarkable thing about the Mustang which came out in the spring of 1964 was that you could configure it pretty much any way you wanted. And what this car did was it caught the baby boomers just as they were coming of age and really captivated them.  Jeff Howard posted at NPR.org Of the half-dozen Mustangs I owned during my teens and 20's the 1970 Mach 1 was by far my favorite deep reflective black with white and wood grain interior - a real head turner. Kept it spotless all the years I owned it - loved that car. Now I drive a Subaru. Question Will tears short out a keyboard? Ed Alonzo adds When I think of the Mustang I think of the U.S. Space program and the resemblance of the Gemini Capsule and the original '65 Fastback and the newer '67'68 mustang and the Apollo capsule. I also think of the earlier tail light which resembled jet engine afterburners firing. But listener Ron Rizzardi writes Yes the car fosters imagination. Like when I am stuck in traffic I imagine other ways that I could be traveling. Driving is generally a most infuriating process.   We heard from appreciative listeners after our interview with Maestra Marin Alsop about some of the best-known and most-respected works of English composer Sir Edward Elgar from the familiar graduation song March No. 1 in D to his 1st Symphony. Marian Moore writes Thanks for the intro to Elgar's other music. Just as a note I am so glad that my high school marched to a different beat. We always marched to Mendelssohn's War March of the Priests. Well whatever beat you march to please write to us. You can reach at NPR.org by clicking on the link that says Contact Us. We are on Facebook and Twitter nprweekend. I am  nprscottsimon all one word.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 