 NPR's Gwen Thompkins joins us from Nairobi Kenya. Hello Gwen.  Hi Liane.  Tell us a little bit after weeks of losses Somalia's transitional government launched a major offensive late last week. How does it stand at this point?  So a coalition of extremists is still apparently holding much of what it gained over the past two weeks in the city. They control three of the four main arteries into Mogadishu. And on Saturday as you mentioned in your intro they did lob mortars at the presidential palace which they badly want. But no one was injured in the mortar attack and you know Somali government forces are protecting the presidential palace you know as are those African Union troops.  Gwen Somalia's President Sheikh Sharif Ahmed is considered a moderate Islamist. He has the backing of the west but he is fighting many of his old comrades now and they are considered Islamist extremists. Who are they?  But it is important to note Liane that these two groups do not get along with one another. And if they do succeed in getting the president out of the presidential palace and coming to power then they are widely expected to fight among themselves for ultimate power.  How much concern is there that Somalia may become a haven for al-Qaida if the government does not win?  Also Somalia's direct neighbors are very concerned Kenya Ethiopia. These are countries that you know that have their own problems and they do not want to see the rise of you know of anarchy to the degree in Somalia that is actually becoming a training ground for terrorism that can spill over their borders.  What is day-to-day life like in Mogadishu with this exodus of civilians?  The African Union peacekeepers they control the seaport at Mogadishu which is of course a major seaport as well as the airport. And the African Union peacekeepers tell me that not one plane has been diverted or delayed by any of the fighting that is taken place over the past two weeks.  NPR's Gwen Thompkins she spoke to us from Nairobi Kenya. Gwen thank you.  Thank you Liane. 