 Earlier this year Kelly O'Connell of Denver Colo. started a new career as a labor and delivery nurse. But getting a job at a hospital during a pandemic - well you can imagine how stressful that was. KELLY O' I think becoming a new nurse is totally crazy anyway. But in the beginning it was scary just mostly worried about bringing the virus home to my family.  O'Connell was one of many of you who wrote in to tell us about the song that is helping you through this difficult time and it is a song she enjoys along with her 3-year-old daughter Fiona. O' Hey Fi. Come over here baby.  So I love the Lady And The Tramp song 'ecause it is my favorite.  Bella Notte - you know the Lady And The Tramp song from the Disney movie.    Oh this is the night. It is a beautiful night and we call it bella notte. Look at the skies... O' It is kind of ridiculous. It is kind of this like big accordion playing and they are singing to two dogs eating spaghetti. So it is kind of this like ridiculous thing that just makes me smile.    Side by side with your loved one... O' I am still breastfeeding our youngest. And so I pump when I am at work. And I found myself when I was pumping - I was looking at the news and just getting really scared and depressed. And you hear code blues over the loudspeaker. And it is kind of this like ever-present hum of coronavirus at work. And it is kind of exhausting. And so I found myself listening to that song.  O' Fiona calls it the sickness. And the first time I heard her say that it just made me really sad. And I think a lot about what this is going to leave her with this insistence on being distant from people.    They have stars in their eyes... O' The biggest thing that I tell her is that this is temporary. And I heard my husband - she - they were in the other room and I heard her asking what temporary means. And he said you know like mommy and daddy love you and that is forever. And that is the opposite of temporary.    When the one you love is near oh this...  That was Kelly O'Connell of Denver Colo. and her daughter Fiona sharing Bella Notte from the Lady And The Tramp soundtrack. O' Can you sing  and they call it bella notte? Sing that. Ready?  Call it bella notte. O' Yeah. OK. Can you say bye-bye to my friend?  Bye-bye.    Oh this is the night. It is a beautiful night. 