 Dick Lugar the longtime Indiana Senator is fighting for his political life. Mr. Lugar faces a tough challenge in the Indiana Republican primary on Tuesday from the state's treasurer who is running to his right. But at NPR's Tamara Keith reports this is not just a match between two candidates it is a match between big-spending superPACs and other outside groups.  For six-term senator Dick Lugar yesterday brought the kind of news no candidate wants to hear especially not at this point in a campaign. The HoweyDePauw Indiana Battleground Poll showed him down ten points to State Treasurer Richard Mourdock. Lugar held a press conference at his campaign headquarters in Indianapolis.  I am just saying positively register your vote because if you do not I may not be able to continue serving you.  It is a remarkable reversal for a man who is an Indiana institution. This is the first time he is faced a primary challenge since he first ran for Senate in 1976. Brian Howey publisher of the nonpartisan Howey Political Report says six years ago Lugar did not even have a Democratic challenger in the general election.  He has not really had any kind of political challenge at the ballot box since 2000. That is 12 years. I think the senator let his political organization kind of slide a little bit.  And then in 2010 the political landscape shifted dramatically. The Supreme Court's Citizens United ruling and other legal decisions allowed unlimited fundraising and spending by independent groups. And spend they have in the Indiana's Senate race.   It even got to the point where one superPAC ran TV ads complaining about another superPAC.   In total outside groups mostly superPACs have spent more than four million dollars to sway the outcome of the race - that is more independent spending than in any other Senate race so far this year. And the majority of it supported the efforts of Richard Mourdock. In the halls of the Capitol last week Lugar seemed to yearn for a time without superPACs.  Well the outside money is huge Indiana seems to be the only playground and people are trying to prove their clout but it is rather irrelevant to the issues of our campaign.  Even though Lugar has raised and spent significantly more money Richard Mourdock has been able to compete in part because several deep-pocketed groups are independently doing a whole lot to help him. Mourdock says he understood from the moment he launched his campaign that the rules had changed.  We understood that there would be this superPAC involvement on both sides and we planned our budget we planned our entire campaign strategy for it. And even though it is the first time such numbers have shown up in a federal race like this a Senate race it is not surprising.  Mourdock is backed by most of the state's Tea Party groups as well as national ones. And in many ways the race has become a proxy war between the GOP establishment and its right flank. Brian Howey says for the far-right interest groups spending big this race is a test of their might.  If Mourdock wins this primary and then wins in the fall I think you are going to see this kind of sequence repeated in future election cycles all over the country.  For his part Mourdock says the fact that his campaign has gone from improbable to some think inevitable is proof that conservative principles are winning in the fight for the soul of the Republican Party.  There are so many people who wanted to issue the obituary on the Tea Party movement. And I will tell you what the reports of the death have been greatly exaggerated because they are not out waving the banners and standing under the do not tread on me flags now. But what they are doing is showing up to work for campaigns.  Both campaigns have small armies of voters working this weekend making phone calls and knocking on doors. That kind of passion for a candidate is something even unlimited the money cannot buy. Tamara Keith NPR News.   And you are listening to NPR News. 