 To South Africa next. Yesterday marked 19 years since Nelson Mandela was sworn in as the first democratically elected and first black president of South Africa. Mr. Mandela of course is now 94 years old frail and ailing. He just got out of the hospital after a bout of pneumonia. Some South Africans are frustrated with what many consider obsessive media coverage of Mr. Mandela and his ill health. Older residents stress that the African way of coping with twilight years and the onset of inevitable death is culturally nuanced a final journey and that journalists should be more sensitive to this. NPR's Ofeibea Quist-Arcton reports.   In recent days it is been almost impossible to switch on South African radio or television or read a local newspaper website or Tweet and not hear the name Mandela mentioned.  Culturally there is a sense every time we speak about Mandela in terms of possibly passing on we get people who will call or SMS to say we do not speak about that thing certainly not in our culture not in black culture not in African culture.  Nelson Mandela was back in the hospital at the tail end of March for ten days with a recurring lung infection and pneumonia. The latest health scare attracted journalists from all over the world and some South Africans say they feel bombarded by reporters hungry for information and commentary about the 94-year-old former president. That includes veteran journalist author and former anti-apartheid campaigner Allister Sparks. He told the national broadcasters MediaSAfm radio show enough is enough.  It does become a bit worrisome and I supposed some people are a bit upset about it you know just the sheer volume of coverage and the degree of personal detail that it goes into.  Though Spark said South Africans must accept that Mandela attracts global attention.  We have to recognize that the world is interested in him and we have got to understand that there are many cultures in our society and no particular culture can expect to prevail. It is part of the recognition of a great man.   Among churchgoers recently Ma Fikile Mlotshwa was singing and praying for Mandela or Madiba as most South Africans affectionately call him by his clan name. After church she collared me.  Some things are better said in our own language than they are in English.  - meaning that Madiba he is to us a leader he is a father first of all. And we pray and hope for him for all the best. But at the same time for an elderly person according to African culture this business of you people coming to interview us all about his death and things like that that is not African. It is not African because it is interfering with the African spirit. The African way is to respect. At his age to pray for him peacefully so that when God does call him he will rest in peace.  What Ma Fikile tells me is what other South Africans are repeating that Mandela is a global symbol yes but his time will come and we must all accept that and let him go gently. President Jacob Zuma made a similar point.  Let us slow down the anxiety. The country must not panic. In Zulu there is a time when somebody passes away who is old people say  he or she has gone home. Those are some of the things we should be thinking about.  Jacob Zuma was making a very African statement by saying that.  But says broadcaster and cultural commentator Audrey Brown reporting on Mandela's health or even death requires balance.  We have to get it right. At the same time we have to make sure that we do not trample on sensitivities whether they be cultural or whether they just be common human decency and you know and I think we really can draw the lines between those two things.  Ofeibea Quist-Arcton NPR News Johannesburg. 