 If we want to be safe we can stay home. But it is the price to be in the political life in the streets. And I thought that the Egyptian women they accept the price.  That is the voice of Bothaina Kamel. In 2012 she became the first woman to run for president in Egypt. She did not get enough signatures to get on the ballot but her candidacy became a powerful symbol not only because she is a woman but also because she stands for the kind of social change many Egyptians hoped would come after the revolution that removed President Hosni Mubarak from power. Kamel is a prominent television journalist in Egypt and she has not been afraid to use that platform to criticize her country's political leadership. She reserves especially harsh sentiments for the Muslim Brotherhood the ideological home of former president Mohammed Morsi who was democratically elected in 2012 and then pushed out of power last year. We spoke with Bothaina Kamel about what tomorrow's elections mean for Egyptian women in particular. But we began by asking her about the risks she faces as a high-profile woman with strong political opinions and the events of one harrowing day last year. Bothaina Kamel in translation is our Sunday conversation.   I was driving in Cairo when I was dragged out of my car by protesters during a demonstration by the Muslim Brotherhood. They shot at the glass of all the car windows. They threw rocks at me and grabbed me by my hair. I was very lucky though because some people who were just walking by intervened and rescued me. They were beaten up instead of me and that is why I am still alive and talking to you today. God saved me for some reason perhaps so that I could continue working for women.  You say you were attacked by members of the Muslim Brotherhood or people affiliated with that organization. Was the reason for the attack as you understand it because of your politics? How much of the attack was because you are a public figure and you are a woman?   The reason they came at me is because I am Bothaina. It is because I am a public figure and because I have spoken out against the Muslim Brotherhood calling them a terrorist organization. I think I was attacked more for my views and activism than because I am a woman.  You were part of the reform movement that helped oust former president Hosni Mubarak. And there were many women who took part in those protests that we all saw in Tahrir Square during the Arab Spring. But few women have since entered public life. You are an exception. Why is that?   Women took to the streets during that time. We have campaigned before but we as women have never really had a moment of empowerment. Of course there have been quotas implemented not in the parliament but in other areas of government here. But in general men are entrenched in their power. They are not going to give it away on their own. We well have to grab it. It is up to us to take it from them. During a time of risk and sacrifice like Tahrir Square there was not that much concern for us women and our safety. But when it comes down to the real work when it is time for campaigning and the election and so on then they will say they fear for us. They will say no this will tire you. And this will be a burden. You better stay home and we will take charge.  The front runner in the upcoming presidential elections is Abdel Fattah al-Sisi. He is the former chief of the Egyptian military until he stepped down in March to run as president. Is he someone who is favorable to women's rights in Egypt? Do you see him as a reformer when comes to opening more doors for women?   He is a traditionalist. You can tell that from the way he speaks about his mother and his wife. It seems that if he wins this election it will be a struggle for us. That we will have to rally and amass people to continue campaigning for our rights. Luckily though we have our new constitution which will help us to continue to pressure Abdel Sisi after he is elected.  Do you think the constitution as written today is a good one is one that technically affords women more freedom?   Our constitution is very strong. It stipulates that Egypt must follow international treaties and it has articles prohibiting any discrimination against women including in the government.  Do you think you will ever run for president again or another political office and will your candidacy be treated seriously as something more than just a symbol?   When I first announced I was running for president in 2011 I was not taken seriously. But during the year I campaigned I think I proved myself to Egypt. During the presidency of Mohammed Morsi there were some people who said it would be better if you were president now. They asked me do not you think you would have done a better job? But regardless I will run again and I will continue running again unless a stronger female candidate emerges because women should always be a part of the race.  Bothaina Kamel is a celebrity TV journalist and aspiring politician in Egypt. Thank you so much for being with us Bothaina.  Thank you Rachel. And we will meet again when I will be the president of Egypt. The first woman. 