 One of the perks of being a mom is going on those long car trips with your young children listening to hours of the The Hokey Pokey and Wheels On The Bus over and over and over again. For those moms and dads this one's for you.    The new kid on my street she kind of looks like me.  A kid's album out this week by Walter Martin former member of the band The Walkmen it is not the type of album you might expect from a serious indie rocker whose band was known for doing more of this.   But it is also not the type of album usually produced for kids. Walter Martin joins us from the NPR studios in New York. Welcome to the program.  Thanks so much for having me.  So the album is titled We are All Young Together which is fitting for the music you have created here kind of this rare combination of kid-friendly and parent-friendly.  Right.  So as the parent of a toddler let me just first say thank you because we are always looking for music that will appeal to everyone.  Oh good. Well you are welcome.  Let us hear a little bit of a track titled The Beatles .  OK.  And then we will talk after.    Well John Paul Georgie and Ringo.   Ringo.   They are singing in my head wherever I go.   I go.   Songs with magic charms you cannot deny. Well I cannot decide who is my favorite one.  . Favorite one.   Mama likes Paul. Daddy likes John.   Likes John.   Sis likes George so I guess Ringo's mine.  So this song does have a kind of a classic Beatles feel to it. .  The tambourine is very Beatles yeah.  Out of all the songs in the album this one seems more targeted to parents. First off a toddler a little kid...  Right.  ...Would have no idea who The Beatles are.  Yeah and there is also lied about John flunking out of art school. And I think kids will not really understand.    The Beatle beat.   The Beatle beat.   Makes a kid feel free.   Makes a kid feel free.  So is this just something to entertain parents or is this - which by the way I should say is a worthy endeavor in and of itself - or is this intended to start a conversation about music between kids and their parents adult listeners?  Well I think of stuff that will appeal to kids will hopefully be - I like the beat maybe. But looking back on what I have made I think it is sort of saying to parents like this parenting stuff is really hard and kind of insane. But take a step back as often as you can to remember how fun and hilarious the whole experience can be.  So you are a dad right?  Yeah I have a 21-month-old and a six-month-old.  So I guess this was a natural. I mean you are musician. You are a dad. But what did made you think oh I should make a kids' album?  And honestly it was happenstance. I just sort of wanted to figure out what album I could make as a solo artist. But when I wrote the stuff that ended up being the songs on this album I could hear very clearly that that was me completely being myself.   You partnered with some pretty great artists. Matt Berninger from The Nationals joined you on that first track we played. And I would like to play a little bit from a track you did with Karen O from the Yeah Yeah Yeahs. Let us listen to this.    Sing another lonely line with me. Sing it in lazy melody. There is no words to say just how I feel. It is just yodel-lay yodel-lay yodel-lay-hi yodel-lay yodel-lay yodel-lay-hi yodel-lay yodel-lay yodel-lay-hi.  Your voices sound lovely on that by the way.  Thank you.  That is a track called Sing To Me. Was it a hard sell to get someone like Karen O into this?  Not really. She was so sweet about it. She was like that is a sweet tune and I would love to do it. And she has a very broad musical style and taste.  You also teamed up with a couple former bandmates from The Walkmen.  Yes.  What was it like working with them after the band had declared a quote extreme hiatus I guess is how it was characterized last year?  It was fun to - you know you know they are like my - Hamilton is a singer. He is like my brother. He grew up across the street from me. And Matt who played drums on - I guess he played on one song only - we have been playing music together since we were 13 or 14 I guess. So it was far from awkward.  And did they say the same thing that this felt like a departure but also made sense coming from you?  Oh definitely. They hear the record and to them it is like OK that makes absolute perfect sense.  What does that mean for you musically? If this is the album that you have really tapped into what is the core of your musicianship?  It might mean that I will be out of a job in a year and I will be flipping burgers.  .  But it might mean that I will be like the happiest guy on earth you know.  Walter Martin. His album is titled We are All Young Together. He joined us from our studios in New York. Walter it was so fun to talk with you. Thanks very much.  Definitely thank you so much.    Dream up a dream and the night's not as dark as it seems. Behind these eyes there is a place where the elephants fly and tangerines talk and the sycamore...  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Rachel Martin. 