 The Danish String Quartet is one of the most widely acclaimed chamber groups of the moment. Although in the interest of full disclosure we will disclose that one member of the quartet is Norwegian. They have a new CD called AdesNorgaardAbrahamsen and it features a program of Danish and British music. Two members of the quartet violist Asbjorn Norgaard and violinist Frederik Oland join us now from Copenhagen. Gentlemen thanks so much for being with us.  Well thank you so much for having us. It is such a pleasure.  Forgive me in advance there. I have a lot of Scandinavian names in front of me. And my pronunciation I know is going to be unsuccessful. So I ask for your help.  That is fine.  The two of you and another violinist Rune Tonsgaard Sorenson?  Yep.  Oh my gosh. You have known each other before you were teenagers. How is that happen?  Well the three of us - so Rune Asbjorn and I - we met at this music camp there is in Denmark. It is called Esco ? It is only a week every summer. And you go there with people of all ages to just play music for a week orchestra stuff and then chamber music throughout the night. And you do not sleep a lot that is for sure. So we were just hanging out there playing the first - our first chamber music together playing soccer even while having our first beers together later on. And so this was a very very nice place to grow up because it is a place that is full of love for the music.  How do the composers Thomas Ades a British composer Per Norgard and Hans Abrahamsen wind up sharing space on your CD?  Well this is a recording that we have been actually talking about for a long time. But it took a while to realize. And until the stars were aligned so to say the Abrahamsen was almost the first quartet that we learned almost 15 years ago. And at this point we were quite young. We were still teenagers. We had an idea that kind of classical music was mostly you know Brahms Mozart Haydn - kind of nice stuff. And then our chamber music teacher back then he put in front of us this piece by Abrahamsen. We never heard about this guy. And we started to play and it sounded really crazy. It sounded like - more like heavy metal than classical music.   And we really really enjoyed playing it to use our instruments in a completely different way and to experience that a string quartet can morph from something that is in a way very classical very in-the-box and then it can explode and then morph into everything you could almost imagine.   So we always thought we would like to record that at some point. And then a little bit later in our development almost the same story happened with the Ades - Thomas Ades his first string quartet Arcadiana.  Yeah. Let us listen to a little of Arcadiana. We have it here.   It is a little bit the same story of the Abrahamsen. This is classical music but it is - this particular movement is - it is called Tango Mortale so it is very rough very rhythmical very aggressive kind of music.   It also became a part of the story of our quartet. So then we had these two pieces that we really wanted to match on a recording.  What is the classical music audience like these days?  That is a very complicated question. And actually I think it is if I might say so almost a wrong question to ask because we just think about ourselves as musicians not as maybe classical musicians in the old way. I think today if you train as a classical musician you need to sustain a great degree of flexibility. You need to be be able to be in a bar and perform and not be awkward. And in our experience - we do our own festival in Copenhagen. And we build an audience here which is quite young actually. And so we do not share this kind of pessimism about the classical music audience that is dying away that you sometimes read about in the media.  Do you have a favorite composition on this CD you would like to point us to?  I think that we try to put together an album that makes sense as a whole.  If there is one track on this album that will have a popular appeal it is a specific movement of the Ades quartet his Arcadiana. A friend of mine said he thinks it sounds like Coldplay.   It is a very very beautiful slow movement. And it is just an example that classical music is many things. It can be aggressive. It can be beautiful. It can be simple. It can sound like it is written 500 years ago and it can sound like it is being improvised at the moment. And that is the joy we have as a string quartet. And I think this album represent it well. It can sound like Coldplay. It can sound like heavy metal. And it can definitely also sound like classical music as you think it should sound.   Asbjorn Norgaard and Frederik Oland they are just two members of the Danish String Quartet. They joined us from Copenhagen. Gentleman thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you very much for having us.  Thank you.  