 I hear this song and I am transported back. I am 15 years old WORC Radio A-Go-Go in Worcester Massachusetts crackles over a transistor radio and I wait by the telephone for my crush Paul Ericson to call.    So tired tired of waiting tired of waiting for you...  But I am happy to say that Ray Davies joins me now from our London bureau. Ray the wait was worth it.  OK. It is nice to meet you at last.  We are talking to you because you have a new CD See My Friends. It is collaborations with big stars covering your songs - Bruce Springsteen Jon Bon Jovi Spoon Jackson Browne Lucinda Williams and others we will mention later. Did you ever consider the title Hear My Friends?  I did not. It is a good idea but See My Friends seems to be see my friends. It is friends like these who needs enemies? It is a natural. When Spoon recorded it it just fitted what the album was.   The songs are like friends as well. Every one of these artists had a favorite Kinks song and it was really interesting to hear and surprising on occasions to hear what their choices were.   Bruce Springsteen really surprised. You know he expressed some interest to be on the record. And I naturally thought it would be one of the usual suspects you know You Really Got Me All Day and All of the Night. And he chose a song called Better Things.    Here's wishing you the bluest sky and hoping something better comes tomorrow.   Hoping all the verses rhyme and the very best the choruses to follow...  A little Bruce Springsteen in it and it seemed to be a natural. But it is the energy that everybody had on the record. I was expecting people to literally phone in their performances. But everybody gave the maximum certainly Bruce.   And there is such a good contrast between both of your voices.  I know. I thought I had a strong voice 'til I sang with him.    It is really good to see you rocking out and having fun living like you just begun. Accept your life and what it brings. I hope tomorrow you will find better things...  I have to ask you about the terrific British singer Paloma Faith who sings Lola. How did you find her?  They are all saying that.   She found me. I was having a few days off - rare time when I had a holiday was in the West Country in a place called Sidmouth in Devon. And my daughter Eva she listens to a lot of different types of music but she recommended I work with Paloma. And in the west country in England you just do not always get a mobile signal. I found one hot spot on this hilltop in a field full of sheep.  it is a strange a girl singer would want to do this song. And I said exactly. And she said she understands about the transsexual world and cabaret and burlesque. And we thought we would turn it into like a burlesque performance. But she has got an incredibly soulful voice.    I met her in a club down in old Soho where you drink champagne. It tastes just like cherry cola C-O-L-A cola. She walks up to me and she asked me to dance. I asked her her name in a dark brown voice she said Lola L-O-L-A Lola la la la Lola...  I am speaking with songwriter Ray Davies. I love the version with Jackson Browne that you do of Waterloo Sunset. You were in a hospital when it...it sort of comes from a memory of you being in the hospital?  Well Waterloo is very pivotal in my life. I did a few months at Croydon College and I used to get the train there change at Waterloo. I also was in the hospital - I had an accident - and a few fractures. My ward looked over the Thames. I do not think the hospital's there anymore but I could see the Thames every morning when I woke up. And it is part of my musical heartbeat if you like.    Dirty old river must you keep rolling flowing into the night...  And he drifted off into his version and I kind of floated around with my vocal not to get in the way.    But chilly chilly is the evening time Waterloo sunset's fine. Terry meets Julie Waterloo Station every Friday night...  It is my last broadcast on this program today and we are trying to think of a song to go out. And I think my request would be the version of Celluloid Heroes.  OK.  I mean I remember my first visit to Hollywood Boulevard and as I was walking down the street having your song in my head as I am walking down the street. But here you are doing it with gosh it is Jon Bon Jovi and Richie Sambora.   Yeah. You know Celluloid Heroes it is one of those songs that is a very personal song. But it means something to everybody who is been on that strip of you know Hollywood. And I wrote it because the duality. You know once success walks hand in hand with failure and it is a comment on the world I work in - show business whatever you call it entertainment rock music - it does. I mean you are as good as your last record. You are lucky if people remember the hits.    Everybody's a dreamer and everybody's a star. And everybody's in show biz does not matter who you are. But those who are successful be always on your guard. Success walks hand in hand with failure along the Hollywood Boulevard. You can see all the stars as you walk down Hollywood Boulevard...  There is something permanent there on the boulevard. It is the endless quest. People still pursue that dream and it is really an important part of what I call Americana. And I am sad you are leaving the airwaves. You are moving on to better things hopefully?  Yes. It is a personal decision. I am going to move myself to where I am happy which is on the eastern shore on Delaware right by the ocean and I am going to pursue some new opportunities. I mean you get to a certain age and you want to try something different so. And I have been...  You know what?  ...doing it for a long time.  I might see you there.  But I do have one more question and I have saved it for last because I have learned in my long career that if it is a tough question ask it last because if you walk out of the studio at least I have an interview.   And you know it is coming up. Is there a possibility of a reconciliation between you and your brother Dave and the reformation of the Kinks as a band?  Well we met last week and we are reconciled to not doing it anymore. No.   And I hated to be sedate and you know sitting down discussing things in a sensible way. If I worked with my brother again it would have fire and energy. And as long as we continue to talk I think we will do something. We are on the verge of coming to some agreement on how to move forward. So I am hopeful.  I think we all are.  And I would just like to say on behalf of everybody who you have ever interviewed you have been wonderful in this interview as you probably have been in all your others and I wish you well. I am sure everybody here and all the listeners wish you well.  The inimitable Ray Davies. His new CD is called See My Friends and he joined us from London. What a pleasure. Thank you.  Thanks Liane. Bye.    ...wishing you the bluest sky. Hoping all the verses rhyme hope that all your verses rhyme. Hope tomorrow you will find better things.  This is NPR's WEEKEND EDITION. Thanks everyone. I am Liane Hansen. 