 Actions speak louder than words but this is radio and words are pretty powerful here. I may disagree with what you have to say but I shall defend to the death your right to say it. You can always turn down the volume after all. You can lead a horse to water but you cannot make him drink. You must follow your heart.  And he joins us now from the BBC studios in Bristol. Julian Baggini welcome to the program.  Thank you for having me.  So should you judge a book by its cover?  Ah. Well I mean sometimes perhaps you have no choice but to do so. It was a good one to choose for the title of the book. And asking the questions of course the advice is never judge a book by its cover. But the whole point of the book was that like so many phrases and proverbs we trot out these things. We say them as though they were just established truths. We all know what they mean and so forth.  Every proverb has an equal and opposite proverb. You can play this game yourself at home sometime. So yeah.  If you are really bored.   All this advice seems to be completely contradictory. So how can it be that these are supposedly wise old sayings and they completely contradict each other?  Absence makes the heart grow fonder but out of sight out of mind.  Exactly. Another one yeah.  Well your book is about the origins use and often total misuse of these common aphorisms. We found a lot of them that are used on our air. Let us start with a clip. This is a report about publishing gossip about the British Royal Family.   Royal watchers among them monarchists believe the prince should allow the newspapers to publish the rumors and then sue for libel. But that is unlikely suggested the Sunday Times. A recent editorial read Some people will always believe there is no smoke without fire but then there has always been something odd about the Windsors.  So the important thing there is that yeah when you sort of hear rumors when gossip is going around it is always indicative that something is going on. But it is not necessarily the thing going on which everyone wants you to think it is. That is what you have to catch yourself and ask.  I thought what you were going to say is the thing about that clip is there is something odd about the Windsors.  Ah. Well there is something odd about the Windsors that is true but it may not be the odd thing that they are talking about in that program. But you know we have to be very careful not to just allow our own prejudices to make us prejudge it.  This is screenwriter John Ridley. He found a use for one of these aphorisms.  The truth is while everywhere else in the world familiarity breeds contempt in Hollywood it tends to breed comfort.  Familiarity breeds contempt.  So for example if in a particular relationship your familiarity breeds contempt you know it is nice to have that phrase to hand. It is a nice way of summing up what is happened and makes your situation clear to other people but it does not make it a general rule.  Our final saying comes from commentator Frank DeFord. The context here is a kind of hard to explain discussion of black college football coaches but I think the sentiment stands for itself.  Tis better to have loved and lost than never to have loved at all.  So I think one has to be very careful about these things. People can take that kind of advice and they can interpret it in a wrong way to say you know what the hell just you may as well give something a go even if the omens are looking bad the person's unsuitable and it is all probably going to end in disaster. I think that people sometimes - I think it is better to be happily single than to be unhappily wed.  Well to everything there is a season and now I am afraid it is time to say goodbye to Julian Baggini. Thank you so much for joining us.  Thank you very much indeed.  Julian Baggini is the author of Should You Judge This Book by Its Cover? 100 Fresh Takes on Familiar Sayings and Quotations. Go to our website to read his takedown of other popular sayings. That is NPR.org. 