 Cyndi Lauper that girl power icon of the '80s has a new album out. Her newest collection of songs takes a distinctly southern turn. It is an album of classic country covers. It is called Detour naturally. But it still feels like a familiar place to her.  To me it is like the roots of rock 'n' roll because it is around the time period when rhythm and blues and country were very linked just around the time Elvis kicked the doors down.    I fall to pieces each time I see you again.  I read that after your first big album came out you had like a moment with Patsy Cline's music. She was - she was something of a muse for you.  Well she was something of a I do not know BFF 'ecause  I did not go out much.  .  No when you become famous everybody's up your butt. You become friends with random people because your own friends are sick and tired of trying to have a conversation with you and it is all about you. And then you know I am not going to go out by myself. And then I just figured you know what? I am better off just hanging in. And my friend was working at MCA at the time when the movie came out about Patsy Cline so she had all the catalog.    You tell me to find someone else to love someone who will love me too the way you used to do. I just spent hours singing at the top of my lungs in my loft with her. You know kind of like when I was 9 I was singing at the top of my lungs - no 8 - I was singing at the top of my lungs with Barbra Streisand. She never knew how close we were.   Barbra?  Yeah. No. No idea. We were really close. BFFs you know?  So you grew up with a single mom who worked hard as I was doing my reading to expose you to a lot of arts a lot of music. And what was her thing? What was her music?  Well it was pretty eclectic. But you know first things first we were Italian. We are Sicilian. There was a lot of opera. It is all about who is the greatest singer in the world kids? It was Caruso. Who was the greatest movie star in the world? It was Valentino. And we had - she had a lot of showtunes. I used to listening to King And I a lot. And I guess I kind of learned how to change my voice around 'ecause I would play listening to her records. I probably ruined her records. I played The King And I so many times. And my grandmother came down from upstairs walked in the kitchen and took The King And I off of my little red record player did not say a word and went back upstairs with it 'ecause she could not take it anymore.    While shivering in my shoes I strike a careless pose and whistle a happy tune. And no one ever knows I am afraid.  I do not know what to tell you. And my mother used to play like Satchmo Does Fats  that album.  Yeah.  That was a great album. And we used to dance wildly to that.  You and your mom?  Me and my mom me and my sister me and my little brother. We all would dance around. You know like if we were doing laundry and you separate all the piles - that is what they always said. They said you got to learn this stuff 'ecause you are going to be doing it all your life. And then she would play records and we would dance around. And it just made it fun.  She said that to you? She said you are going to do this?  Yeah. That her my grandparents. Yeah everybody believed that women and girls you have to learn how to do that. You know I just realized recently that when I was upstairs with my grandmother - two shows I would watch with her all the time - and one was Queen For A Day and one was the Arthur Godfrey Talent Scout  show. And the Queen For A Day was everybody would send in letters about their mom or their aunt or someone who you know they toiled for their family which I guess at that time they thought that was our job as women. But they would have her on. My grandmother would cry. They would usually give her a washing machine. My grandmother would cry and then I would cry 'ecause she was crying 'ecause I knew my grandmother used to wash the sheets in the tub.    Why does the sun go on shining? Why does the sea rush to shore? But deep down inside I felt like queen for a day and you give her a washing machine? What the heck? And then we would watch Arthur Godfrey's Talent Scouts show and it happened to be the one that Patsy Cline was on. And I saw her and I thought to myself - she is beautiful. She sings great. Maybe instead of being the queen that is crying about the washing machine I am just going to be a singer.    I go out walking after midnight out in the moonlight just like we used to do. I am always walking after midnight searching for you.  Did your attitude about shaking things up and finding a different path especially when it came to the history that your mom and your grandma had set - wanting to strike out in a different direction - did that ever backfire on you?  Tee hee hee hee. I think my whole life. But you know I always said the wrong things to the right people. But you know you learn . You learn not to dive into the vat whatever that is. Just step back and let the stuff rise to the top and let it go because it is - it is not important. What is important is what you want to do. And you do not have to agree with everyone. You could listen. And you could think well I do not agree and look over their shoulder because you know where you want to go. And that is how it is always been for me. I know where I want to go. And I know there is a lot of ways around a brick wall and there is a lot of gatekeepers. But the gatekeepers are not going to stop me - not now not then not ever.   Cyndi Lauper - her new album is called Detour. Cyndi thanks so much for talking with us.  Oh thank you.    Heartache number one was when you left me.  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. BJ Leiderman wrote our theme. I am Rachel Martin. 