 Anything you want to buy you can easily get online even fine art. Let us say you are interested in purchasing affordable art from the comfort of your living room. Where can you go that is between high-end auction houses like Sotheby's and craft-oriented websites like Etsy? NPR's Neda Ulaby visited a few virtual spaces that are somewhere in the middle.  So the auction closes tomorrow Thursday at 00 p.m. Pacific...  In a sundrenched loft near downtown Los Angeles carefully coiffed curatorial assistants are talking art with art buyers over the phone.  Yeah it is. It is a beautiful piece actually.  We are in the west coast office of Paddle8 with its 35-year-old British cofounder Alexander Gilkes. He says much of the stuff on this site is within reach of an art-loving middle-class consumer.  Our average selling price across the site is 5000.  Gilkes used to be the chief auctioneer for the world's third-largest auction house Phillips. Everyone here has blue-chip pedigrees including west coast director James Salzmann.  The whole time I was at Sotheby's there was a general assumption that people would never spend more than about 10000 on something sight unseen.  That is without seeing it for real. But Paddle8 sells art like that every week and much more affordable art too. Online art sales went up more than 30 percent last year according to analysis by the European Fine Art Fair. It found the online market is mostly midrange art a growing and lucrative niche.   This is the beginning of a really exciting season for us here at Sotheby's.  Sotheby's online art sales shot up 100 percent last year according to a company video. This year it teamed up with eBay to sell even more art online. Like them Paddle8 is an auction website. It is an elegant interface with high-def images. And everything's authenticated and curated unlike eBay's tsunami of stuff that could be anything from anywhere. Plus says James Salzmann Paddle8 has an economic advantage. It does not have to staff viewings in posh locations or produce costly catalogs.  You can send an image. We can do a remote appraisal. We can have it up for sale in a matter of days.  The booming online art world includes Ocula Artline Saatchi even Amazon Art. Another site Artsy is partnered with hundreds of galleries around the world including the Tina Kim Gallery in New York. Nicole Calderon is the associate director.  It is a question of accessibility.  So far Calderon says the gallery has not seen a lot of sales through Artsy.  For us it is more of an advertising tool.  The face-to-face experience of viewing art is still vital says artist and former art critic William Powhida.  That is harder to do online.  Plus Powhida says he is just not sure how online art sales will work if they sideline critics shows and just the pleasure of seeing art with other art lovers.  You know it becomes so much more transactional.  We are going to turn a corner literally and metaphorically to an entirely different model of selling mid-priced art online to another LA loft just a few blocks away from Paddle8 where a few twenty-something tech entrepreneurs in hoodies and beards nosh on sushi and listen to music.  It is our favorite band from Burning Man Robot Heart.  That is Matthew Monohan. Here's how he and his buddy Merrick just Merrick talk about selling art online.  I think the value add for the artist would be both matching community and having inbound and outbound network effect.  That is the concept behind a website called Ziibra. That is Ziibra spelled with two Is. Monohan is a 29-year-old tech-investor-turned-artist.  Historically the problem has been that the gatekeepers are curators and gallerists and the people over at Sotheby's who decide who gets to be a famous artist. Me and my tech buddies are about to change all that. We are going to disrupt it.  Like Uber disrupted transportation he says. Ziibra's founder is 24-year-old Omri Mor who scouts for artists on Instagram. His goal is to create a personal connection between buyer and artist.  Once you get to connect with their personality and say yeah that aligns with me that is when you become really proud.  Proud to buy their work. So he posts slick videos of artists in their studios like Elanie Hannula talking about drawing a dear.   One night I was falling asleep and I just saw this picture of a deer on this floating piece of grass.  Ziibra is trying to make consumers feel like collectors says artist William Powhida.  It seems like a smart attempt to do that I just do not know how real that is I guess or how much of it is sort of marketing.  Art sold online Powhida says seems meant to appeal to a mass audience.  Most of the work that I saw was sort of very colorful and decorative and had a strong visual appeal. That is probably the nicest way I can say it .  But the visual appeal is critical says Ziibra founder Omri Mor. He plans to improve the technology for viewing art to buy online.  I am going to build holograms.  Neda Ulaby NPR News. 