 Tonight is the night. After eight long years of king slaying and throne chasing and revenge plotting and some really bad weddings it is the season finale of HBO's Game Of Thrones. So what is on everyone's mind ahead of tonight? We asked folks around the newsroom and they had a lot of thoughts.  Listen. I think that it is been seven years of really good television and one year of OK television.  I thought Season 7 was terrible. Boy was I wrong because this season is just so bad.  I am so confused by this season. I am so confused.  And I feel like a parent to the writers. I feel like I am not mad at you. I am just disappointed. You know they can do so much better than this. And that is what is kind of disappointing about it is it just feels rushed.  I would say also that this last episode my hot take on it is that I loved what Dany did. Finally she like unleashed her like emotions. And she was just constantly going by what everyone was telling her to do. Good. I mean burn all those citizens. Go for it.  The intense violence of the last episode was so overwhelming that I had to lie down and snuggle my boyfriend's black lab for 45 minutes before I was able to speak.  My prediction for the next episode is that Jon definitely kills Dany. He has to serve a purpose other than just broodingly looking at the camera and disappointing us all.  I just feel like I mean they have had so many problems with gender throughout the entire thing. And like to have it boil down to like the guy is good and like the woman's this crazy mad person I really just do not like that at all.  But I do think that at the end somehow Gendry is the one that ends up on the iron throne. And I do think Arya is going to be by his side.  I am hoping for something that is actually shocking like a realization that makes logical sense but was not expected.  Predictions and feelings from the next episode? Honestly at this point I am just excited for it to be over. Like I am so disappointed that I would be happy for it to just be behind in my memory now.  That was Andrea Mares Hamza Butler Samantha Connor Jane Gilvin Wanda Ramos Lauren Landau Marva Tokhi and J.C. Howard. And are you so over it that you cannot wait for the saga to end? Or are you already feeling nostalgic? Let us know. Write to us on Twitter - nprweekend - before...    Dracarys.  ...It all burns down. 