 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. A lame-duck Congress headed back to work this week. First on the agenda preliminary negotiations aimed at keeping the country from sailing off the fiscal cliff across-the-board tax hikes and deep spending cuts that are set to kick in at year's end. As NPR's David Welna reports a deal may prove a hard sell on Capitol Hill.  Fresh off his re-election a politically fortified President Obama summoned the top four congressional leaders to the White House yesterday for the first of what could be many rounds of talks for a deal to avert fiscal calamity. In welcoming the quartet of lawmakers Mr. Obama struck a conciliatory note.  Our challenge is to make sure that you know we are able to cooperate together work together find some common ground make some tough compromises build some consensus to do the people's business.  The president had already made clear at his news conference earlier this week that he has one bottom line as this high-stakes bargaining begins.  What I have told leaders privately as well as publicly is that we cannot afford to extend the Bush tax cuts for the wealthy.  Mr. Obama took that same stance two years ago but ultimately relented. This time backed by a renewed mandate and polls that support his position he says that will not happen. And House Speaker John Boehner who scotched a revenue-raising deal with the president last year emerged from yesterday's meeting on a very different note.  To show our seriousness we have put revenue on the table as long as it is accompanied by significant spending cuts.  Boehner did not spell out just what kind of revenue he is willing to consider. But Democrats from President Obama on down say revenue-raising should start by letting the marginal tax rates for the top two income brackets go back on January first to what they were during the Clinton administration. That is fighting talk for hardline House Republicans one of them is Georgia's Phil Gingrey.  I certainly would not be in favor of any so-called millionaires' tax whether it was imposed at the 250000 500000 one million five million level. It is a gimmick and it is not solving the problem.  And Kansas freshman House Republican Tim Huelskamp who just got re-elected promising not to raise anybody's taxes says a tax hike on the wealthiest will not help the economy.  It might make people feel better - that is what the president's about making people feel better - but at the end of the day it is going to cost us jobs.  But there are other Republicans in the House who seem resigned to accommodating a wave of public opinion in favor of taxing the rich more. One of them is another lawmaker from Georgia Jack Kingston. He is not willing to draw a line when it comes to raising some tax rates.  I think that there is flexibility in that and we maybe can argue about what kind of revenues for this what kind of revenues for that. You know we do believe that there is more of a spending problem than a taxing problem but we are also ready to talk.  There is speculation the nearly 30 House Republicans who are either retiring or lost their seats in the election could join Democrats to provide the votes needed for a fiscal package raising taxes on the wealthy. Oklahoma House Republican Tom Cole says such a scenario is unlikely and what a deal would really need to pass would be Speaker Boehner's blessing.  On the other hand if the president thinks that we are going to cave if the speaker does not agree that is not going to happen. I mean there will not be some group of 30 or 40 republicans flaking off to vote against the majority of their conference. So I really do think again at the end of the day the negotiation in terms of the House is principally between the speaker and the president.  It may come down in the end to a test of which of those two men now holds the upper hand in this negotiation and which of them is willing to risk going off the fiscal cliff rather than give in. David Welna NPR News the Capitol. 