 And now back to our midterm election coverage. Two years ago Russia interfered in the U.S. election. On social media there were deliberate campaigns of misinformation. And even after the president won Trump suggested with no evidence that there had been widespread voter fraud. Democrats complained about widespread voter suppression. NPR polling earlier this fall suggested that people have major concerns about how fair this election will be. Joining us now is Miles Parks. He covers voting for NPR. And he is been very busy. Hey Miles.  Hi there.  So where are we in terms of voter confidence heading into this year's midterms?  So in general people seem to have faith in - that the system is going to work. Our polling suggests about 53 percent of the American population think the U.S. is prepared and ready to keep the 2018 midterms safe. But there are a lot of red flags in that polling as well. About 47 percent of people think it is likely that some votes just will not be counted. And then almost a third of the American population thinks a foreign country is going to actually affect vote tallies and affect results.  That seems really high.  It is really high especially when you consider the fact that that is something that has never - there is no evidence that that is something that has ever happened in the history of American democracy. We know that in 2016 there was this effort by Russia to influence voters. They were able to break into a registration - a voter registration system in at least one state Illinois. But there is no evidence that votes were actually changed as part of that. The problem is even though there is been these hundreds of millions of dollars spent over the last two years to improve the election system there is still a handful of states that are going to use voting equipment that does not provide a paper backup record which is really important because it makes it impossible. Cyber experts say it makes it impossible for us to be able to say with complete certainty that a foreign country does not actually affect the vote tallies even though there is no evidence it is ever happened.  Right. Because if you have a paper ballot then you can go back and look and see exactly what...  Exactly.  ...People voted for.  You would not - without that there is a way - theoretically a way technically speaking that votes could be changed.  All right. What about voter suppression? How concerned are voters about efforts to decrease turnout?  People are really concerned about that as well. About a quarter of respondents in our poll said it is the thing that is the biggest threat to safe elections this year. I think election officials are really worried though about the volume that we are talking about this election season that it does not necessarily reflect the reality of most voters. In our poll 90 percent of respondents said they waited in line on average less than half an hour to vote. Eighty-nine percent said they traveled less than a half an hour to get to their polling place. So when we are talking at this loud volume about how hard voting is for some people it does not necessarily reflect the reality for most voters. And I think election officials are concerned that talking about the issues for the small amount of people is going to affect the grander scale of people who are not going to usually have problems.  And the perceptions of how good our voting system is. How are Republicans and Democrats different when it comes to their thoughts about election security?  In general what we have seen is that Republicans are more confident than Democrats this season which does not surprise anybody. Polling suggests that whoever had the most success in the most recent election is going to be less skeptical of the election system in general. I think what we are going to want to watch for is how the pendulum swings because as you mentioned President Trump has made an effort to raise doubts in the election system. And so if Democrats are successful in the midterms or in 2020 you could see the pendulum swinging back the other way.  NPR's Miles Parks thank you so much.  Thank you. 