 Who has time to read fiction these days? I mean between carpools soccer games being on hold with their credit card company or Internet provider blah blah etc. etc. - but Robert Swartwood has compiled a collection of fiction in which the stories are short enough to be text messages - Hint Fiction An Anthology of Stories in 25 Words or Fewer. Robert Swartwood joins us from New York. Thanks so much for being with us. Mr.  Thank you for having me.  And I gather you were inspired by a six-word Ernest Hemingway story. Mr.  The Ernest Hemingway story yes. For sale baby shoes never worn.  My gosh if you just added a beat or two it could be haiku could not it? Mr.  Yes.  So what makes hint fiction hint fiction? Not just the length I assume. Mr.  No. I think that I mean a lot of fiction no matter you know what the length a lot of fiction does at hint at always a larger story but with the brevity of especially the Hemingway story and you know the stories in this collection because they are so short they just rely on the reader's imagination on hinting at a larger story.  Let us get you to read some - share some with us if you could. Mr.  Sure.  For example a story called House Hunting by Gary Braunbeck. Mr.  The fence is tall. Good. The mother is typical white trash. Too loud. But the kids they seem frightened and quiet. Good. Easier that way.  Ooh my blood runs cold. Mr.  Yeah it is very - it is very very effective.  And let me read this one if I could. Joe Schreiber. It is called Progress. After 17 days she finally broke down and called him daddy. Oh my gosh. How did you come by all these stories? Mr.  I had a contest on my website and it became a really big contest because word just kind of circulated around the Internet. And then later on after the you know then Norton contacted us about doing the anthology we opened it up to general submissions and received over 2000.  Do you find you believe in the form now that you have been through so many? Mr.  You know with the over 2000 submissions a lot of them they came across more like first sentences or just random thoughts. Or they were like you know last sentences. And the initial thought is that it is easy. 'ecause yeah you should be able to sit down and write a sentence or two in a couple of seconds - that should not be hard. But actually you know writing a couple of seconds that are meaningful and say the right words that is very hard. Actually one of the contributors in here Edith Pearlman she has a story called Golden Years. And she had sent an email it took her like a couple hours to come up with her story.  Could you read that one to us? Mr.  Sure. She macular. He Parkinsons. She pushing he directing they get down the ramp across the grass through the gate. The wheels roll riverwards.  That does make your mind reel does not it? Mr.  Yeah.  Let us read a few more. K.J. Maas Silence. She wondered what it was like in his silent world and wished she could tell him. Instead she traced his eyebrow with her fingertips. That is a whole story condensed is not it? Mr.  It is a whole story yeah. I mean a lot of these stories they could be expanded into you know longer stories. But as they are they are complete which is again the challenge and I guess the kind of beauty of the form.  What about Sarah Lyons The Date? Mr.  How could he admit that this was not actually the first time he had seen Claudia's scar? He could not. He would have to feign surprise.  And you can foresee if you please how that would lead to another story. But on the other hand there is also something satisfying... Mr.  Yeah.  ...if it ends right there you understand it too. Mr.  Yeah.  Now as enjoyable as this is do you have any fear that this could just continue to encourage the short attention spans we keep hearing about? Make your answer quick by the way. Twenty-five words or less - I am kidding.  Mr.  I was almost tempted to try. There is the mindset that this -that the anthology and these 'hint' fiction pieces are just another part of people's ADD that this is just going to kind of help make it worse. But I actually see that oftentimes - and I have gotten emails from readers who are kind of like you know they were inspired by these really small stories to kind of write their own short stories. And so you know they started small and they kind of worked their way up which was really great to hear. I think that also by doing 'hint' fiction it also kind of helps writers grow as writers and helps them learn word choice. And kind of helps them with their longer forms.  You were kind enough to send us some of your favorites. So let us finish up if we can with a lightning round of that. Okay? Mr.  Sure.  Let us begin with Joe Lansdale's wonderful The Return. Mr.  They buried him deep again.  Mr.  Yeah and he undercuts the Hemingway story by one word. Actually - this is another thing too about 'hint' fiction because the stories are so short the title is really part of the story.  Let me read Eric Siu's story An Impromptu Robbery. Think about this Francis Ford Coppola fans. The pen which was attached to the bank counter did not go all the way through his throat.   Oh my word. And could you take Houston We Have a Problem? Mr.  Yes. This is J. Matthews Zoss's Houston We Have a Problem. I am sorry but there is not enough air in here for everyone. I will tell them you were a hero.   Oh boy. Well let me follow that with Nick Arvin's Knock-knock Joke. My father standing at the sink with white sleeves rolled says knock-knock. I say who is there. She loves. She loves who? He says Exactly. Mmm. Well I enjoyed these stories I must say Mr. Swartwood. Thank you. Mr.  Well thank you.  Robert Swartwood editor of Hint Fiction An Anthology Of Stories in 25 Words or Fewer. You can read more very short stories and submit your own hint fiction at our website NPR.org. You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 