 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Michel Martin. Americans will go to the polls this week to exercise their right to vote. And sure maybe it is not enshrined in the constitution but we at WEEKEND EDITION believe you have a right to puzzle as well. And you know what? You get to do it right now. Joining me now is Will Shortz. He is the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master. Good morning Will.  Good morning Rachel.  All right what was last week's puzzle?  Yes it came from listener Mike Reese who is a writer for The Simpsons. I said name a well-known TV actress of the past put an R between her first and last names. Then read the result backwards. You will get an order Dr. Frankenstein might give to Igor. Who is the actress and what is the order? Well the actress was Eva Gabor of Green Acres fame. And if you put an R between her first and last names and read the result backward you get rob a grave. How is that for Halloween related?  That is a good one. So about 370 of you all got correct answers this week. Our randomly chosen winner is Jan Wolitzky of Madison New Jersey. Hey Jan.  Hey Rachel. Hey will.  Congratulations.  Thank you.  So did this come pretty quickly to you? Or did you struggle with this one?  Yeah this one came pretty quickly. I figured it out in a few minutes. I was helped a little by the fact that Eva Gabor was used in a puzzle a couple of months ago. And it was still fresh in my mind.  Well she is unforgettable Eva Gabor. And have you been playing the puzzle a long time?  Oh a very long time.  Really?  I have been playing for more than a quarter century. I remember sending in postcards coming in via pony express.  Wow. . Oh that is cool. And now you have won. That is great.  It is.  So do you happen to have a question for Will?  I have noticed over the years that frequently the answer to the Sunday puzzle will appear sometime during the week in The New York Times crossword puzzle. And I was wondering whether that is a coincidence or whether you are planting Easter eggs there.  Little clues.  Interesting. No I think that is coincidental. I do not correlate the two things at all.  But you never know what is happening in Will's brain.  It just all comes out of the same brain. That is right.   OK Jan are you ready to play the puzzle?  I think so.  All right let us give it a go Will.  All right Jan and Rachel I am going to name a famous person. Change either the first or last letter of the last name to a new letter and rearrange the result to name a country. For example if I said Pearl S. Buck you would say Cuba because out of Buck you would change the K in this case to an A and rearrange the letters to get Cuba. So it is always the first or last letter of the last name that you change. And number one is Pete Seeger - S-E-E-G-E-R.  Pete Seeger and we are going to change - Greece.  Good.  Greece is it. Changing the S to a C. Nice. Number two is Art Carney - C-A-R-N-E-Y.  Art Carney. I am not coming up with anything there.  This is hard.  Change the Y. Get rid of the Y. Change that to another letter.  I am not seeing it. What does it start with?  Oh France.  Oh good.  France is it. Good. I knew you would get that. Robert Reich - R-E-I-C-H.  My favorite labor secretary.  There you go.  Does not everyone have one really?  I know.  Change the R.  Change the R and you have got...  All right think South America.  Chile.  Yeah.  Chile is right. Jennifer Aniston - A-N-I-S-T-O-N.  All right.  Change the N.  OK Estonia.  Estonia nice. Stephanie Meyer - M-E-Y-E-R.  Yemen.  Yemen did not even need a hint on that. And here's your last one. It has two answers. Michael Chang - C-H-A-N-G.  Ghana.  Ghana you got the hard one. And change the other letter to get the other answer.  China.  China. Good job.  Wow. Jan that was excellent.  Thank you.  Clearly you have been playing the puzzle for a while.  Yeah we have been playing for a while.  Yeah. Got some skills. So you know that for playing the puzzle today you get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin puzzle books and games. And you can read all about those prizes at npr.orgpuzzle. And Jan where do you hear us? What is your public radio station?  Well I pay a lot of attention to you on the Blaine's Puzzle Blog but I also listen to and we are members of WNYC in New York.  Glad to hear it. Jan Wolitzky of Madison New Jersey. Thanks so much for playing the puzzle Jan.  It was fun. Thank you.  All right Will what is the challenge for next week?  Yeah it is an unusual one. It comes from listener Sandy Weisz of Chicago. Write down the following four times - 3 oclock 6 oclock 55 and 07. These are the only times on a clock that share a certain property without repeating oneself. What property is this? So again the four times are 3 oclock 6 oclock 55 and 07. These are the only times on a clock that share a certain property without repeating oneself. What property is this?  OK you know what to do. When you have got the answer go to our website. It is npr.orgpuzzle. Find that submit your answer link click on it. Limit yourself to one entry per person please though. And our deadline for those entries is Thursday November 6 at 3 p.m. Eastern. Do not forget to include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time because if you are the winner we give you a call. And then you get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thanks Rachel. 