 A professional sports league will stage its annual championship game tonight. It will be broadcast live to a nationwide audience on a major cable network. A sellout crowd is expected in Toronto. No idea what we are talking about? Do not worry not many people beyond the 21000 ticketholders and a relatively few rabid fans do. Tonight the Colorado Rapids take on FC Dallas - that is FC as in Football Club - for the championship of Major League Soccer the MLS Cup. A few months ago during the World Cup of soccer we contacted David Henry Sterry co-author of The Glorious World Cup A Fanatic's Guide. He is on the phone from Phoenix Arizona. Welcome back. Mr.  It is great to be here. Thank you so much.  OK. So the World Cup glorious. The MLS Cup not so much. Does that sum it up? Mr.  Well yes in a certain sense it kind of does. Right now in Major League Soccer and ESPN offices executives are gnashing their teeth and pulling out their hair and moaning about how cruel the soccer gods are because David Beckham and Landon Donovan and Thierry Henry will not be playing in the final in Toronto. And that was going to make it sexy. It was going to be sexy again but now it is not so much.  But what about the game? I mean will it at least be a good game? Mr.  Oh I am really looking forward to it. First of all I used to live in Dallas so for me the idea that FC Dallas is going to be hotter than the Cowboys to me it is just like I am in a little piece of ecstasy for me. But you know I do think it is going to be a great game. Recently in the World Series - Major League Baseball - was hoping that the Yankees and the Phillies but we have seen those guys already same with this game. We know who Landon Donovan is. We know who David Beckham is. I think it is going to introduce a whole new cast of characters. There is a guy named David Ferreira who is like four-foot-nine. He is like a Colombian hobbit. He is a tiny little fellow but he is a phenomenal soccer player. He is the most valuable player of the league. And he scored an amazing goal against the Galaxy against L.A. This is going to hopefully put him on the map.  Who does Ferreira play for? Mr.  Dallas.  So you have got Dallas in the blood. Nothing on the Rapids? Mr.  Oh no no. They are the little train that could. They have some great players. They were sort of lucky to reach the final. They have a player named Kosuke Kimura who scored basically a seeing eye goal that got them through. And they have Pablo Mastroeni who is a U.S. national team player that we all know. They are definitely the underdog but I see Dallas taking the game I do.  Getting out the word about soccer. David Henry Sterry is a co-author with Alan Black of The Glorious World Cup A Fanatic's Guide. The MLS Cup kicks off tonight at 30 Eastern time on ESPN. David thanks. Mr.  It has been a pleasure as always.  This is NPR News. 