 Until Tuesday a Republican presidential candidate had not won the state of Wisconsin since Ronald Reagan did it back in 1984. Donald Trump eked out a very narrow victory there adding to his tally of Rust Belt states that turned red this year and put him over the top. NPR's Melissa Block went to a traditionally blue Wisconsin county to ask why.  Kenosha County is the kind of place Democrats did not used to have to worry about. The last time it went for a Republican for president was 1972 Richard Nixon. And now in 2016 Donald Trump - he won Kenosha County by 255 votes.  Make America great - that is what we need.  Elated Trump voter Gabe Nudo has stopped by the Republican Party campaign office here to pick up a post-victory Trump-Pence T-shirt. He is retired used to work on the line at American Motors assembling cars a former union guy.  Originally I am from Italy. So I am an immigrant - legal immigrant.  Nudo likes Trump's hard line on illegal immigration calls Obamacare bad news thinks Hillary Clinton should be in jail.  People love the Hillary for prison buttons in the fantastic orange background with the prison bars .  Erin Decker is the Republican Party chair for Kenosha County. She is excited about most of Trump's promises and shrugs off some of his volatile rhetoric. For example his signature pledge to build a wall and make Mexico pay for it - nah.  I do not think we can be building the Great Wall of China at our southern border. I believe that was campaign - you know get your base fired up.  Here in the industrial Midwest Decker says voters heard an economic message that tapped into their fears.  We are a manufacturing blue-collar state. And the blue-collar workers - what Trump was saying resounded with them.  Kenosha County in the southeast corner of Wisconsin sits between Milwaukee and Chicago. It is anchored by the city of Kenosha a former manufacturing hub on Lake Michigan. The car industry that used to be the pride of Kenosha with union jobs that reliably fueled the Democratic machine - it is all gone.  This is the former site of American Motors and then it was Chrysler.  Now we drive past an empty swath of land the size of 80 football fields. Our tour guide is Democratic State Senator Bob Wirch. Back in the day he worked at another factory here that is long gone American Brass.  I was a college kid came in looking for a job. And the old-timers shook hands with me. And I noticed how many of them were missing fingers. And they said oh what job do you want? I said I think I will be sweeper.  He smiles and wiggles his 10 fingers. New business has come to Kenosha County. A gigantic Amazon fulfillment center sprawls alongside the interstate. But those thousand-plus jobs are non-union. And Senator Wirch has seen Wisconsin unions take a pounding. Last year Republican Governor Scott Walker signed a bill making Wisconsin a right-to-work state. And earlier he pushed through controversial legislation that ended collective bargaining for public sector workers. Wirch says those measures and the decline of industry here have hurt Democrats at the ballot box.  It as not like it used to be. It used to be thousands of machinists union people and steel workers and UAW. And they could just get them out to vote and it was a powerful thing.  Wirch says Democrats made a fatal mistake assuming they had Wisconsin in the bag. Hillary Clinton did not visit Wisconsin once after the primary here which she lost to Bernie Sanders by double digits. At the Kenosha Ice Arena we find Jacki Olsen  watching her son at nighttime peewee hockey practice. She voted twice for Obama - this time for Trump. It is not that she feels negative about Clinton she says.  I would just like to see something change. I felt like the Democrats just could not get anything done.  This echoes a lot of what we heard from Trump voters here a rejection of the status quo. Few voters could point to a specific way they think their life will change for the better under a President Trump.  We are just kind of hoping that you know as crazy as Trump is that maybe he is just got the guts to actually make things happen. We are hoping - but we are hoping it will not go too far the other way and  make too many people mad.  Olsen says let us give this a try and see if it works. One thing's for sure - next time around Democrats will not be taking Wisconsin for granted. Melissa Block NPR News Kenosha. 