 Any short list of promising young American playwrights would have to include Sarah Ruhl. At the age of 35 she is had her work performed at major theaters around the country and won lots of awards including the MacArthur Genius Grant. This week she made her Broadway debut to rave reviews with a period drama set at the end of the 19th century called In the Next Room or The Vibrator Play. Yes it is about what you think it is about. Jeff Lunden reports.  The title may be a little shocking but Sarah Ruhl wants you to know right upfront Ms.  It is very discreet in its presentation. I mean I think people hoping for something lurid or campy might be disappointed because a lot of it happens under a sheet. But I think you know it is a play very much about sexuality but it is also about intimacy and marriage as much as it is about that.  Sarah Ruhl began writing In the Next Room or The Vibrator Play after she read a book called The Technology of Orgasm. It described how doctors in the 19th century treated women diagnosed with hysteria by using a new electrical device. Actress Maria Dizzia who plays a patient named Mrs. Daldry says hysteria was something of a catchall condition. Ms.  It was everything. It was irritability it was sleeplessness it was anger it was you know solemnity. It was just anything that was anything I think that was pretty much unacceptable to the people around you.  Mr.   Mrs. Daldry we are going to produce in you what is called a paroxysm. The congestion in your womb is causing your hysterical symptoms and if we can release some of that congestion and invite the juices downwards your health will be restored.  The stage set features two Victorian rooms On one side Dr. Givings' examination room where he administers his treatment and on the other side a parlor where the doctor's wife wonders what is going on in the next room. She is heard the noises she is seen how calm and happy Mrs. Daldry is when she exits. Laura Benanti plays the doctor's wife. Ms.  These are sounds as sad as it may be that she is never heard before. Never from herself - and this is pre-pornography. You know now we walk around everybody knows what a woman or a man is supposed to look like sound like act like be like.  Mr.   Excuse me.  Mr.   What is it? Ms.   What is that sound? What are you doing? Mr.   Electrical therapy my dear. A very successful session. Ms.   I wish to see it. Mr.   You would not understand. Leave me my dry boring science and I will give you the rest of the world. Besides you said yourself my electricity bores you. Ms.   I insist on seeing your machine now.  Playwright Sarah Ruhl says she was fascinated with the idea that privileged women could be so ignorant of their own bodies. Ms.  I love the innocence of it. I mean I love the not knowingness of it and having women trying to describe in physical terms what an orgasm was without having the terminology like not knowing oh that is an orgasm.  Unidentified Woman   Mrs. Daldry and I have had two experiences of the very same event. Have you ever had this sensation? Either you feel shivers all over your body and you feel like running and your feet get very hot as though you are dancing on devil's coal? Ms.   Or you see unaccountable patterns of lights electricity under your eyelids and your heart races and your legs feel very weak as though you cannot walk. Unidentified Woman  And your face gets suddenly hot like a strange sudden sunburn.  Sarah Ruhl wrote In the Next Room while she was nursing her own child and found herself interested in another topic which seems foreign to a contemporary audience - the history of wet nursing. In the play Mrs. Givings is unable to produce enough milk to nurse her baby so she and the doctor hire a young African-American woman to breastfeed the child. Ms.  I think in general in the play I am interested in how we separate out bodily functions and labor and love - you know this notion of paying someone to do something that ideally you know one does for one's own child or paying a doctor to pay for the sexual treatment that ideally your partner is giving you in a more intimate way. So it is all these questions of intimacy.  And these questions ultimately force the doctor and his wife to examine their own relationship with naked honesty. Actress Laura Benanti says that while much of Ruhl's writing is humorous there is a real core of feeling underneath. Ms.  She is able to achieve so many different forms of laughter - the laughter of being uncomfortable the laughter of surprise the laughter of knowing the laughter of anticipating the laughter of wanting. She kind of hammers the audience with this comedy and then at the end they are tenderized.  In the Next Room is currently playing at the Lyceum Theater on Broadway. For NPR News I am Jeff Lunden in New York.  You can watch scenes from In the Next Room on our Web site NPR.org. 