 And now it is time for sports.   Olympus has fallen - at least slipped a little. The Milwaukee Bucks clobbered the Golden State Warriors in Oakland on Thursday 134-111. And also where are all the premier franchises in the NFL? Howard Bryant of ESPN.com and ESPN The Magazine joins us. Howard thanks so much for being with us.  Good morning Scott. How are you doing?  I am fine. And as they say in Milwaukee fear the deer.   Fear the deer.  Was that a fluke on Thursday? By the way the Bucks have an absolutely great player - well more than one but absolutely great player. He has an unfortunate name that owes to his Greek heritage. And I know you are a classical Greek scholar so I will leave you to say Giannis' name.  So you are going to force me to say Giannis Antetokounmpo? Yes I did...  Way to go Howard.  ...I did it right. That is two in a row - exactly. He is the Greek Freak. He is a spectacular basketball player who was really passed over by virtually every team because they did not think his game was polished enough. And then boy he took over and really raised his level of skill. I mean he is an unbelievable basketball player. And what happened the other night in Oakland is not a fluke. Sure Golden State did not play very well that is for certain. But last year we saw it in the seven-game series between the Boston Celtics and the Milwaukee Bucks and Milwaukee is knocking on the door. They are one of those teams that you are going to have to watch out for because LeBron James is not here anymore. He is in the Western Conference with the Lakers. And so we like to talk a lot about how the Boston Celtics are the favorites and how this team is supposed to be the one that is going to match up best with the Warriors but I really enjoy what is taking place in the NBA right now especially in the Eastern Conference because you have got Toronto that now has Kawhi Leonard who got traded over from San Antonio. You have got the Celtics who are a wonderful ensemble cast who have not really put it together yet. They got hammered last night in Utah. And you have got Milwaukee who had this fantastic win. They lost in Boston last Thursday. And then they come into Oakland and they beat the best team in the NBA. So certainly there are a lot of teams to look out for. And believe me Milwaukee is definitely one. Fear the deer indeed.  Yeah fear the deer. Let us talk football for a moment. We are past the halfway mark of the NFL season. Maybe the LA Rams but other than that not a breakout team right?  Well you know for everything that we talk about with the Golden State Warriors and the Warriors being this team that nobody can beat and that there is no suspense there is plenty of suspense in the NBA. But when it comes to football Scott I got to tell you the NFL has gone out of its way to promote mediocrity. The league is set up pretty much for everyone to go 8-8 this year and maybe 12-4 next year and then maybe 8-8 the next year. And so it really does take about half a season to find out who is going to be good. And so we are starting to reach Thanksgiving. We are starting to get into that what I call separation time where you are going to see who is really good. The Rams were undefeated the Saints beat them. I think the Saints may be the best team in football right now. You have got the NFL champs the Philadelphia Eagles - they are 4-4. The Patriots are still really good. The Chiefs are outstanding they lost to the Patriots. The Steelers were fantastic the other night...  Yeah.  ...Against Carolina. But as of today nobody's really that good. But then again nobody is really that bad either. I am thinking in about three weeks after Thanksgiving you will start to see who is going to emerge. Last year nobody thought that the Eagles were Super Bowl favorites and they ended up winning the whole thing.  Yeah. Well we know it is hard to have - almost impossible - a dynasty these days. But it is hard even to put two championships together is not it?  Well absolutely. And that is why what the Patriots have done has been so fantastic.  Well Howard Bryant of ESPN.com and ESPN The Magazine. Thanks so much for being with us Howard.  No my pleasure.  