 How can you not like a song called Liberace Afternoon played with a Latin beat and sung in pitch-perfect Spanglish.     Liberace afternoon I have been watching you. Liberace afternoon...  Liberace Afternoon is from the new CD Diablo Mambo by the band the Cuban Cowboys. It is a group that mixes Cuban rhythms with rock and punk and family stories of pre-Castro Havana with post-exile tensions. Guitarist Jorge Navarro is the lead singer and songwriter of the Cuban Cowboys. He joins us now from member station KQED in San Francisco. Thanks so much for being with us. Mr.  Thank you so much for having me Scott.  And what is the story of Liberace Afternoon? Your grandmother? Mr.  Yeah my grandmother. Edena Edena Sloan was her name and she was a piano teacher and a seamstress in Cuba. And when we came to the States my mother was able to afford to buy her a used piano. And at the time I found it you know among the most annoying things ever in my young life. And I would do everything to try to get her to stop. And I shot a bottle rocket at her one time in the house. I was...  You should a bottle rocket at your grandmother? Mr.  At my own grandmother. I was that kind of a child.  So how did you get interested in music? Mr.  I was studying to be a Roman Catholic priest - believe it or not -and I was in upstate New York and I began to play bass at our school masses. And from there it just kind of took off.  And when did Cuban heritage enter the musical picture? Mr.  Well I was working on a Ph.D. in bilingual education. In fact as of a year ago I was still a doctoral candidate at the University of Florida and I was trying to find a way to prepare Anglo teachers for work with Latino students. And basically I was in the process of getting back in touch with my culture and my first language. And so I was very much into the music having been a rock musician for a longer time than a Cubaphile. I ended up blending the two.   Another song I want to ask you about Check's in the Mail.  Mr.  Oh goodness Scott.  Mr.  It just relates to our terrible experience. We signed a record deal in 2005 and we turned away two major labels and a reputable independent to go with this new company and it all fell apart. So The Check's in the Mail just talks about a plethora of empty promises received by the band over the course of almost six years.     a criminal offense as far as I know. It is all we got from you Senor No Show. Your word is as bad as my guitar solo...  I got to say I love that line Your word is as bad as my guitar solo. Mr.  Thank you so much. It is one of my secret favorites as well.  Was your grandfather the Rahm Emanuel of Cuba pre-Castro Cuba? Mr.  That is certainly how he fancied himself in all of his stories. He worked in two for two presidential administrations for the Machado and both Batista administrations. He was a bookie at first arranging bets for government officials. And he actually was there when Che Guevara during the early days of the revolution was asked to run the Cuban banks. And in exchange for helping Che Guevara learn the system my father was released from prison. My grandfather had him sprung from jail because my father was a Havana city councilman whose campaign slogan was Democracy yes revolution no. So he was one of the first people to get sentenced to 30 years as soon as the tanks rolled into Havana. So my grandfather who informs a lot of my songs and all of my family tales you know one of the hallmarks of the exile is memory and it is weird that you know up until this year when I went to Cuba for the first time all of my memories of Cuba were my family's. In some ways you know my Cuba was 1958 Cuba.  The song that kicks off this album is about your grandfather. Mr.  Yeah.  We cannot play it. Mr.  No. Very good very good. I was hoping that you know it would somehow you know make it past some sort of FCC censorship. And you know it is a fairly common word but I understand I understand.  Yeah it is less censorship than just it is you know Saturday morning and for that matter our children could be listening. Mr.  I know I know.  But I think we can play the tune Senor Balaban. Mr.  Oh there you go. Yes you can.  This a friend of your grandfather's? Mr.  Well the character - I changed the name. Really it is based on a very famous Havana street character known as El Caballero de Paris who would interact with my grandfather practically every morning always trying to you know give advice about women mostly. And so it was very decidedly off-color and it was passed on to me and that is what I write about in the song you know what my grandfather experienced as a young man in Havana.  Let us listen to a little bit of Senor Balaban.     Balaban Senor Balaban Senor Balaban. ... Mr.  When I took the music to Cuba - again I traveled there this summer meeting family members for the first time throughout the country - they were just you know they were like but this is Cuban music. You told us it was rock. And that was just a really sweet and affirming thing to hear over and over and over again.  Let me ask about another cut a couple other cuts in here if we could. Mr.  Sure.  La Ventana. Mr.  Ah yes La Ventana.   This is doo-wop right? Mr.  Yes it is. Yes it is. My producer insisted on among the things that he brought to the sound was he wanted to mix things up. He wanted to surprise audiences and he wanted something that kind of spoke to a time where Cuba and the United States were a little bit closer artistically. It was not just Cubans' influence on jazz that had an impact but there were a lot of doo-wop groups and  incorporated some of these things. So he wanted a different kind of sound. But it is a mostly true story about my experience in Brooklyn New York. We lived across the way the rooftop from a very attractive set of neighbors who had a thing for walking around with no clothes on at night. And so the band would be rehearsing and sometimes we would just stop rehearsing. We would turn the lights off and we would sit there and watch them. And it was nothing you know out of the ordinary going on. These people were just having dinner and getting up to fix tea and - without any clothes. And so...  I noticed you did not shoot a bottle rocket at them did you? Mr.  No no I did not. No bottle rocket nothing like that.    Oh oh the moon woke up Brooklyn. It is on my side. Help me peek across the rooftops past the cat in all the windows just to see her turn on her lights. I see the fishies on her shower curtain. I see her stockings run...  This is quite a delightful song. Mr.  Thank you.  Without overreaching I hope do you think that your music symbolizes something about the absorbency the way boy American culture and for that matter Cuban musical culture take in so many influences? Mr.  Certainly. You hear it in the Spanglish of course. You hear it in the melding of styles. The music itself it is a reflection of that absorbency that you speak of. I mean when I speak English I have no discernible accent. . You know and that I am able to...  We should explain you said when I speak Spanish I have a discernibly Cuban accent. Mr.  Of course of course. And by all appearances I look very Anglo. I am a very light-skinned Cuban. The same way this music is not strictly Latino. We surprise a lot of audiences on both sides. And so I wanted to bring the two together.  I thought we would go out on Bajo La Luna. Mr.  Ah Bajo La Luna.  You sort of quote from Talking Heads this as not no lunar disco. Mr.  Yeah...  Well let us listen to a little bit of it.  Sure.      This as not no lunar disco this as not no mess around. When the moon come up and the sun goes bajo bajo la luna...  So the thought behind this? Mr.  I dated a young woman when I lived in New York City who had the most beautiful beautiful white skin. It was luminescent if you will and it is just a love song you know. And David Byrne of course is always he is always been one of my favorites and some folks have said that I sound like him so I could not resist.  Oh Mr. Navarro thanks so much. Good luck to you. Mr.  Thank you so much Scott. It is been  it is been a pleasure.  Speaking to us from San Francisco Jorge Navarro of the Cuban Cowboys. Their new CD is from Muy Nice Music and it is called Diablo Mambo.    Bajo bajo la luna under the moon . All the lobos shout together keeps the sun awake at night.  And you can stream songs from the Cuban Cowboys' new album at NPRMusic.org. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 