 Georgia has gone Republican in every presidential election since 1996. But this year at the moment Joe Biden has taken a narrow lead of about 4000 votes. Some voting rights' organizers on the ground are claiming a victory for their organizing efforts. Nse Ufot is the CEO of the New Georgia Project and she joins us from Atlanta. Thanks very much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  I gather your organization registered over 400000 voters which is impressive on its own but you actually got them out to the polls. What were the logistics involved?  Yeah absolutely. It was never about hundreds of thousands of registrants. It was always about expanding the electorate and building what we call super-voters. And these are people who vote in every election in which they are eligible - so tons of voter registration coupled with voter education and you know smart engaging voter mobilization tactics.  I have to ask - did you say to any voters which way are you voting? Did that matter to you?  No it does not. That rarely comes up in our conversations. The idea is that we want to close the racial voter registration gap. We want to register new Americans register 18-year-olds and build an electorate of confident informed voters who vote in every election.  As I do not have to tell you Georgia's been plagued with allegations of voter suppression. Did you - what barriers did you see hurdles that had to be overcome this year?  Well we are still counting but many of us woke up on Election Day in Georgia particularly in metro Atlanta and found you know over a hundred polling locations that had been changed within 48 hours - within the 48 hours before the election. So folks went to bed on Friday thinking that they were voting in one place and woke up on Tuesday to find that their polling location had been changed. And as someone who has spent the better part of the past couple of months encouraging people to make a vote plan this as you can imagine is disorienting.  I gather you have been doing this work with the New Georgia Project for seven years now. What made it seem to click this year just judging by the numbers?  I mean ultimately I think that elections are compression points right? They are opportunities for us to test our power and flex the power that we are building. And so you know much has been written about the demographic shifts that are happening in Georgia. I think that they were - the impact of those demographic shifts are accelerated if you will by smart strategic organizing - right? - investment in political - in independent political infrastructure the pandemic - you know Georgians are dying. We have hospitals all over rural Georgia that are going to close. A summer of racial justice uprisings - a rebellion if you will - so people are activated and figuring out how to make change. And so it is protesting and it is voting and it is grassroots lobbying and it is running for office because you know the stakes feel very high for Georgians of color and young Georgians.  You speak a lot about the culture of voting and trying to refashion that. Could you help us understand that?  Yeah. I mean one of the things that we have noticed is that you know voting is a cultural sort of event activity - how we learn about it how we talk about it right? You know part of the work that we are going to be doing I think I suspect over the next couple of years is talking about vote by mail as an alternative right? You know we are in Atlanta in the cradle of the civil rights movement. And so there are tons of you know older Black voters who have - who remember - you know I get up I get dressed I go vote in person. Like this is how I vote. This is what I do. I say hi to my neighbors. I bring my grandkids. And so vote by mail represents a shift in culture a shift in how people participate. And so you know we acknowledge that and lean into that. You know there is a cultural attitude I think amongst young people that you know my vote does not matter until they learn that it does right? And so we want to accelerate that. We do not want people to have to wait until they are 30 to understand how elections work to understand how government works.  Nse Ufot is the CEO of the New Georgia Project. Thank you so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  