 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Audie Cornish. It is been a difficult and emotional week at Pennsylvania State University. The scandal involving child sexual abuse allegations and a potential cover-up is entering its second week. And yesterday the school's football team played its first game without longtime coach Joe Paterno and lost to Nebraska. NPR's Jeff Brady was there.  Late in the fourth quarter fans hoped Penn State would still pull off a victory. It would have been a sweet one after such a difficult week but that did not happen and the Cornhuskers won 17-14.   When the game was over fans began a cross-stadium chant that has become a mantra for those who believe in the resilience of Penn State amid the scandal. Kathy Zimmerman says she comes to every Penn State game and the atmosphere at this one was different.  It was a quieter calmer day I think. But I did not hear anything negative today. Nothing. People just accepted the decision and we are here to keep our dignity I think and the university's.  The decision she is referring to is the one last week to fire longtime coach Joe Paterno. The scandal happened on his watch. Many say he should have called police after a graduate assistant said he saw former Assistant Coach Jerry Sandusky molesting a boy in the locker room. Sandusky faces multiple charges. Two high-level university officials also face charges for not reporting child sexual abuse. Nebraska fan Brandon Hultman traveled here for the game and says coming in as an outsider was a little uncomfortable.  To be honest it felt different. It felt like I could not cheer my team it was not right to cheer my team.  Outside the stadium there were plenty of tailgate parties even while the game was going on. With a chilly wind blowing Penn State alumnus Karen Schuckman says it is difficult to convey to people who do not live here what this scandal has done to locals.  If you are not part of the Penn State family you cannot understand how this feels and how personally it touches you. And I am not exactly sure why that is but I know that that is true.  Retired school administrator John Glanz has a theory why. Penn State dominates the local economy and the institution is a part of daily life for a lot of people here.  And having grown up here you know I have friends family neighbors - they all work here. Everybody from the moment they build a building you know they hire some more janitors and plumbers and maintenance people and computer people and everything else so...  As the university has grown so has the community that cares about it. Meanwhile a criminal investigation continues and the school is launching its own internal investigation. Penn State professor Dennis Murphy predicts more bad news.  It is going to be another tough week I think. We know we have to move on but it is - there is still going to be things come out we think that I do not - we do not know about yet. And I think it will stay - it is going to stay tough for a few weeks yet.   As the marching band left the stadium Saturday Penn State fans walked to their cars a disappointing final home game behind them. Maybe next year will be better. Jeff Brady NPR News State College Pennsylvania. 