 CBD is the latest trendy ingredient - everything from face cream to gummy bears but not the music of BJ Leiderman who writes our theme music. The compound is found in hemp a cousin of the marijuana plant. And while health experts warn about CBD side effects and call for more studies some people believe it is a natural elixir for all kinds of complaints. Farmers have also noticed this CBD craze but as NPR's Hannah Hagemann reports there is no straight line between planting a few hemp plants and cashing in.  Your CBD Store is a nationwide chain. This one in Alexandria Va. has shelves stocked with tinctures candies lotions and dog treats.   OK so that is come out to 127.20.  Business is brisk. Customers are eager to see what CBD can do for them.   So I have really bad sinuses as well. Does that play any effect?  What if someone have trouble with diabetes?  With diabetes?  I have heard the CBD oil helps.  I cannot say.   We are looking at the tops of the plants where it is all flowering here. This is what is the focus of the harvest.  Here in Sperryville Va. Elizabeth Melson shows me a small quarter-acre plot of CBD-bearing hemp. She got into farming seven years ago but this is her first time farming hemp.  We are all in this green rush. We want to grow for CBD. It is the most amazing you know hyped-up nutraceutical on the market right now. And I did not realize how labor intensive it was.  Melson and her farmhand do everything themselves - cutting picking and curing. She dries the hemp in a converted garage but does not have the space or equipment to process the plant into oil. Companies that can do that are overbooked. When Melson began other hemp farmers who got in early encouraged her. They told her of the rewards.  From 100 plants you can make 20000 if you are selling to a CBD processor. Yeah it is probably half that or less.  Their markets have bottomed out and they do not have buyers for their product.  That is Jane Kolodinsky. She teaches economics at the University of Vermont. Kolodinsky says if you want to be a hemp farmer in a crowded marketplace you have to be strategic.  It is the farmers who just came in and decided oh there is a CBD market I will plant hemp who really did not have a business plan they are probably going to be hurt the most.  Glenn Rhodes probably will not get hurt. He is an eighth-generation Virginia farmer.  For now it is a very very high risk high reward on the CBD side. It would be lower risk lower reward on the grain and fiber side.  Right now Rhodes is okay with the lower reward. He harvests hemp bark seeds and stalk. Those parts of the plant are versatile. They can be transformed into everything from fuel to building materials. The longtime farmer says he and his family also...  Raise turkeys. We grow crops like corn soybeans canola. We also raise beef cattle and have a dairy farm.  Hemp is just another crop the family hopes they can make some extra cash on. Rhodes planted 10 acres of it. He is hoping he can sell his harvest - 35 bales of fiber and 3000 pounds of seed. Other farmers have taken notice.  I have actually gotten that phone call from a dairy farmer wondering if hemp could save his farm. And I just had to say well we are - it is just too early. We do not have the infrastructure. We do not have the markets right now.  And without that market first-time hemp farmers may be left empty-handed. Hannah Hagemann NPR News.  