 This month the U.S. Mint releases the last of four special Abraham Lincoln pennies. 2009 marked the 200th anniversary of Abraham Lincoln's birth. Not everyone is celebrating though. There is been a long-running debate about the future of America's one-cent coin. And at least one store owner in Berkeley California has decided to take a personal stand. Andrew Stelzer went there to investigate whether the penny's days are numbered.  Alko Office Supply in downtown Berkeley is a completely average-looking store with one exception. Hanging above the cash register is a sign that says We are a penny-free store. I wanted to find out just how serious they were or if it was some sort of joke or a gimmick.  Mr.  Thank you very much.  So while I am here I might get my 2010 yearly planner. Cashier Andrew Allen told me with so many people using credit and debit cards he only has to explain the no-penny rule about once a day. Mr.  It is going to cost you 15.53. So in cash terms 15.50.  So if I give you - let us see what I got 15.53. Mr.  Well I am going to tell you to keep these three pennies.  You will not take them. Mr.  I will not take them. I refuse to take them.  If you are wondering if this is legal it is. While all U.S. currency is legal tender for paying debts public charges taxes and dues the Treasury Department says private business can decide as a matter of policy whether to accept currency as payment and if so in which denominations. About a year ago Gary Shows the owner of Alko Office Supply felt pennies were no longer worth the hassle for customers and cashiers. Mr.  One evening I had this idea that if we went penny free and rounded everything down to the customer's favor to the nearest nickel if everybody was four cents I think I decided that we would lose about 500 a year.  Shows says that 500 including my three cents today is likely overcome by customers who remember the store and come back. For Shows it was an issue of convenience. But there are other numbers beginning to stack up against the penny. One big one since 2006 producing a penny has cost more than one cent due to the rising price of zinc the main ingredient in the coin. Then there is the issue of inflation. Mr.  It is important to separate the idea of something being used and something being useful.  Jeff Gore is the founder of a group called Citizens for Retiring the Penny. Gore points out that every year our currency is worth less. Mr.  There is just a very natural process where we have to retire currency. The penny used to be a useful coin. But it has not been useful for many decades.  But the penny's got some serious fans not to mention lobbyists. Mark Weller is the executive director of Americans for Common Cents. He represents zinc producers coin manufacturers and coin collectors among other penny-loving constituencies. Weller's economic theory is that if we got rid of the penny prices of everyday goods would rise. Mr.  The alternative to the penny is rounding to the nickel and that is something that will negatively impact working families every time they buy a gallon of gas or a gallon of milk.  Weller also argues that charities would suffer greatly without pennies.   Only a couple miles away from the penny-free office supply store Dagmar Serota is weighing the pennies collected by a class of pre-kindergarten boys at Linda Beach Cooperative preschool in Piedmont California. She calls the pennies good cents.  Unidentified Boy Are these silver? Ms.  We share a bowl. Put - all the silver goes in a bowl and the pennies stay on your  In 2005 Serota founded Good Cents for Oakland. Since then she is helped school children raise more than 35000 for homeless shelters soup kitchens and other charities. Today's haul of 159.54 will be donated to the local food bank. As you might imagine she is a big fan. Ms.  Pennies are easy to ask for and they are easy to give. And it is very easy for a child to say will you help me support this nonprofit? Will you give me your pennies?  Charities like Serota's came out in force to object in 2002 and 2006 when Arizona Congressman Jim Kolbe introduced bills in the House to get rid of the penny. The bills went nowhere and Kolbe is no longer in office. So it does not seem the Lincoln coin will be disappearing anytime soon leaving penny lovers and haters to debate what makes sense one cent at a time. Andrew Stelzer NPR News Berkeley.  Ms.   Oh every time it rains it rains pennies from heaven. Do not you know each cloud contains pennies from heaven. You will find your fortune falling all over town. Be sure that your umbrella is upside down. Trade them for a package of sunshine and flowers. 