 It has been called Breaking Bad meets Black Swan. Flesh And Bone the miniseries about the dark corners of the ballet world premieres tonight on the Starz channel. NPR's Elizabeth Blair has more.  There is been a lot of buzz in the TV industry around Flesh And Bone partly because it is the first series by one of Breaking Bad's most acclaimed writers Moira Walley-Beckett. She wrote and produced what is considered the best episode of the Emmy-winning series about a high school chemistry teacher-turned-meth cooker.    I promised you everything.   Do not say one more word. Get out of here now.   Skyler.   Get out.  Even Moira Walley-Beckett wondered how she would follow that.  I have a lot to live up to that is for sure.  It was during production of the final season of Breaking Bad that Walley-Beckett says she started thinking about what she might do next.  I was sitting in my seedy motel room in Albuquerque on the side of the highway on a day off just sort of mulling about ideas. And the muse showed up.  And said go back to your first love.  I was obsessed with dance from an early age. And you know it is always kind of inexplicable. It is just something that I really really wanted to do.    You are obsession. I cannot sleep.  A cover of Animotion's 1984 song Obsession is Flesh And Bone's theme song.    There is no balance equality. Be still...  A young talented dancer with a troubled family history flees her home in Pittsburgh takes a bus to New York and auditions for the fictional American Ballet Company.   She wows the artistic director an over-the-top tyrant and then enters a very sinister world of cocaine sex abuse strip clubs grueling rehearsals and cutthroat competition.    You are not special. You know that right?  Moira Walley-Beckett says that she wanted to capture the contradictions within ballet.  Dance is a torturous journey. And I think that the ballet world for the most part does a lot to create the optical illusion of this glossy glamorous veneer.  In a scene that might resonate with many arts nonprofits the company director is furious that the board chair wants to serve Prosecco instead of champagne at a gala.    You seriously expect to entice new patrons into giving us hundreds of thousands of dollars when we are serving them a 99-cent glass of cat piss and a warmed over production of Giselle as incentive. I am going to lose my mind here.  And the dancers are expected to show up look pretty and talk nice.    We grace the patrons with our presence and they feel like they are brushing elbows with angels.  Dance Magazine's editor-in-chief Jennifer Stahl says there is a kernel of truth to that depiction.  You have to charm the donors. That is just part of the job as a dancer.  Stahl gives props to Moira Walley-Beckett for casting real dancers in Flesh And Bone. She was less impressed with its melodrama.  It was so heavy-handed. You did not see any of the joy of dancing. I could not - if I did not know dance at all I - and I just watched the show - I would have no idea why in the world these dancers would put themselves through this.  After I left dance I always liked to joke that I was in recovery.  Walley-Beckett says creating and producing Flesh And Bone dredged up memories.  To be back among the company of dancers was thrilling and disturbing all at the same time.  And for those dancers it is an opportunity to reach new audiences and get a TV-sized paycheck. Elizabeth Blair NPR News.    You are my obsession. 