 In Ohio a recent poll shows a majority of voters use the word disgust to describe their attitude toward politics. That has not deterred civic activists in Akron from their plan to put the joy back into voting. They are hoping to counter prevailing attitudes with the help of goats virtual wrestling and a pickup truck called Percival. M.L. Schultze from Ohio member station WKSU reports.  The founder of a civic-engagement group called Citizen University suggested about a year and a half ago that the big problem with American elections is not partisanship or voting rights battles. The problem Eric Liu says is they are so isolating.  Really till about the advent of television elections were joyful participatory robust and creative.  Now he says they are an eat-your-vegetable duty.  A lot of that joy has disappeared and we just believe that it is possible to recreate it because people are hungry to be in community.  Liu's argument found an audience and 125000 to fund five small projects in four cities - Akron Miami Philadelphia and Wichita.  I had just got on like a rhyming thing. And if there was like a goat in a coat that would vote...   The brainstorming began this spring and the results have been rolling out over the fall.   They include street-theater performances from the back of a Ford Ranger named Percival. The music harkens back to the 18- and 1900s but the themes are all 2016.  Let me make one thing clear my dear. You are either for us or against us.  Well is not there anything in between?  At a neighborhood picnic Alpine goats were the featured candidates a choice Melanie Christman and her 8-year-old daughter Tabitha took very seriously.  She kind of decided we really liked...  Bluebell.  ...Bluebell for mayor because Bluebell...  Does her homework and brushes her teeth after every meal.  And the Joy of Voting projects include some purely 21st century twists. Movement and media artist Megan Young is working behind a screen as multi-layered cameras loom over the two wrestling mats in a community center theater.  There is this hilarious interaction of two bodies in digital space searching for one another and trying to grab after each other.  On Tuesday this will be a polling place. But for now anyone who stops by can virtually wrestle each other or an image on the screen including Faith McFluff in a Wonder Woman costume. What is that got to do with voting?  You are wrestling sometimes with your friends and your family over political ideas. In the end you still have to work together and you still have to love each other.  And in case anybody is not feeling the joy artist Young says the project can serve a different purpose.  I think if somebody is really frustrated this is the best place for them 'ecause they are going to work it out in a way that is completely delightful without breaking anything or hurting anyone.  Which in this election year may be something to celebrate. For NPR News I am M.L. Schultze in Akron Ohio. 