 1973 was a great year. Well maybe not for Richard Nixon. But there was American Graffiti Day For Night and The Exorcist at the movies George Steinbrenner bought the Yankees more people watched Elvis in concert from Hawaii than had watched the moon landing the Watergate scandal unfolded and David Bowie sang about Life On Mars.  Mr.   Take a look at the lawman beating up the wrong guy. Oh man wonder if he will ever know. He is in the bestselling show is there life on Mars?  Which is also the song that sets off what is now considered a classic sci-fi British TV show in which Manchester Chief Inspector Sam Tyler gets hit by a car in 2006 and wakes up in a world where everybody smokes and telephones still have dials. And he is wearing a pair of boots that John Travolta would not be caught in. Is Sam Tyler in a coma a time warp? His 1973 boss Detective Chief Inspector Gene Hunt clearly has not heard of sensitivity training.  Mr.   They reckon you got a concussion. Well I could not give  your brains are falling out. Do not waltz into my kingdom acting king of the jungle. Mr.   Who the hell are you? Mr.   Gene Hunt your DCI and its 1973 almost dinner time .  DCI Gene Hunt is played by Philip Glenister. He joins us from London. Mr. Hunt - Mr. Hunt   You see how easy it is to confuse the two of you.  Mr.  Perfect.  Nice to meet you Mr. Glenister. Mr.  Nice to speak with you. How you doing?  I am fine. Thank you. Mr.  Good.  Could you do a little translation? For example what is hoops? Mr.  Hoops ah. Well we still make them actually but they are spaghetti hoops. And they are out of a tin.  Pasta basically. Mr.  Yes.  It is a very good description. I think we might call those Spaghettios in the United States. Mr.  Spaghettios okay yeah.  So how do you feel about the confusion between Gene Hunt and yourself? Mr.  Well I have been playing him for a while now because I am currently doing a sequel to Life On Mars called Ashes to Ashes.  Right. Mr.  So I have decided that basically I think he is my alter ego. He gets away with well a huge amount of things that I or anybody else would not be allowed to say unfortunately in this day and age. So it is quite joyous just being able to sort of say all the things on behalf of everybody who wants to say those things you know which we are not allowed to do now.  Let us play another clip if we could where Sam Tyler the policeman who goes back in time to 1973 is - I do not want to give away too much but let us just say there is a significant piece of evidence that a judge could use to set somebody who both these policemen are convinced is a deeply bad person and likely to murder again. Here's the confrontation between your character Gene Hunt and Sam Tyler.  Mr.   Look listen. You told me you were a deputy to the law. Mr.   The law is putting bad people away and who want to show a court that note? Mr.   Fine. You got principles. Mr.   Hang on. Mr.   Well Mr.    Want to get me suspended? If you like you can try your hand. And as for this note I am making it your call.  It is a very very gripping sequence. And I do not want to tip off what happens. Mr.  Hmm.  But when of all is said and done there is something to be said for DCI Hunt is not there? Mr.  There is very much a western element about Life On Mars you know? It is a spaghetti western going on. And I think that Gene basically sees himself as the sheriff of his town and he is there to kick out the bad guys and embrace the good guys. It is just the way he goes about it. There is a particular piece in Life on Mars which is one of my favorite moments is when I have a copy of a poster of The Good the Bad and the Ugly in my office and Sam walks in while I am looking at this poster and he says...  Mr.   Which one are you? Mr.   All three.  Mr.  You know and I kind of think that kind of just sums up the man completely. He is kind of a bit Wyatt Earp - there is a bit of High Noon in there you know? And that is what I love about the show. It sort of has all these different dimensions to it.  The scriptwriting as has been noted by many critics is absolutely fantastic. Mr.  Hmm.  What is the line? More nervous than a Mr.  The more nervous than  penguin shoot.   Yes. Mr.  That is the baby.  Mr.  It is a corker. I do not know how they come up with them quite frankly.  You were in Calendar Girls with Helen Mirren? Mr.  That is right yeah.  Any funny little stories you want to tell about Dame Helen who is like the most beloved person in America? Mr.  It was quite fun the sequence I had to shoot because I was playing the photographer Lawrence who obviously has to take the pictures of them all. And it was kind of fun seeing all those ladies of a certain age in - we call it in this country the buff meaning in the nude. And they were incredibly supportive of each other actually. I did offer to take my clothes off as well but there was a big silence.  Mr.  around the room which is not very encouraging really. When they had to do their particular set-up of the calendar all of them would be on the studio floor to be there with support with a few glasses of champagne I think just to give them a bit of Dutch courage so to speak. I wish I would had more to do in it really. But as I do not have boobs it was bit tricky really   I am sure you have Mr.  Well I have got man boobs.  I am sure you have got great ones when all is said and done  Mr.  That is Gene Hunt.  Yeah.   I cannot believe I said that.   And you have been working with Woody Allen? Mr.  I have which was a real treat. I mean he is one of my sort of all time heroes I think. Some of his films have been some of my favorite ever made really. I have a ritual. I have to watch Love and Death every Christmas. I just love it and I find it quite Christmassy because all the Prokofiev music he uses in it you know. But it was great. It is so easy the way - you know you just see your sides of your scenes and then he encourages you to just be as naturalistic and feel free to go off the page and ad-lib as much as possible and just stick to the main points and keep those in them. Other than that you are free to do what you like really which is terrific very enjoyable.  And of course you would be shot if you told us what the movie is about right? He is Mr.  I do not know honestly. I could not - I would be shot as well but also you do not get to see a full script. as with most Woody Allen films there is usually kind of three or four storylines going all on at once. And you know he is got an extraordinary cast again. He is got Anthony Hopkins Freida Pinto from Slumdog Millionaire Josh Brolin Antonio Banderas and me. So I am sort of involved in Josh Brolin's storyline a little bit you know who is also delightful real thrill pleasure to meet.  You have daughters I believe? MR.  I have two two girls - Millie and Charlotte who are seven and four yeah.  Which raises just about my final question Mr.  Hmm.  which is how would you feel if your daughters met someone like Gene Hunt?  Mr.  That is a very good question. Do you know what I - as long as he acted like me as Gene Hunt I would not probably mind actually because I think I think overall - actually I think Gene's a decent guy I really do. I think he is firm but fair. Just as long as he was not the same age as when they - as long as she is not 17 and he is sort of 50 yeah.  Mr.  Dad this is my new boyfriend and he is called Gene and he is your age.  Mr.  Oh good.  Mr.  Oh good good good.  Mr. Glenister so nice talking to you. Thanks very much. Mr.  My pleasure lovely to speak to you.  Philip Glenister he plays Detective Chief Inspector Gene Hunt on the British series Life On Mars now available on DVD from Acorn Media. He joined us from our studios in London. And to see a clip of DCI Gene Hunt in action you can go to our blog npr.orgsoapbox. You can also share your memories of 1973.  Mr.   It is on America's tortured brow. That Mickey Mouse  I am not sure I can remember 1973. If you would like to wake up with Philip Glenister in 1973 you can head to npr.org to watch clips from the show. 