 NPR's Jason Beaubien reports from Mexico City.  Many Mexican politicians view the current drug war that is claimed roughly 30000 lives over the last four years as one more curse foisted on Mexico by their rich neighbor to the north. In this world the incredibly violent conflict is fueled by U.S. demand for narcotics fought with U.S. weapons and funded by U.S. cash that flows freely across the border.   At the chamber of the Mexican Senate Senator Sebastian Calderon Centeno says the United States has not done anything to curb demand for drugs or to diminish the flow of guns into Mexico. He says the drug war is actually increasing weapons trafficking.    The criminals are getting desperate he says and are trying to get more and more guns to attack the Mexican government. The senator says that most of the guns in the hands of Mexican drug traffickers are bought legally in Texas Arizona and California. And he says the U.S. has little incentive to stop the smuggling.    Just this week the Mexican Ambassador to Washington Arturo Sarukhan again blamed lax American gun laws for fueling the drug conflict in Mexico. He said the U.S. could do more to limit the sale of weapons that eventually end up in the hands of the cartels.  The Founding Fathers did not draft the 2nd Amendment to allow international organized crime to A illicitly buy weapons in gun shops and gun shows B illicitly cross them over into international border and C sell them to individuals of a country where those calibers or types of weapons are prohibited.  Mexican President Felipe Calderon also continues to call on the U.S. to crack down on weapons heading south. The ambassador says the U.S. needs to be involved in fighting the cartels along with the Mexican authorities. He says the only way that Mexico has a chance of winning this battle is with sustained efforts from both sides of the border.  If we cannot fundamentally - within what is in the books today - modify the current flow of weapons and bulk cash which are coming from the United States into Mexico and which provide the drug syndicates with their fire power and their ability to corrupt it will be a very taxing challenge.  Jason Beaubien NPR News Mexico City. 