 It is Always Sunny In Philadelphia the FXX show is now tied for longest running live-action comedy series in television history. It is one of those records with so many qualifiers it barely means anything but the show has been around for 14 seasons. And NPR's Andrew Limbong tells us how it differs from and has outlived its competition.  The premise to It is Always Sunny In Philadelphia is kind of a throwback. Sunny as it is called is just five friends - we will call it - who work and hang out together at a bar. They get into arguments and schemes.    Hey look what I just found at the bus stop. Gruesome twosome seek exotic Europeans for week-long rental in luxurious one-bedroom apartment. Bed to be shared with owners. What? What?   It is a good ad. You know...  And that is it. The show started with a pilot three actual friends shot in their apartments in 2004 including co-creator Charlie Day.  And took a few cracks out of that. I think our first pass at it was not so great so we did it a few more times. And then I think it was the third iteration of it we wound up selling to FX and they gave us the budget to shoot a real pilot.  It is a comedy that confronts heavy topics - racism sexual harassment death. Here's a Season 1 moment where co-creator Rob McElhenney who plays Mac a devout Catholic by the way invites Dennis to an abortion rally. Dennis' sister Dee steps in.    You have got to come with me to one of these rallies. They are having another one on Saturday. These chicks are everywhere.   I can jump on board with that.   Yeah.   Are you actually going to throw away all your convictions for a chance to get laid?   I do not really have any convictions.  Megan Ganz is a longtime fan of the show who became a writer and eventually executive producer a few seasons ago. She says the key to making a Sunny episode work is writing characters who are equal parts spineless and selfish.  What I always liked about Sunny whenever it approached any sort of hot-button issue is that ultimately what the characters felt about it could change at any given instant depending on what benefited them the most personally.  This formula has sustained the show for more than a decade and has helped build a dedicated following. The current season has averaged at more than a million and a half viewers per episode. While they never get a lot of awards attention they get interest from critics most asking basically the same question. How come when characters get into blackface or make a joke about abortion or child molestation there is not much outrage online? Here's Charlie Day's answer.  OK look there is nothing funny about child molestation right? However if we do an episode where a character is trying to propose to a woman by writing an entire musical without realizing that the musical seems like it is about him being molested as a child well suddenly you can talk about child molestation in an amusing way 'ecause there is some thought behind it.  It helps says producer Megan Ganz that this show unlike other shows she is worked on does not feel the need to get to a third act aw-shucks moment where everyone realizes what they did was wrong and make up.  And what is nice about Sunny is that it has this honesty with the viewers which is like they are here because they are on a television show and they are locked in this purgatory where they have to keep doing the same things with each other. And these people cannot find any other friends which is why they are locked here and which is why you get to see them every week.  That makes the always in It is Always Sunny In Philadelphia sound like a threat. And the purgatory could go on for yet another season. Andrew Limbong NPR News.  