 And now it is time to get down get down. In our studios we have our friends Jasmine Garsd and Felix Contreras from NPRMusic's Alt.Latino a show dedicated to Latin alternative music. They recently did a show dedicated to Latin funk and you know we cannot resist a funky beat. So we invited them to share their grooviest tunes. Felix Jasmine welcome to the program.  Thank you very much.  Thanks for having us.  So what should we start off with?  I say we should start with Mima from Puerto Rico and her song Oigo Voces I hear voices.   So this is very kind of textbook funky beat. Felix back when funk exploded here in the U.S. artists like James Brown and Sly and the Family Stone is that what we are hearing? A little trace from that period?   We are hearing leftovers yeah. I mean back then the technology just did not allow the dissemination of the music as quickly as it does now. So while James Brown and Sly - that is late '60s - they really started to define that style it took a few years. It was not until like maybe the early to mid-'70s that some of the Latin-American countries some of the musicians there started reflecting some of that influence.  And Jasmine give us some context about this artist Mima. Like who is she kind of in that world?  Well she is a Puerto Rican artist who is really big on the island's Latin alternative scene. I like it because it reminds me a lot of you remember that Rockwell song I Always Feel Like Somebody's Watching Me? Kind of like a spooky funk? And so she is basically talking about how when she is alone she hears voices. And she is not really alone. There is like ghosts all around her. But then she ends up befriending the ghosts and taking a shower with one of the ghosts and...  Yeah she quoted the plot of the song alone . We should have led with that.   All right. What else do you guys have for us?  Now we have some really a very sensual music from the Bay Area. This is artist Goapele featuring the rap duo from Panama Los Rakas.   Feels a little steamy for Sunday guys.  This track is really - it reminds me of the song Pillow Talk by Sylvia way back when. And Los Rakas add a whole different vibe to it because they are a little bit more explicit.  And for people who are familiar with Goapele I mean she is an artist who is R and B new soul and a little maybe on the sweet side. And this kind of brought an element of kind of danger to it. How did they end up collaborating?  They are both from Oakland. Her father is South African and her mom is Israeli. They are from Panama and they are also based in Oakland. We saw a stand-up comedian once that was kind of making fun of how a lot of R and B collaborations with rappers - like the R and B singer she will always sing something very romantic and then the rapper will sing you know something very explicit.  Right. Will come in grumbling and just kind of like...  And it is like a clash battle of the genders.  All right. So next artist on the list.  Next up we have a classic release. This is a song from the '90s but this is a band that broke up and they recently announced that they are getting back together. And their press release announcing it was actually The Funk is Back. And this is Illya Kuryaki and the Valderramas from Argentina and it is the song - my favorite of all their songs - Jaguar House.   So is this a new song from them or is this a song from the '90s?  This is one of their old songs. They have not released any new material yet.  Felix can you give us an idea about who they are? I mean in the '90s we were still in our grunge phase I think here in the States.  If you deconstruct this song get into the DNA of the song you get an idea of who they were and where they are coming from. Because I hear a lot of Parliament Funkadelic you know that rhythm guitar in the background. That is a whole art in and of itself from James Brown up through Chic and Bernard Edwards. I mean there is all these different elements to it. And this slow funky groove you just cannot stop it. It is like a runaway train.   Well I mean after all of this funk I am almost scared about what song you want to go out on. OK?  We are going to go Mexico with a producer by the name of Toy Selectah.   So tell me about this guy.  Toy Selectah is a producer. He is from Monterrey Mexico in northern Mexico. And Monterrey is - I was there once covering Latin alternative music and it is really a hotbed of activity. It is like almost - it is the Nashville of Mexico because it is very very - the country-style music is there. But out of nowhere this alternative scene - the rap the rock and the electronica - kind of spread out. And Toy Selectah is one of the main proponents of that scene. He is sought out by musicians specifically for his sensibilities. It is always very playful. And this one it features vocals by the name of Rey Pila. To me I hear at first I heard Prince and then I heard Curtis Mayfield you know? Yeah.  This song also have an awesome name. It is called Villian Chillin .  Well I thought it is - the word chillin came up in my mind I have to admit when I heard it. More importantly it is the kind of song I feel like I am going to have stuck in my head for the next couple of hours.  I certainly hope so.   I thank you guys for that. Jasmine Garsd and Felix Contreras. They host a weekly podcast on NPRMusic. It is called Alt.Latino. Make sure you check it out on NPR.orgAlt.Latino. Felix and Jasmine thanks so much for stopping by.  Thanks for having us.  It was awesome as usual.  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Audie Cornish. 