 So how about dinner and a movie this Thanksgiving? The holiday movie season offers a short break from the assault of summer blockbusters and it is the last chance for movie studios to push some of their award-season contenders. Ann Hornaday is a film critic for the Washington Post. She is here in our studios with her holiday film picks. Ann thank you for coming in.  It is a pleasure. Thank you for having me.  Now what movies stand out to you if we want to try to collect the Oscar hopefuls?  Well this is definitely the season. If you are an Oscar voter you have to get your ballot out because they start coming fast and furious right around now. And one just opened this weekend called The Descendants which I am a huge fan of. It is by Alexander Payne who did Sideways. He also did the movies About Schmidt ...  I think you are burying the lead. George Clooney is in this movie.  Sorry. Oh did I not mention? George Clooney is the lead.   And then a lot of unknowns and people sort of with breakout performances. And it is Clooney as we do not really see him very often. He is not the glamour boy. He is playing a husband and a father who is struggling to keep his family together during his wife's illness. And it is a dysfunctional family comedy-drama. It is incredibly sad incredibly moving incredibly humane. So I strongly recommend that especially for adult viewers over the next holiday.   There must be some little films too that we might not have seen but ought to take a look?  Oh yes. And there is some - there is a wonderful one coming up that I saw first at the Cannes Film Festival this past summer called The Artist. It is a black-and-white silent film an ode to silent films of yore. And it is kind of Charlie Chaplinesque Singing in the Rain type silent musical - if you can wrap your mind around that - by a French filmmaker mostly French actors although John Goodman has a cameo. But it is absolutely delightful. And that will be coming out between now and Christmas as will lots of other awards contenders like Steven Spielberg's War Horse based on the novel and play and then the Iron Lady which is the Margaret Thatcher biopic with Meryl Streep so everybody's terribly eager to see her tuck into that.   So there are some adaptations of books and some more stage plays coming out too. There is Tinker Tailor Soldier Spy the John le Carre spy novel for instance. What do you think is getting the good buzz?  Well that one has been very hotly anticipated because of course so many people remember that TV series which is - by many people - considered one of the greatest of all time with Alec Guinness no less in that lead role of George Smiley. And Gary Oldman terrific actor has leapt into that role. And it is being directed by Tomas Alfredson who did Let Me In that vampire movie from Sweden a few years ago. Very assured sort of a classicist of a director and he is brought those same values to bear on this one. I mean I think it is a very straight-ahead adaptation. He is condensed that very sprawling story quite effectively and I think it is one of those sort of classy sober-minded literary adaptations that this time of year always seems to bring forth.  Anything else being talked about that is in this sort of big movie big novel category?  A lot of people are curious about this movie called Carnage - which was based on The Gods of Carnage a play - which is being directed by Roman Polanski. Of course The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo that is the big adaptation that everybody is on the edge of their seat for. Of course that is with David Fincher directing Daniel Craig and Rooney Mara - who after a long and famous sort of search for the right girl to play that indelible lead she got picked. And so fans of that novel and the previous Swedish adaptations are all going to have their notebooks and pens out to start giving it grades.  That is going to be fascinating because the Swedish version - even though it fell into the trap of being in Swedish...  Mm-hmm.  ...was really quite compelling and scary as all get out.  You know with these adaptations the trick is to please those absolutely rabid fans but then also open it up for new discovery you know people who are discovering it for the first time.  Now just to make a 180 change of subject films appropriate for children.  Yes. And we have lots of those too. There is one I just saw the other night in New York The Adventures of Tintin based on the Belgian comic book directed by Steven Spielberg who is a busy man this season between that and War Horse. This is in that sort of motion-capture animation technique. Martin Scorsese is making an outing in three  his first attempt at 3-D with a family film called Hugo set in a Paris Metro station adventures of a little boy. That got very warm buzz out of the New York Film Festival where it had sort of a sneak preview. And then the Muppets are back which is just a you know I think I have loved every single Muppet movie. I cannot think of a Muppet movie I have not really liked.     So The Muppet Movie and The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo - something for everyone.  I think that is the beauty of this time of year when everybody - you know the bad news is that the studios do tend to save their best for last so then it is very difficult to kind of see everything that you want to see. But the good news is yes we are spoiled for choice. There is some really wonderful things out there.  Ann Hornaday is a film critic for the Washington Post. She joined us in our Washington studios. Thank you very much.  It is a pleasure. Thank you. 