 In the crush of urgent news some astounding events can almost slip past. At a rally in West Virginia last Saturday President Trump told the crowd about feelings he is developed for Kim Jong Un. Remember when the president mocked North Korea's supreme leader as Little Rocket Man and Kim ridiculed Trump as a mentally deranged U.S. dotard? Something else was going on.   I was really being tough and so was he. And we would go back and forth. And then we fell in love OK?   No really. He wrote me beautiful letters. And they are great letters.   We fell in love. But you know what - now they will make - they will say Donald Trump says they fell in love. How horrible. How horrible is that? So unpresidential.  At least unprecedented. Winston Churchill and Franklin D. Roosevelt were uncommonly close leaders during the darkest hours of World War II. FDR once cabled Churchill it is fun to be in the same decade with you. But Kim Jong Un the leader for whom Donald Trump has declared his devotion presides over a cruel kingdom of repression torture starvation assassinations abduction forced abortion public executions and slave labor. It is not even fun to be in the same hemisphere with Kim Jong Un. It would not be surprising for any president to toss an occasional bouquet toward Kim if it encourages him to abandon nuclear weapons. When Hitler's Germany invaded the USSR in 1941 Winston Churchill who had long denounced Stalin welcomed him into alliance and explained if Hitler invaded hell I would make at least a favorable reference to the devil in the House of Commons. But Senator Lindsey Graham who is recently supported the administration said this week I am telling President Trump enough with I love you. There is nothing to love about Kim Jong Un. The letters between President Trump and Kim Jong Un have not been made public. But do not you wonder what charm and blandishments have made President Trump so besotted with a man who had his own brother poisoned and his uncle executed? Maybe there is just something about a despot in a high-button pinstriped suit. 