 The number of Americans killed on our roads has increased sharply in the first six months of 2016 after decades of decline. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration said that fatalities went up by 10.4 percent. Of course that means thousands of lives. We are joined now by Mark Rosekind who is the administrator of the NHTSA. Thanks very much for being with us.  It is my pleasure.  Why the increase do you think?  That is always the first question that everybody asks. And we first saw in 2015 the largest increase 7.2 percent the largest percent increase in 50 years. So what we do know so far is at least in 2015 the increase we saw was partly due to some things like high number of vehicle miles traveled. The economy was better. Gas prices are low. More people are working. That might account for about half of what we have seen. The other half is mostly us as humans choices or errors we make. So it is impairment it is speeding it is not wearing your seatbelt drunk driving drowsy driving. Those things remain the same old problems we have been dealing with for a long time.  What about distracted driving? Are not there a lot more gizmos in the car?  Absolutely and we know distraction is very significant. The more and more technology that we get offers tremendous value to potentially help save these lives. But there is also the potential to bring more things into the car that could distract us as well.  How many deaths are caused by human error?  Ninety-four percent of crashes are related to the human. So...  That is overwhelming obviously.  Yes. And you know everybody's focused on defects and recalls the Takata airbag recall which has 70 million vehicles you know? But it ends up only 2 percent of crashes are related to those kinds of defects. Ninety-four percent are the kind of choices we make that are creating these crashes.  Mr. Rosekind I am told you lost your father to a traffic fatality.  That is correct. He was a San Francisco police officer killed in the line of duty. He was actually chasing a traffic violator and somebody ran a red light and hit him killed instantly.  I am very sorry.  Thank you. I was 3 and a half. My brother was 2. And though I have lived with that my whole life actually being in this position I have probably talked more about it than I ever have in my life because it means I understand personally what this kind of tragedy means when people lose loved ones.  Mark Rosekind of the National Highway and Traffic Safety Administration. Thanks so much for being with us.  Thank you. 