 The mass shooting in Roseburg Ore. set off a familiar ritual of mourning and recrimination. On Friday while President Obama consoled the families two more fatal shootings were reported on college campuses in Texas and Arizona. The debate about gun control is revived every time a mass shooting occurs. Every side agrees that no one wants to see more gun deaths. We decided to call some of the most prominent social scientists who study guns in the United States to see if there was any consensus on the subject of how to reduce gun violence.  I am Philip Cook. I am a professor of public policy at Duke University.  My name is Matthew Miller. I am a professor of health sciences and epidemiology at Northeastern University.  My name is David Hemenway. I am professor of public health at Harvard School of Public Health.  We started by asking is gun violence a problem in the United States? There was instant agreement. Here's Matthew Miller and David Hemenway.  Yes by any measure anyway you cut it the United States is exceptional in terms of our lethal firearm violence.  An average American is not like 20 percent more likely to be killed with a gun or 50 percent more likely. They are 10 times more likely to be killed with a gun than in France or Australia Canada.  One possible solution to curbing the gun deaths is an assault weapons ban. We have had one in this country before. It ended in 2004.  We had this 10-year ban but it was not a very effective ban because all the guns were grandfathered so could never have been intended to make an enormous difference in our gun problem.  But Matthew Miller says there is evidence that it can work if implemented correctly. Take the case of Australia.  After a brutal massacre there in the 1990s legislation was passed that banned assault weapons and a non-voluntary buyback of handguns and other assault weapons. And since that law was passed there have been no mass shootings in Australia.  Assault weapons are mainly used in mass shootings but the most common gun deaths in this country are not the high-profile massacres that get wall-to-wall coverage. They are deaths by handguns. And that brings us to the strong consensus on another issue. Gun rights advocates talk about this idea a lot. The only thing that can stop a bad guy with a gun is a good guy with a gun. So we asked our experts what do we know about the correlation between gun ownership and crime? They all told us if you add a gun into any situation the likelihood of it escalating goes way up. Here's Philip Cook.  Well what happens in jurisdictions where there is lots of guns is that the criminals are much more likely to use guns in their robberies or in their assaults. And the result from that is an increase in the murder rate.  Where there are more guns there are more suicides and there are more homicides.  That is Matthew Miller.  It is not like the scientific community is not strongly backing these findings. In some ways it is like climate change.  In 2012 the death of 20 young children and six adults at the Sandy Hook Elementary School galvanized gun control advocates. One of their ideas was universal background checks and let me explain what that means. Currently you do have to have a background check if you buy a gun from a gun store. But there are many ways to get a gun in this country. A lot of them are sold privately at smaller outlets or at gun shows. Philip Cook.  The most recent survey of state prisoners asked how did they get their gun only 10 percent of them said that they had obtained it by buying it from a gun store.  A universal background check would require checks for all of those legal sales and he says there is some direct evidence of its effectiveness.  2007 when Missouri repealed their requirement of a universal background check on handguns what we saw was an increase in homicide and that the repeal had the effect of costing lives in Missouri.  We wanted to give each of our researchers the opportunity to tell us the one thing they would do based on their combined decades of study to help reduce gun deaths. Philip Cook answered first. Is there one proposal - one practical proposal - you would implement to reduce gun violence?  Yeah one practical issue that we should be pursuing is to develop and introduce smart guns or personalized guns.  Explain what that is.  Well it is a gun that will only fire if it is in the hands of the owner.  David Hemenway focused on the accidental deaths of kids who find a loaded gun in their home and take out the magazine thinking it is safe now.  And there is a bullet left in the chamber and for most of these semiautomatics when you pull the trigger the bullet shoots out. And you could blame blame blame or you could really solve the problem as we do in lots of areas which is by changing the product which is make it so when you take out the magazine the gun will not fire.  Matthew Miller's practical proposal does not require legislation or changing the product. It is just a simple message to gun owners - lock up your guns.  Right now there are people who have guns in their homes stored loaded and unlocked with the best of intentions to protect themselves and their families. But the reality is - and we know this from several good studies - that they are actually imperiling themselves and their families. The actuarial risk associated with a gun in a home means everyone in that home is at increased risk of dying by that gun.  That is Matthew Miller of Northeastern University. Before that David Hemenway of Harvard and Philip Cook of Duke University. 