 Even if you do not know RJD2 by name there is a good chance you have heard his music.   His song A Beautiful Mind begins every episode of the TV show Mad Men. RJD2 who was born Ramble John Krohn is a collage artist of sorts who weaves together snippets of found sounds synthesized licks and just plain old acoustic music into tightly crafted pop songs. For a peak behind his artistic curtain we had him walk us through the process of building the song Her Majesty's Socialist Request. That is from his new album More Is Than Is not. He said it began with old-fashioned blues.   Think of your favorite tune by you know someone like B.B. King.     It has a feel that is semi woe-is-me but not entirely down trodden. It is kind of a hard thing to describe. I was listening to a song at one point in time and it was sort of a bluesy tune. Your typical 12-bar blues will be dominant chords like one-four-five. I heard a song a 12-bar blues tune that used a passing chord that was a flatted two chord.   It is the kind of thing where you might hear in a Deep Purple song or something like that. And the song's happy happy happy happy happy and then there is one passing chord that is like whoa. That is a little - you are getting serious here you know for just a moment and the thought in my head was what if you did that all the time for the whole song.   So this 12-bar blues idea that I just had stuck in the back of my head that did not really know how to execute. That was kernel A and I would say kernel B was an essence of drum pattern. I can walk you through the stages in which the drums on this song came together and so I think the first thing to play would be just the raw material of the drum passage as it was found on an LP.   So the next step in that situation would be to start deconstructing that into smaller pieces pieces that can be used to either fill in gaps or give things a feel or a swing that they did not have originally on the recording. Now we have all of these pieces broken down and we can put them back together and play them in a manner that does not resemble in any way the original sound source.   Progressively from this stage out the process in my opinion gets easier because you have got a certain amount of inertia already rolling on this thing. Something's happening. The next step that got added into that was another sound that got taken apart note by note but this time it was not a percussion thing it was a flute thing. When I had gotten that far into the song a lot of the song was feeling very angular and digital in ways. You know it felt processed. So it was a natural instinct for me to put something in there that would contrast that the sort of piano bluesy-like thing was you know old style just analog. I have got a Yamaha electric piano.   And so to close out this song there was this recording of - it was an instructional record about how to be a door-to-door salesman. For me the home run is to take a passage of music that has very very little merit or value on its own deconstructing it and rebuilding it into something that does have merit. The ghost that I am chasing is that.   RJ Krohn speaking with us from member station WHYY in Philadelphia. His new album is More Is Than Is not.   You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 