 Ron Nagle is one of the few contemporary artists who works in clay same medium used by kindergarteners. Nagle works are included in the permanent collection of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York and many other major museums. His biggest solo exhibition ever is at New York's blue chip Matthew Marks Gallery. He is part of another show at Yale University's Art Gallery. And as Karen Michel reports Ron Nagle like B.J. Leiderman who does our theme music still finds time for his passion of music.  Ron Nagle is a lot like his ceramics - compact tidy quirky and colorful. He is wearing black pants a blue-and-white striped T-shirt white shoes red socks and a rose-colored hat. Around his neck he wears a long silver chain with a bunch of charms. There is a heart signifying Valentine's Day the date he was married decades ago a skull representing death a hare Nagle's sign in Chinese astrology...  And the most important thing here is this slice of cheese. It just means well you will get it later.  At 76 with a major New York show and a CD reissue of his 1970 solo record Ron Nagle may finally be getting his cheese.    Cheese now cheese now - there is no time like the present yeah. Cheese now I paid too many dues to forget it. Do I have to die to get credit? Cheese now...  By the time Nagle recorded this song his band The Mystery Trend had already broken up. The group was an early part of the San Francisco music scene but Nagle was not too keen on touring.  I would get homesick even as a kid. I - you know I have got a few little neurotic quirks.  Fortunately he would been interested in ceramics since he was a kid.  Because my mother had a ceramic club in the basement and they did Santa Claus mugs and all that stuff was there on the shelf - decals China paints. So all of those hobbyist techniques I eventually incorporated into my own work.  Nagle got a degree in ceramics from San Francisco State but knew there was more than the program offered.  I said wait a second - everything that people were teaching me was wrong.  His distinctive work still uses the molds that he saw in his mom's basement and a bright palette like the paints he and his father used on model planes and cars. Much like those models the scale of Nagle's work is also small as if they are tiny non-functional containers for bigger ideas.  Kind of like bonsai but with a kind of distinctive weirdness about it.  Roberta Smith is a chief art critic at The New York Times.  It is very complicated what he does. You know and there is like lots of sex in them. There is all kinds of building. There is different kinds of crafts. And there is different kind of allusions to the body and its functions.  Of the three dozen pieces in Nagle's current exhibition at the Matthew Marks Gallery in Manhattan all are under 8 inches at any direction. These are sculptures no cups no bowls. They are multicolored and multitextured - one pebbled the other smooth one mottled the other slick. Thin coral-like branches tilt atop a slab. A sort of beaver's tail protrudes from a glowing orb. Definitely not his mother's ceramics says Roberta Smith.  I mean it is an amazing life and career and he is been able to maintain this kind of maverick status. And I think there is a kind of adolescent quality to his work you know like those titles. You know like that piece Lotta Wattage.  Lotta Wattage Centaur Of Attention Skin Grift and Lamb Shank Redemption. Nagle is big on titles.  I would say my greatest gift is my sense of humor - more than music more than art. I love to laugh. I think part of that is because I am basically a melancholy person.  That humor with a tinge of latent menace is also true of the music Nagle's continued to make during his career. He is even written songs for other artists.  Barbra Streisand the Tubes Pablo Cruise Sammy Hagar the Jefferson Starship...  You heard right Barbra Streisand.    Church bells were ringing and I heard angels singing on the day that I said I do.  But it is Ron Nagle's sculptures that have earned him his widest audience and a show in a major gallery displaying the objects in special vitrines as if they were works of ancient pottery in the Metropolitan Museum of Art.  This is the big deal. This is it. This is the top of the bucket list. This is what I have always wanted.  After decades of work Nagle's enjoying his cheese. For NPR News I am Karen Michel.    Cheese now cheese now - there is no time like the present to get it. Cheese now. I have paid too many dues to forget it. 