 We turn our attention now to the state of Georgia where a self-described moderate Democrat is trying to win re-election in a district that now favors Republicans. John Barrow is facing a relatively unknown GOP candidate in the 12th Congressional District that is recently been redrawn. National Republicans see Barrow as one of the most vulnerable Democrats in the House and they are targeting him with millions of dollars in ads. NPR's Kathy Lohr has the story.  Barrow's district has changed twice since 2004 when he was first elected to Congress. And he is moved twice to live within its boundaries.  The trouble is there is so few moderates and centrists left in the House. because this gerrymandering process has kind of drawn moderate and centrist districts out of the political landscape.  Barrow is running a series of TV ads to highlight his independent record.   I am John Barrow. Some people like me. Some people do not. Kemp Jones collects guns. He likes my A-rating with the NRA. Democrats in Washington do not. Jimmy Johnson likes that I voted against plan to privatize Medicare. Republicans in Washington do not...  The Democrat voted against President Obama's health care bill and did not join the Republicans in the vote to repeal it. Barrow defends both decisions.  It was my policy in the former administration to support the former administration when I thought President Bush was right and oppose him when I thought he was wrong. That is my policy with this administration. And it is my policy with the next president whoever that may be. It is not just my policy. I think it is my obligation.  The Blue Dog Democrats a coalition of moderates have been around since the mid 1990s and at one point claimed 54 members. They have steadily lost power as the parties have become more divided with just two dozen left. This deeper political division has Republicans vying for the seat.   No I stand my ground...  In Swainsboro Georgia third-generation farmer and former state legislator Lee Anderson meets with about a dozen voters on his tractor tour.  It is time to go to Washington and balance the budget. It is time to go to Washington and make it law that we balance the budget.  The GOP candidate refuses to debate Barrow. Instead he is trying to tie the Democrat to President Obama who is not a popular figure in rural Georgia.  He will not go on TV and say I am going to vote for Obama for president. I am here to tell you I am going to vote for Mitt Romney for president. The people deserve the truth.  House speaker John Boehner and House majority leader Eric Cantor both have campaigned for Anderson. And the candidate is getting help from the National Republican Congressional Committee which is paying for TV ads like this one.   John Barrow does not get it. No congressman it is the point to middle class families who have seen their incomes decline under Obama.  My support for the president is beside the point.  No congressman it is the point to middle class families who have seen their incomes decline under Obama.  Well John Barrow is in a tough fight for re-lection.  Political science professor at Emory University Merle Black says Barrow is walking a fine line.  You had more than 20 Democrats lose their seats in 2010 across the South. And in the Deep South John Barrow is the only remaining white Democrat in the states from Louisiana over to South Carolina and his new seat is in jeopardy. He may survive. But even if he survives it is a very unstable coalition that is going to return him to office.  In Augusta Georgia the Madison Day Kitchen was serving up soul food during a recent lunch hour - turkey wings dressing and black eyes peas. Some voters in this African-American traditionally Democratic neighborhood like Charles Lyons say they do not like the tenor of the campaign.  When your race is based on highlighting all of your opposition basically to the president you are going to have some people see that and not want to vote for you. They are not going to vote for the other guy. But they may not vote for you you know.   It is attitudes like that among voters in his own party that explain Barrow's problem. And Republican voters who now make up 55 percent of the district say Barrow does not reflect their values either. Kathy Lohr NPR News.   You are listening to NPR News.  