 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. While many political races are at the boiling point some are surprisingly quiet. South Carolina Republican candidate Tim Scott is the apparent front-runner in the states 1st Congressional District. He is likely to become the first black Republican elected from the Deep South since Reconstruction. NPRs Kathy Lohr reports.  South Carolina's first district is a narrow coastal strip that runs from Charleston to Myrtle Beach. Palmetto trees historic homes and church steeples abound at the place where the Civil War began. Here most of the attention is focused on the state's gubernatorial race. Republicans rallied in Charleston this week to support their candidate Nikki Haley - but Tim Scott was also working to get votes. Mr.  We have been campaigning night and day making sure that America comes back to the conservative cause led by the Southern values that we all believe in. Unidentified Man  Yeah.   Scott one of 14 black Republicans seeking House seats this year is endorsed by Sarah Palin and the Tea Party. He owns a small insurance agency and served on the county council and in the state legislature. Scott brags he is never voted for a tax increase. On his website he says it is time to cut government spending. Mr.  Really what we are looking for is a rebirth of our great nation under the auspices of a smaller less intrusive government. That is why limited government lower taxes and less government spending is so critically important in this election cycle.  While others air a flurry of negative ad attacks Scott is running this one.  Unidentified Man  Tim Scott for Congress. Unidentified Woman Tim Scott is one of the most genuine and honest people I have ever known. Unidentified Man  I have served on county council with Tim Scott. You do not get any more conservative on taxes and spending than Tim Scott.  Scott's opponent Ben Frasier has run for office 18 times - though he is not campaigning. Scott's tougher election was the primary where he beat Paul Thurmond the son of the legendary Strom Thurmond. Scott has downplayed the historic significance of his race which would make him the first black Republican elected to Congress from the Deep South in more than a century - and the first in the House since Oklahoma's JC Watts retired in 2003. Professor  That is going to immediately give him a platform that other folks do not have.  Andra Gillespie is a political science professor at Emory University who studies race. She says there are questions about what kind of role Scott will play in the GOP and whether he will join the Congressional Black Caucus where there are no Republicans. Prof.  He is in a position where he needs to figure out how to help craft the Republican Party message so that it appeals to African-American votes. And that means that they are going to have to come to grips with some of their policies on - that may be facially neutral but that African-Americans perceive to be racist issues like you know whether or not the Republican Party supports affirmative action.  Battles over race have long plagued South Carolina where the Confederate flag flew at the Capitol Dome until 2000. The flag remains on the State House grounds and the NAACP is still conducting an economic boycott here. Yet Republicans say race has not been an issue in this campaign. Scott declined to be interviewed by NPR for this story. Chris Nickels who goes to church with the candidate says it is important to show things have changed here. Mr.  In a state that has a legacy of segregation in the past we know that next week we are going to elect an African-American conservative Republican to represent the folks here in the Low Country. I am behind Tim all the way.  But just up the road from the rally at Northwoods Mall in North Charleston Jamal Robbins says Scott doesnt represent working people. Mr.  I am not voting for that guy. I dont like his principles.  What is it that you do not like? Mr.  I do not like about him is that he is not about trying to help the people that need help. He is about trying to feed the people that already has eaten if you understand what I am saying.  In a district that has voted Republican for the past 30 years analysts say Scott is all but certain to win the race. And then Scott will likely be among those trying to attract other African-Americans to the party. Kathy Lohr NPR News Charleston South Carolina.  And as results roll in on Tuesday there will be special election coverage on many member stations and on npr.org. 