 As voting day approaches for this year's midterm elections polls show the GOP's advantage in many key congressional races is narrowing. And when it comes to polling and politics few can parse the numbers as well as statistician Nate Silver. He is the founder of the 538 Blog now hosted by The New York Times. He is on the phone. Welcome back to the program Nate. Mr.  Yeah thank you.  Your research shows improved polling numbers for a handful of Democratic Senate candidates. An NPR poll released this past week also found that Democrats are closing the gap in some races. What is happening? Can you break this down for us? Mr.  Well the Senate is a little bit easier to break down because you can go kind of on a race-by-race basis. One thing that is happening is Democrats on the West Coast look to be doing a bit better than they had been. Meanwhile you have other races like West Virginia which are moving in different directions. So I mean if Republicans cannot win races like a California or West Virginia they probably cannot get to 51 senators. We still think they have a chance to take the Senate maybe a you know one in six chance or so. But clearly I think their focus more is on the House now. And it does look like there are enough places where Democrats have gained ground in the Senate that it feels a little bit safer for them than it might have earlier.  Let us talk about one close Senate race Nevada. The Republican Sharron Angle and the Democrat Harry Reid are neck-and-neck. Is it too early to call a favorite? Mr.  Yeah I think in Nevada that is a state that probably even on election morning there will not be a clear favorite necessarily. They do not particularly like either of them you know. Somehow they have to choose...  Mr.  ...one or the other. Usually an incumbent like Harry Reid where you have an approval rating of 40 percent or so would not get re-elected. But you know people have real doubts about Sharron Angle. There was a poll that came out a month or two ago that said Of the people who are voting for her - not the ones who are voting against her - two-thirds would rather have seen another Republican nominated in her place. It is a statistic I have rarely seen. You know the debate which occurred on Thursday night kind of both candidates did fairly poorly according to most observers. So I do not know. I think this is a case where we will really have to see what happens on Election Day when voters go into their polling place and decide you know do I pick the rock or the hard place.  Well you know Nate your forecasts are only as good as your polling data. And you wrote a post about the failure of pollsters to use cell phones in their survey samples. I mean many firms only call landline numbers to poll potential voters. How does that skew the numbers? Mr.  Well people who use cell phones tend to be younger. They tend to be more urban more likely to be minorities. And all these factors correlate with voting for Democrats so that can create some problems. Pollsters try and weight for demographics. So let us say a pollster does not get enough young people on the phone. What they will do is say okay well we got only half as many young people as we know we should have from the Census Bureau data. Right? So we will take the ones we have got and count them double. But what a study by Pew Research found is that even if you apply that adjustment you still come up a little short. And maybe you create a little bit of bias in the poll that would favor a bias toward Republican candidates. And the Democrat candidates might be underrated by polls that do not include cell phones which a lot of polls do not. Some polls do include cell phones. You know Gallup does The New York Times does. But I do not know. It is something the pollsters are going to have to reconcile with in the long term because every year the percentage of people who rely on cell phones goes up and up.  So based on your forecasting I am going to put you in the hot seat Which party will gain control of the House and Senate on November 2nd? Mr.  Well you know we try and be at least somewhat humble about what we know and what we do not know. So we put kind of you know probability ranges on this. So we think right now for the House Republicans have about a 75 percent chance. For the Senate we think Democrats have about an 80 85 percent chance of holding.  Nate Silver is the founder of the 538 Blog hosted by The New York Times. Nate thanks. Mr.  Yeah thank you. 