 A lot of talent in the world of music. And out of thousands of entries to this year's Tiny Desk Contest from NPR Music here on been highlighting some of the standouts. This week Khali's Interlude from Z The Author.    Bleed - hold your head down when you outside. Bleed - mama never let you on the South Side. Bleed - living in the valley of the outcry. Bleed - belly of the beast here he outcries. Bleed...  Powerful words from Zavier Thompson also known as Z The Author who joins us now. Thanks so much for being with us.  Hey thank you for having me.  Tell us please what moved you to give voice to this. I gather it was in the summer of the Black Lives Matter protests.  Originally I wrote the this in my dorm room in the middle of the night just trying to find some type of I guess closure for myself in what had been happening in the world and honestly in my neighborhood you know in my backyard going outside and seeing people protest family members and my friends and people that I grew up around you know seeing them outraged and seeing them so passionate about somebody that looked like me something like this happening to them. And I just kind of pondered it for so long and thought about it for so long. And I would feel like the best way for me to be able to cope with what I was seeing and to process what I was seeing was to write a song about it. And so I just made that beat really fast in the middle of the night freestyled that basically off the top of my head.    What does it change from trade and commerce of J's and Converse? Some days I ponder which way I wander which path I follow.  The song is called Khali's Interlude. Tell us if you could about Khalisol who is been an important figure in your life.  Yeah Khali is my brother man. He is one of my largest inspirations from where I am from from Albuquerque. He showed me how to get better. You know he showed me that it is about the hours that you put in. It is about the amount of passion that you have towards your craft. Those are lessons that I will never forget. So you know it is a special song that he created.    To know what you believe and how much it feel like home where the Black man raises where the Black man roam. Twenty-three on his jersey will make the Black man go. But 23 chromosomes where the Black man from? Are we free?  And tell us a little about the rap and hip-hop scene in Albuquerque. I gather it is quite strong.  Yeah it is actually very unique. And I think that benefits us because we really do not have a designed sound yet. I make a specific type of hip-hop. I like you know certain sounds and I like to make my music a certain type of way. But Khali likes to make his music a certain type of way in that - and I think in my opinion is so different from me. But then at the same time you have artists that are not hip-hop artists that are still here with us and gather with us and create with us. And that inspires and influences us to make even better music. You know we have singer-songwriter artists EDM artists that are close friends with us country artists that are close friends with us and so on and so forth.  Boy sounds like a real mix.  Yeah it is a real melting pot. Yeah .    My name is Z The Author. This is my Tiny Desk as you can see.  And tell us about the video in the Tiny Desk 'ecause we see you in what looks like kind of a scuffed up handball court with a couple of school desks pushed together.  Yeah.  What were you trying to strike there?  Yeah. For me and for Erin  and for Isaiah  - Erin Porter  and Isaiah Watts  shameless plug - shoutout to them. There would be no video no anything no submission if it were not for those two geniuses. I love them very much. But I did not even know that the Tiny Desk submissions were happening at that point in the year. I did not know until two days until they were due. Erin had told me they were due on the 7th and she calls me on the 5 of June. She says hey you know Tiny Desk is doing this contest and you know like - we literally - she said you know just pick one of your favorite original songs. We will call Isaiah and he will come with his camera and we will just shoot it. And...  Wow.  ...That is exactly what happened . That is exactly what - I picked Khali's Interlude. I picked the song. We showed up. I brought my mic and my computer and my setup. And she brought the desks and we just set it up. And Isaiah pulled out the camera and we did it in one take. You know we kind of just...  Oh.  ...Just did it. And we had no expectation at all like that it was going to be anything. It was like the very last day of submissions. We were just doing it off of a whim and we did not expect anything to happen. And now you know I have had so many people reach out to me around the world and - not even fans of me but just friends and acquaintances that I have made just off of this one submission. You know and it is just a beautiful thing. I am so happy that we did it you know?  Well that is wonderful.  Honestly I just plan to take this music thing quote unquote as far as I can take it - just continue to inspire the next generation and continue to speak what is on my mind and make my family happy and make my community happy.  Well you are off to a great start.  Thank you. Thank you so much.  It is very good. It is our honor to speak with you. Zavier Thompson also known as Z The Author and you can see his Tiny Desk Contest video entry on our website npr.org. Thank you so much for being with us. Good luck. We will have fun following you.  Hey thank you guys so much.    Told the boys I will not to stop and then go like yah yah yah yah. Yah yah yah yah... 