  .  We are listening to - well I wish I could tell you what we are listening to. I do not know who it is because for this visit with Alt.Latino Felix Contreras gave me some music. He did not give me any information about it and he asked me to pick the songs that I liked best. This is one that I picked.   .  And Felix joins me now to tell me what I chose. Felix welcome back.  Thank you. Good morning.  OK. Who are we listening to? Who is this beautiful voice?  OK. This is Diana Gameros. She is from the Bay Area. She has a Mexican root and she is got this great new album out of classic Mexican folk songs. And the entire record is drop-dead gorgeous.  And she hits a high note in here that is just beautiful.   .  Her voice just really knocked me out. It was so simple but so strong and you are right. She has a range that sits in the middle but then she does peak at these things. And it just tugs at your emotions just the right way.  OK. Change of pace. Here's song number two.  Oh my gosh.    Hey.  Just a little bit different vibe here Felix...  .   . Ay.  Ay. I just love the contrast...  .  ...Whoever it is - listening to.  OK. This is a band called La Misa Negra. It is killer neo-cumbia  from Oakland Calif...  Wait killer neo-cumbia?  Killer neo-cumbia...  OK.  Neo-cumbia...  That is a new genre.  OK. You know cumbia has become like the ubiquitous type of music that is in just about every Latin American country. And it is usually reflective of the working class but it is had this over the last 20 years enormous repopularization.  This is good-time party music.  Now listen to the beat OK? . It is based on a dance that was developed by African slaves in Colombia while their feet were chained so the beat is very soft. It is like a shuffle.  Yeah.  So it is got this very deep historic roots but killer grooves either way.  OK. So the third song that I picked Felix I have to say I picked it not because I liked it but because it is just bizarre. And I do not know what is going on and I want to hear you tell me about it.  OK. Check this one out.   .  This is a band called EVHA OK? And it stands for El Viejo Hombre de Los Andes.  OK.  OK? It is from Ecuador and they are a very forward collective of musicians who makes Ecuadorian folk music electronic little bit of hip-hop lot of sampling as you can hear. But I am fascinated by it because of just how they see the world. They see the world...  Yeah.  ...As anything can count. Anything sounds good together and...  Put it all in together. Yeah.  Perfect.  Huh. OK. The last song Felix totally different mood.   .  I got to say that when I put together the list of songs...  Yeah.  ...I had an idea of what you might pick ...  Ha. You have my number. All I could tell you about this song is I know she is singing in Portuguese. I bet she is Brazilian.  This is a band called Da Cruz and the singer's name is Da Cruz. The song's called Numero Um. They are largely a club band a dance band but they mix reggae Brazilian pop traditional music. It is a reflection of contemporary Brazil like the intense social conditions. And the lyrics think of themes of racism the struggle between the haves and the have-nots economic injustices social injustices all of these heavy topics...  But so listenable. This is like...  Unrelenting...  ...So beautiful and lilting.  ...Dance groups. Yeah. It is a juxtaposition of OK. We are going to think but we are going to dance at the same time.  Felix Contreras is the host of NPR Music's Alt.Latino a weekly podcast about Latino arts and culture. He visits with us once a month to get our Sunday morning started with just the right music. Felix thanks so much.  Thank you.   . 