 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. Losing a child is a mother's greatest fear. That fear is a fact of life in South Los Angeles. Gloria Hillard reports on a group of mothers who have lost children to gang violence and who used their grief to make a difference.  On a wall next to Kathy Wooten's kitchen are photos of two of her sons - Branden and Kejuan.  The took two pictures in back of you is my two oldest sons who was both murdered 52 days apart in 2008 gang-related.  They are poster size bigger than life.  My oldest son was one of those people that brought everybody and a stray dog home. I tried everything in my power to deter them to keep them busy to keep them in church.  But the gangs here in South Los Angeles were here before her sons were born and their pull is strong.  You know a lot of people wonder like Kathy why is you still there 'ecause I still have young adult children.  Memories bind you to a place she says - the good and the bad.  And I do not know. It is a piece of me still here because the work that I do is in memory and in honor of my sons.  Wooten is a gang intervention worker and she started a grief and support group for families of violence.  I done seen it all. I done seen it all.  How many moms like you in this...  In this neighborhood? Give or take probably over a hundred.  Kathy's family was my first foray into a mother and gang violence and losing her children.  It was 2008 and Arvis Jones was working as a grief and trauma counselor.  And would not you know would it happen to me later in the same year it happened to Kathy?  Jones's son was shot and killed by a gang member. It was a case of a mistaken identity.  It was young person that had killed him you know - did not even have enough sense to know he was not who they were looking for.  She knew full well what unresolved grief does to mothers.  They either do one of two things. They get depressed and stay home and close the shades or they get out there...  Jones became a crisis response worker going to crime scenes attending funerals. She asked me if I have met Betty Day.  Sometimes she is out there in the streets 3 oclock in the morning. She is now 76 and we try to slow her down. Yeah she is here. Here's the park.  Its unofficial name is Betty's Park. It is a small shaded patch of land in the South Los Angeles neighborhood where kids are safe and do not go hungry. Betty Day hands on hips keeps one eye on a game of volleyball and a wary one on a street over her shoulder. The 76-year-old is just back from hospital.  I will not stay in the hospital maybe five days. But I have to come home. I got to come see about these children.  And their moms. You will often find them under the shade in plastic lawn chairs listening to the advice of the woman they call Mamma Day.  We have quite a few people around here that have lost their children. That is a difficult thing. It is hard bringing up children here.  Arvis Jones says goodbye to Betty Day and climbs back into her SUV. The temperatures are nearing triple digits and the air conditioner is blasting. She has one more stop - a young mother she has been helping since losing her 3-year-old son in an accident. It is the anniversary of his death.  So you went to the cemetery?  Every Thursday just to put on flowers 'ecause they throw them out on Thursdays the flowers.  Amalia Reyez tells Jones that another mother needs help that her son was found dead in his car. It is an ever-expanding circle of mothers here.  Yeah I am going to send you Kathy's info. Make sure you call her.   OK?  Reyez nods and wipes away tears. She is worried about her older son. Jones gets out of the Ford Explorer and hugs her.  Yeah we will get him some help. We will get him some help.  A promise made from one mother to another. For NPR News I am Gloria Hillard in Los Angeles. 