 It is time now for sports and it is been a crazy week for Mexico's soccer team. Struggling to make the World Cup it looked like they were out of it for sure. And then boom! They are back in the hunt all thanks to their longtime rivals the good old U.S. of A. NPR's Mike Pesca joins us now from New York to talk more of this. Good morning.  Hey.  So what happened?  Yeah. So Mexico's having a terrible season. They do happen to be the most popular national team in the United States by the way - 8 million people tune in to watch the Mexico games on U.S. television 1 and a half million people to watch the U.S. games. But that is cool. That is OK. The United States was trailing Panama. The United States is having a great qualifying season. They are already going to make the World Cup. They do not really have to win but they are a prideful bunch. They want to win. They are not playing their starters. And in extra time which is like the name implies - when the game's almost over - they score not one but two goals. They eliminate Panama and therefore Mexico has life. The guy who scored the last goal Graham Zusi is being hailed as a saint in Mexico. The Mexican newspapers have headlines like Gracias Tio Sam - which is a great headline 'ecause I understand all the words. They could not be more thrilled with what the United States did for them.  Big favor from the U.S. for Mexico. But beatification of this guy ...  Graham Zusi yes.  ...who made this goal aside the U.S. and Mexico are still really big rivals right?  Right. And that is why the debate fueling this - even going into the match people were saying you know maybe the United States should just lose. Ha-ha-ha would not that really stick it to Mexico? And I say no - though that would stick it to Mexico. I was looking at this. Mexico has an incredible home-field advantage one of the greatest home-field advantages in sports. They play in...  Really?  Yes. They play in a stadium in Mexico City named Azteca and Azteca - because it is in Mexico City - is like 7200 feet above sea level. The air is so thin that no one could beat the Mexicans. Before the United States went in this year - and they got a draw which was a good result - they were 0-19-1. So the deal with this home-field advantage is what it means is that Mexico's great at qualifying for the World Cup especially 'ecause at home they almost never lose. But when they get to the World Cup they tend to underperform. They tend to be like a top 10 team. For the last five World Cups they have won in the first round. But they have never won a game in the knockout rounds. They have really been not good. And I think a reason is they have relied on this home-field advantage. And therefore I think strategically if you are a fan of the United States you want the weakest field. Mexico would be among the weaker teams - if Mexico beats New Zealand.  There you go. You need to play where the air is thin apparently. NPR's Mike Pesca. Mike thanks so much.  You are welcome.  