 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon.  I am now a James Bond pedant. I can bore for England on the subject of James Bond. But I knew I could not do it frivolously. I had to take it very seriously however much fun I was having and I had to make myself you know absolutely steeped in Bond and in Fleming and that world.  Steeped in Bond - not shaken. That is William Boyd the author and screenwriter one of the living great living British novelists on how he went about writing a new James Bond novel Solo. Mr. Boyd whose previous books have won and been short-listed for - andor - most of Britain's major literary awards once wrote a novel in which Ian Fleming briefly appears. So when the Fleming family invited him to write a Bond novel William Boyd jumped at the chance to pen a story that includes exotic locations a peculiar villain and compelling women. Then he sends 007 for his first trip to Africa. William Boyd says he began with the fact that Britain's signature British man of the world - with regard for Prince Harry - is not a real English gentleman at all.  Bond is half-Scottish and half-Swiss which I think is very interesting. And I make quite a lot of play of that in the novel. Bond refers to himself in Fleming's novels at one stage I am just a Scottish peasant. He is very Scottish. And here's another thing I discovered was that Bond often sheds tears. He cries quite easily he weeps. If he sees something revolting you know like a mangled body he will vomit spontaneously. So the Bond of the novels is a totally different being from the Bond of the films the famous blunt instrument as he was described. He is a complex sensitive troubled individual who makes mistakes and so from a writing point of view he is a really interesting character to come to grips with.  I say this with respect for Ian Fleming and certainly for you - at the same time is there a formula what they now might call a template for a Bond novel?  When you are offered the job you are given a very free hand. I mean there is no sense in which you have to kind of write a kind of pastiche you know Bond novel or channel Ian Fleming in some way. And I wrote this novel entirely in my own voice in the style I would use for one of my own novels. But of course there are certain boxes you have to tick and I think you would be a fool not to tick them in the sense that you know there is the relationship with M for example. You know Bond is almost obsessively interested in food and drink and clothing his armaments and his weaponry are very important. He is a as we call them over here a petrol-head he is very interested in automobiles and motoring. So in a way if you are going to write a James Bond novel why not you know reference these familiar tropes? The template if you like is self-imposed. I know what the Bond novels deliver but what is interesting in a way is to deliver it or to see it delivered through the filter of my eyes of William Boyd rather than Ian Fleming.  Of course every Bond novel needs a distinctive villain. Kobus Breed - am I pronouncing that correctly?  Yes absolutely - Kobus Breed yeah.  A villain who cries.  Well he cannot stop himself because he is been shot in the face in the past and his tear glands will not stop operating - one eye in one eye only. So one eye is permanently crying. An interesting development I thought. Again that is one of the Bond tropes. You have got to have a sufficiently nasty psychopathic villain.  Yeah. And I have to ask you about - well I would not mind talking about both of the blond - of the Bond girls. And to forestall a lot of emails I think it would sound awkward to refer to them as Bond women although I know in this day and age that is probably what we should do but the story's set in the '60s and they were Bond girls then. The young woman named Blessing.  Yes except I would just say Scott that Bond girls is a description from the movies. And my whole experience has been that the movie Bond really bears no real resemblance to the literary Bond. So I would call them women. And...  All right. Bond women.  Women that Bond meets and has a relationship with. So yes there are two. One of them who is called Bryce Fitzjohn is an actress in England and she is quite close in age to Bond who in my novel is 45 years old. So he is a mature an experienced man. I thought it would be interesting to give him a love affair with somebody you know close-ish in age to him. But then having sent into Africa I thought it would be interesting for him to have an affair with an African woman. And she is half-Zanzari and half-English but she speaks the local languages. And so she is much younger than Bond - she is 20 years younger than he is. And so a real contrast between the two women that he has a relationship with and they are very intense and genuine. And again that is true of the novels. Bond is not just interested in you know casual sex. He wants a relationship and very often the women he has relationships with are damaged in some way. And I think this reflects Ian Fleming's psyche in that he gave Bond a lot of his tastes and a lot of his traits and his needs and complexes. And so I think it was very intriguing to create you know living breathing women for Bond to meet and for some sort of feeling to grow up between them.  Yeah. Is there some kinship between people in espionage and novelists?  Well I think there is in a funny sort of way. And having written three spy novels now you know in World War I World War II and the Cold War I began to see there is a certain overlap between the world of the spy or the double agent and the world of the novelist. And I think that overlap occurs not in any kind of intrepid way - because most writers are abject cowards - but in the way that they look at the world. And I think spies and novelists look at the world with the same intent curious gaze. I mean spies are looking at it to as it were cover their back. But novelists look at the world in the same way. You walk down the street and your eye is roving and you are looking for interesting things you are interpreting and analyzing almost unreflectingly and you - what a curious way to smoke a cigarette or look at that hairstyle or what kind of clothes are those? You are constantly allowing the phenomena the cinema of everyday life to sort of flow by you as you take note and I think that is what spies do. So I think there is - and of course the other thing is we are - spies and novelists are both very accomplished liars. And in a way our survival depends on our ability to lie convincingly. The spy to convince people that he is the person he is claiming to be and novelists in order to be able to write fictions that beguile and enthrall. So there is an overlap but it is to do I think with observation and mendacity.  William Boyd. His new novel - a James Bond novel - is Solo. Speaking with us from London. Mr. Boyd thank you so much.  Thank you very much. It is been a pleasure.  And if you would like to read Solo for yourself it is published by Harper Collins and available for purchase on October 8th. 