 All the security stumbles and the leadership shakeup have put the spotlight on the U.S. Secret Service this week. Late night comedians are doing what they do in such moments.   The intruder got all the way to the East room which got worse when the Secret Service said woah there is an East room?   Take a tour of this place.  Of course the Secret Service has long been fodder for Hollywood as NPR national political correspondent Don Gonyea reports.  Let us start back in 1939 when the U.S. Secret Service had an early star turn in the epic - OK maybe it was not so epic - Code Of The Secret Service with leading man Ronald Reagan. Reagan played agent Brass Bancroft who is headed off on assignment when another agent asked to tag along.  EDDIE FOY JR.  What assignment did you get?   The Treasury stakeout. EDDIE FOY JR.  Right down my alley. When do we leave?   Well you will have to include yourself out of this trip Gabby. Well you could not go anyway are not you guarding the president? EDDIE FOY JR.  Nah he went fishing again.  The agent is action hero. That is how the Secret Service was portrayed for decades. Then came the early '60s and the exploration of more comedic possibilities. This is from a musical written by the legendary Irving Berlin. His last show ever called Mr. President. The character singing is the first daughter.    The Secret Service makes me nervous. When I am dating they are waiting to observe us.  A side note - the musical premiered at the National Theatre in Washington D.C. Among those attending were the President and Mrs. Kennedy. As the years passed it became a Hollywood tradition to milk the Secret Service for laughs. In the '90s the comedian and actor Sinbad starred in this Disney feature called First Kid.   Secret Service agent Sam Simms has a style all his own.   Simms what is that? This is a black-tie affair.  I know sir and I got it covered. I am black and I am wearing a tie.  But now he is facing his most dangerous assignment - protecting himself from the president's son.  And for the grown-ups there was Guarding Tess with Nicholas Cage on the security detail for an eccentric and demanding former first lady played by Shirley MacLaine. The agents find themselves in a grocery store.    I need a price check on Lesieur baby peas.   They are on special today two for .59.   Copy that Doug but I believe we have lost interest in peas repeat lost interest in peas.  Then there is the action-adventure genre. Hollywood loves plots that put the leader of the free world at risk and you cannot do that without making the Secret Service look overwhelmed at best inept at worst.   The most protected building on earth has fallen.  The president is being held hostage.  That is Olympus Has Fallen from last year. Not to be confused with the movie White House Down also from last year. That one features a guy whose application to the Secret Service is rejected. He saves the day anyway.    This is John Cale. I am in the White House. They have taken the building and they are holding hostages including my daughter.  Alpha one do you have the target?  Then there is the Secret Service agent as bad guy plot line. That was in Air Force One with President Harrison Ford. There are notable examples of the Secret Service being portrayed in a more realistic way like on the TV series The West Wing. By most accounts the gold standard is a Clint Eastwood movie from 1993 - In The Line Of Fire. He plays an agent who would been on duty with JFK in Dallas.    For years I have been listening to all these idiots on bar stools with all their pet theories on Dallas.  30 years later Eastwood's character is still tormented.    I do not know why I did not react. I should have reacted. I should have been running flat out. I just could not believe it.  Ultimately the secrecy that surrounds the United States Secret Service is the thing that fuels its allure and its mystique for storytellers. And it is that characteristic that will continue to make the agency so irresistible to the world of popular culture with or without more troubling episodes like those revealed this week. Don Gonyea NPR News Washington. 