 Shimon Peres of Israel died this week at the age of 93. In the years before his death the statesman took on a new identity on social media preaching peace to young people - and in a lighthearted way. NPR's Daniel Estrin reports that young people responded to a point.  In 2012 then-Israeli-President Shimon Peres became cool. SOUNDBITE OF  FRIEND FOR PEACE  He was 88 years old at the time. But he was not too old to shoot a music video asking people around the world to friend him on Facebook. The video's called Be My Friend For Peace. SOUNDBITE OF  FRIEND FOR PEACE   Be my friend for peace. I want to hear your voice.  It is hard not to chuckle at images of Peres in a suit and tie and snow-white hair - what was left of it anyway - looking straight at the camera with his signature stone-faced expression and imploring people to friend him on Facebook for peace. But Peres took it very seriously says PR consultant Ron Shelli who helped shape Peres's social media outreach.  He said that change today can be achieved through the young generation thanks to social media giving a voice to his vision of peace on his Facebook page.  Peace is needed for your future for your future for your future.  Peres hosted Facebook chats with youth from Israel and around the world. And people from Iran and Arab countries watched his YouTube videos. Mind you computers did not come naturally to him. His aides printed out the news for him in headline-sized font Shelly says. But on his 93rd birthday he opened a Snapchat account.  He became cool but not for the sake of coolness. That cool vibe opened the door for him to engage with kids teenagers and have them listen to - you know convince them to be more active about achieving peace or changing their lives.  Well he had this special groove. You know what I mean?  This is Ophir Tal a 22-year-old Israeli I met at a Belgian waffle joint in Jerusalem. He said he loved Peres's music video.  The way he talked the way he moved - yeah he knew how to like make people laugh and still be serious. You know what I mean?  But did Peres convince him that peace with the Palestinians was realistic? Not for the time being he says.  Situation in the territories is so complicated with the settlements and with Hamas in Gaza. I think that right now if something dramatic will not change the two-state solution will not happen.  You mean Peres' dream will not come true?  Well with the people currently in office in both sides do not see - anything changes.  The waffle maker behind the counter Shaked Carmel was equally pessimistic about peace.  I do not see it happening in my lifetime I mean.  And how old are you?  I am 23.  You really do not imagine it happening in your lifetime and you are only 23?  Yeah. I mean I really want it. And I will do like a lot of things for it to happen if it was in my hands. But it is not.  Peres' target audience happens to be one of Israel's most pessimistic age demographics when it comes to peace. Young people do not remember a more optimistic time when Peres negotiated the Oslo Accord. But the youth still liked him. Political scientist Tamar Hermann of the Israel Democracy Institute think tank explains why.  In a way it was - how should I put it? - appreciation to the effort of your grandfather to text you.  Hermann says recent polls suggest 70 to 75 percent of Israelis 18 to 25 years old do not believe peace with the Palestinians is possible in the foreseeable future. Daniel Estrin NPR News Jerusalem. 