 Brooke Samantha and Mollie McClymont are three country music singing sisters from Australia. They have topped the charts Down Under - now they are bringing their voices topside.   Are you ready to kick it up? C'mon.  Tonight is going to take a little bit more than the average girl in town. It is been one of those one of those weeks I would rather forget about. Get a plastic sheet for the battered old truck. Fill it full of beer and diet. Call your boss your wives and lazy husbands 'ecause no one's going to hold you down. We are going to raise the bar take it off in my car. We got a whole new level of breaking it loose. So kick it up another notch...  The McClymonts have recently relocated to Nashville. They have just released their latest CD Wrapped Up Good. Brooke Samantha and Mollie McClymont join us from Nashville. Thanks so much for being with us.  Hello.  Hello. Thank you for having us.  Or should we say g'day?   It would disappoint us if an Australian does not say g'day. You know how we are.   And put a shrimp on the Barbie even though I know they are prawns.  Exactly.  So is Nashville where country music singers want to go - want to wind up even if they are from New South Wales?  Well it was for us that is for sure. It is always been a big dream for us three girls. You know to one day hopefully you know get to come to Nashville and even just you know have a go at trying to you know showcase our music in this town. And now that we have had the opportunity and we have moved here in June it is more than a dream come true for us and we are just enjoying every minute of it.  Last month of course you performed for the first time on the stage of the Grand Ole Opry. What did that mean to you?  About two years ago maybe a year and a half ago we actually went to the Grand Ole Opry just to watch a show 'ecause you know we would never been before and Carrie Underwood and Josh Turner were playing that night so we went along. And you know we said to each other while we are sitting there wow could you imagine if we got to perform there one day and look here we are two years later and we got to perform there twice in one month. So it was a very cool experience.  Are there ghosts at the Grand Ole Opry?   I have heard there are.  Really?  I do not know if the ghost would want to come up against the three of us.   There is always three against one so the ghost is outnumbered.  Let us listen to a little more of your music. Here's a bit of the title track from Wrapped Up Good.    What you going to do when I am coming home to you? Will you hold me real tight? I hope your only plan is to be my only man and love me all night. Let us kick it back baby stop the crazy get lazy and take it real slow. Hide under the covers sexy lover make me shudder turn the music down low. You got me wrapped up. You got me wrapped up good. I feel the fire. You got my heart baby just like I knew you would...  So when you are three sisters singing together how do you decide who gets the leads and who gets the harmonies?   Actually one of the easier decisions we make when it comes to our band. I think we all know each other's voices so well. I mean we have been singing together since we were little girls so when we write a song we automatically go this is a Brooke song. This is a Sam song. This is a Mollie song. It is never something we even have to question. It is nice and easy which is great.  And the harmonies come very easy too. I mean - this is Mollie here. I normally take the high on everything that I am not singing lead on and Sam normally takes the low on what she is not singing lead on so and then Brooke would just swap in between. So that becomes naturally and we just do whatever is right for the song really.  Well we kind of know each other's ranges too. I know with Mollie when she goes for the high harmony you know keeping that in mind were I start the song I have got to keep in mind poor Mollie has got to sing live every night...   ...when we are out on the road and go ooh if we do it too high from you know where it is kind of borderlining on my register and stuff I have got to realize how Mollie's not going to be able - she will not have a voice by the end of the tour.  We could actually do a bit of a song for you if you want to hear it live.  Are you kidding? Of course.  What do you want to do girls?  We will do a chorus of the single then.  Sure. Wrapped Up Good.  Okay. We will do a chorus so you can hear the intonations...  Thank you.  ...of our voices.    Okay. Three four.  You got me wrapped up. You got me wrapped up good. You got me wrapped up good. I feel the fire. You got my heart baby just like I knew you would. Just like I knew you would. You are taking me higher. Your love is better than the weather out in Hollywood. You got me wrapped up. Oh you got me wrapped up good.  Boy.   You have made...  That is it.  You have made my week.   Aw thank you.  That was just wonderful. Thank you.  Aw no worries.  Let us listen to a song where Samantha I am told is on lead vocal. That is the song Take It Back.  Yes.    Take it back if you really did not mean it. Anymore I do not know if I believe it. I am done hearing all of your excuses...  How do you figure out who writes what?  Yeah we just separate. We co-wrote all of the tracks on the record and we go off and sometimes we do it in Australia or in America and the three of us either write together or we co-wrote with other people and it is really just a mixture. We like to mix it up so that we have lots of songs. Rather than one song we can come back at the end of the day sometimes and have three songs between us all.    ...make me feel so mad I cannot stop laughing. So sad I cannot stop crying. The raindrops will not stop falling even though the sky is blue. The one thing I can stop is loving you.  You know great groups like the Beatles no matter how much they sang together were still four separate voices. There is something about the three of you together which is quite haunting.  Thank you.  We can thank our mother and father for that one.   We actually confuse them every time we call them up. And you know this is Brooke here. If I say hi dad. And he goes hey Sam.   And I just ride along with it. I go yeah I am good. We confuse him.  Then later on he goes this is not Sam.  ...is not Sam.   Do you get back to Australia much?  Yeah. Well I guess we have only just moved here in June so you know...  Oh that is fairly new.  ...it is been nice holiday I guess from friends and family.   Well we will start missing them soon.   But we are going home for Christmas so we will spend Christmas with Mom and Dad and then we will come back in January.  Ladies it is been wonderful to speak with you. Thanks so much.  Aw thank you so much for the interview.  Thank you.  That was fun.  Brooke Samantha and Mollie McClymont. They are speaking with us from Nashville. Their new album Wrapped Up Good.    I am in love with you.  This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. G'day I am Scott Simon. 