 And it is time to play The Puzzle.   Joining us as always is Will Shortz. He is puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's very own puzzlemaster. Good morning Will.  Good morning Lulu.  So remind us of last week's puzzle.  Yeah. It came from listener Henrik Strandskov  of Luck Wis. I said name a major professional sports team. The first and last letters of the team's name specify something that is an anagram of its interior letters. What team is it? The answer is Red Sox. The first and last letters are R X as in prescription. And the interior letters can be rearranged to spell dose which is what a prescription specifies. Now I tell you a number of listeners sent in Padres because the first and last letters spell P.S. as in postscript. And the interior letters spell read. I guess a postscript could sort of specify read. But I do not know. That felt a little stretchy to me.  We had about 800 responses. And the winner is Mary Tod of Baltimore Md. Congratulations and welcome to the program.  Hi.  So describe where you are right now. I have been told that you are somewhere interesting.  I am on the road. I am traveling between Baltimore to Ithaca N.Y. And currently I am outside the Country Cupboard in Lewisburg Pa.  Sitting on a park bench.  Sitting on a bench yes...  .  ...Outside the restaurant.  I also heard you have an interesting hobby.  Yes. And that is what I am going up to Ithaca to do - is to make lace.  How beautiful.  I am taking a class to learn how to design my own lace actually.  Oh how fantastic. All right. Are you ready to play The Puzzle?  Sure.  All right Will. Take it away.  All right Mary. Every answer today is a two-syllable compound word in which the vowel in each half is a short I. For example if I said a person who spends as little money as possible you would say skinflint. Two-syllables compound word short I in each syllable. Your first one is slang for a football.  Oh pigskin.  Pigskin is right. Number two - what Don Quixote tilted against.  Windmills.  That is right. Make tiny criticisms.  Nitpick.  Good. A bit of makeup in a tube.  Lipstick.  Lipstick is it. An article for measuring the amount of oil in an engine.  A dipstick.  That is a dipstick. A tiny tiny hole.  Pinprick.  Good. An important person informally.  Bigwig.  Good. A stupid person informally.  Oh nitwit.  Nitwit works also dimwit - either one. How about a person or thing holding everything together?  Linchpin.  That is it. A person who crafts items out of a very soft metal.  A tinsmith.  Good. An exercise device worn around the wrist.  Fitbit.  That is it. A series of transparencies for projecting images onto a screen.  Filmstrip.  Filmstrip nice. And your last one a fancy kind of men's shoe.  Men's shoe. Hmm.  It would be a dress shoe.  A wingtip.  A wingtip. Mary I am impressed.  You did amazingly well Mary. You just were firing those out. That is great. How you feel?  Relieved.   Well for playing our puzzle today you will get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin as well as puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. And Mary what member station do you listen to?  I am a sustaining member of WYPR.  Wonderful. Thank you so much for playing The Puzzle.  Yay. Thank you.  All right Will. What is next week's challenge?  Yes. Think of a title for a particular person - two words 15 letters in total - in which the only vowel is I. What is it? So again - title for a particular person - two words total of 15 letters - in which the only vowel is I. What title is it?  When you have the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit Your Answer link. Remember just one entry per person please. Our deadline for entries is Thursday October 11 2018 at 3 p.m. Eastern. Include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time. And if you are the winner we will give you a call. And you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzlemaster Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thank you Lulu.  