 We are following news today of what appears to be a mass shooting at the Tree of Life synagogue in Pittsburgh. There are reports of multiple casualties and a suspect is in custody. Joined in the studio now by NPR's Shannon Van Sant who is been reporting on that shooting in Pittsburgh. Shannon thanks for being with us. What can you tell us?  Well as you just said there are multiple casualties which include at least three police officers. The conditions of the victims is still not known. Police say they have a suspect in custody and reports of the shooting started coming in reportedly around 20 this morning.  What do we know about the synagogue and the surrounding community of Squirrel Hill?  Well the Saturday service at this synagogue usually starts at about 45 a.m. It is a conservative congregation. According to the synagogue's website Rabbi Jeffrey Myers leads at Saturday's service on most weekends. He is written about gun control before. In July he posted an essay to the congregation's website to the synagogue's website where he said despite continuous calls for sensible gun control our elected leaders in Washington knew that it would fade away in time. He says that he was afraid that the status quo on gun control would remain unchanged and shootings would continue. He also lamented that he felt he had to include in his daily morning prayers that God should watch over his wife and daughter and teachers to keep them safe.  President Trump has weighed in on events has not he?  He has. President Trump tweeted this morning that he is watching the events unfold in Pittsburgh and he warned people to stay away from the area. And he said it looked like there would be multiple fatalities.  Shannon of course we are dealing with a breaking news event. And it is the inclination of and the policy of this news organization to be conservative rather than to be inaccurate. We know that people are going to see and hear another - other numbers that are out there. We are reporting what we can confirm at the moment. There is a suspect in custody. As I understand it the area is still not considered safe. They are asking people to remain in their homes yes?  That is right. They are warning people to stay inside their homes stay away from the area of the synagogue. And also reportedly according to the synagogue's website this was the busiest service the most packed service of the week for the synagogue the Saturday morning service. So we can expect that there were probably multiple people inside the synagogue at the time.  So there is a suspect in custody. Police at the same time have to be worried that perhaps someone else could be involved and that is why the area - why they are still telling people to shelter in place.  That is right. Until you know fairly recently this morning it was an active shooter situation. The details of the shooting whether there were more than one person involved we do not know that yet or even a motive.  I am getting reports on Twitter. And I am sure other people are seeing them. People are sending reports directly to me about things that they allege were said in the synagogue official descriptions of the man. That is nothing we have that is verifiable or has been verified yet.  We have not confirmed those reports. And Twitter I mean it is a good source of information but we cannot report it until we confirm it.  It is sometimes a good source of misinformation too is not it? Shannon you are going to be following this story. We have people from our local stations in Pittsburgh who are on the scene. Obviously there is a great deal of chaos. They will be reporting the story. Thanks for being with us Shannon Van Sant.  Thank you. 