 This season Dartmouth College became the first Division I school to hire a woman as a full-time football coach. Esteban Bustillos from member station WGBH spent a day with Callie Brownson and the Big Green and brought us the story.  Some of Callie Brownson's earliest memories are Saturday afternoons with her dad watching the University of Miami Hurricanes play football. Those players were her childhood heroes. She even collected their football cards.  I was intertwined. I loved it instantly.  She played youth football. But in the fall of 2004 when she tried to join her high school team in Northern Virginia she was told no. They would not even let her try out but said maybe she could come on as a kicker.  Nothing against kickers but I wanted to play. I wanted to hit people. I wanted to be a part of every facet of it.  Before her senior year Brownson tried one last time to convince the football coach to give her a shot.  I said listen. I am going into senior year. And I am trying out this year. I do not care if you ever put me on the field. I am going to be on a football team. And he just kind of laughed at me.  Even though she never got to play in high school Brownson did not give up. She played free safety wide receiver and running back for the D.C. Divas of the Women's Football Alliance from 2010 to 2017 and won two world championships with Team USA women's football. Brownson also spent three seasons coaching high school football and interned last year with the New York Jets. This summer she took a coaching gig at the Manning Passing Academy a prestigious football clinic. This was the first year the academy admitted female players. Buddy Teevens who oversees coaches at the Academy wanted to recruit women to work with those players. He hired Brownson. And she stood out immediately.  Of the people on the field Kelly had really struck me as highly highly organized passionate about what she was doing. She was very very meticulous in terms of the practice plan I had asked her. And she was very confident  Teevens is also the head coach at Dartmouth College. He invited Brownson to intern with the Big Green during the preseason. And after seeing how well she clicked with everyone he made a special announcement that the team captured on video.   I have been very very impressed - so impressed with her that I liked to offer a position with us this year.  He hired her as the offensive quality control coach. It is an entry-level job. But she is the first woman to do it at this level. And Teevens says she is proven she deserved the spot.  She is made - played more football than a lot of people that are coaching in the NFL or at the college level. And to me that is relevant. She understands the sport.   Good job. Good job. Good job. Good job.  On the field at Dartmouth Brownson is everywhere at once. Whether it is helping special teams taking part in drills with the wide receivers or doing the scouting defense set up she is always on the move.  The wing. All right. The seesaws on the wing OK?  Like a true player's coach she cracks jokes with the team cheering when they do well and correcting them when they need it. Junior wide receiver Brandon Hester says players knew right away they wanted her to stick around and encouraged Coach Teevens to make the hire.  Immediately we knew like we could not really see ourselves without her. I would practice every single day just because of the energy and passion that she brought to the game.  Brownson loves football. And she wants more girls and women to be accepted in the game like she finally has been. And while she is proud to be the first woman who has a full-time division one football coach her bigger focus is on not being the last.  All this time we have thought that women did not have a place in football. Well they do. For me - that to me is the headline that is more important than oh the first female. Like OK. That is cool. But is it worth it? Is it actually going to evoke change? Then that is the part that to me is the one that should be focused on.  But for right now she is going to do everything she can to help Dartmouth win an Ivy League title. For NPR News I am Esteban Bustillos in Hanover N.H. 