 There is a new dance video out set to an old song - not a '70s disco single or a '50s doo-wop hit. No we are talking about a Depression-era song from the Irving Berlin musical Top Hat one of my faves. As NPR's Elizabeth Blair reports Irving Berlin's estate is hoping the video released on the 85th anniversary of the movie will help a younger generation connect with his music.  Two female dancers huddle together at night in a dark cobblestone tunnel. As the music begins they start to let go of each other as if maybe it is safe then quickly embrace again. ?   The weather is frightening. Thunder and lightning are having their way.  In a video that is just over two minutes dancers Courtney Crain and Jordan Betscher capture the yearning to be joyful with moments of confined desperation. Their movements are at once tender and spry. Choreographer Al Blackstone says his ideas for the piece came directly from the music a rendition of Irving Berlin's Is not This A Lovely Day ? by the band The Powder Room.  It is so moody and so passionate and I just immediately felt that it really connected to also just a deep sadness and uncertainty particularly for dancers in New York City. ?   As far as I am concerned it is a lovely day.  There is not a touch of sadness in the original number from the 1935 movie Top Hat. Ginger Rogers and Fred Astaire take shelter from the rain under a gazebo and dance.   Top Hat was a musical that lifted spirits during the Great Depression. Blackstone is a huge fan of Irving Berlin's and Fred Astaire's. He and videographer Pierre Marais were determined to shoot their dance film in one take.  Because that is how Fred did it. I think there is only one cut in the original so we really wanted to just do it all in one take no edits and preserve the dance as much as possible and preserve the moment as much as possible. But of course that means that we had to do it many times.  Dancer Courtney Crain who has not danced professionally since the start of the pandemic did not mind doing it as many times as they needed to.  I was thinking to myself how special it was that you know we were getting to do something that a lot of people are not getting to do during this time because there are not auditions happening and there are not shows happening. And it was just a really special moment for me right before we did it the very last time. ?   The turn in the weather will keep us together so I can honestly say as far as I am concerned it is a lovely day.  Crain and Betscher are roommates who have been quarantined together for months so they did not have to wear masks when they performed. Crain says she thinks their friendship helped them embody characters who lean on each other during this difficult time. Elizabeth Blair NPR News. 