 Thanks so much for being with us. JON J Host Oh thank you Scott.  And first why do not we just introduce this panda. Let us read the first few pages of Zen Shorts if we could. His name is Stillwater.  Right it is. Here's Zen Shorts.  Okay the little boy at the door.  He spoke with a slight panda accent.   So this is Stillwater.  Yes.  How did Stillwater come into your creative imagination?  I had done a drawing of a panda wearing a very fat pair of pants and it made me laugh. I did not know what to do with it. But I thought it was pretty funny but I threw it into a drawer and I did not think too much of it. And then I went on a little while longer - a little while later rather I went on tour - a book tour - and I got the chance to visit with children and to read some other books I would written previously.  What if it was this guy? And it is obvious that he would be a Zen teacher you know he is a panda. That is sort of how Stillwater came about.  I was rereading recently an interview with E.B. White who I think is known by adults as one of the most masterful essayists ever in the English language. And of course many young readers know Stuart Little for example Charlotte's Web. And E.B. White says in the esteemed Paris Review interview series You do not write down for children you write up.  Oh I think that is absolutely true. I think children are completely capable of intuiting wisdom as readily as adults are. They just do not have the verbal ability to put it into words or to examine it the way we do as adults. But my experience has been that they get this stuff very quickly. And even the kids who come to the book because it has a giant panda or - tend to come back because there is some itch that is set going in there in their minds or their hearts to re-examine and re-examine what is going on.  Well why did you do this and I do not quite understand that. And I think that may be the deepest way to get something from these stories.  Let us talk about Zen Ghosts this new book. I love the illustrations. First one taking a look here is the street filled with trick or treaters on a Halloween night and a full Moon. Wonderful wonderful little touches from the kids who are ghosts in sheets in the kind of middle distance. And then I just noticed you have a pumpkin seems to be running across the street under its own steam. Or is that just a very slender child?   Yeah look at that - those little legs under there?  Yeah some of those ghosts do not have feet either so who knows what is exactly happening there.  Well I thought I would ask you.   And is that a chimpanzee dressed up as cowboy too?  Yeah. I guess that - yes that looks like a chimpanzee does not it?  Well you would know. But yes it sure does.  You know we go out trick or treating with the kids. And I seem to feel like I am catching out of the corner of my eye all kinds of things like this anyway. So I am just relaying what it is that I think is happening .  What did you do before you wrote and illustrated your books?  I worked in comics for about 20 years before I started doing children's books. And with the birth of my son I really wanted to start talking about different things than comic books had the room for at that time. So I did a little bit of work in Japan which was a kind of interim time. And then started doing work that I could directly speak to kids in picture books here.  So did you consciously begin writing for your son?  I did the very first book that I wrote and illustrated. It was called The Three Questions. And I had read the story by - it is based on story by Leo Tolstoy.  Mm-hmm.  He is my favorite writer and when I finished reading it I would read it once before but when I finished reading it it was right around the time of my son's birth and I thought I - I really want to give him the things that are the tools that are in this story the wisdom that is in this story but I do not him to have to wait until he can understand czarist Russia. So I sat down and decided to write it for kids - and for myself - and that is how that started. And I think writing it for him was what - the catalyst for continuing to write books and discovering what it is that I am writing about.  I am guessing that publishers - have they ever tried to suggest where Stillwater goes next? Like forgive me - oh all right. Stillwater really should meet a vampire because that is got...   No.  ...that is got winner written all over it.  No. And that was never - I never intended to do a second book. The first one I thought was the whole thing. But then I was visiting my grandmother and I bumped up against an idea that could really best be handled by Stillwater who seemed to be standing over there waving to me so I - that is how the second book came about.  You would see a big panda waving at you would not you? Yeah.  Yeah that is...   Do you go through life seeing Stillwater?   Well when I am least expecting it he is dancing on my porch. Yes it is true.  Most be a reinforced porch.   Pleasure talking to you. Thanks so much.  Oh thank you Scott. 