 One of the state attorneys general filing suit against the mortgage industry is Ohio's Richard Cordray. He joins us now from member station WCBE in Columbus Ohio. Welcome to the program. Mr.  Glad to be with you.  And I should mention by the way that you are running for reelection this November. You filed suit last week against GMAC Mortgage and its parent company Ally Financial. You have not accused them of negligence or poor business practices but of fraud. Mr.  That is correct. And in fact what has been acknowledged and we also sued the individual who so far has been acknowledged to have engaged in the practice of what is come to be called robo-signing is that on a mass scale GMAC was filing fraudulent affidavits with the courts of Ohio. This is the evidence that they are presenting to a court on which to take people's private property from them and to commit a fraud on the court either in an individual case which is serious enough but to do it in a raft of cases we thought was a very serious problem and it violates our consumer protection laws. And we do think it is fraud. I do not know how else you can characterize.  What are you asking for in the suit? Mr.  We are asking for a halt to foreclosures that involve fraudulent evidence. We are asking for remedies under the consumer protection laws of Ohio which could amount to as much as 25000 per violation. And we think that is the appropriate thing to do here.  There have been more than 45000 foreclosures in Ohio this year more than 2.3 million in the U.S. overall. This might not be easy to parse but how much of this is about fraud and how much of it just a way to try to keep people in their homes? Mr.  Well we are always interested in keeping people in their homes if possible but it is also about the integrity of our court system. Nobody can defend a practice of filing false and fraudulent affidavits with the courts in this country. It is the overwhelming volume for some of these folks that is led them to cut corners and private property rights are considered you know fundamental under the Constitution. So for people to simply say oh this is sloppy paperwork it is a very minor thing that is one perspective. And another perspective is you are systematically defrauding our courts and they deserve better than that and so do Ohio citizens.  Is there any coordination among the various attorneys general who are pursuing actions? Mr.  There will definitely be and already is collaboration coordination among the states and probably with the Justice Department. I do not want to jump the gun on that but there have been referrals to the Justice Department and I know Attorney General Holder spoke generally about the issue this past week. It is a serious problem and something's going to have to be done to clean up the foreclosure process in this country no question.  The housing market is of course already suffering. Is there a risk here of adding a burden on an already struggling industry? Mr.  I have believed for five or six years and Ohio was one of the first states to the foreclosure epidemic in this country and it continues to bog us down that the foreclosure problem and the housing problem is the single biggest albatross holding back the American economy. And until we fix this problem until we make more sense out of the loans and lending out there and we get sales moving again we are going to continue to lag economically. I just do not - it is the elephant in the room that nobody has yet successfully addressed.  In the middle of all this of course are homeowners who might have been foreclosed on or in the middle of a foreclosure or who bought a property that they thought was in foreclosure. What are they supposed to do? Mr.  If homes were already foreclosed on and people have left those homes and maybe those properties have been resold to innocent third parties who knew nothing about the problems that is going to be a hard issue for courts to sort out and we are not necessarily - and we are not at this point for those sales to be unwound. What we are asking the court is let us not have any new foreclosures go forward based on fraudulent affidavits. If the banks can put together the evidence and put it together in a form that is proper within our court system the kind of things that are expected of every other party and every other case before they can get judicial relief then that is fine. But we need to have a pause while we figure this out going forward.  Ohio Attorney General Richard Cordray is among dozens of state attorneys general filing suit against the mortgage industry. He joined me from member station WCBE in Columbus Ohio. Thank you very much for joining us. Mr.  My pleasure. 