 And it is time now for sports.   It is the playoffs - the baseball playoffs where heroes and goats are made or so I am told. Mike Pesca of The Gist joins us from the studios of Slate in New York. Hi Mike.  Hi. The goats - let us talk of the goats.  The goats. OK truth be told I would never heard of this expression until hours ago but everyone tells me this is a thing. I do not even understand what it means. Heroes and...  ...A goat? Yeah...  ...I understand what a goat is but I do not understand the relevance in baseball.  Scapegoat.  Oh.  Oh there is so much relevance we cannot even get into. Like there is this curse...  ...Oh we cannot even get into it.  There is this curse of the goats with the Cubs. And GOAT is also an acronym for Greatest of All Time. But we are going to talk about the goats who are the heels the guys who let their teams down.  OK so there is two pitchers who are getting a lot of attention right now. Who are they?  Yes David Price and Clayton Kershaw two of the best pitchers. I should say that Clayton Kershaw of the Dodgers is just the best pitcher in baseball. He is 28 years old. He is going to the Hall of Fame. Right now he would probably make the Hall of Fame actually even if he quit tomorrow. And David Price is also a great pitcher. To give you some idea of how great they are Clayton Kershaw gets paid 34 million a year David Price 30 million a year. And yet when it comes to the big stage both of these guys to varying degrees are disappointing. And it happened in the first game that each of them pitched in the playoffs. Especially David Price a guy getting paid 30 million dollars a year you would hope he could get out of the fourth inning. But he could not once again letting his team down. Whereas Kershaw just was not his normal dazzling self. But he does have a history in the playoffs of sometimes getting bombed.  So is that just 'ecause it is the playoffs and there is a lot of pressure? I mean but - what is the deal?  OK I think there are two different guys two different explanations. I think first of all Kershaw is being compared to his usual regular-season self. And here's a guy who has you know 170 strikeouts in a year and 11 walks - just spectacular. So if he pitches only pretty good in the playoffs in his first game - seven innings three runs - that is pretty good. We are going to say a little disappointing. And the couple of games where he was really bad which were a couple playoff games against the Cardinals - gave up big home runs - you say what is up with Kershaw? Price on the other hand I do think something's going on. It is very hard to prove but if you listen to interviews with other players or ex-players they say he is maybe playing - trying too hard gripping his balls a little hard trying to be perfect. And when you try to be perfect and you aim instead of throw bad things can happen. I think that there is maybe enough evidence to say that David Price is mentally taking himself out of games.  And I mean these guys - just higher stakes - right? - compared to the hitters. The pitchers have to be good all the time every time.  Well that is a good - that is a good thing to think about. A pitcher starts off with an ERA of 0 and can only get bad from there. A hitter starts off with a batting average of 0 but can only get good from there. So one swing of the bat can rehabilitate or make a hero in terms of a batter but a pitcher has to be very good and consistent throughout. But to be fair or to be honest with David Price he just has been a bad playoff pitcher. Although you know they are down two games to nothing. If the Red Sox come back he could you know rewrite history. I just doubt we will see that. Kershaw can rehabilitate his image without any miraculous comeback. They are up in their series.  Mike Pesca. He is our own GOAT. He also hosts The Gist.  Wait the good kind right?  That is a compliment. The good kind.  Yes OK thanks.  Greatest of All Time. Thanks so much Mike.  You are welcome. 