 In Chile rescuers appear close to ending the ordeal of the 33 miners who have been trapped underground for more than two months. Yesterday a drill punched through to the space where the men are located while family members and government officials celebrated above ground. Once rescuers start to lift the men out it will take at least 48 hours to get all of them to the surface perhaps longer. But first comes another stage of preparation and a bit more waiting. Annie Murphy reports.   Camp Hope the tent city that sits near the San Jose mine has swelled in recent days. This baked remote piece of earth is packed with campers and motor homes tents and people. And since one of the drills finally reached the miners it is buzzing with activity. Press and government officials pour in and out of the camp busloads of more family members and close friends are arriving and the air vibrates with the sound of generators. Like everyone here Coralia Alarcon was thrilled to hear that the drill had reached the spot where her husband Franklin Lobos and the other miners are trapped. All the same she says she is still nervous and will not be at ease until Lobos reaches the surface. Ms.    She says I do not want to be selfish but I want him to be the first one out so that all of this can be over and we can rest a little.   But there is a lot to prepare before these men are out from deciding the best way to keep the slender rescue pods painted with the colors of the Chilean flag from getting stuck to little details. Carpenter Jaime Navarro has been called in to rig dozens of platforms for the many film crews. Mr.    He explains that the platforms are important for journalists to view the camp. And he slaps them together with informal gusto a few bangs of a hammer and some nails. The rescue however is a delicate task. There are a lot of variables that will determine its ultimate success. Everything has to be taken care of right down to special sunglasses the men will need to wear as their eyes adjust to light after so much time underground. And even the miners are helping out with the operation. They spotted the drill as it entered the area where they are located communicating with machine operators above to better control drilling. Marcos Gonzalez is one of the people in charge of fuel supplies here. The government machines alone consume about 4000 gallons of fuel each day. He is seen a lot of the rescue firsthand including coordination with the miners themselves. Mr.    The miners will try to keep clear of the spot where the capsule will need to land he says so that it can be sent in and out with out any problem. Even if the rescue itself goes off without a hitch it will be the culmination of a long intense process for both the miners and their families and the start of what many see as a new chapter in their lives. Wife of trapped miner Franklin Lobos Coralia Alarcon Ms.    We are all human she says we all make mistakes. So this time has made them all reflect. I think their lives are going to change. It is almost like birth she says as if they were in the uterus with the lifelines of food and water as the umbilical cord. They are going to enter the world and they are not going to be the same. The Chilean government has estimated that the rescue will begin on Wednesday and hopes to have all the men above ground by Friday. For NPR News this is Annie Murphy Copiapo Chile. 