 To help us make sense of something so senseless we are now joined by NPR's national political correspondent Mara Liasson - and to put this into context as well because there were package bombs sent to prominent Democrats this past week. And this is affecting our political discourse and our political leaders. Good morning Mara.  Hi there Lulu.  President Trump held a political rally in Illinois in the wake of the shooting at the Tree of Life synagogue. What did he have to say?  Yeah. Let me just say a few thoughts. First of all my mom grew up in the Jewish community of Pittsburgh. She is 92. My cousins all grew up in Squirrel Hill. And what we are talking about I think is the worst anti-Semitic attack in U.S. history just days after as you just said the largest assassination attempt on political leaders in U.S. history so two horrific violent acts. And the president has had a lot of unifying words. He has spoken out against what he is called pure evil. But he has followed those words with partisan attacks politics as usual at his rallies - with a little less vitriol. He said last night at his rally in Illinois I am going to tone it down a little bit. And he did. But it is also true - and we are going to have a big debate about this - that he has tweeted that George Soros funded the caravan. The alleged shooter...  George Soros of course is Jewish.  ...In Pittsburgh also posted on social media that Jews were funding the caravan. He particularly was angry about the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society. And the - Kevin McCarthy the majority leader in the House has been tweeting how Soros Steyer and Bloomberg are trying to steal this election which is pretty coded anti-Semitic language. So we are going to have a big debate about whether the president's words words of other people helped create this climate. Nobody is saying that in any way the president is responsible for what happened. But there is what he says and then there is what people hear. We are also going to have a big debate about gun control. Right after the incident the president said that if there had been more people with guns in the synagogue this would not have happened. Already you have heard the Pittsburgh mayor and the governor of Pennsylvania say no that is not the answer. So ten days nine days out from the election we have got this situation to process and try to figure out how to stop in the future.  And Mara let me just say first of all I am so sorry. I did not realize that you had a personal connection to the synagogue. This must be very difficult.  Not to the synagogue just to the community.  To the community to the community. You mention that there are of course many ramifications. Midterm elections are just over a week away. Will the events of this past week affect the elections? And if so how?  Well I do not know. I think the easy answer - the quick answer is to say that the trajectory of this election is pretty well-set. The House looks like it is trending to the Democrats. The Senate looks like it is trending to the Republicans. But it might have some effect. I mean this once again thrusts gun violence into the political debate. Some people might be reminded of how they felt after the Parkland shootings. Maybe that would have an effect. One of the effects that I think this will have as the pipe bombs story had is that it makes it harder for the president to control the narrative because we are not talking about Kavanaugh and the caravan as much as we are talking about the pipe bomber and the synagogue shooter. And he has actually complained about that. He said that Republicans had momentum. And now this bomb thing happened and that is all the media's talking about. So that is one way it did have an effect. 