 Wonderland is a singular place. It is more than the rabbit hole Alice fell into. It is a place that symbolizes the beauty and strange illogical nature of childhood a place that has captivated children and adults for 150 years. The anniversary of Alice's tumble and Lewis Carroll's great work has been celebrated in art and history and in museums this year. It is also being marked in literature. Enter Gregory Maguire. The author has retold Cinderella Snow White and he showed us another side to life as a witch in Wicked. Now he has written a kind of parallel narrative of Wonderland. It is called After Alice. Gregory Maguire joins me now from the studios of member station WGBH in Boston. Thanks so much for being with us Gregory.  I am delighted Rachel. Thank you for having me.  Like I said it is not quite after Alice is it? The book tells a parallel story with a different heroine Ada. Can you explain the conceit?  Yes it is a simultaneous story. It is happening at the same day at the same time both in Wonderland and also above ground in Oxford. So Ada who is Alice's best friend is on her way to visit Alice when she too tumbles down the rabbit hole. She is either right before Alice or right after. But either way she knows that Alice is too curious and perhaps a little bit too young to find her way out alone.  Can you describe the difference between these two young girls these characters Ada and Alice?  Ada is afflicted with a deformity of the back which means that when the story starts she is wearing an iron spine that comes from her hips up to her chin. So Ada in coming into Wonderland has a lot she has to cast off in order to be able to function whereas Alice is equipped only with her innocence and her curiosity. That is the difference between the two girls and that is in effect why Ada who knows more about sadness and hardship in the world realizes Alice has to be rescued.  Part of the reality you are exploring is one of the harshest parts of the Victorian time period. There is a character named Siam who illustrates that. Can you introduce us to him and tell us about the role he plays in the story?  Yeah Siam is visiting England. He is the ward of an American who has gone to Charles Darwin to try to get Charles Darwin to speak more publicly about the American Civil War and about emancipation. Siam is a little black child. And when Siam takes his turn to tumble into Wonderland well Wonderland is finally after 150 years integrated. So when Siam goes into the underworld as it were he goes with a different mission and a different set of heartaches. And he has to find his own way through that desperately anarchic situation which measures all too closely the anarchic situation from which his tutor has tried to release him.  You have spent a lot of time in these other worlds in various fairytales in Oz. Is there something particularly fascinating to you about Wonderland?  I think what Lewis Carroll did in giving us this portrait of Alice is give us perhaps the most modern picture of a child that has ever been put on the page of a children's book. By that I mean Rachel if you pick up Alice In Wonderland today and read it you will find that except for the fact that Alice is not sending Instagrams of all the things that are happening to her she - every single sentence she says could be said by a contemporary child in 2015. So Wonderland - the anarchy and the terror of Wonderland - and I found it terrifying as a kid - is not that unlike the world in which children can come down for breakfast in 2015 and see photographs let us say of toddlers washing onto the shores of the Mediterranean trying to escape devastation elsewhere in the world. The world of childhood is always confusing and it always needs to be un-puzzled. Alice is in a sense our first emissary saying that childhood can be survived. This is why we keep going back to childhood I think even as adult readers because we know we have survived it. And the stress and the tension and maybe the sadness of being grown up is wearing on us. To go back to a children's book as a writer as a reader is in some ways to recover the lost paradise from which we too were exiled.  You said you found Alice In Wonderland to be terrifying when you were a child.  I did. I was used to the kinds of wonderlands or magic stories - we can say Oz we can say Neverland - where there was a kind of instant analog with the bedroom in which I was reading let us say. I could make the cross-references easily enough. And I also knew the strategy of story. The hero's there-and-back-again journey. But in Wonderland no one ever seems to give Alice advice. She has to find her own way. In fact they are too busy being angry at each other and at herself even to notice that she is a child who is lost in a wilderness just like Pilgrim in Pilgrim's Progress or like Dante in The Inferno. So I find - I found Wonderland absolutely terrifying until I was old enough and realized oh gee I am grown up. Now I can go back and read that children's book and not cry myself to sleep.   I do not want to fall down that hole.  Absolutely my world is already bewildering enough.  We often refer to Alice as timeless. You talked about it in that way. When a child picks it up today what do they discover? What are the universals that hold true?  Well some of the universals that hold true in today's children's readings of Alice In Wonderland are that adults do not make any sense and they are always about to fall off the handle and kill you.   They are about to lop off your head if you do not give the correct answer in math or if you stray too long in the - outside the girls bathroom on the way back from the boys bathroom. You are always about to get in trouble and it is always off with his head. I think the fact that Alice survives this is one of the things that makes her so delightful. Not only does she survive it she does not even lose her own temper until one of the very last pages.  Gregory Maguire his new book is called After Alice. He talked to us from the studios of WGBH in Boston. Gregory thank you so much.  Rachel thanks so much. Have a great morning. 