 October is National Adopt-a-Shelter-Dog Month. The following puzzle is brought to you by my new little dog Kiko  who puzzles me every day.   Joining me as always is Will Shortz. He is puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master. Will good morning.  Good morning Lulu.  So it turns out we have a quick correction to last week's on-air challenge.  Well last week's example to the on-air puzzle - I said that Savannah is a city in South Carolina. Of course it is a well-known city in Georgia. There is a historic community in South Carolina Savannah Town. That is probably what I was thinking about. Anyway it is Savannah Ga.  Apologies to the great state of Georgia. And with that out of the way Will remind us of last week's challenge.  Yeah. It came from listener Steve Bagish of Arlington Mass. I said think of a four-letter food. Move each letter one space later in the alphabet. So A would become B. B would become C et cetera. I said insert a U somewhere inside the result and you will name a five-letter food. What foods are these? And the answer is flan and gumbo.  Ooh I love flan. Good stuff. It is like a custard. Yeah. We eat it a lot in Latin America. This week we received more than 900 correct responses. And our randomly selected winner is Phil Jacknis of Dix Hills N.Y. Congratulations Phil.  Thank you very much.  So how did you come up with the answer to this one? Do you eat a lot of flan a lot of gumbo?  Well actually neither.   Based on the way the puzzle was worded I thought it would be easier to find five-letter words that had U's in them. And I came across gumbo backed out the U. And there was flan.  Ah OK. Well you got your just desserts. Ba-dum-bum.  .  All right. Are you ready to play the puzzle?  I guess I am.   Do not sound so nervous. You will do great. Will take it away.  All right. Phil I am going to read you some sentences. Each sentence contains two words that phonetically sound like a world capital. For example the Sigma Chi house can be found on Fraternity Row. You would say Cairo combining Chi and row. Now the words will be - always been in left and right order but not necessarily consecutive. Here's number one.  OK.  The opening bell rang for the grade school.  Bell rang...  For the grade school.  Belgrade.  Belgrade. You got it. Belgrade Serbia. Good. Mom got a bag of golf balls for dad on his birthday.  Baghdad.  There you go. Baghdad. The Russians watched a black car whisk past Lenin's tomb.  I do not know that I am getting that. Lulu?  Northern Africa. It is a capital city of...  Start with car. One of the words is car.  Car yes.  Do you know the capital of Sudan?  No .  Khartoum.  Khartoum. OK.  Khartoum Sudan. There you go. Good. After a meal at a Thai restaurant I rose to pay the bill.  Well it is not Thai-rose. It is not Thai-bill.  Nope. What is the word in between there?  In between.  Taipei.  Taipei Taiwan is it. If the kids bang your car do not let them give you some cock-and-bull story.  Bangkok.  Bangkok was fast. Now in each of the last few sentences there are three words that sound like a world capital. And here's your first one. It sounds like hell when you sing off-key.  Helsinki.  Yes. After taking the cat to the vet the man wondered what should I do now?  Cat - let us see.  Yes. Cat is good.  OK. To the vet. Kathmandu?  Kathmandu Nepal is it. And here's your last one. Even in the poor light I could see the dinosaur's toe prints.  Poor light dinosaurs - foot prints you said?  Toe prints.  Oh toe prints.  Even in the poor light I could see the dinosaur's toe prints.  So I would start with poor I am assuming.  Yes except I say pour not poor. And that is important.  Port-au-Prince?  Port-au-Prince is it.  Phil that was really great. That was a tough one though. I feel like that was a really hard one because it combined a lot of things - geography and other things. What do you think?  Well it was not as bad as I thought it might be.   Words to live by. It never is.  .  For playing our puzzle today you will get a WEEKEND EDITION lapel pin as well as puzzle books and games. You can read all about it at npr.orgpuzzle. Phil what member station do you listen to?  WNYC in New York City.  Phil Jacknis of Dix Hills N.Y. thank you for playing the puzzle.  Thank you very much.  OK. Will what is next week's challenge?  Yeah. It comes from listener Chris Stewart of Las Cruces N.M. Take the name of a country. Insert an E somewhere inside it. And you will get a phrase that answers the question what did Henry Ford do? So that is it. Take the name of a country. Insert an E. And you will get a phrase that answers the question what did Henry Ford do? What country is it?  When you have the answer go to our website npr.orgpuzzle and click on the Submit Your Answer link. Just one entry per person please. Our deadline for entries is Wednesday October 11 at 3 p.m. Eastern. That is a day earlier than usual. So take note. Again our deadline for entries next week is Wednesday October 11 at 3 p.m. Include a phone number where we can reach you at about that time. And if you are the winner we will give you a call and you will get to play on the air with the puzzle editor of The New York Times and WEEKEND EDITION's puzzle master Will Shortz. Thanks so much Will.  Thank you Lulu.  