 On our program we often talk with musical artists who release cover albums their versions of songs made popular by others. Now comes a project where writers some of the most acclaimed of our time retell Shakespearean tales in their own words. Jeanette Winterson's new novel is called The Gap Of Time and it is a reimagining of The Winter's Tale. It is the first book in the series to be published. She joins me now from London. Thanks so much for being with us Jeanette.  Thank you for inviting me.  Rewriting Shakespeare no small task.   Can you explain a little more about the project and the thinking behind it how it came to you?  Yeah I mean next year's the 400th anniversary of Shakespeare's death. And this is Britain so we are going to go into like barter-mania  next year. It will be you know Shakespeare wall-to-wall. But it was a great idea I think of the Random House team to say OK let us just take writers from around the world and see what they can do with some of these Shakespeare plays. Just choose one that matters to you and change it alter it play with it. And of course it is perfectly right for Shakespeare who never invented a plot and just used to you know take apart other people's work and bolt it back together in his own image. You know he would think this was exactly the right way to deal with the text.   So why The Winter's Tale?  Well it is got an abandoned baby in it and I am one. And you know abandoned babies in literature do pretty well - and not just in literature in popular culture you know Superman Spiderman Han Solo in the Star Wars trilogy you know he does not know who his father is famously. So the idea of being a foundling you know a child with two lives is very interesting imaginatively but it is also your reality. Then you are going to start reading looking for clues about yourself because being adopted is like going to the theater after curtain up or getting a book with the first few pages ripped out. You are always looking for the missing story. So when I was a kid - you know 16 - teenager - I was reading Shakespeare and I thought that yeah this one's got a lost child in it. This will give me a clue.  Can you give us a synopsis of this play for those of us - and I will cop to being one of them - but for those of us who have not read The Winter's Tale?  The Winter's Tale starts like Othello on speed really. You know you have got a guy who suddenly becomes insanely jealous of his wife and his wife's best friend. She is pregnant. She is about to give birth. And the king - in Shakespeare's play the king suddenly thinks it is not my baby. You know it is my best friend's baby. And I am going to throw her out. I am going to try and kill him. I am going to abandon the child. You know it is the usual male rage you know? It is homicide from every pore. So you know it is a very modern story. We all know it is happening on the streets every day. And that is what Shakespeare was looking at. But of course the baby although it is thrown out you know then grows up to be a lovely young woman whose survival identity is so necessary you know to go on forward with the tale. And you know she is taken to another country. She grows up and eventually she is reconciled with her father. And we believe that her mother the queen is dead. But in fact she is not. And at the end of the story you know she comes back and everybody in it finds there is a new ending.  Let us talk about your reimagined versions of these characters.  So you have got Leontes and Polixenes - Leontes king of Sicilia and Polixenes king of Bohemia you know invented places. So I thought OK I am going to set it in the present day. But I thought a king what is that? It is an alpha male so - and somebody who is in control who thinks he is like lord of the universe a time lord he can do what he likes. And I thought who would that be now? It is got to be a banker has not it?  .  Somebody just saying do what you like with other people's lives and spend all the money. So I thought OK we will have Leo. And he can run a hedge fund called Sicilia. And we will have his best friend - we will not call him Polixenes. We will call him Xeno. And we will make Xeno a gay guy who designs video games in an imagined American city called New Bohemia which yes is New Orleans in a different disguise. So you know that is kind of my setting for it.  Describe their relationship.  Well in the play you do not get any back story for any of the characters. And what I wanted to do was build those stories. And I thought why are these two guys both - why are they so close and also why are they - what is this jealousy about? 'ecause it is really a triangle. It is not just that Leo's jealous about his wife. He is jealous about his best friend as well.  He thinks they are having a thing.  Yeah he thinks they are having an affair. But he is also - you know there is a kind of homoerotic impulse behind it which is just under the surface in Shakespeare. So I sent them off to boarding school together you know a couple of young kids from damaged families that - these two guys become friends for life. They have an unusual kind of affair at boarding school no big deal. Leo goes on to be a rampant heterosexual. Xeno is gay. And for a while that works beautifully. And then the conflict sets in. So that is the basis of the story.  And the central tension - we do not want to give away too much - but it is about ideas of loyalty of fidelity.  Yeah because you know Leo just manages to smash everything up. He betrays his wife his best friend the people around him his business... You know the fallout of male rage is always huge is not it? It is like how much can I destroy in how short a time?  Have you had some angry men in your life Jeanette?  Oh there is a lot of angry men out there. You know I mean look the whole planet's at war what are you talking about  you know gunning each other to pieces. And what Shakespeare's saying is you know it takes five minutes to destroy it. How long is it going to take to build this right again the trust you know the love the lives you know the fallout? And in the play it takes 16 years.  Leo tried to destroy his best friend...  Yeah.  ...Tried to destroy his wife. He gives away the baby he thinks is not his. And this baby's name is The Lost One.  Perdita.  Perdita.  Yeah Perdita. The little lost one is what the name means.  Because you have this personal experience because you were adopted did you find yourself imbuing Perdita with some of your own story?  The central story is the story of that dislodgment that abandonment and having to try and find yourself. And Perdita does not know her own backstory just as I did not know mine and eventually she discovers it. And I think when she decides to come to London and look for Leo she is really struggling with that idea. You know should I do it? What is it going to be like? Maybe I will go and stand across the street so that I can catch a glimpse of him. That is something I can really relate to you know when I was looking for my biological mother. What I wanted more than anything was to see her across the street. So looking at you know this story where you have got a child searching for an identity yes you know I could really relate to that and put it in.  How many liberties did you take - were you allowed to take in reinventing this Shakespearean play?  You do what you like. Come on he is dead .  .  Absolutely but you know what I think Shakespeare would have respected this. You know if I was channeling him now you know through the Ouija board I think he would be saying look this is fine because he never invented a plot. And you know he just used to take other people's stuff and rework it. So I you know I felt great freedom there.  The new novel is called The Gap Of Time. It is written by Jeanette Winterson. Thank you so much for talking with us Jeanette.  Thank you very much bye. 