 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. This past week the Dow Jones Industrial Average fought its way back to close above 10000 - again a 53 percent gain in just seven months. So does this mean that the economy's finally getting its groove back? NPR's Chris Arnold reports.  There is a definite glass-half-full or half-empty element to the Dow hovering around 10000 again. It is way up off the bottom but it is still flat compared to where it was a decade ago - the first time the Dow crossed 10000. Ms.  Well I tossed up a piece of confetti. Actually this is the 26th time we have crossed this so-called milestone here.  Juli Niemann is a stock analyst with Smith Moore and Company in St. Louis Missouri. Safe to say she is underwhelmed about the Dow's return to 10000. Ms.  It is kind of like a cruise ship crossing the equator. You know you got back and forth and back and forth and the guys are decking out their Dow 10000 ball caps again. We are going to revisit this a number of times because it still is not over.  Niemann says the economy has avoided complete Armageddon and things are stabilizing so that is why the market's come up. And she says investors are now piling into stocks because they do not want to miss the rebound. But longer term Niemann says the road to recovery is not going to be fun. Ms.  It is going to be like walking through mud. In other words you are not drowning it is not quicksand it is mud but we simply cannot make any kind of progress here.  Niemann actually predicts that the economy is still so out of whack companies and individuals have so over-borrowed that the stock market is going to basically stay flat for another 10 years. So that does not sound very encouraging. Mr.  I am more optimistic about the course of the U.S. economy and about the stock market. This is not fluff.  Nariman Behravesh is chief economist of IHS Global Insight. Mr.  For businesses the confidence that comes about when their stock prices increase is important and it is one of the factors that is going to determine how soon they start to rehire.  And that is of course important in terms of getting the unemployment rate back down and getting the economy's momentum moving in the right direction. So there is the rising stock market also profits are improving at many kinds of companies. The U.S. is exporting more products and all that has Behravesh thinking... Mr.  Not only is the recession over but it sure looks like the recovery has begun and begun in earnest.  It might not be a strong recovery. Even Behravesh says that unemployment will remain stubbornly high - around seven percent - even five years from now. But... Mr.  The message is it is getting better hang in there.  Chris Arnold NPR News. 