 Let us check in now with StoryCorps' Military Voices Initiative. Each Saturday between now and Veterans Day we will hear a news story from the men and women who have served in the post-911 conflicts. Today memories of a fallen Marine. Lance Cpl. Brian Parrello was the only member of his platoon who did not make it home from Iraq. They were patrolling near the Haditha dam when Brian was killed by an IED. He was 19 years old. Since then Brian's platoon and his family have grown close. And one of those Marines Sgt. Kevin Powell recently sat down for a StoryCorp conversation with Brian's mother Shirley Parrello.  Tell me about the day Brian died.  We took fire that day. And we heard a large explosion and we could feel it. I see that Brian's laying there with his shirt cut open. His rifle had been blown in half from the IED that he hit. I grabbed his hand and he looked at me. And he was not yelling and he was not upset. I can still picture him. And I picture him all the time. I spend a lot of time laying in bed not being able to go to sleep just thinking what if I had done something differently? What could I have done better? And I still have those thoughts.  I wanted to make sure that none of you guys felt as if we blamed anybody for what happened. And that I know you guys did the best you could. I am just happy that he was with his other family. Even though we could not be there with him he was with people that loved him.  I still think about that day every day but our relationship has most certainly made it easier.  The day that I met your platoon - do you remember?  I could not wait to meet you and give you a hug. And I remember running through my head what I would say to you. I walked up to you. I gave you a hug. And I did not say anything because I could not. And I am sorry for that.  You do not have to apologize because the hug was enough. As a little boy when he would go to bed at night I would tuck him in and give him a kiss and a hug. And then I would walk out of the room and he would say one more hug Mom. This would go on. I mean it was like 10 times. I would have to go back and forth. And at the time you are thinking come on Brian. Please? You know it is late. And now I would give anything to have one more hug.  The day that you lost Brian you gained 20-something other sons and we will always be your sons.  Yes. You were his family so that means you are my family.  It never ceases to amaze me at how strong you are. The things that we talk about that I can hardly talk about and he was your son. And I want to tell you I know you are hurting and I will always be there for you.  I know.  For as long as I am alive.  That was former Marine Sgt. Kevin Powell with Shirley Parrello whose son Brian was killed in Iraq. Their conversation will be archived at the Library of Congress. It was recorded in West Milford New Jersey where later this year Brian's platoon will join the Parrello family to mark the ten years since Brian's death. You can hear more from the Military Voices Initiative on the StoryCorps podcast which you can get on iTunes and at npr.org. 