  China should start an investigation into the Bidens.  That was President Trump on Thursday on television outside the White House and largely unprompted appealing to China to investigate one of his political rivals. We are joined now by former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper. General Clapper thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me.  You concerned when you hear that?  Oh absolutely. I mean under any other circumstance this would be jaw-dropping. But in this case it is kind of normal. And the thought of asking China an adversary a country that is not known for practicing rule of law to investigate a U.S. citizen is kind of beyond the pale.  The Trump administration the U.S. government's been in an escalating trade war with China for over a year. Do you think the president's request can somehow be used as a bargaining chip in that either by the U.S. or China?  Well absolutely. That was more or less the first thought I had. Well is he willing to compromise on the negotiations - which you know are appropriate - but would he compromise them in the interests of getting investigatory evidence against a political rival? But do not know that - but that possibility certainly comes to mind.  You have talked about China - and Russia for that matter - being threats to U.S. national security. Do you have any concern General Clapper that an invitation like this for the Chinese government to investigate another U.S. political figure - let me put it that way - might somehow be used to prompt an American intelligence official to give information to China's intelligence services?  Well I do not know that there could be a direct correlation. I suppose that is possible depending on the motivation of the individual. And that has been a challenge for some years about citizens often of Chinese descent or have some connection with China who for whatever reason - primarily financial has been the case - where they have compromised sensitive U.S. national security information. So that that could happen - speculation but it could.  President reportedly told President Xi in June the U.S. would not give any support to pro-democracy demonstrators in Hong Kong as long as those trade talks continue. Course the president has largely been silent on issues like the imprisonment of more than a million Chinese Uighurs. Now human rights advocates might find this discouraging. But in a practical world did not most nations in this world despite their high-minded human rights rhetoric decide years ago they are - they will not let human rights trump if you please the importance of an economic relationship with China?  Well there is probably been a history of that we are - although we have publicly stressed the importance of human rights - past administrations have - you know the pragmatics are that for other reasons they have kind of compromised overlooked that. I think that is different though than compromising this country for the sake of advancing a political agenda an individual political agenda. And that to me is a distinction here. You know we have dealt with China. We have dealt with the likes of North Korea Russia others - now Saudi Arabia - who are not big proponents of human rights. But you know for other pragmatic reasons they have decided to you know ascribe lesser - less importance to human rights than another interests I will put it that way.  When you say compromise that is not - are you using the word in the political sense or compromise in the sense that actual information is risked and given to the other side?  No I meant it in the political or policy context of prioritizing policy objectives. And one of which might be human rights. I meant it in that context not in the sense of compromising sensitive information.  We have just got 20 seconds left. The president does not seem to trust the word of the intelligence community thinks they are out to get him.  Well that is been his attitude from the get-go. I mean when he became president elect very suspicious of the intelligence community's part of the so-called deep state. And the whistleblower complaint I am sure has added to that paranoia about the intelligence community.  Former Director of National Intelligence James Clapper thanks so much for being with us.  Thanks for having me. 