 And authorities are continuing to watch the Arkema chemical plant north of Houston. Multiple fires at the plant which was damaged by floods have drawn attention to the public health hazards posed by the region's enormous chemical and refining industries. NPR's Rebecca Hersher reports that the risk is especially acute for those who live near industrial areas.  The Houston area has one of the largest concentrations of petrochemical manufacturing in the world. The industry is not hiding. Drive 15 minutes out of downtown and the tanks and towers loom up. Tanker trucks rumble by...   ...Right next to houses.   .  Eighteen-year-old Arianda Diaz and her father Sotero Carrizal say they have noticed pollution in their east Houston neighborhood Manchester.  .  Yeah. Oh yeah I was sick from asthma because of it too.  Oh really?  Yeah I have gotten sick from it.  Manchester is surrounded by petrochemical plants. A refinery flanks one side. There is a metal recycling plant on another and row upon row of chemical storage tanks next to that. Smokestacks rise behind playgrounds. Compared to elsewhere in Houston houses are comparatively inexpensive. And like most people in the neighborhood Carrizal has lived there a long time 40 years.  .  Like a lot of people have died from cancer because of the factories. Like we rent out the house next door to like people. And like he died from cancer because of this.  It is difficult to link a single case of cancer to pollution. But the Union of Concerned Scientists an environmental nonprofit found residents in Manchester are at least 24 percent more likely to develop cancer or respiratory illnesses than residents of wealthy neighborhoods in Houston. And that risk is under normal circumstances - before the flood which has public health experts worried.  Oh this is perfect.  Yeah.  You never thought you would like at mud like good or bad.  Yeah.  Kahler Stone and Gaston Casillas are part of a toxicology and epidemiology team from Texas AM that visited the neighborhood on Friday. Manchester was actually spared serious flooding but was surrounded by high water like a moat. Stone and Casillas are crouching in a ditch filled with mud water and trash. There is an oily sheen on everything.  We are taking soil and mud and water samples throughout the whole neighborhood. And we are looking for any kind of contamination due to the extra water that is come through.  They are testing for heavy metals lead arsenic as well as other potentially dangerous chemicals associated with petroleum. Jennifer Horney leads the AM team.  There are 400 chemicals in petroleum. And so people are never going to be exposed to just one at a time. So we are trying to come up with rapid ways that we can assess what - if someone's exposed to 80 chemicals at a time what might be the health impact of that without having to look at each one separately?  She and her team were already studying the neighborhood before Harvey. Now with contaminated floodwaters and air pollution from refineries shutting down and restarting their work has taken on new urgency. They are working overtime to get results from Friday's testing done by next week. And Horney says problems with contamination post-Harvey go far beyond Houston. The so-called Chemical Coast stretches a long way.  I think one of the concerns is that some of the areas that are outside of Houston that are also the home of these large petrochemical and industrial sites will be left out because the response will focus on the city of Houston because there are just so many people here.  But she is concerned that a smaller community could be hard-hit by widespread health problems or the loss of livestock. What is clear is that even as the water recedes the pollution will remain. Rebecca Hersher NPR News. 