 SpongeBob Squarepants is going to take a bit of a breather today. Nickelodeon the entertainment TV network for children is going dark for three hours this afternoon along with its Web site. The network wants to encourage children to logoff tune out and just play. They are calling it the Worldwide Day of Play. For some expert insight we are joined again by kid reporter Brennan LaBrie founder and publisher of the Spruce Street Weekly in Port Townsend Washington. Brennan good to have you back. Mr.  Nice talking to you.  By the way you are definitely back by popular demand. We had you on our show a few weeks ago when you were to be a reporter on the magazine Time For Kids and such an audience favorite we look for chances to bring you back so nice to join you again. Mr.  Mm-hmm.  You going to participate? Mr.  Yes I am. And it is a really beautiful fall over here so playing outside is going to be a lot of fun.  Now I understand you did some reporting for us about what some of your friends are also going to be doing. Mr.  Yes. And I also interviewed a few elementary age classes.  Mm-hmm. Mr.  Most of them were kind of - were gasping at first What? Because they did not know about it.  Mr.  But then I just mentioned play outside and they were all for it.  Oh good. Good. So what are some of your friends doing just playing outside generally? Mr.  Yes. They were a lot of bike riders in the group. And one boy was perfectly fine with going out and playing his GameBoy.  Playing with his GameBoy? Mr.  Yeah.   Does that count?  Mr.  I do not know.  It does not quite fit the spirit of it. Mr.  Does not quite fit yeah what Nickelodeon wants.  Yeah. I am told you do not even have a television at home right? Mr.  No. But I love to get like a collection of SpongeBob or something and watch it on a rainy day with some hot chocolate.  Guarantee you I have watched SpongeBob a few times with our six-year-old and I just do not get it. He is a sponge right? Mr.  Right. It is just nonsense.  Okay. Well... Mr.  Just something to - when just tired of all this stuff in the world you can just lie back to see a world of innocence and fun.   Thank you Brennan. That is good to know. I think we can all stand that from time to time. Now last time we spoke with you you were among the finalist to be a reporter for Time for Kids. How did that work out? Mr.  It is been going pretty good and Time For Kids is getting some good assignments for me.  Can you share with us some of the story ideas or is that like you know exclusive to the Spruce Street Weekly and Time? Mr.  Hmm. Right now I am coming up with ideas and the Winter Olympics is a possibility.  Yeah Winter Olympics are in Vancouver right? Mr.  Right. It is right across the Sound and I am always ready for an assignment.  Brennan to cover the Winter Olympics at your age would that be wonderful huh? Mr.  That is going to be one of the high points of my life.  Oh my God. Mr.  That is going to be so exciting.  Well Brennan I hope that all works out. May I ask again how old are you? Mr.  I just turned 10 three days ago.  Seriously you are 10 years old? Mr.  Uh-huh.  Oh I bet you get that a lot do not you? Mr.  Uh-huh.   Brennan LaBrie awfully nice talking to you again. Mr.  Nice talking to you too.  Brennan LaBrie who joined us on the phone from his home in Washington State where is an editor publisher founder of the Spruce Street Weekly. Happy day of play Brennan. Mr.  Yes.  Take care. Talk to you again I hope. Mr.  Bye.  Bye-bye.   Hey kids play. You are listening to WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. 