 Finally time for sports.   The NFL suddenly powered by free agents. Are the Pats running out of gas? And the return of the Tiger . Joined now by NPR sports correspondent Tom Goldman who is somewhere in Minnesota - actually Minneapolis. He is pretty easy to find. Tom thanks so much for being with us.  Always a pleasure Scott. How are you?  I am fine thanks. A little over three weeks into the season. Free agents are getting contracts. Among them let me ask you about safety Eric Reid. This was kind of a surprise yes.  Sure is. And it is not just any free agent signing. Eric Reid former San Francisco teammate of Colin Kaepernick's. He followed Kaepernick's lead and was the second player to take a knee during the national anthem protests. And he also filed a collusion grievance against the NFL like Kaepernick after he was not signed as a free agent. But the Carolina Panthers needed a good defensive back. He is a good defensive back. You know and Carolina has gone to saying this is a business decision. But it is still significant. And it is notable that the new Carolina owner David Tepper this hedge fund billionaire - he is been very outspoken against President Trump which as you know is a rarity in the club of NFL owners and very supportive of protesting players. In a TV interview this month he said these are some of the most patriotic people and best people. These are great young men.  Which obviously introduces the question does this mean Colin Kaepernick is somewhere in the immediate horizon?  Yeah you know there have been rumblings about that. It is hard to predict of course. He is the symbol for player protests. And you know it is going to take a lot still for a team to sign him even though things seem to be going you know the other way as far as kind of you know we have not really heard much about anthem protests so far this season. Jimmy Garoppolo of the 49ers. The quarterback went down last week with a season-ending knee injury. San Francisco's head coach said when asked about hey there is Kaepernick out there - he said no he does not fit our system. So still nothing with Colin Kaepernick.  Looking across the league the Pats who of course were in the Super Bowl earlier this year have a losing record at 1-2. Now of course let us not get carried away. It is early in the season. But is this just a slow start or is the team beginning to fade save for its quarterback?  Yeah recent history says let us not get carried away. But there are danger signs. They have lost two straight. That did not happen in those earlier slow starts. The defenses look bad. Tom Brady cannot do it alone. He is operating with a subpar set of wide receivers. And he is not getting much help from his running game. You throw in the recent new book about New England head coach Bill Belichick which says according to an unnamed source that Brady has had it with Mr. Grumpy Belichick and wants a divorce. You know maybe this is the time the dynasty is starting to come apart. Either way there is going to be a lot of interest in tomorrow's game against division rival Miami. The Dolphins are undefeated. And they are leading the division.  Golf. Ryder Cup again in France this week. And once again Tiger Woods is getting a lot of attention on the course.  Which is not the norm with the Ryder Cup this wonderful every-two-year team event. You know but this year there was a ton of focus on Tiger after he won last weekend for the first time in more than five years. So that attention was warranted. That Tiger mania quieted with the start of competition yesterday. Plus he did not play well. In fact the entire U.S. team after a strong start was outplayed by the Euros. But Scott beyond this weekend there is still going to be a ton of excitement for next season when the golfers are back at it for themselves. And Tiger Woods should be in the mix to win major tournaments again.  As we noted you are in Minnesota there to follow the green-winged teal duck migration story which I know you love.   Yeah. Yeah. And I am exhausted. These little fellows are hard to keep up with. Let me tell you.   Hard to put the mic under their wings yes. OK. Yeah.   No Scott. I am here on a very serious mission. I am following American Flat Track which is dirt track motorcycle racing. Now I was interested by one of the top riders being a woman. You know there is this old stereotype of women riding on the back of motorcycles hanging onto their boyfriends. Well some women certainly love to ride recreationally. And 27-year-old Shayna Texter is one of the best racers in American Flat Track. So I will be doing a story on her and the sport later this week.  We will look forward to it. Tom Goldman thanks so much.  Thank you Scott. 