 Health and Human Services Secretary Tom Price has resigned after mounting pressure and criticism over his use of private charter and military jets for work travel at public expense. NPR lead political editor Domenico Montanaro joins us. Domenico thanks very much for being with us.  Thanks Scott.  The president had joked - or maybe he did not joke when he spoke to the Boy Scouts earlier this year - that he would fire Tom Price if the health care bill did not pass. So how surprised should we really be?   Well Price was fired for a different reason ostensibly than the health care bill not passing. But Scott I do not think we should be surprised by anything anymore  in this age. But you know - and plus it was kind of a strange criticism given that Price is not somebody who would be going and getting actual votes. But you know this private plane scandal became too much.  Well take us back a little bit. How did the revelations lead to the quick resignation?  Well a red alert went off for me the other day on Wednesday when Trump was asked if he was going to fire Price. And he said we will see and that he was not happy about the private plane situation. Price tried to make it go away by saying he would write a check for his seat on the plane which amounted to about 52000 as compared to what Politico had reported was anywhere between 400000 and 1000000 worth of private plane rides. Of course that includes staffers and others. And that was not enough for the president. Cable news coverage was still pretty bad to be perfectly honest. He is also trying to pass a tax cut plan where they are trying to argue that there are going to be middle-class tax cuts. And they are kind of losing the PR battle on that. And the last thing they needed was to have a situation where you have a Cabinet secretary flying around on private planes...  Yeah.  ...At taxpayer expense. So it was a pretty good bet that something like this could happen on a Friday afternoon.  And Domenico of course there are several members of the Cabinet - members of the Trump administration have used private or military planes for travel. Are we going to see a sequence of resignations?  You know it depends I think on what you wind up seeing - I really frankly think - when it comes to cable news coverage. If that becomes something that dominates the airwaves if the questions persist and continue at the briefing rooms when it comes to these other Cabinet members - you are talking about Scott Pruitt who had taken a plane and some others. And you know I think that that is really what winds up influencing this president almost more than anything else. And right now what is dominating news coverage are those tweets from the president about Puerto Rico and I have a feeling that that is what is going to be dominating.  New guidance has been issued by the White House for official travel. What will this mean?  Right. Well I think that this shows that the new White House chief of staff John Kelly is fully in charge and putting his stamp on things because any private plane travel now by any administration official has to be approved by the White House chief of staff. That is really something.  Tom Price gave up a pretty sure seat in Congress.   Sure did.  Anything on the horizon - well he is a physician is not he? I guess he goes back into - can go back into private practice.  He could go into private practice. But remember with how he got some of this money that - I mean think about it. I do not know if I could pay 52000 in a check. I do not think I could. You know a lot of that had to do with the scandal when it came to insider trading. And I think you could wind up seeing Price wind up on some kind of board a health board something like that - a pharmaceutical company. But yes 50 million was spent on that Georgia congressional race and now he is gone.  NPR's Domenico Montanaro thanks very much for being with us.  You are so welcome. Thanks as always. 