 This week the acting Director of National Intelligence Joseph Maguire sat before the House Intelligence Committee. The hearing of course focused on President Trump's phone call with the Ukrainian president but we noticed that Maguire also said this.   The greatest challenge that we do have is to make sure that we maintain the integrity of our election system.  So of course we thought to bring in NPR's Miles Parks who covers voting and election security. Hi Miles.  Good morning.  You have been covering this issue as the country has been scrambling to react to the 2016 election in time for 2020. So where do Maguire's comments fit into that?  So there is two things on this. The intelligence community views this threat as something that is constantly changing. You know we have to protect against the types of attacks we saw in 2016 - your phishing attacks these break-ins to voter registration systems - but you also have to protect for what is going to be coming next. We have seen increased focus for instance from the Department of Homeland Security talking about ransomware as a threat to elections. This is something we have seen affect other aspects of government but we have not seen it break into the election space yet.  And that is when someone hacks into...  When an attacker hacks into your system he is able to basically lock it down and say if you do not pay me this money we are either going to not let you access it again or we are going to delete everything which you can imagine would have a huge effect if this were to happen a week or a month before an election needs to happen.  OK.  So we have that kind of a focus on what is going to be happening in 2020 and 2024. But then the other thing is that this comment from Maguire just feels naturally at odds with President Trump's actions. We had the head of the spy community saying the integrity of our elections is our top priority when just a couple months ago President Trump was clearly willing to ask a foreign leader for help to dig up dirt on a political rival.  Republicans on the whole have been more resistant to the idea that our elections need an overhaul right? But Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell recently said he would reverse course and would now support giving more money to states to improve election security. So what is he saying there and what is happening?  So Mitch McConnell now says he will support giving about 250 million - this is in addition to the 380 million that came from Congress last year - in grants to the states. But election officials on a whole are actually really frustrated at the precedent this could be setting - these one-time surprise chunks of money as opposed to consistent year-to-year funding.  That allows them to plan.  Exactly - allows them to plan and implement the technology in ways that are not so ad hoc. The acting secretary of state of Pennsylvania - her name's Katherine Boockvar - she talked about this exact thing in a hearing on Capitol Hill on Friday.   We do not do once-and-done appropriations for other types of security for health care for education. We look at these as ongoing investments and that is how we have to look at our elections. Nothing is more important than the security of our democracy.  Is this new funding going to be in place in time for the 2020 elections?  So probably not. It takes a while to get this money out to states and get it spent. But the 380 million that was allocated last year on a whole will probably be spent in a way that it will have an effect on the 2020 election. But it is also important Lulu to have context here. The United States is going to be in a much-improved place than where we were leading into the 2016 election. Maybe the most - the biggest vulnerability leading to that election was actually like a lack of awareness and a lack of communication. And those aspects of our election infrastructure have been greatly improved. But confidence is shaken right now and it is going to take a long time and a lot of improvement before election officials can say with a lot of confidence that the way we vote is completely secure. We are not there yet.  NPR's Miles Parks breaking it down. Thanks so much.  Thank you. 