 Monday Labor Day so we thought we would turn to the hardest working man in the annoying music business a man with whom every conversation is a labor of love. And youve got to love the labor. I speak of course of Jim Nayder who is at WBEZ in Chicago. He has a passel of tunes with which to wind down the summer. Jim how are you? Mr.  Scott I feel like a debutante with thick ankles.   Well... Mr.  Not in a good place right now.  Its the end of the summer my friend. So the ankles are swelling. Look we have some music cued up that youve guided us to. So for reasons known only to you and Rod Blagojevich...   ....you have requested we open up  now  the Singing Sisters of Syracuse? Mr.  Yes. Theres nothing that can usher in the end of summer better than nuns with kazoos.    Shine on shine on harvest moon up in the sky...  Well it puts me in a difficult position because I mean they are nuns theyre wonderful people. You dont want to criticize a group of nuns. But... Mr.  Well wait for the kazoo...  ...theyre not the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. Mr.  Bring up the kazoos.   I like that kazoo part. I think thats very endearing. Mr.  Weve only just begun so hang in there.  Well we have the my notes say the Juanita Banana Song? Mr.  Well yeah. Today for Labor Day we are honoring the worlds hardest laborers. A recent study by the World Health Organization or as I like to call them The Who determined that banana growers are the hardest working workers in the world.  Are you  you being serious about this? Mr.  Youre asking me if I am being serious?  Yeah.   It is the subtext - every one of my questions. But yeah is that a real study or something youve contrived for the convenience... Mr.  Its a study I heard about on the street.   All right. So this is a song to salute them? Mr.  Yes.  Mr. J.R.  In a little Spanish town just south of the Mexican border...  Excuse me lovely Spanish town would not be south of the Mexican border.   But I digress yes? Mr.  Only NPR would know that.  Mr.  Dear Juanita would sing each day in day in the fields soon as her work was done. Unidentified Woman   Jim... Mr.  Yes Scott I am here. I am here.  Who did this because I feel I should contact my member of Congress...   ...and let them know that they are  I feel like I should contact Interpol and let them know that they are out there. Mr.  This is done by J.R. Corvington. And you may not know this but a banana growers daughter who sings opera attracted the documentary efforts of Ken Burns. So you can look for that series on PBS soon.   My notes now say we have next what could be the original mash-up. Mr.  Well outside of July 4th Labor Day is considered the most important barbecue day in America which is why we must announce ladies and gentlemen start your barbecues.  Unidentified People  Oh I wish I were an Oscar Mayer Weiner...  This is sacrilege. This is taking the Oscar Mayer Weiner whistle song and mashing it up with the National Anthem? I mean Mahmoud Ahmadinejad wouldnt do this to the National Anthem. Mr.  Every time I see it I have never seen so many bratwursts standing at attention.  Mr.  And we are right on theme for Labor Day. Scott?  Yes? Mr.  Are you still there?  Yes I am here. Right on theme for Labor Day yeah. Yeah.  Mr.  Well often interviewers will just leave the studio.   Believe me I am trying but they dont know enough to throw the bolt.   You know that we profiled an artist years ago named Morris Katz. He was known as the world's fastest artist. Mr.  Yeah that sounds familiar.  And he was painting and he said last night last night the woman on my door pounding on my door pounding on my door pounding on my door 00 a.m. I got up I let her out.   Reminds me of doing two-ways with you. But I digress. Go ahead. Yes? Mr.  Well Scott do you read the newspapers or listen to the news?  As little as possible. Of course I listen to the news. Mr.  Well from listening to your program I can never tell.  Mr.  But any avid reader knows that around Labor Day newspapers are filled with advertisements for mattress sales. And these bedding discounts extend even to Finland.   They sleep in Finland too. Did you - what did you think they stood up like horses when they slept? Of course no they have mattresses.  Unidentified Man   Is this Finnish? Mr.  Yes.  How do you know its Finnish?   If youre so sure it is Finnish... Mr.  Prove it is not. Prove it is not.   You first. You first. I mean say two other words to me in Finnish. Mr.  Well I can say the name of the group it is Ecclesias so...  Right. Mr.  I do not know if that is two words but...  And what is the song about? Mr.  Well you know it is beds are burning. It is the famous you know by Midnight Oil I believe. And actually medical experts say the only way to deal with this bed bug epidemic is to burn your bed with midnight oil so it is kind of a synergy thing going there.   Well this...  Mr.  Oops Scott can you hold for a second?  Of course Jim. Yes.  Mr.  That is my FedEx that comes every day.  Mr.  See what we have here. Oh my gosh. It is the Telly Savalas Sings album.  Mr.   Somewhere in her smile she knows that I dont need no other lover.  He was one of the greats wasnt he?  Mr.   Something in her style that shows me... Mr.  Scott is not Who Loves You Baby the title of your new book?   Very similar. Mr.  And having Kojak do the forward is really an interesting choice.   Inspired.  Mr.   Youre asking me...  He was one of the greats. Mr.  He was. And speaking of babies...  Yes? Mr.  ...when you think of Labor Day well you think of Labor Day.    Having my baby what a lovely way of saying how much you love me.  Oh my gosh.    Having baby what a lovely way of saying what you are thinking about me.   Oh.    I can see it is your face is... Mr.  I could wipe some of the tears off my microphone.  Yes. No. It is...   So it is we know its not Paul Anka. Mr.  That is Piranha Man from Pakistan.  One of your favorites Parana Man. Mr.  He is a favorite of The Annoying Music Show and pretty much no one else.  Well he is a real strong - he is a real song stylist.   I do not know you know I am trying to end this as soon as possible but I can see that...   I am seeing this is going to be difficult because we have another song to hear because the days are getting shorter right? Mr.  Yeah Scott like me. Being from the Midwest you know Labor Day signifies the end of summer and cold snowy days are ahead. So naturally our thoughts head to the West Coast and sunny California. Unfortunately our plane overshot its runway and ended up in Leningrad with the Alexandrov Red Army Ensemble.    The East Coast girls are hip. I really dig those styles they wear. And the Southern girls with the way they talk they knock me out when I am down there. The Mid-West farmer's daughters really make you feel all right.  Jim? Mr.  I hear the beaches in Siberia are lovely this time of year.  I you know their are East Coast girls are hip it - to those guys it means from Vladivostok. That is the East Coast to them.   That is one of the most stupefying pieces of music that I have ever heard. Were they serious? Mr.  Yes. They you know they...  I mean look theyve all got great voices. They are wonderful performers. Of course it is a classic song but whose grim idea was it to put it together like that?  Mr.  Well it wasnt John Lennon I will tell you that.   Jim thank you very much. Mr.  Scott you are not an NPR host you are paradise.     I wish they all could be California...  Annoying Music man Jim Nayder is speaking with us from WBEZ in Chicago where he manages desperately to hold on to some kind of job. This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 