 I am sure I am not the only one and I wanted to meet New York Times science writer John Tierney in person to find out why that is. And he graciously agreed to meet me at a cupcake shop in New York called Sweet Revenge where we each picked our poison.  I got the pure vanilla.  Yes and I have the Crimson and cream which is technically red velvet. So we both have our cupcakes but we are going to see who really - who reaches for the cupcake first right OK?  All right.  In keeping with the spirit of the book.   OK.  So the title of the book is Willpower Rediscovering the Greatest Human Strength. Now I thought the greatest human strength was opposable thumbs...   ...but it sounds like you found otherwise. I mean what - define willpower.  Well it is more than a metaphor. Willpower is more than a metaphor. The Victorians talked about this vague idea of it being some you know form of mental energy. And in the last 15 years we have discovered that it really is a form of energy in the brain. It is like a muscle that can be strengthened with use but it also gets fatigued with use.  Now I was under the impression that I had different amounts of willpower for different things. That you know when it comes to doing things for work I had a certain amount of willpower and discipline. But when it came to other parts of my life like exercise my willpower seemed to be - I just did not seem to have as much. But it sounds like you are saying that is not the case.  You know one of the tricks for dieting is to keep the food out of sight. They have done experiments in the laboratory and in real life where just putting food where you can see it next to you depletes your willpower. Whereas putting it away in a drawer or putting it across the room makes it easier for you because you are not actively resisting that temptation.  So give us an idea how you actually test or study something like willpower. It is not just - I assume it is not just a case of putting a plate of chocolate chip cookies in front of someone and see what they do.  Well actually one of the famous experiments involves chocolate chip cookies and radishes. These students would skip a meal go into the lab and they would have to wait in a waiting room. And on the table there was a plate of radishes and a plate of freshly baked chocolate chip cookies. And they found that the act of actually resisting those cookies the people in that condition had less self-control later. They would give up sooner on tasks. They would have a harder time...  So the test was not actually the cookies and the radishes. The test was later sort of how much...  The test is later.  ...energy you had later on to deal with temptation.  Exactly. And so things later on you would have a harder time doing. You could manage to get by the cookies but then you would not be able to do a puzzle. Or you would quit sooner doing another task.  So what are some of the implications of this you think?  Well one of the things is that you only have a finite amount as you go through the day so you should be careful to conserve it.  Talk a little bit about I guess what this means then for dieters say.  Now you can get glucose from lots of things and not just these cupcakes next to us. You can get it from more nutritious fare. There is this Catch-22 that dieters have where in order to diet you need willpower. But in order to have willpower you need to eat.  So you have called willpower a muscle but how do we exercise that particular muscle?  And that is probably one of the reasons that people who are religious tend to have more self-control. This has been shown in study after study. And one of the reasons probably is that they do these exercises most religions have prayers you say exercises meditations you do. All those things build up that self-control muscle.  What are some of the sort of hints and clues that people can look for in their own lives for when their willpower is being depleted? I mean beyond the obvious beyond reaching for the cupcake or the cigarette or whatever it is what are the little red flags that you should look for?  And so you therefore respond more strongly to everything. And you want you know cravings feel stronger your irritation feels stronger at things. And so when you feel this it is a sign that you are being depleted. And either try to get some glucose in you do not make any life-changing decisions then...   Do not make any life-changing decisions between like two and five I guess...  Right. Late in the afternoon is good. You know just at the end of the day I mean you know people do not get into real trouble with you know having affairs and going out on drunken - that tends to happen in the evening.  John Tierney thank you so much for talking with us.  Thank you.  And I think it is time to dig in actually.  All right. Well we are replenishing our willpower now with glucose you know.   This is a little bit too much glucose I would think. But now I have an excuse for that afternoon cookie.  Oh really good. That vanilla is just amazing. Aww now I can feel it coming back.  Oh my God.  The willpower is coming back. Mmm. 