 Lazy Sunday mornings time to catch up on some sleep sip coffee read the paper and maybe   clip a few coupons. Well that might have been the case some years ago but now in the digital day and age when everyone's moving faster than a tweet on Twitter who has time to sleep sip and snip? Coupons are now available electronically via Web sites and cell phones and they are becoming increasingly popular especially with the younger generation. Thirty-year-old accountant April Englebert is here to tell us how she is using e-coupons to help save money in this ailing economy. She joins us from Oregon Public Broadcasting. Good to have you with us April. Ms.  Hello.  So tell me April as an accountant do you consider yourself to be a thrifty person? Ms.  I think so. By nature I am yes.  How exactly do you get these kind of coupons? Maybe you can explain it to those of us who are challenged in this way? Ms.  There are different avenues anywhere from Twitter to Facebook sometimes on the manufacturer's Web site itself also eBay. Sometimes I buy physical coupons when there is something that I need to buy a large quantity of in order to get a deal. Several avenues.  So do you have to have a sort of printout or can you do this digitally as well? Ms.  Not necessarily. Grocery stores yes you do because they physically have to scan the bar code. Usually it is like a coupon code. Sometimes you will get like specifically with the fast food chains you can text a code to this number and they will send you via a text message a coupon code for you know any certain item. And all's you have to do is go into the restaurant and show your cell phone to them.  So have you figured out how much money you have saved? Ms.  Typically when I go to the grocery store I do not pay any more than 50 percent of my bill. On a good day I will probably pay 20 percent of the bill.  Wow that is great. Ms.  Yeah.  How much time do you have to spend doing this though on an average would you say? Ms.  I spend probably a few hours a week. Luckily there are two sites that I go to that they pretty much do all the legwork for you. It is crazycouponlady.com and here in the Northwest it is Frugal Living Northwest. They will match up the coupons with the store that is having the sale and tell you you know exactly what you need to go to which store what to buy to get the best deals.    What are you doing with all the money you are saving?  Ms.  Just putting it away in a savings of course.   You are saving it? Ms.  Yeah.   Ms.   The long lost dollar has back to the fold.  April Englebert joined us from Oregon Public Broadcasting. Good talking with you April. Ms.  Thank you.  Ms.   We are in the money we are in the money. We have got a lot of what it takes to get along. We are in the money. The sky is sunny. Old Man Depression you are through you done us wrong. Oh we never see a headline about breadlines today...  This is NPR News. 