 If you grew up in the United States the McDonald's menu song would probably make sense to you.   Big Mac MC BLT a Quarter Pounder with some cheese Filet-o-Fish a hamburger...  But in India that song does not quite work. That is because McDonald's restaurants in the country may look the same as here but the food often does not. Elliot Hannon reports from New Delhi.  When you walk into a McDonald's in India it does not feel that much different than one in New York.   That is until you try to order. Rajesh Kumar Maini is the head of communications for McDonald's in India. He peruses the giant menu hanging above the register.  See the products that we have like McSpicy Paneer burger - paneer is essentially cottage cheese. Then we have got McAloo Tikki burger the largest selling product here.  When McDonald's first came to India 15 years ago it ditched the Big Macs and Quarter Pounders to try to fit in in a country that frowns upon eating beef. The chain tried recreating its American classics with lamb but it was a flop. Instead McDonald's introduced homegrown alternatives like the vegetarian McAloo Tikki potato burger to go along with its non-beef standards like chicken nuggets and fish sandwiches. Now following the success of its vegetarian meals that make up half of its current menu McDonald's is going one step further. This month the chain announced a plan to open its first 100 percent vegetarian McDonald's in India.  The issue in India is a vegetarian is a strict vegetarian. There have been instances that I have seen where a person who is vegetarian would not even sit with a person who is eating non-vegetarian food. It is that level of seriousness.  The new vegetarian McDonald's will target the strictest of vegetarians in the country - religious pilgrims. Millions of Indians travel to visit holy sites around the country each year. And while on pilgrimage whether or not they eat meat at other times pilgrims adhere to a strict vegetarian diet. Now the country's most devout will see restaurants known around the world for their burgers near the holiest shrines in India.   Outside a Hindu temple in New Delhi a crowd gathers to chant evening prayers. Rahul Bhasin has been on a pilgrimage to Vaishno Devi. It is a Hindu cave shrine that attracts millions of pilgrims and it is one of the sites for the new vegetarian McDonald's.  Had the first McDonald's come up in Vaishno Devi it would have been not the right thing. But now there are a lot of people going to McDonald's who are vegetarians.  Varun Arora is a lifelong vegetarian who also eats at McDonald's from time to time.  I went to Vaishno Devi around three years back. I ate pizza the vegetarian pizza.  Arora says he would gladly trade that pizza for a veggie burger - as long as it does not have onion or garlic in it because those too are forbidden near the shrine. For NPR News I am Elliot Hannon in New Delhi.   This is NPR News. 