 Been an awful lot of punditry in speeches over the past few weeks in the U.K. as the Scottish independence referendum has unfolded - victory speeches campaign speeches concession speeches resignation speeches. As they say in Scotland oy enough. Today we give the microphone to Scotland's poets. NPR's Ari Shapiro reports from Edinburgh.  Exactly seven centuries ago the English and Scottish armies fought the Battle of Bannockburn. It was a turning point in the first war of Scottish independence. The massive English army brought along a poet named Robert Baston to write a work celebrating the great English triumph. But the outnumbered Scottish army defeated the English. Scotland captured the poet who wrote a work celebrating the unexpected triumph of Scotland. Exactly 700 years later Professor Robert Crawford of the University of Saint Andrews recites the poem in the original Latin.  . What that means is as translated in the 21st-century by the Scottish poet Edward Morgan what snatching and catching what bruising and bristling what grief what war horns and warnings what winding and worrying. No relief. It is really a poem of carnage.  And also a poem of Scottish nationalism. Professor Crawford is author of a book called Bannockburns Scottish Independence And The Literary Imagination. He says Scotland has a long proud history of poets celebrating the idea of independence from England. There are also some Scottish poets who have celebrated the United Kingdom.  In the 18th century there were many - the song Rule Britannia for instance which champions the idea of the United Kingdom was written by a Scottish poet.  A man named James Thomson.    Rule Britannia. Britannia rule the waves. Britons never never never shall be slaves.  Scotland has deep ties to its poets. One of the country's most important national celebrations is Burns Night honoring the poet Robert Burns. Steps from the Scottish parliament Edinburgh has a Scottish Poetry Library. Robyn Marsack is the director. She says the library's often asked to provide poems for weddings and funerals.  Significant occasions require and heightened emotion require a language that is on the whole more formal and more memorable than our everyday conversation.  And she says this week's vote on Scottish independence is such an occasion - a moment that requires more eloquence than the words we speak every day. She reaches for a very short poem by an early 20th-century Scottish poet named Hugh MacDiarmid called The Little White Rose.   The rose of all the world is not for me. I want for my part only the little white rose of Scotland that smells sharp and sweet and breaks the heart.  I feel like the question I am supposed to ask is and what does that tell us about the moment we are in? But it speaks so directly to the moment we are in I feel foolish even asking the question.  I think so. I mean I think a lot of people's hearts were broken today. But that there is also a feeling that something has been unleashed that cannot be held back now. It is out there.  Of course poets are still living and working and writing. Just a few weeks ago Edinburgh's poet laureate Christine de Luca wrote a piece called The Morning After Scotland 19th of September 2014. When she wrote it she did not know what the outcome of the independence vote would be. It begins  let none wake despondent. Here she is reading one of the stanzas.   It is those unseen things that bind us not flag or battle-weary turn or tartan. There are dragons to slay whatever happens - poverty false pride snobbery sectarian schisms still hovering. But there is nothing broken that is not repairable.  Ari Shapiro NPR News Edinburgh. 