 On Friday the Senate as expected passed a bill to keep the government funded to mid-November without stripping any funding from the President's health care law. A possible government shutdown therefore looms on Tuesday and the question now is what will the House do? As NPR's Ailsa Chang reports it is hard to say how that battle is going to play out.  On Friday before the vote even the Senate chaplain hinted that the squabbling and mounting anger on Capitol Hill had gotten out of hand. Barry Black delivered his usual morning prayers with one additional plea.  Lord deliver us from governing by crisis.  The Senate swiftly passed a bill to keep the government running while leaving Obamacare unscathed but immediately after the vote Texas Republican Ted Cruz rallied the House not to bend to come right back with another bill taking aim at the Affordable Care Act.  I am confident if the House listened to the people as it did last week that it will continue to step forward and respond to the suffering that is coming from Obamacare. It was striking today. It was sad to see Senate Democrats together turn a blind ear.  What is really sad says Majority Leader Harry Reid is watching Tea Partiers like Cruz cling to a dream that will never be.  Obamacare has been the law for four years. Why do not they get a life and talk about something else?  The day the government is scheduled to shut down if there is no agreement between the House and Senate is October 1st. That also happens to be the day people can start enrolling in the Affordable Care Act. On Friday President Obama said no amount of antics on Capitol Hill will change that.  Those marketplaces will be open for business on Tuesday no matter what even if there is a government shutdown. That is a done deal.  Still the President suggested he was open to tweaking his healthcare law but refused to do it with a shutdown clock ticking away.  As I said before if Republicans have specific ideas on how to genuinely improve the law rather than gut it rather than delay it rather than repeal it I am happy to work with them on that through the normal democratic processes. But that will not happen under the threat of a shutdown.  House Republicans plan to powwow in the basement of the Capitol today to figure out if there is a way to stand their ground but not get blamed for a government shutdown. Richard Hudson of North Carolina thinks having it both ways is absolutely possible. Personally he would like to see a one-year delay of Obamacare.  I could see the wisdom of putting them both out there and saying number one to Harry Reid we are serious. We are not going to do anything that does not have at least a one-year delay. And say to the American people we are serious about not shutting the government down and being responsible.  Other Republicans say a one-year delay is too extreme to pass so they are pushing the repeal of a tax on medical devices that helps fund Obamacare. Others want to get rid of the employer's subsidies for the health plans of congressional staff. Some Senate Republicans like John McCain of Arizona say any of this would be nice.  I would like to see a lot of that stuff but I do not you know again what will Harry Reid accept?  That is already clear. After the Senate vote Reid was asked if he would reject absolutely anything that chipped away at the Affordable Care Act. His reply Yup. Ailsa Chang NPR News the Capitol.   You are listening to NPR News.  