 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Liane Hansen. Its been more than eight months since a devastating earthquake destroyed the capital of Haiti. NPRs Jason Beaubien has been in Port-au-Prince all this week and he joins us now. Jason I understand this is your fourth trip back since the quake. Are you seeing any progress at all in the recovery?  Obviously we are seeing some progress. But part of what is very remarkable is how little progress there is. Rubble removal remains one of the huge obstacles to redevelopment people moving back into their properties. And it is striking that I was thinking this just today that I have not seen - like I have seen in trips earlier - crews where youve got a bulldozer youve got a backhoe youve got trucks just knocking buildings down one after another. I have not seen a single organized mechanized unit doing that and we still have rubble all over the place here.  And the people that you talked to they must be frustrated.  Absolutely. People are very frustrated with they see as the very slow pace of the recovery. Also people here are well aware of how much money has been donated by the international community. You know they hear about these billions of dollars and they - many people have been saying to me they are not seeing this. They got a tarp. And so yes people can be working on programs to you know stimulate micro enterprise to work on other sort of big picture things for Haiti. And thats not to say that you know people are not out there providing medical care providing water. But for ordinary Haitians who lost everything eight months feels like a very long time and it feels like there is no end in sight. It is unclear when this city is going to get back to normal to a state where it doesnt look like there is rubble everywhere.  Yeah. And that rubble given the amount of it that youve talked about is there any expectation at all as to when people might be able to go back into their houses?  It is very clear now that it is going to be years before everyone has moved back into their houses. And it is going to be years before the majority of people have moved back into their houses. The expectation from the international community was that that they were going to build about 130000 transitional shelters by the anniversary of the quake in January. Well at the moment theyve built about 13000 units of that so about 10 percent. It is not clear at all that they are going to hit that target -thats just for transitional. Thats for moving people from underneath a tarp and four sticks into something a little bit solider. Some people have been able to move back into their homes. But the number is still in the high hundreds of thousands of people who are not back to a normal type of house.  Theres a presidential election coming up in November. Is there a sense that the current government is sort of in a lame duck phase and that might be part of whats slowing things down in terms of the recovery?  Yes there is sort of a sense here at the moment that everything is on hold until this new president comes in. And then hopefully he or she will have this great direction to move the country forward. Right at the moment Im actually at a place where they are issuing I.D.s to people who have lost their I.D.s all of their paperwork in the rubble people who have lost absolutely everything. They need to get registered by the end of this month in order to be able to vote in the November election. And so people have been lined up here. But there is a great sense of frustration amongst people in these lines that it is not clear that there is any candidate who really is offering a clear message of how they are going to transform the country in the dramatic way that it needs to be transformed to really change things. The election officially cannot start campaigning until September 28th. There is the expectation that after that people will get a clearer view of what these candidates represent.  NPR's Jason Beaubien in Port-au-Prince Haiti. Jason thank you.  You are welcome. 