 This weekend the California Republican Party is holding its convention. Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger still has a year and a half left in office but as Scott Shafer from member station KQED reports many Republicans are already looking beyond the era of Arnold. Unidentified Man Ladies and gentlemen welcome to the convention of the California Republican Party and the kickoff for the election of a new Republican governor in 2010 in the state of California.   Of course there is still the matter of the Republican governor they have now. He was here in the ballroom of a posh resort near Palm Springs California speaking before his would-be successors and joking about his differences with conservative Republicans. Governor  But let me tell you I just want to assure you that definitely I had also my differences with Democrats as well. To be honest with you I have spent a lot of nights sleeping in my garage.  Gov.  That is right.  Jokes about his marriage to a member of the Kennedy family are vintage Schwarzenegger. But many in the Republican Party are no longer laughing. Ms.  I am very frustrated with him.  Ann Rommel a convention delegate from Orange County is disappointed that Schwarzenegger did not keep his promise to cut taxes and reform government. Ms.  He sold us a bill of goods got elected on a completely different platform and he is not following through.  After Schwarzenegger defeated Democrat Gray Davis in a recall election six years ago he took a shot at passing the reforms he promised but got tangled in a messy fight with Democrats and employee unions. But conservatives are facing a dilemma in 2010. The three leading candidates for the Republican nomination for governor are all social moderates from Northern California's Silicon Valley. All three - former eBay CEO Meg Whitman Insurance Commissioner Steve Poizner and former Congressman Tom Campbell - all support a woman's right to an abortion and they support many legal rights for gay couples. Campbell says the party's social conservatives will come around. Mr.  There appears to be a consensus that what divides us on social issues is less important than what unites us on the economic issues.  Campbell has spelled out in great detail on his Web site how he would cut 17 billion in state spending. But he is refused to sign a pledge not to raise taxes. In a move to woo fiscal conservatives Insurance Commissioner Steve Poizner not only signed the no-tax pledge he promised to cut taxes despite record deficits. Mr.  I agree that the next governor will be a conservative needs to be a conservative and I am definitely the one running in this race that has the conservative background and passion.  Whitman has a huge personal fortune and she is already put 19 million into her campaign. But the 53-year-old political newcomer is also facing a backlash over recent revelations that she did not register to vote until 2002 and missed some elections after that. Ms.  I made a mistake. I did not register to vote as often as I should. I did not vote as often as I should. It is inexcusable and it is not the right thing.  Just 31 percent of registered voters in California are now Republican. But State Party Chair Ron Nehring says President Obama's political struggles are putting a spring back in Republicans' step. Mr.  In the first couple months after the 2008 election you could not go to any party meeting where people did not talk about how all the brand is damaged or the party has to be rebranded. You do not hear that talk anymore.  Nehring says Republicans in California will be united in opposing the president and in opposing anyone the Democrats might nominate for governor in 2010. For NPR News I am Scott Shafer in Indian Wells California. 