 If you type the term chaise lounge into a search engine you will see plenty of sites where you can buy patio furniture. If you type in the term Chaise Lounge Big Kahuna Records you will come up with a group of musicians who have just released their second recording Secondhand Smoke.  Ms.   I do not wanna go to the DMV and pay my unjust parking fee. Do not they know I should park for free? I do not want to.  That is the first cut from Secondhand Smoke. It is called I Do not Want To. And two members of the band Chaise Lounge join us now in Studio 4A. First vocalist Marilyn Older. Welcome to the program. Ms.  Thanks Liane.  And guitarist and composer Charlie Barnett welcome to the program. Mr.  Thank you so much for having us. This is great.  And I will mention that we are in Studio 4A and you do not have a guitar but you are at the piano and we are going to hear something later.  Mr.  There it is.  There is it. Let me ask you about that first cut I Do not Want To what was the genesis of that? Mr.  Oh I was on the phone with Marilyn. We were trying to have a grownup conversation and one of her charming children was near her making that conversation absolutely impossible. And is that true? Ms.  They are cherubs. I have no idea what you are referring to Charlie.  Ms.  Yes I remember this. Mr.  And all I could hear was no no no and the words I do not want to. And you know after that really tedious conversation you know we hung up and I ended up thinking like what would that be like if you were a full-grown adult and you were able to use that logic. You know pay your taxes  Ms.   I do not want to. I do not wanna have to work too hard. Wanna smoke cigarettes and play some cards. I do not wanna have any trouble with men do not wanna get up. It is still half past ten. I do not wanna deal with these aches and pains though how many pounds I have gained. I do not wanna drink anything but champagne. I do not want to.  How would you describe the music you make?  Ms.  We have gone around and around on this trying to find even a made-up genre and I do not know if we have done so. Have we succeeded at that Charlie? Mr.  I do not know. I put a call out to try and find this out. The best one I heard was chill ska but I do not think that - I am not even sure if that comes close. I ended thinking that they are maybe not so much a musical term but more like music to dress up by. It is kind of like the hottest sounds of 1962 that really did not happen in 1962.  Well it is stuff you would put on the hi-fi you know? Mr.  Hi-fi - this is high fidelity music. That is what this is.  Right. Early early stereo - lounge with a capital L.   I want to talk about a song that you cover. It is the Beatles tune Blackbird.   Why did this song do you think fit you like a glove? Ms.  What I love about Blackbird is it is such a bittersweet but optimistic song. And the band I think kind of collectively decided to start from a more moody place and then bring out the Dixieland feel and a little bit of joy. And I think it worked beautifully.  Ms.   Blackbird singing in the dead of night take these sunken eyes and learn to see. All your life you were only waiting for this moment to be free. You were only waiting for this moment to be free.  Charlie you have written film scores. Marilyn as a vocalist you have been singing professionally since you graduated from college. How did you two meet up?  Ms.  Charlie was my boss for a while. We met at a recording studio. I was his assistant for a while and it just kind of morphed into a partnership somewhere along the way.  Well did you hear her voice coming from another room or something? Mr.  Well that is really kind of what it was. I would write something - I would be working on a film score - and if I was writing you know something that had  Mr.  but it had this little part that was up on top  Mr.  I would say hey Marilyn would you come in here and sing this while I play this other thing? And I instantly heard this. I said well wow she really cannot sing out of tune. You know her sense of pitch is phenomenal. And then when we have figured out that our working relationship was not really working out  Ms.  He could not bear to fire me so we started a band.   You are going to play a song for us but it is not from the new CD Secondhand Smoke it is something from your first CD The Early Years? Mr.  Yeah. Ms. That is right.  What is the name of the tune? Mr.  It is called Lonely Is As Lonely Does.  Do you want to say anything about it before you play it? Mr.  It is just another one of these songs that I get to write for female characters - and there is a lot of them in these songs. I write from that point of view oddly easily. Ms.  Tragic scorned woman.  Mr.  What does that say? Ms.  But I love songs that have a place you know that you can put yourself right there you know with those two people. Mr.  I mean when people are listening to the songs they want to know that person or at least hear the end of that story.  So we will hear it. It is Lonely Is As Lonely Does and it is from Chaise Lounge first CD called The Early Years.  Ms.   He went to buy some cigarettes he went that was two months ago. Could I feel much worse? I had his smokes right here in my purse. I cannot linger on everything he was. Lonely is as lonely does. I think I will find another boy as soon as I can finish this drink. How hard could it be to find someone better than he? Barkeep another round I am working on a real good bust. Lonely is as lonely does. Lonely is as lonely does. A girl cannot sit around and dream about what was a little makeup and a brand new hat. A little drink and I will be over all that. Pretty soon I will not think of him. Pretty that is what he called me then. Let me wipe away this tear my eyes cannot stand the smoke in here. Hey Joe light me up. The drinks are on me because lonely is as lonely does. Lonely is as lonely does.  That is Lonely Is As Lonely Does from Chaise Lounge first CD The Early Years. Marilyn Older and Charlie Barnett are members of the group Chaise Lounge and their new recording on Big Kahuna Records is called Secondhand Smoke and they joined us in Studio 4A. Thanks a lot. Good luck to you. Ms.  Thank you. Mr.  Thanks Liane.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News.   I am Liane Hansen. 