 We just talked about Congress and Joe Wilson's outburst during President Obama's speech on health care this week. Representative Wilson by the way has apologized and the president has accepted his apology. But combative demonstrative politics have become a signature of South Carolina. South Carolina Senator Jim DeMint drew fire recently for encouraging Republicans to break President Obama by blocking his proposed health care plan. And Governor Mark Sanford whose public declarations of his love life have recently captured so much attention once brought pigs onto the floor of the legislature to make a point about pork barrel spending. Joined now by David Gergen director of the Center for Public Leadership and a professor at Harvard's Kennedy School. Of course he is senior political analyst for an outfit called CNN. He joins us from Boston. David thanks for being with us. Professor  Good morning Scott.  One is reminded the Civil War began in South Carolina did not it? Prof.  Well it did. And you know South Carolina has had a long history of and is remembered for its poverty but also it is harsh and often racial politics. You will recall Scott in the run up to the Civil War it was a South Carolina representative congressman who stalked over to the Senate with his metal cane and attacked Senator Charles Sumner from Massachusetts an abolitionist and he beat him nearly to death. It was a terrible thing. And people sort of ever since then have accused South Carolina of sort of harsh politics. But I must say as a neighbor from North Carolina I do want to rise to the defense  Yeah. Prof.  of South Carolina on some issues. This state has come a long way. South Carolina has come a long way in this modernization. It has brought in a lot of you know German and French companies up into the Greenville Spartanburg area Myrtle beach has improved. The Charleston has certainly grown the level of  Charleston is one of the best places in the country. Prof.  Yeah absolutely. And it is brought with it a different breed of political leaders that you know for every combative politician you have there there is also a Dick Riley who is a wonderful governor and has served in Bill Clinton's Cabinet. Fred  and now Lindsey Graham is a pretty sweet fellow you know by comparison. So there is a different tradition growing up in South Carolina. And I think one can hail that and say well there is some of the past may live on but there is a lot of other things - good things happening there.  David based on your experience I believe you have served every president since Lincoln have not you?  Prof.  Grover Cleveland.  Oh okay. All right. Well what do you figure of President Obama's staff is doing this weekend and will do over the next few weeks to try and put votes in line? Prof.  Well I think that they probably had a - they were breathing a sigh of relief after Wednesday night. They had a spirited speech to rally the Democrats. But I - they are smart enough to know they have got tough fights ahead. I agree with Dan Schorr that they are likely to get a bill now. But you know we have not seen whether the political landscape across the country has changed very much since the speech. It helped inside the hall with the Democrats. But we have not had any real polls we do not know that. I think the country is still very polarized. We have got this barroom brawl over Joe Wilson. And they have got some tough decisions ahead. You know they do not have agreement on exactly - yeah probably no public option. But there could be a trigger in there that the opposition says amounts to a public option because it is unlikely to trigger within a few years. So I think they know that they have got to take this argument to the country. That is why he is going to Minneapolis today. He is got to continue that. And you know he was not having much success with these speeches before his big speech to the Congress. But he is given over 30 public speeches on health care and yet he is found up until Wednesday night that the country was increasingly soured or souring over it. So he is got to play the outside game aggressively and maybe he can use that springboard Wednesday night to do that. But he is also got to do a lot of work inside. I think here Scott here's the thing...  Yeah? Professor  I think that he is likely to get a bill as Dan Schorr says. I think the chances are probably somewhere around 70 percent he will get a watered-down bill. But if he comes down to the final strokes and a bill is shaping up and public opinion is negative against the bill so that you have got say 54-46 in the country saying we do not like this bill it is going to be hard for a lot of folks to vote for it in the end. I still think he needs to not just win the inside game he is got to win the outside game too.  Does he - and alas we have only got about 30 seconds left - does he make too many appearances? Does he reduce the dramatic affect of the president of the United States addressing the country? Professor  In my judgment he is making too many appearances especially in primetime. It is notable that his speech on Wednesday night - when his first joint session early in the year he had over 50 million viewers. In this speech Wednesday night it was just a little over 30 million viewers.  David thanks so much. It was a pleasure to talk to you. Professor  Thank you Scott. It is good to talk to you.  David Gergen director of the Center for Public Leadership and a professor at Harvard's Kennedy School of Government senior political analyst for CNN.   You are listening to NPR News. 