 For some insight into the stresses and strains of a presidential campaign at this point in the process we turn to Steve Schmidt. He was John McCain's senior strategist in the 2008 election. And we spoke with Mr. Schmidt before Governor Romney released his tax returns. Mr. Schmidt thanks so much for being with us.  Great to be with you. Thank you.  First how damaging has this week been for the Romney campaign do you think?  There is two things going on. There is a narrative that is building around the Romney campaign and around the larger race that is very bad for the Romney campaign. But at the same time even though Mitt Romney had this terrible stretch of a couple of weeks he is still very much in the game.  There are numerous reports of in-fighting among Romney campaign staff. Can you help us understand what it is like for a staff to read this stuff on websites and blogs and in the newspapers? Does it get in the way of running a campaign?  Oh of course it does. Look it is demoralizing. You know I had the opportunity I was you know on two presidential campaigns on senior levels. And on the Bush campaign it was a campaign that we knew it was going to be a very close race. But that is a high-morale unified disciplined operation. And then you know I have been part of one where you know there was a lot of in-fighting. And it is something that you recognize intellectually I think that when you see people doing that that is a sign of losing control. You know people just have to figure it out and understand that they are making a case for the country you know and their belief that Mitt Romney is the right guy and one big thing that unifies the campaign staff has to be able to overcome all the other differences to create functionality in the campaign.  Does he have the right campaign staff? Is he an effective leader of that campaign staff?  Well to a degree presidential campaign is the most elaborate character test that we could possibly design you know to see who has the mettle to be president. I mean Mitt Romney right now how he is doing as the heavy campaign organization we will know at the end of campaign. Because you know if they come back from this it will be viewed as a great achievement and it will show grittiness and determination. And I think you cannot write that chapter yet.  Mr. Schmidt when you see polls this week that suggest that Mr. Romney is falling behind by a few points in key electoral states that were considered to be virtually tied up - I am thinking of Ohio Virginia and Florida - if polling like that persists does the campaign then have to make a practical decision as to how much of their resources to concentrate there?  You know pulling out of those states is not a viable strategic option. And the Romney campaign for example is much more highly capitalized than the McCain campaign was in 2008. They have a lot of money and the battleground is small enough and the money plenty enough that they do not have to make strategic choices like that in the race. It is very difficult to put together 270 electoral votes you know without winning Florida and Ohio.  I have heard Mr. Romney speak on a few occasions and speak effectively. And I wonder if you have any reflection on how he is been talking in recent weeks.  I do not think that you can make a broad and sweeping statement about Mitt Romney on the basis of last three weeks where you have had a number of these self-inflicted political errors. Just because they did not make an effective case for example at the convention does not inhibit them from beginning to make an effective case. And there is an effective case to be made both for Mitt Romney and a critique that could be made of the president. And I think that he has every opportunity to make it with the time left. But you know they cannot focus on opportunities lost. They got to focus on the opportunities ahead. And they opportunities ahead are these debates. And we know that you know the polling can move with what goes on in these debates. You cannot overstate their importance.  Mr. Schmidt are you surprised that week-in and week-out the economy has not always been the central issue of the campaign the way people were suggesting it would?  You know when Mitt Romney you know said earlier in the campaign you know that they were talking about the economy that they were winning and you know when we are not we are losing. And you know there has not been a lot of economic talk in the campaign lately. And they obviously need to clear out of another bad week and then look for Mitt Romney to get his equilibrium and start making the argument.  Steve Schmidt Republican strategist who was senior campaign advisor to Senator John McCain in 2008. Mr. Schmidt thanks so much.  Thank you. 