 folk music. And in Angelina County Texas they found plenty. In fact they discovered a rich tradition of African-American quartet singing.    Wade in the water good morning. Wade in the water too oh wade...  Quartets are still singing in rural East Texas only now they have gone electric as we hear in our latest installment of What is in a Song.   My name is Elmo Ray Scott and I am a member of the Stars of Harmony from Kemah Texas.    Where I am you brought me. And what I know you taught me...   where I am oh my God you brought me. What I know you taught me.    For all our lives thank you.  Like I thank him for food. Thank him for my health my strength and that is a blessing. So once I see all the blessings that come from God then I got to write to tell him thank you.    When I wake up in the morning Lord I say Lord thank you. When I lay down at night Lord I tell God thank you. When you put food on my table Lord...  Oh we started oh I guess I was early in my teenage and I am like 73 now so it is been a long time.    When I look Lord how he gave me to living.  Where we growed up all we had was church. Could not stay out all night like a lot of people did. Mostly we be in church and in the evening they have different programs and things. That is where we got interested in singing. And we heard other groups sing. Like I say we did not sing it directly the way they sing it. And I always feel that you sing it one way I can get out of Scripture I can get my version of it and add something to it and that is the way we do with a lot of our songs. But it is still  style.    I thank you Lord. Thank you Jesus. I thank you Lord. Whoa thank you Lord. I thank you Lord. You have been good to me. I thank you Lord. You have been good to me. I thank you Lord. Shoes for my feet. I thank you Lord. Clothes on my back. I thank you Lord.  It is amazing when you just get into the spirit just - you are floating. Feel good. When everybody's in that place...   Yeah it feels good.    Whoa I tell the Lord thank you.   I am Mary Louise Kelly.  