 Amy Adams has played a Disney princess a puckish Amelia Earhart an innocent young nun and a blogging Brooklynite who wants to follow the recipe for being Julia Child. But she takes a more steely turn in her latest role in The Master. Amy Adams plays Peggy Dodd a kind of Lady Macbeth to a spiritual leader played by Philip Seymour Hoffman. The film has won awards and acclaim at the Venice and Toronto Film Festival and opened this week in New York and Los Angeles. The film also stars Joaquin Phoenix and it is written and directed by Paul Thomas Anderson. Amy Adams joins us from our studios in New York. Thanks so much for being with us.  Of course thank you for having me.  And I have read a couple of interviews now for example with Philip Seymour Hoffman in which he says I do not care how many similarities there seems to be between this film and L. Ron Hubbard and Scientology. It is not a film about Scientology. Do not talk to me about Scientology. He says everything except what is Scientology? I never heard of it.  Yeah.  So is this film about Scientology?  No. It is not about Scientology. It is not.  Do you have a straight face when you say that?  I am smiling. But I am smiling because it is like the most asked question so I am smiling. And I understand. It is a hot-button topic. It gets people talking.  Well and I mean instead of auditing there is processing instead of L. Ron Hubbard you have the guy played by Philip Seymour Hoffman who has some superficial or maybe not so superficial similarities in the resume.  Well Paul Thomas Anderson as openly talked that he was inspired by several different religions and sort of charismatic leaders that were establishing religions or organizations post-World War II.  Let me ask about your character Peggy Dodd.  Sure.  Because we do not we much of a backstory or hear much about how Peggy Dodd and the spiritual leader played by Philip Seymour Hoffman met. When you are doing a role like this do you fill in those blanks or do you just look at the words and invest them with something else?  I tend to try to fill in the blanks as much as possible for myself. One of the things that I really thought about was a long time ago I read a book called The Feminine Mystique. In The Feminine Mystique she talked a lot about women's roles in World War II and sort of how that translated post-World War II. Their roles were a little less traditional than they would been before and then when the men came back they sort of went into the background again. And I saw my character as somebody who was very focused on education was very educated very smart but given the climate felt like she was more powerful behind a man than in front of a man.  Which is what we see in a couple of scenes.  Um-huh.  We have a tendency when we are talking about a - I will use a loaded phrase - a religious cult or...  Sure.  How do I say this nicely?  You can say this organization.  And organization.  Organization. I think that is nicer.  All right. You know to use a term like blind followers and in fact maybe that is the case. But you take a look at your character for example Peggy Dodd you think the last thing she is is blind.  Yeah she is not blind at all. And I think that she is a true believer. She is somebody who sees the positive outcome of this philosophy so I did not - I mean I could see as an outsider how one would see the blind faith. And there are times in the film when she is very dismissive of Joaquin Phoenix's character that it actually breaks my heart for him. And I did not have that experience shooting it but witnessing it that is something that struck me. Because when someone does believe something so truly sometimes it does shut out an empathic response that could be there and should be there.  Was it a relief a challenge both to play a character who is not dewy-eyed and innocent? Of for you know for that - I mean Amelia Earhart is not dewy-eyes and innocent but you know puckish.  No I know I what you are saying. It was both a relief and challenging. I mean in that this woman has to be perceived by the outside world as being somewhat meek. She is not somebody who would embarrass her husband by stepping to the forefront in a public way. So in some ways there are similarities to other characters that I have played. But there is a steeliness in her that really was a lot of fun to play. I mean I can be really steely maybe not to such effect but I am definitely not always warm and cuddly and sunshine and lollipops so it is nice to sometimes get to bring that to a role. Although I do love playing characters with a sunny disposition it just takes a little bit more energy some days.  You have got another film coming out this month.  I do.  Trouble With the Curve.  Yes.  And your co-star is Clint Eastwood...  Yes.  ...man a lot of people saw at a political convention recently.  So I have heard. I did a lot of hot button topics in my life right now that I have no responsibility for.  Thank you. Well I of course was going to touch one more hot button. You understand we are in the news business.  Of course of course.  People who work with Clint Eastwood who have worked with him absolutely rave about him.  They - yeah.  Is the man speaking at the convention talking to an empty chair the man who co-starred with you in that film?  To be fair I have not seen the speech I did not watch the convention. Clint was a very warm and inviting person. He is very loyal and he is just a genuine human being. I mean he is definitely his own man so nothing Clint would do would surprise me. He is his own man you know?  And you are going to be Lois Lane?  Yes. We have already shot that and it was - I cannot wait to see the finished edit. I have not seen any footage.  Now is that a little intimidating?  Sure. Sure it is.  A lot of people have grown up knowing one Lois Lane or another you know be it Terry Hatcher or...  Margot Kidder.  Yeah.  I grew up with Margot Kidder and I was so affected in a positive way by Margot Kidder's portrayal of Lois Lane and I would just hope that girls can go see you know see themselves in Lois Lane a little bit. Not that I do not like you know black latex or vinyl it is nice to see a powerful woman who is you know a reporter and just more pedestrian so to speak in a superhero film. And she is sort of an everywoman and I like that a lot.  Ms. Adams very nice talking to you. Thanks so much.  You too. Thank you so much. Have a good day.  Amy Adams stars in a new film The Master later this month. She is also in Trouble With the Curve. Speaking with us from New York. 