  This coming weekend the pianist Jean-Yves Thibaudet and the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra will perform Leonard Bernstein's second symphony The Age of Anxiety. And here to talk about the work is our friend Marin Alsop music director of the BSO. Maestra thanks very much for being with us.  Great to be here Scott.  This is a great British poet W.H. Auden - wrote the poem Age of Anxiety and the music piece begins with - let us listen - a couple of lonely clarinets.   What is the piece capturing by beginning this way?  Well the poem and the piece of music opens with four characters - three men and a woman all strangers. They are sitting in a bar and each one is lost in his or her own thoughts but each one is acutely aware of that sense of universal loneliness. And they are each ruminating about their own individual lives and gradually the poem begins to fall into their unconscious mind. And every time the poem starts sinking into this state of mind Bernstein represents that by a descending scale. The first time we hear it it is represented by the flute.   Now this is a recording of the piece by Leonard Bernstein conducting the New York Philharmonic. The soloist we are going to hear is Philippe Entremont and his solo will come in just after that descending scale. Kind of melds into this next section called The Seven Ages.   Marin what is the piano bring in here?  Well in the poem Auden - W.H. Auden begins with birth and innocence. And I think this opening piano solo which is so simple and so beautiful represents that state of existence. And this is followed then - he is exploring the seven ages of life. And Bernstein musically portrays this by having a set of variations. Each emerges seamlessly from the other and we go through the different stages of life. Adolescence is represented by a variation which is in 5-8 time.   Five-eight is a - it is a really awkward - if you had to dance to 5-8 you would need two legs of different lengths and you know in adolescence where we are all trying to fit in and you just can never fit in. And from that variation it goes to you know early adulthood where suddenly you fit in too well and you do not want to fit in anymore and the monotony and kind of robotic existence can be overwhelming. Eventually he goes through all of the ages of life but toward the end of these first seven variations that theme of loneliness returns.  So there is this tense forbidding section. Then it turns a corner and we hear some jazz.   So is that there as kind of like - to be an instruction to say between these profound period of aloneness why not kick up our heels while we have the chance?  Well you know I think sometimes Bernstein just got fed up with all of this weighty existential searching and he just could not resist a party.   And ultimately I think there is incredible meaning in that that when in doubt just have a party.   For Bernstein - I think very much like for Beethoven - it was a question of believing in humanity. Bernstein believed fundamentally in the goodness of human beings. And the idea of faith is a thread throughout his music. And in this piece even though they grapple with all of these - sort of a sense of hopelessness throughout the piece in the end we hear this beautiful trumpet melody which represents faith. And we hear memories coming back from their entire journey through this epic poem.   Bernstein - he wrote three symphonies and each of them is - is nothing like a symphony is supposed to be. I mean maybe that is why I think they are so fantastically wonderful. And Bernstein himself said that he felt that every single piece of music he wrote was a piece for the theater. He knows it has this dramatic component. But it is a complex it is a very deep work and I think at first people did not understand the depth of the work. But I find it to be a piece that I experience differently every time I work on it every time I hear it. So for me it is really truly one of the great 20th century pieces.  This coming weekend Maestra Marin Alsop and the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra - along with Jean-Yves Thibaudet - will perform Leonard Bernstein's second symphony The Age of Anxiety. Maestra as always wonderful to be back with you. Thanks so much.  Thanks for having me. Great to talk to you Scott.   This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Scott Simon. 