 We begin this hour with a big story out of Michigan which has not been getting the national attention it deserves. It may be the largest case of sex abuse by a single person in U.S. history. More than 950 people - some women but mostly men - have accused now-deceased University of Michigan doctor Robert E. Anderson of sexual abuse while he worked for the university between 1966 and 2003. Tad DeLuca is one of them. He was a Michigan wrestler in 1972 when he first saw Anderson with complaints of cold sores. DeLuca says he was in his first year at the school initially naive then confused and ultimately devastated. And I will tell you at the outset of this story what he alleges here is both disturbing. And at the same time he describes it in clinical explainable terms for any sensitive ears present.  I went to see him and he kind of did a half look at my face and then he put on a pair of rubber gloves and he gave me a hernia check which was no big deal. Then he started for lack of a better word rolling or trying to massage my scrotum and my penis. And I just - you know just kind of sat there. And the next thing he said was you know let us - turn around and - you know and drop your drawers. And he did a prostate check on me. I was 17 years old. And I am pretty sure there were at least four times before my 18th birthday that I saw him and he did that check on me.  DeLuca says Anderson repeated the process for a knee injury a shoulder injury a dislocated elbow and an illness that would later be diagnosed by a different doctor as hepatitis.  I said I feel terrible. I have a rash under my arm. My skin is discolored. He kind of half looked at it and did a prostate check on me sent me home. You are fine.  It took until his junior year and a conversation with a football player on his hall for Tad DeLuca to clearly see something was very very wrong.  And this guy went into a tirade about pervert Dr. Anderson. My friend Jimmy went in there and he got the glove. He had a bad shoulder but he got the glove. It felt almost like someone slapped me in the chest or my blood pressure was popping. It is like oh my God pervert.  DeLuca told us it threw him into confusion.  What is wrong with me? What is wrong with me that someone wants to put their finger up and touch whatever word you want to use? That was devastating. And I could not tell the coach because the coach was like the most important thing in my life at the time. How did I - how could I tell him that I let someone put his finger into my rectum? It was like I cannot do that. I started wetting the bed. I was 20 years old so I had not wet the bed in - what? - 18 years maybe 19 years. I had to be careful like oh no - my friend knocks on the door. He is telling me to get ready for class I have got to kind of - you know I might have wet in the bed.  DeLuca says he stopped seeking medical assistance and deliberately wrestled in a way to protect his chronically-injured elbow. And he remembers that insisting on not seeking treatment made him a less competitive wrestler. And it affected his feelings about the sport and it created a rift between him and his teammates. So he wrote a letter to his coach complaining about Dr. Anderson's many quote genital hernia and prostate examinations.  And he fired back a letter that was pretty nasty and took away my scholarship.  Tad DeLuca describes that as a kind of pivot point for him. He fought and regained his scholarship with the help of a lawyer and he left the wrestling team. Robert Anderson though kept working at the University of Michigan until 2003. He died in 2008 without facing any charges. Remember Anderson started his career at Michigan in 1966. Tad DeLuca first sought treatment from him in 1972. Nearly a thousand people now accuse Anderson of inappropriate conduct. Lenny Bernstein is a reporter for The Washington Post.  This story - what interested me is that it is not confined to athletes. And Lulu full disclosure I was at the University of Michigan in the late 1970s so I had familiarity with the locations of things and how the university works. Dr. Anderson saw all kinds of people. He saw students from all walks of life at the university health services. He had a small private practice. He was training medical students from the University of Michigan Medical School. He was doing these kinds of things to all kinds of people. And the story really had not gotten out beyond the Michigan area and I thought one of the things I could do was to bring wider appreciation to how big a situation this really was.  Other survivors said they complained to coaches trainers administrators. And nothing happened - the same as what happened to Tad. I mean how did these allegations finally get meaningful attention after all these years and 950 people who were allegedly abused?  Well in 2018 Tad wrote a letter to the university. And after some bit of delay - for a number of months - it was assigned to a university detective to begin an investigation. The investigation was done secretly eventually ended up with the prosecutors. And they decided that because of the passage of time and perhaps some other factors there was nobody to charge. Then in 2019 another person motivated by the Larry Nassar scandal up the road at Michigan State wrote to the university again and was sort of stonewalled. And he went to the Detroit paper - his name was Robert Julian Stone. And the papers asked the university about what had happened. And at that point they - university revealed all that had been happening over the past couple of years and put out a call for victims to call in and write in and say what had happened to them. And then eventually this just mushroomed from there.  Tad why did you write that letter in 2018?  It - the big part was Larry Nassar the women's gymnast at Michigan State. There was one story that was just like mine - she spoke up and they either threatened to take her scholarship away or they did - they took money from her. And it is just like hey this has happened to me. I know what they are talking about. I knew that if I stood up and said something I could be smacked down again really hard and embarrassed but I - it was just something I had to do. I had to have redemption for this because I - you know after all these years I knew I did not do anything wrong. But I - when I came out of losing the scholarship and when the coach got through with me I was the problem. I was a loser.  Lenny the university is obviously in mediated talks with attorneys about how to compensate the victims so we cannot really talk too much about that. But they have instituted a number of other reforms aimed at preventing future abuse. In your view how has the university now responded?  It is too early to tell what the reforms will bring. The university has apologized on behalf of Dr. Anderson and the pain he caused so they are acknowledging that this occurred. The university has not acknowledged at least not publicly the role of all the people who knew or should have known that this was going on and did not do anything and why. Why - if coaches and trainers and administrators had heard these stories why did nothing happen for decades? You can say to yourselves well it was a different time. We did not have the same appreciation of sex abuse. The victims were almost all male and we did not equate it the same way we did as the sex abuse of women. But Dr. Anderson worked there until 2003 and that is where the university - at least according to the survivors I have spoken with - needs to own up further to what happened.  Tad what would you like to see next?  You know what? I want them to say hey we screwed up. We screwed up for a long time. And it - when they say their apologies and their - whatever they - the words they use they mean nothing. You know it - you know it - I mean let me put this in wrestling terms. When I won in wrestling it was my fault. When I lost it was my fault. I would have no trouble telling you yep I messed up. If U of M would just say hey guys we screwed up for so long and messed up so many lives I think that would go a long way.  That is Tad DeLuca who is speaking about the abuse he experienced and Lenny Bernstein who wrote about the University of Michigan sex abuse scandal for The Washington Post. Thank you both very much.  Thank you.  Thank you.   We reached out to the University of Michigan. They provided a link to their past statements and pointed in particular to comments made by the head of the university's Board of Regents in September. At the time he said in part to all who are speaking out we hear you and we value you.  