 The Trump administration has made its intentions clear about NAFTA. It is told Congress the U.S. will sign a revised trade agreement with Mexico and Canada if Canada is willing. The U.S. and Canada continue trade negotiations next week. We are joined now by Gordon Ritchie former Canadian ambassador for trade negotiations. Mr. Ambassador thanks so much for being with us.  My pleasure and Gordon will be just fine.  All right. Well thank you Gordon then. And what do you see as the major sticking points between the U.S. and Canada right now?  Well the main sticking point right now is Mr. Trump's determination to be able to impose his will on Canada and brag about it to his electorate. I caught the other night - I guess it was last night - of a speech he gave. And frankly like most Canadians I was just shocked at the vitriol. He talked about how those mean Canadians have these enormous trade barriers against imports from the United States which are depriving Americans of markets in this country. Of course nothing could be further from the truth. We are by far the biggest and best market for American goods and services. We do 2 billion worth of trade every single day. More than 99 percent of that trade comes in duty-free - 99 percent. And in the remainder the amounts are small and the balance - the trade balance is in favor of the United States. So frankly when you have somebody charging at you saying he wants you to stop beating your horse and you say well I am not beating my horse - I do not even have a horse - it is a little hard to negotiate.  But let me ask - I mean both President Trump and for that matter Prime Minister Trudeau operate within democratic systems and that means politics. And is not it just a fact of life that politicians might say one thing domestically to fire up their supporters but reach the negotiating table and wind up being reasonable from your point of view?  Well of course. That is what negotiations are really all about. And I went through this back in the days of Ronald Reagan and Jim Baker. And Jim Baker was as tough a negotiator as they come. Yes of course. But the difference is that we have here - I do not know quite how to put it - a president who in his public utterances is completely disconnected from the truth. And that makes it very hard for his negotiators to deal with because he is saying to them I do not care how you do it. Bring back a head on a platter. And that is not going to happen.  Yeah.   It is just not going to happen.  Well - but in the end is not some kind of an agreement in the best interests of Canada whether - whatever their opinion of President Trump and his leadership might be?  Oh no let us be absolutely clear. The obstacle to agreement is not on the Canadian side. The Canadians are perfectly interested in having an agreement to modernize the existing arrangements. And the Canadians are prepared to show flexibility on the crucial issues - quite a lot of flexibility. That is not the problem. The problem is that the American negotiators do not have authority to accept that agreement.  I guess what you are suggesting is that there is - whatever the American negotiators think they have negotiated it could be undercut by President Trump at any moment.  Well that is certainly the case. Yesterday for example everything was thrown into a bit of a scramble when President Trump's remarks became known in which he said that he was determined not to give an inch to Canada on anything and that if Canada did not come around he would slap more punitive tariffs on. The sad thing is it is as if he and his audience do not realize that putting on tariffs penalizes American consumers and producers.  It is bizarre.  Well Gordon Ritchie is the former Canadian ambassador for trade negotiations. Mr. Ambassador Gordon thank you very much for being with us sir.  My pleasure. 