 NPR's Jim Zarroli has the story.  There is a photo of Lauren Manning on the cover of her book Unmeasured Strength. She is standing defiantly on a Manhattan street her hands on her hips in a sleeveless dress that exposes her burned arms.  It is a photo of strength. I wanted to be powerful. I needed to be. I had to fight against an injury that threatened to kill me - not over the period of only that day but for months to come.  When the attacks occurred Manning was a hard-charging 40-year-old Cantor Fitzgerald executive who had just had her first child. She was rushing to an elevator when the first plane hit and was instantly engulfed in flames. Dr. Roger Yurt who heads the burn center at Weill Cornell Medical Center says when Manning arrived there her odds of survival were just 25 percent.  Somebody with an injury as big as she had has a compromise of the immune function. And so we are trying to get their burn wound healed as soon as possible so that they do not get infection in their wounds.  Greg Manning waited a while before telling his wife how many of her colleagues at Cantor Fitzgerald had died.  We were simply told let Lauren ask questions and answer those questions. Do not volunteer information. Do not jump ahead. Do not go by the way something absolutely horrible has happened.  Finally I said you know but who did make it? You know what did happen? And on that particular day he told me - and I will never forget it. I mean I was racked by pain but it seemed secondary to all of the news that I heard of all of my friends and colleagues who were gone. And I took absolute personal responsibility that they would not get another one. They were not going to take me out.  Doctors said Manning had about 18 months to regain flexibility in her limbs or she might lose it forever so she took hours of physical therapy every day. She endured skin grafts and painful hydrotherapy to clean her wounds. She was fed through a feeding tube.  It was one of my great milestones when the doctor said I could have a piece of ice.  Ice?  Ice. Yeah ice. My mouth was so dry and parched and to feel it finally slide down my throat I felt like I was you know quenching a thirst that had existed you know quite literally for months.  Slowly but surely she learned to walk and use her badly burned hands. Manning is the daughter of a Marine and she has worked for years in the unforgiving pressure cooker that is Wall Street. And she says that taught her the determination she needed to get better.  You just have to move on. Why not? What is the alternative? You know have your pity party - but do not make it last too long.  Manning also had to live in a certain amount of denial about all that had happened to her.  In a sense I created a charade of how I would be - how I would look to the world how I would interact. I was incredibly positive. I never acknowledged a sense of feeling weak or incredibly fatigued and I did not dwell on the physical changes.  Those changes were considerable. The skin on her back and arms was scarred. She lost part of an ear and the tips of some of her fingers. But she is had multiple surgeries especially on her hands. Her long blonde hair has grown back she dresses well and she no longer attracts stares like she used to. Dr. Rogert Yurt says Manning's attitude played no small part in her recovery.  What I learned from her is the importance of your makeup and your determination and your ability to fight through things. A lot of people would have given up and never made it as far as she is made it.  Because Manning lived when so many others died she has become an icon of survival. She sometimes gives interviews and makes public appearances. And once a year she and her husband attend the memorial service for Cantor Fitzgerald employees. They are doing so again this weekend. Jim Zarroli NPR News New York. 