 March 13 1963. The Cold War chills the world. The U.S. is drawn deeper into Vietnam. Communist government in Cuba is proving to be a thorn in the side of the American hemisphere. The struggle for civil rights marches across the landscape. And the president of the United States calls an old friend to express outrage and concern.   Almost 50 years later the John F. Kennedy Library Foundation's releasing a new trove of secret recordings made inside the Kennedy White House. A new book which includes over 260 hours of transcribed conversations from inside the White House - along with two and a half hours of audio recordings -  has been published this week. Listening in The Secret White House Recordings of John F. Kennedy- they are selected and set in context by Ted Widmer director of the John Carter Brown Library. And the book includes an introduction by Caroline Kennedy who joins us from New York. Thanks so much for being with us.  Well thank you for having me.  I daresay a lot of people think Richard Nixon brought recording technology into the White House. We have learned over the years it dates back to - I think at least Franklin Roosevelt. But how and why was President Kennedy recording conversations? C.  Well we are not really 100 percent sure why he installed the recording. The best guesses are one that he - himself - was such a lover of history and he really wanted to have an accurate record that he could draw upon later for his own memoir. And I think the second is also after the Bay of Pigs he knew who had said what and they changed their tune afterwards. And he wanted to really be able to go back and keep people honest make sure that he had an accurate record of what was said when he was facing these difficult crises.  Well that brings up the clip of audio we wanted to listen to next. October 16 1962 before the rest of the world knew about the Soviet attempt to put defensive missiles in Cuba. There is photographic advisers meeting with President Kennedy and let us hear how this audio begins.   I guess that is you. C.  I guess that is.   How does that feel to hear - maybe less your voice than your father's - the warmth in his voice? C.  It is wonderful for me to have these recordings because they give me a sense of him at work. And I think all kids wonder what their parents do all day long and this is really a wonderful way of listening into that. I mean obviously I have other memories but I do remember going over to the office. And he always seemed really glad to see us. And I think that really comes through.  To a degree that I had not appreciated these recordings suggest that President Kennedy kept in touch with his predecessors - President Eisenhower Truman.   Was it simple courtesy or something else? C.  Well I think you can hear that there is more to it. I mean I think the conversations with President Eisenhower about the Cuban missile crisis are illuminating. And certainly as a military hero - icon leader - he had a lot of wisdom to share with my father about the behavior of the Russians and his insight into that. So I think it was courtesy but I think it was also very valuable.   Another conversation - of which the audio is not included but I made some notes about it - March 4 1963. President Kennedy and the attorney general Robert F. Kennedy - your uncle of course. It is not high-minded but these are two sharp-eyed professional pols - kind of kvetching. What do you hear in their relationship in that? C.  Well I think they had a conversation with no beginning and no end. I think they really were just so incredibly close. They were close professionally. They were looking out for each other. My Uncle Bobby obviously was my father's campaign manager closest adviser not only on civil rights which was certainly the most important domestic issue that he faced but on Vietnam and the Cuban missile crisis also. So I think that what you really hear are people who loved each other worked together made each other laugh and really trusted each other.  Some audio to hear that - I am not even going to characterize it - private dictation President Kennedy on November 4 1963. He is recollecting the fact that he feels that he allowed a coup in South Vietnam to take place to overthrow Ngo Dinh Diem the leader of South Vietnam and his brother Nhu. They died in that coup. And listen to President Kennedy.   What do you make of that? What do you hear in President Kennedy's voice? C.  Well I hear regret remorse uncertainty dissatisfaction with his own performance. And I think that really led to a real re-evaluation of Vietnam in his mind.  May I ask do you ever listen to this audio just to hear it? C.  No I have not really done that. I mean I have heard a lot of it over the years. And so I obviously am interested in it. I was really interested in what my children thought.  May I ask what your children thought? C.  Oh they think it is great. They really found this book to be engaging - and so interesting because I think it really gives a sense of who he was informally formally at work kidding around. And so I think that they really felt that this helped connect them to their grandfather.  Caroline Kennedy - she is written the introduction to a new book which includes audio recordings Listening In The Secret White House Recordings of John F. Kennedy. Ms. Kennedy thanks so much. C.  Thank you.   You are listening to PR News. 