 This is WEEKEND EDITION from NPR News. I am Audie Cornish. The movie 5050 is a comedy about cancer. And yes the filmmakers knew it would be a tough sell but that did not stop writer Will Reiser and actor Seth Rogan from taking on the tough and not-so-tough questions of living with the disease like how to pick up women.    You really think that a girl's going to go for me just 'ecause I have cancer?   For the millionth time yes. Help me help you get laid.  You think that would work?  It would totally work.  That is actor Seth Rogan. He plays the cancer patient's friend with the dubious pick-up scheme. The film is based on the experiences of screenwriter Will Reiser. And both men came into our Washington studios to talk about the movie. Thank you for coming in.  Thanks for having us.  Yeah thank you.  Now the character the main character in the movie who is played by Joseph Gordon-Levitt and his name is Adam and he is a public radio reporter. And I have to say now that you are at the NPR mothership what was that job supposed to say about that character?  One of the things we struggled the most with the movie is what job to give these guys.  'ecause Seth and I have known each other for a really long time and...  And we did work together at the time that Will got sick but we worked in television. We were writers - well I was a writer he was a producer for the Ali G Show on HBO.  And we should say this was six years ago Will when you were diagnosed with cancer.  Yes that is right.  And the movie is based on your experiences.  Yeah inspired by.  We legally have to say inspired by. And we really just wanted a job that you would believe both these guys would have 'ecause they are different personality types that was somewhat creative but not overly creative. I mean...  Yes I would say that describes my job.  Exactly. And that is kind of what our jobs were at that time also.  And I would also like to say that I am a huge NPR supporter and have never given a donation...  Exactly. It is our way...  ...of any kind so this makes up for it.  It is our way of helping out the cause.  Will like we said it was six years ago that you were diagnosed. What is the name of the cancer that you had?  I had a massive tumor in my spine which is very similar to what Joseph Gordon-Levitt's character has.  And has a pretty intense name.  Yeah. The tumor that Joe's character has is neurofibroma-sarcoma-schwannoma.  Schwannoma-neurofibroma-sarcoma.  Yeah it is reversible. It can kind of go either way. It basically just means...  I lead with the schwannoma.  Just the fact that you are able to find some humor in the name of it.  Schwannoma's a funny word.  Yeah schwannoma. We thought about naming the movie Schwannoma Washington.  Yeah Schwannoma Washington. It also sounds like a city in Washington.  Yeah.  But was it I mean not funny at the time I assume.  Well we did not know how to deal with it on an emotional level so the way we talked about it was through humor. So I think pretty much from the second day you know after I was diagnosed I was making jokes because it was the only way that I knew to make everybody feel normal you know and comfortable with the situation. 'ecause the last thing I wanted was for everyone to just start treating me differently which unfortunately they did but that just happens when you go through something like this.  We almost never talked about it seriously. We would make jokes about it or think of stupid movie ideas that we could maybe make about a young guy with cancer. I mean that was kind of like our go-to way of dealing with it honestly. It was the way that we could talk about it without you know so we would in some way acknowledge our feelings but we never really talked about how we felt about it.  I am speaking with actor and producer Seth Rogan and screenwriter Will Reiser about their new film 5050. The story seems to be as much about how people react to the diagnosis that the character has as it is about how he deals with it.  What happens is you have people just giving you tons and tons of advice about books you should read and foods you should eat. People would recommend you know getting like oxygen injections and going down...  Does not that kill you?  I think that might kill you. It might kill you. You know going down to the Amazon drinking a tea from a shaman. You know what I mean? Like just all kinds of advice. And people would also do things like they would love to touch me. You know they were just rubbing me like I was some kind of Buddha or something.  You are Will.  You know we are not making fun of cancer we are making fun of the way people react to that situation and the dysfunction that it creates. And Seth plays a character who does not know how to deal with it. And so what he does is he just says one inappropriate comment after another trying to make light of the situation and each of the characters goes to some level of extreme. You know Anjelica Huston who plays Joseph Gordon-Levitt's mother you know her way of reacting is she just tries to smother her son.  I want to play a clip from the movie. And in this scene the main character Adam and this character's girlfriend invite the parents over to dinner to break the news about the diagnosis.    Have you ever seen Terms of Endearment?   Adam just tell her.   Tell me what?  I have cancer.  Honey. I am moving in.  What? No no mom no sorry.  I am your mother Adam.  No exactly. That is why. And...mom mom...  I read that your parents were actually on set around the filming of this scene.  It is true. My parents were actually on set for the filming of that scene.  What was that like?  My mother started crying. When I told my...  Did you plan that? Did you invite them that day or was that just like the worst coincidence in the history of...  That was that was the worst coincidence possible. My mother you know when I told my mom I was sick I was in L.A. and she was New York so we did not do it in person. You know we had to do it over the phone. My mother did literally get on a plane the next day and fly to L.A.  It is also one of the things I think for a lot of people they can identify with which is maybe not reaching out to your parents the way they would like.  For me I did not want people to worry about me.  But I think you are also specifically at that age at the time in your life where you are trying to separate yourself. You had just gotten out of college you were living alone in Los Angeles for the first time. The last thing you want to do when something bad happens is have your parents be the ones that come and fix it I think you know?  Seth this is kind of a buddy film about cancer. And your buddy is sort of the chuckleheaded one. And I am wondering in the end who is the sort of audience member you are trying to reach out to?  You know people see a movie like this and they fear it is going to be miserable and that a room full of people will see them crying. I think it all kind of comes down to that. And you know I look at movies like Dr. Strangelove as movies as things that are about things that you do not really want to think about but they are presented in a way that you want to watch it. That was really our goal is to make a movie that was about something serious and that was as entertaining to watch as any other comedy.  And I also wanted to add to that we showed the movie to the Livestrong organization and 200 cancer patients and survivors and it felt like almost every single person came up to us afterwards and said this movie is exactly what it was like for me. One young guy who was in his early 20s came up to me and said the relationship between Joseph Gordon-Levitt and Seth is the exact relationship I had with my best friend.  Yeah and it was refreshing to see it reflected in a movie as opposed to what you are used to seeing which is just sentimental...  People sitting in a circle holding hands crying.  Yeah. People who have experienced stuff like this seem really happy that we had the guts to make jokes that were potentially very inappropriate but that we knew were representative of the types of jokes we actually made when we were in that situation.  And were at the end of the day actually funny.  I hope so.  Will Reiser the screenwriter for the film 5050 Seth Rogan actor and producer for the movie. Thank you both so much for actually coming into the building coming into the show. I appreciate it.  Thanks for having us.  Of course. Thanks for having us.  5050 opens nationwide on September 30th. You can watch scenes from the film at our website NPR.org. 