 I want to turn back to New York. It is a tradition that family members read the names of victims of 911 in pairs. People are coming to the podium now and let us hear some of that.  Mark Bingham.  Carl Vincent Bini.  Gary Eugene Bird.  Joshua David Birnbaum.  George John Bishop.  Kris Romeo Bishundat.   This is a moment of silence at 03. A moment of silence...    Listening to a moment of silence at the World Trade Center site where - the ceremonies of the 10th anniversary for the 911 attacks.  President Lincoln not only understood the heartbreak of his country he also understood the cost to sacrifice...   ...and reached out to console those in sorrow.  Applause here for former President George W. Bush.   Dear Madam I have been shown in the files of the War Department a statement of the Adjutant General of Massachusetts that you are the mother of five sons who have died gloriously on the field of battle. I feel how weak and fruitless must be any words of mine which should attempt to beguile you from the grief of a loss so overwhelming. But I cannot refrain from tendering to you the consolation that may be found in the thanks of the republic they died to save. I pray that our Heavenly Father may assuage the anguish of your bereavement and leave you only the cherished memory of the loved and lost and the solemn pride that must be yours to have laid so costly a sacrifice upon the altar of freedom. Yours very sincerely and respectfully Abraham Lincoln.   Former President George Bush the reading from Abraham Lincoln.  My name is Peter Negron. My father worked on the 88th floor of the World Trade Center. I was 13 when I stood here in 2003 and read a poem about how much I wanted to break down and cry. Since then I have stopped crying but I have not stop missing my dad. He was awesome.  He worked in the environmental department and cared about the Earth and our future. I know he wanted to make a difference. I admire him for that and I would have liked to talk to him about such things. I have decided to become a forensic scientist. I hope that I can make my father proud of the young men that my brother and I have become. I miss you so much Dad.   You are listening to live special coverage of the 10th anniversary of the September 11th attacks.   Jeffrey Donald Bittner.  Albert Balewa Blackman Jr.  Christopher Joseph Blackwell.  Carrie Rosetta Blackburn.  Susan Leigh Blair.  Harry Blanding Jr.  Janice Lee Blaney.  As is the annual tradition members - family members of 911 victims come forth on the stage and read names of all the victims throughout the day. 