 We are watching Hurricane Dorian today as it churns in the Atlantic heading toward the Bahamas. It is now a Category 5 with sustained winds of 160 miles per hour. Ray Hawthorne is a meteorologist with the Florida Public Radio Emergency Network and he is tracking the intensity and path of this storm. Good morning.  Hey good morning there Leila.  How are you?  We are doing OK so far.  So Ray this sounds dire for the Bahamas. When do you expect Dorian's full strength to hit the islands?  Yeah. The full strength of the hurricane is likely to come onshore later on today. And the big story there is it is going to last quite some time. The hurricane is slowing down. Yesterday it was moving toward the west at about 12 or 13 miles per hour. Now it has slowed down and is moving toward the west at about eight miles per hour. And it will slow even more today. So these very strong winds Category 4 Category 5 winds are going to last over the northwestern Bahamas for perhaps a day or more.  Wow. So just how devastating could it be?  It could be catastrophic. We are looking at storm surge potential of 15 to 20 feet. We are looking at many many many hours of hurricane force winds. We are looking at rainfall amounts that are going to exceed 1 or 2 feet in parts of the islands.  And what about the East Coast? What path does the storm seem to be taking?  So what is likely to happen is the storm is expected to slow down. It might even stall out. And then the forecast track becomes a little bit fuzzy although it looks like the core of the hurricane most likely will stay just east of the Florida East Coast. However the storm is large enough that tropical storm force winds are likely to start moving ashore near the Treasure Coast generally coming up on Monday and then perhaps lasting into Tuesday and then spreading up the East Coast. There still is a chance Leila that the storm could veer a little bit to the left and affect Florida directly. But right now that looks unlikely.  Winds and waves are the biggest immediate danger but much of the southeast should be on the lookout for flooding too right?  Yes. Flooding is going to be a big concern. We are looking for rainfall amounts around 3 to 6 inches over the Atlantic coast of the Florida Peninsula. However as the storm heads north later this week Wednesday into Thursday the Carolinas could see much more rain perhaps in excess of 10 inches.  In the past several years some big hurricanes Irma and Florence have changed course dramatically. And now Dorian also seems to be veering off its projected course. Is this to be expected or are storms becoming more unpredictable?  Well sometimes it just depends on how well-defined the steering is. So there are storms that are relatively easy to predict. Then there are storms that are harder. And because this one is slowing down and the steering is becoming a little less defined it is harder to sometimes pinpoint exactly the angle at which it is going to turn. So typically the slower moving the storm the harder that it is to predict. So no I am not all that surprised here.  What is your advice for Floridians today?  So the biggest advice I could offer is do not let your guard down just yet. We have already seen the storm already change direction. That could certainly happen again. Right now the most likely scenario keeps the very worst of the winds just offshore. But still tropical storm force winds are a good bet heavy rain. Make sure you prepare. Coastal flooding is also going to be a concern as well.  Ray Hawthorne is a meteorologist with the Florida Public Radio Emergency Network. Thank you very much and stay safe.  Thanks so much Leila. 