 This is ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR. I am Gregory Warner. From a distance you can see it - the familiar golden arches the bright yellow M floating on the roof of a building in Marseille France on the outskirts of an immigrant neighborhood near a cluster of housing projects in the shadow of a freeway. It is the sort of McDonald's where until recently a traveler might have darted off the exit just long enough to do the drive-through and continue on their journey.  I am just arriving at the McDonald's.  NPR's Eleanor Beardsley went to check out what this place has become.  Wow.  And what she is seeing - well it is a crowded drive-through but not with cars.  It is full of people pushing baby carriages and carrying bags to get their supplies.  .  Bonjour.  .  One of the volunteers here named Mohammed shows what is in these care packages that they are giving away.  .  A bottle of oil some sugar. You have flour milk vegetables rice - so yeah not your typical McDonald's cuisine.  .  Inside the restaurant behind the white plastic counter and the posters advertising Happy Meals...  A massive vat of entire chickens cooking up. .  .  . Oh my God. Like 40 chickens at once she is cooking. Oh wow. That is incredible.  .  Huge vats of couscous as well.  Without any official permission from McDonald's this former restaurant has been occupied and repurposed as a food pantry and community hub during the pandemic. And as Eleanor makes her way through the socially distancing mask-wearing crowd she keeps meeting volunteers.  There is a mother I met who brought her son.  .  She said I really want him to be part of this. There were artists coming out there to sketch and draw the McDonald's.  I have free time and I want to came here because the - l'ambiance.  It drew people from all levels of society who were just attracted to this idea.  Actually I was going to depression and I was like what the heck can I do with my life?  I met a student at a university in Marseilles. He took a semester off to come volunteer.  When I discovered that this place was transformed in a good way there is still hope. There is another world that is possible and this is what we build here. My life is not useless 'ecause I help. And I - in a way I found my place.  What is even more surprising than what this place has become and what it is come to mean to people is that the organizers of this food pantry and community center have kept certain elements of the original McDonald's like the big yellow M or the words of the slogan of McDonald's France which is not I am lovin' it. That is the U.S. phrase. In France it is come as you are.   - come as you are McDonald's.  That is the French slogan.  The French McDonald's. But they turned into  - as you are you come. And they thought that was a big difference and they loved that.   But do you get it - ? Maybe they just turned it on its head.  This is ow that brings you far-off stories that hit close to home. I am Gregory Warner. It seems like a takeover of a fast-food restaurant solidarity over profit French lefties over American capitalism couscous over fries. But here's the thing. This whole transformation was orchestrated by former McDonald's employees who loved their McDonald's and revered what it stood for so much that they are doing all of this to save the essence of what their McDonald's means to them. Longtime ROUGH TRANSLATION listeners may remember that we did a story about these employees who saw the golden arches of McDonald's as their gateway to French society and who took the company's corporate slogan so deeply to heart it would actually become a problem for the company. So much has happened since that initial episode ran that we want to tell you about and so here's what we are going to do. We are going to play the original episode first going to catch you up. And then we will tell you all the stuff that is happened since. Here's the original episode reported by Eleanor Beardsley with Marianne McCune. Here's Marianne.   This neighborhood this McDonald's is in is known mostly for bad things. Marseille is already known in France for its mafias and its drug gangs.  And here's the McDonald's right up here.  And the news out of this northern part of town is always about shootings and crime.  .  The guy showing us around Kamel Guemari - he is pointing out drug dealers on the streets we are passing.  .  Kamel has a slender face big brown eyes big brown beard. He is the son of Algerian immigrants.  Some of these doors are off. And the trash cans were all burned and...  There is a couch upside down.  So we are going up to the neighborhood where Kamel grew up.  Up a lonely winding road to this notoriously scary high-rise complex called La Savine.  .  He is taking us to this spot where he has a specific memory.  There is only one bus that comes up here he says.  Kamel keeps telling me to put my mic down below the windows. He does not want to attract attention.  .  And at the last turn in the road this one kid is standing guard - no one else around.  The young guy there is wearing like a head mask you know?  A ski mask. He is the lookout for drug dealers. He is maybe 16. And Kamel says that easily could have been him 20 years ago. It is when the guy steps out in front of our car that Kamel says watch out and knocks my mic to the car floor. The kid strolls around to the window to find out what the hell we are doing here. Kamel tells him I am from here. And the kid's like oh OK pardon - sorry - and goes back to his lookout spot. It is right around the next bend that Kamel points to a little courtyard. And he tells us...  .  It was here that Ronald McDonald intervened.   .  In 1998 when Kamel was 16 years old Ronald McDonald came to his high-rise for a visit.   Ronald McDonald.  .  .  He did his jokes...  .  ...Riddles...  .  ...The magic tricks.   .  And Kamel says this visit from Ronald was a major event. People did not come to this neighborhood from outside let alone a guy with a red clown mouth doing magic tricks. And in fact Ronald almost did not do the show that day. He had to be coaxed into it by this guy.  My name is Fabrice Elbaz.  Fabrice Elbaz - he was the restaurant manager at the time.   He is Jewish. And he was the one who brought Ronald and a car full of snacks and decorations. And Fabrice says when they pulled up to the housing complex Ronald McDonald started freaking out.  .  Right next to where he parked Fabrice says there were three charred cars. So Ronald looks at him and he says...  .  This is where we are doing the thing? For Fabrice this young manager it was not just about a magic show. This was a hearts and minds campaign a directive from the very top part of McDonald's corporate strategy. You court customers by showing up in their neighborhoods. McDonald's had put pingpong tables at the foot of the high-rises sponsored youth soccer leagues - the kids in McDonald's uniforms. Ronald's visit was a part of all that. So the actor playing Ronald reluctantly gets out of the car changes into a striped suit and orange wig. Fabrice sets up the snacks and party favors and the big Orange Bowl the traditional McDonald's cooler with orangeade.   .  More than a hundred kids showed up to see him. The neighborhood moms brought sambusas different traditional pastries and cakes and the party was still going strong when Ronald had to go home - 5 p.m. sharp. He was a union actor.   .  With kids still romping around and drinking their orangeade Fabrice could not pack up the Orange Bowl and take Ronald home on time. So Kamel who was then this lanky sort of rumpled kid - he offered to bring it back the next day.  .  At this point Kamel's parents had split. He is living half on the street sometimes with friends. He was not going to school. He was embarrassed about his dirty clothes. And also he had a lot of trouble reading - undiagnosed dyslexia. And Fabrice though he is never met this kid from the worst of Marseille's public housing...  .  He did not blink an eye...  .  ...Did not doubt him. Kamel remembers him saying...  .  ...OK. We will trust you.   Next day Kamel rides a scooter over to the McDonald's carrying the big Orange Bowl cooler with him and he returns it to Fabrice the manager. And then...  .  He asked...  .  ...Would it be possible for him to get a job?   What Kamel did not realize standing there waiting for a yes or a no was that there was something working in his favor - an anecdote that had been told and retold by top executives and franchise owners of McDonalds all around the world. And it was a story about the LA riots of 1992.   No justice no peace. No justice no peace.  After the acquittal of a group of white police officers who would been videotaped beating an unarmed Black man named Rodney King residents in poor Black neighborhoods started setting stores and restaurants on fire.   .  But they spared McDonald's. McDonald's they explained to reporters was theirs. McDonald's had served students free lunches given out coffee to neighbors and employed their kids. This was all part of corporate strategy. Other franchise owners were encouraged to hire local. Some of them started paying employees while they did their homework or gave bonuses for good grades even offered tutoring.  .  Fabrice says yeah those things are part of marketing...  .  ...A way of saying we are here we are going to stay here and we are here to help. So when Fabrice looks at this 16-year-old kid from the neighborhood asking for a job what he sees is an opportunity for McDonald's to belong to this neighborhood. Here's this kid who is betting that flipping burgers for a low wage at his local McDonald's is a better choice than the easy money he could make working for the drug dealers in the housing complex. Fabrice thought if this kid was going to bet on McDonald's McDonald's should bet on him. So Fabrice hands him a job application form says sit down write your cover letter. And Kamel - now he is not sure what to do. He does not read well. Remember he is dyslexic. He cannot write this on his own. And if Kamel was asking for a job in a regular French company this is likely where it would have ended. French company culture especially back then was traditional and strict governed by hierarchy. But McDonald's was different. Fabrice remembers his own first week at the company when the president of McDonald's France...  .  ...Came to his restaurant. He was an American guy and Fabrice is flipping burgers for the first time.  .  The tie of his uniform is tossed over his shoulder to keep it clean. And the president comes over to congratulate him and says...  .  Hi Fabrice - calls him by his first name.  .  And Fabrice knew it was a strategy that his boss had probably learned his name five minutes ago but he was still enchanted. In other companies people would definitely be using the formal you. At McDonald's it was all informal everyone rubbing shoulders.  .  Fabrice actually uses the word magic to describe this moment.  .   So in that moment with Kamel this teenager who can barely read standing there unable to fill out his job application Fabrice just helps him. They write the cover letter together. And he gets the job and he is terrible. He does not show up on time. He gets angry when his supervisors give him an order he does not agree with. He misses whole shifts whole days whole weeks with no warning. And then Fabrice says he would show up all apologies.  .  Sometimes Fabrice says he would not see Kamel for a month. And then he says he would personally walk over to Kamel's housing complex find him and bring him back.  .   Fabrice saw something in Kamel. First the way he would watch and listen and learn how he remembered everything he was told. But also if there was trouble in the McDonald's some fight broke out or purse got snatched it was Kamel who would come out from behind the counter and break things up settle the disputes. When Fabrice looks at Kamel now with his combination of muscle and charisma he thinks...  .  ...He is a guy who if he had not ended up at McDonald's...  .  ...He would be the biggest crook on the block.  .  Kamel says he really did want this job. He wanted the regular salary and he wanted the respect. But then he would have these days at work where kids he knew from the neighborhood would come in.  .  They were these tough kids.  .  And there I am with a mop and a bucket and cleaning off tables. Inside my head I was like crap. When I was out on the street I was tough. And now they are going to say he does the housework.  .  On the side when he was not showing up at work Kamel started dabbling in crime - a little carjacking delivering drugs across France even to Spain. It paid better than McDonald's. When he was 18 or 19 he did not show up to his McDonald's shift for a full six months. And then he remembers this day. He was back in town and he ran into some of his former co-workers.  .  Come back come back to work. You are still on the schedule they told him.  .  People had basically been covering for him as if he was just out for a sick day. So he walks back into the restaurant and he says...  .  ...I came back and I have got my uniform on.  .   He says Fabrice went first into a rage but then he decided to punish Kamel. That is how Kamel saw it at least. Fabrice sent him to work at a different McDonald's in an upscale mall an hour away on the bus. And this time it is not just going to be kids from the neighborhood showing up in name-brand sneakers. The kids who worked at this McDonald's had pools at home and drove their parents' cars to and from work. Their parents were architects and doctors. And this restaurant? It was not run like a family. It was not set up to help kids like him. Fabrice says the boss there was not going to act fatherly and protective.  .  He says there was a rigor that Kamel was not used to.  .  You could not miss work.  .  You could not arrive late. And Kamel? He pulled it off. But what he really remembers about this time is something else - that he was able to fit into this other world one he had both judged and felt intimidated by. He could command their respect.  .  And that Kamel says is when he started to feel really confident. It was a .  .  A switch was flipped.  .  He says he was hanging out with his co-workers at their villas in their swimming pools and...  .  ...Even their parents seemed to accept him.  .  He says they did not say hey do not hang out with that kid from the north side. Fabrice had hoped Kamel's time in the other McDonald's would turn him around. And it did. Six months later when Kamel came back to work at the McDonald's in his own neighborhood he was a model employee. And pretty soon he got selected to go to Paris to take a test to become a manager himself. It is a week-long exam and on the first day there is a written test. And if you do not pass you get sent home. You cannot do the rest of the training. So on that first day Kamel was terrified. Until now he would made every effort to hide these parts of himself that he could not read or write well. In Paris that week he decided he did not want to do that.  .  Before the first exam he says he went to the head trainer and just told him the truth.  .  I do not want to cheat he told them but I would like for you to help me succeed. They put him in a room. They had him read the questions. And when there were things he did not understand the trainer explained the question to him in a language he could understand. Kamel gave the answers. And out of 25 questions he says he made one mistake.  .  That is when McDonald's made a true believer of Kamel. All those years of not giving up on him helping him succeed over and over again - they got more than a manager. McDonald's won his loyalty.   It is been more than 20 years since that day Kamel promised to return Ronald McDonald's orange bowl. He still works at the same McDonald's where he got his first job. A lot of people have worked here a long time made careers instead of passing through. To them this little one-story restaurant amidst the miles of high-rises is this strange little oasis.  This is where they all grew up. The mothers came here. They brought their kids.  So outside there is a red-brick patio and there is a big play structure they call a gym - like a little tower and there is little slides and windows they can pick through.  The village cafe basically.  There are all kinds of families eating at picnic tables. It is truly like the billboards that you see around France for McDonald's. You see people of all ages and skin shades and dress styles. There are two women in headscarves eating fries. There is a blond dad squirting mayonnaise on his son's burger.  .  Some of the moms who live around here told us they know their teenagers are safe if they text from McDonald's.  .  .  Kamel knows everyone here and probably their grandparents. He is always greeting people with kisses on both cheeks...  .  ...Whether it is a longtime customer or his staff. And he is spent all these years trying to bring people up the way Fabrice did for him like a kid who works here now that they have hired straight out of prison. And then there is Marie France a single mother from the neighborhood who uses French expressions like this one.  .  Oh puree - oh fudge. She says before she found work at this McDonald's she spent years bouncing from job to job battling depression. And when she first started working here she had health problems. She was overweight.  .  She could not move fast enough to fill the orders in time. I was so slow she says.  .  She was worried that she was going to be fired. But instead of firing her Kamel coached her.  .  One day Kamel said this phrase to her.  .  He said here at this McDonald's...  .  ...Come as you are. And to Marie France it felt like so much more than a slogan. It felt like gospel.  .  Just like Kamel she came with flaws. They accepted them and they helped her overcome. But in 2018 Kamel and the other workers started to worry. There were rumblings of problems - some road construction keeping customers away. The franchise owner was sick and he wanted to sell. There were rumors that it might not even be a McDonald's anymore. And finally one spring day Kamel and the others found out those rumors were not just rumors. They were true.  .  We were all shocked Kamel says hopeless.  .  Now this McDonald's had been sold before. It is part of a group of six McDonald's in Marseille that have passed through various hands through various franchise owners. But it is always been a McDonald's since 1992. Now with the threat of the Golden Arches coming down Marie France says they started trying everything to save the restaurant.  .  The franchise owner told them they had to run a tighter ship to work faster and make the place shine clean the walls clean every nook and cranny. And so they did. They got on their hands and knees to scrub the toilets.   .  They made the place impeccable.  .  When that did not work they started taking things into their own hands trying to figure out someone to buy the franchise and keep it a McDonald's meeting with a lawyer to see if they could stop the sale. But still one hot summer day the owner announces he is sold it. And while the other five of his McDonald's are going to a new franchise owner this McDonald's will not be a McDonald's anymore. And Kamel he calmly locks himself inside the McDonald's with a gallon of gasoline. Once he is inside and no one else can get in he starts live-streaming on Facebook.   .  On the video you can see how skinny he is gotten. He is got bags under his eyes. He is only sleeping two or three hours a night. He is at risk of losing this place where he has spent half his life. He loves this place. There are all these people there who look to him to know what to do and he says he let them down. So he starts pouring the gasoline all over himself.   .  Marie France is outside with a bunch of the other employees knocking on all the doors calling for help shaking crying.   .  ROUGH TRANSLATION - back in a minute.   This is NPR's ROUGH TRANSLATION. When we left our story Kamel had locked himself inside that McDonald's drenched in gasoline still streaming on Facebook Live. Journalists were arriving outside along with police and firefighters and Kamel looks into his camera and mentions a name...   .  Abbassi - he is the guy who is buying the other five McDonald's.   .  Why will not you buy our McDonald's too? It is because it is on the north side in this forgotten neighborhood.   .  And then he demands to talk to local politicians and a senator actually answers his call. She promises to help and tells him do not abandon your co-workers. So Kamel unlocks the door walks out and is led away by a firefighter who wants to make sure he is OK. That guy that Kamel mentioned Abbassi - the one buying the other five McDonald's - he knows all about this Facebook video and says that the reason he is not buying this McDonald's is not because of what neighborhood it is in. It is because of who works there. Mohamed Abbassi lives in a posh neighborhood of Marseille. He says his neighbors are still surprised to find a family with Moroccan roots living next door but he got rich as a McDonald's franchise owner. And he is known Kamel for years. He is seen him rise up and become a leader.  I have a respect for Mr. Kamel Guemari OK? But I do not want to work with him OK? He chose one way. I chose another way OK?  Abbassi had known Kamel for years. He would seen him rise up and become a leader and he would seen him use his charisma and his toughness to fight for higher salaries and better benefits. Abbassi says he turned workers into soldiers which is not what Abbassi wants.  This person - they only work for me OK? It is not soldiers you know just workers.  And so because Abbassi did not want it and nobody did the owner had sold this McDonald's to a halal foods company called Ali Foods . McDonald's in France does not do halal. A couple weeks later we asked NPR's Paris correspondent Eleanor Beardsley to head down to Marseille.  Yeah. So I went down there and I was quite surprised. I see the McDonald's. It looks like a regular McDonald's on a busy traffic circle till you get closer. All the windows of this McDonald's had black trash bags taped up so you could not see inside. And you see all the posters in the windows - union posters. Open to dialogue says one in big red letters. One of them says total support to Kamel Guemari who wanted to sacrifice his life for us. Let us go see. Bonjour. Eleanor.  .  Bonjour. So people are still wearing their uniforms. It is just a couple employees in here. I am looking at the mattress on the floor where some employees have been sleeping here every night since it is been occupied. So I ran into all kinds of employees even Fabrice Kamel's first manager.  .  And he was incensed especially about the idea that they wanted to turn this McDonald's into a halal restaurant.  .  You know there are already halal restaurants here. They do not need another one. Fabrice is saying...  .  ...That this McDonald's is like a door to the rest of the world for people here. It is really a link to society. It is a link to the France outside of this neighborhood.  .  In fact everyone I talked to but especially Muslims were angered by this. They said opening a halal restaurant would be turning their neighborhood into some sort of Muslim ghetto.  .  Marie France - you know before the decision she is so dispirited. And she says...  .  I feel like they are rejecting all the principles they wanted us to hold dear...  .  ...Like integration acceptance being given a second chance. Everything that gives us hope to succeed they are rejecting now.  .  They would been McDonald's. McDonald's means something to the world. What does Ali Foods mean? Nothing.   So that is why the black bags in the windows and the mattresses on the floor. Kamel has organized all these workers to block the sale until the court can decide.  They sued to block it because they said this was not a legitimate company. It would go bust in six months and they would all lose their jobs. And it would be the French state who would pay their unemployment instead of McDonald's.  They argue in court that the sale is actually a scheme to fire the McDonald's workers who would been there for years.  And I was in the McDonald's when we were waiting for the court's decision. So everyone's sort of showing up today before the decision greeting each other. I think there is going to be more and more people. I will never forget all the people coming in and out - people just from the neighborhood and people from other areas of Marseille. And you had like a congressman from Marseille and you had local officials.  Hours pass. It is a long wait. Thankfully they are open enough to be making friends.  .  .  OK the McDonald's employees are sitting here waiting for the phone call from the court. There is a lot of media around.   And they announced it and the lawyer - they were on the phone with a lawyer and it just erupted. Everyone erupted. Oh my God. It looks like they won.   And there is tears in people's eyes. It is incredible.  .  So the decision is made. The sale has been canceled. People are really happy.  .  .  Then Kamel starts to speak and he talks about - this is just vindication. The little lowdown employees even from this very poor neighborhood in the north of the city have been recognized.  .  .  Dancing in the parking lot.  .  You know everybody just was partying and playing all these great left-wing songs like the Italian Resistance song from 1944 that everybody knows here.  How does that go?  Ciao bella. Ciao bella. Ciao ciao ciao. I mean it is a great song. And then they were singing you know just these great street songs.  .  I thought this was going to be the end. I just thought well we are going to celebrate. They kept their McDonald's and that is the end of the story. But that is when things got really complicated.   Well OK. I came for the party where they were going to celebrate and Kamel was going to give a speech and all that. All the drinks are out. I mean there is Coke and all the chips and yucky little candies. But you know everybody's ready and then all of a sudden the party seems to be off.  Did you literally walk into a celebration and see nobody there and it is just...  Yeah.  ...Like some Coke?  Exactly. All of a sudden Kamel and people were rushing in like what are you doing? Where are you going? He said we got to go. We got to go to the other McDonald's. And why? What is going on? Abbassi is coming. He is shown up there. It is like what do you mean? I just did not get it at all. And I was totally lost yeah.   We are back with NPR's ROUGH TRANSLATION. And to understand where we left off with Eleanor at a party and nobody there you have to understand that Kamel was now facing a kind of choice - whether to celebrate a victory in this battle or go to war - because there is another part of that court decision. Yes the court had stopped the sale of this one McDonald's but it had approved the sale of the other five to Mohamed Abbassi the franchise owner who wants nothing to do with Kamel. Now Kamel's McDonald's was split off from the rest. And this may be more than you wanted to know about fast-food economics but if you have got six McDonald's you can share costs. You can absorb a say highly paid employee who is been there for decades like Kamel. A standalone McDonald's - that is much more precarious.  The whole time that Kamel was growing up in this McDonald's learning the deep fryer and the cash register and then how to manage and motivate a team he would also been a kind of student of power. If at first he was the employee who would break up a fight or run down a purse snatcher now he could rally dozens of McDonald's employees to fight. So in the middle of what was going to be a celebration Kamel and the other organizers of the protest huddle around a table together and they are telling him we are counting on you. Kamel decides to put to use all the leadership skills he would learned during his years at McDonald's and stand up to the new franchiser stand up to Abbassi. He is going to try to reverse the whole sale.  Oh my God. This next day I was kind of shocked. So we went around to these McDonald's. And it is cool and dark inside another McDonald's in Marseilles. They were occupied. We drove up to McDonald's regular McDonald's. You know you felt you could have been in America and then you would go up and you would see the black trash bags on the window. The windows are blacked up. And you would go inside and the workers would be there and huddled around. And Kamel would give them a booster speech. And they talked - you know rah-rah and great what you did And yes we are with you. So there is more employees huddled back here. Everybody's wearing these shirts that say McStrike .  McStrike. It sounds like - so there is a bit of an anti-McDonald's aspect to this.  You know it is really funny. There should be a huge anti-McDonald's - and this is what I can never quite figure out. Through all of this nobody is hating McDonald's. They felt they were helping McDonald's International from this ignominious ending in Marseilles that the local horrible franchiser had plotted and planned for them. Well we are leaving McDonald's. Well .  .  In the union office where Kamel and the other workers go to strategize there is a photo of the franchise owner Mohamed Abbassi the one who bought the other five restaurants but refused to buy the McDonald's where Kamel works. The photo is doctored to show him wearing a turban and in the background there are airplanes flying into the World Trade Center. They are making him out to be Osama bin Laden.  I know all that happened. You know it is fake news OK?  By the time I met Abbassi at his office above one of his flagship McDonald's he had reclaimed control of the McDonald's he would bought. There were no more plastic bags in the windows. But the fate of Kamel's and Marie France's restaurant it was still in limbo. And the fight between Kamel and this new owner was still going full force - ongoing lawsuits still bitter and nasty each side calling the other thugs in person and on social media. .  .  But beyond all the vitriol and the tit for tat each man was fighting for his vision of what McDonald's is and what it should be. The surprising thing is Abbassi has a remarkably similar story to Kamel's. Growing up he also felt like an outsider in France.  It is very difficult you know when your name is Mohamed. OK? You are not white with blue eyes. It is very difficult here in France.  Abbassi also grew up in the poor outskirts of a French city. McDonald's also gave him his first real break and he rose up from there. And Abbassi has his own memories of being treated like someone worthwhile at McDonald's. He once drank beer with the president of McDonald's France.  He speak with me normally OK? How are you? Fine. You know? And I am very shocked.  McDonald's told each of them come as you are. But Abbassi heard something different than Kamel in that phrase. Kamel heard McDonald's is an institution that will take in hard-luck kids and turn them into respected leaders. Abbassi heard McDonald's is a place where no matter who you are if you work hard you can rise up and get rich.  Americans guy never tell me where you come from?  He says they just want to know...  How much I can give him the money you know?  ...How much I can earn for them.  .  Mohamed Abbassi says McDonald's is trapped in the middle of all the French paradoxes. We want businesses but we do not want bosses. We want to take care of poor neighborhoods but we do not want to pay taxes for it. He says before the French left protested McDonald's even cheered when a restaurant was torn down.  And now they tell oh this restaurant is very important.  He says now they want McDonald's to do social work to take care of people.  You need McDonald's . It is just crazy OK. .  It is so cynical he says. People are cynics.   Abbassi is not the kind of boss that would have kept teenage Kamel on his staff.  .  I am not a tender guy he says. You do not succeed in business by being tender. He has employees who have risen from the bottom to the top and he might have hired Kamel but he would not have given him those third fifth sixth chances. Now Kamel and his co-workers are making so much noise - their fight to save their McDonald's is bringing so much bad press it is making his McDonald's look bad. He just wants all that to go away so he has changed his mind and he is offering to buy it - but only on one condition that he cut t