 This is ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR. I am Gregory Warner. So maybe you saw this sketch on Jimmy Kimmel that came out just before Valentine's Day. It shows a guy presenting his girlfriend with a small velvet box.   This year get her the one thing she is been waiting for...  And then he opens the box.   ...The COVID-19 vaccine...   It is a vaccine vial.   ...From Pfizer.   Do not just be her somebody. Be her antibody.   ...Because the quickest way to the heart...  That sketch came out on a Thursday. Then a few days later something weird happened. A news channel in Lebanon called OTV ran this clip as though it were a serious pharmaceutical ad campaign running in the United States.  Yes it did. It ran as a serious news story in the main newscast for OTV.  NPR's correspondent Ruth Sherlock is based in Beirut.  It so happened that Valentine's Day was the day that Lebanon started giving the Pfizer vaccine to people. They started administering the vaccine here.  So someone there thought this was true this was real?  Well I contacted OTV and they said look it is quite embarrassing but this was a mistake.  By the time Ruth called OTV the channel was being mocked in Lebanon for this. And they had an explanation.  It was a young person who would just started working here and she just kind of like did not notice the canned laughter and did not notice the Jimmy Kimmel logo...   ...And just thought to insert it in the regular news bulletin.   Be her antibody.   .  But OTV is known for being the biggest spreader of vaccine disinformation among the main media outlets here in Lebanon.   Disinformation like the vaccines are a Masonic ploy - and they will mess with your DNA.  And then there is also you know the idea that the coronavirus and the vaccine are a strategy by bigger powers namely George Soros to kind of control the population.  In the sectarian media landscape of Lebanon where every religious group has their own political party and every party their own sympathetic TV channel OTV is the channel aligned with the Free Patriotic Movement. It is the party of Christian conservatives.  The views of this base are very nativist. They take a very anti-immigration stance because they are afraid that refugees are taking their jobs here. They feel this kind of loss of status loss of agency. Nothing is working around them. And there is this kind of constant fear among this Christian group that their way of life is under attack.  If you are already primed to be skeptical of vaccines and then you are presented this Kimmel spoof without the irony ignore the laugh track it is kind of sinister. Pfizer is advertising its vaccine as a kind of luxury good and a luxury good almost by definition is something you pay too much for and do not really need.  Conspiracy theories in Lebanon are seen as a useful political tool to divert attention away from failings or unpopular policies. People kind of buy into them because they feel like they have lost the ability to change anything themselves. We cannot really know for sure what the person that chose to run this ad was thinking. But absolutely you could say that this fits into this pattern of the others have more and the others are against you.   This is ow with far-off stories that hit close to home. I am Gregory Warner.   Flash news - people are willing to believe a parody video and ignore the laugh track or hold on to a conspiracy theory despite evidence to the contrary. What do you do about that? Around the world health authorities are trying to persuade the vaccine-hesitant to get the shot. Today on the show we visit two countries and look at two very different strategies. In our first story a man takes great pains to make the doubters feel heard and understood. It is all about the patient art of engagement. In the other story a little bit of estrangement may do the trick. That is when ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner. It seems like so often we hear about religious groups fomenting doubt in the vaccine and we do not hear enough about the opposite. There is an imam in England who is been using his Friday sermons to counter vaccine disinformation. This imam closed his mosque for services weeks before the national lockdown. The sermons are on Zoom.   We should not allow conspiracy theories and fake news control and manage us. Let us rely on the experts to guide us not someone threw something on Facebook or threw something on WhatsApp.  Sheikh Nuru Mohammed was born in Ghana. He is been the imam at the Al-Abbas Islamic Centre in Birmingham for four years. His congregation is mostly Indian and South Asians in England are among the communities hardest hit by the virus and the most hesitant to take the vaccine. The imam sat down with NPR correspondent Frank Langfitt - both of course wearing masks - and he said that some people did not like him proselytizing for the vaccine.  So when I began speaking about it not everybody was happy. I mean  some people but not everybody was happy. So I told them no problem. I am willing to talk to you. You can call me. You can have discussions via Zoom Skype whatever.  What kind of questions did you get?  The first one is Sheikh Nuru Mohammed is this halal? So halal meaning is this lawful as per the teachings of Islam or not?  People had all kinds of questions for him.  This vaccination will change someone's hormones. It will cause damage to our brains.  And they really started doing it after the U.K. approved the first vaccine. That was the Pfizer vaccine back in the beginning of December.  Why do we have to go for vaccination? We are here to live and die so there is no need for this really. Everything is in the hand of God.  Now some of these were things that Sheikh Nuru expected. But in some cases I think he might have been surprised who he was hearing it from.  Well I guess the word is hesitant. I was cautious. There is loads of examples where pharmaceutical companies have not played it well.  There was a guy I talked to named Murtaza Master. He is a pharmacist. He reads drug studies. And initially he really did not want to take the vaccine because it was developed and approved so quickly. And he also cited reasons others in the congregation were skeptical.  When you have the systems that is prejudicial you have some level of mistrust. So I will give you an example. One person he said I have been here 20 years.  That is here in the U.K.  You want me to trust a system where I have worked very hard and I have still not been promoted and I see others getting promoted and I feel I deserve that promotion.  So it is a general distrust and a feeling that the system overall is unfair. Ergo I am not going to trust a vaccine.  I am saying that plays a part in it. There are many reasons and I do not think there is one answer for it.  What was it that persuaded you to be supportive of vaccines?  The biggest difference that I must admit was the death in my family. When my mother passed away it really - the penny dropped. And I think it brings it home that this is real. And the consequence of not having - being protected is death.  Last year this congregation lost 19 people. This year so far seven. So Murtaza came up with this idea that at that point nobody had tried - to turn the mosque into a vaccine distribution center.  Why do not we do this through a mosque?  The mosque ends up applying to the National Health Service to become a vaccination center and the National Health Service thinks this is a great idea 'ecause they realize how important it is to reach congregations like this. And then they open up the mosque's doors. And what they do is they lay out all of this cardboard wall to wall so that people can walk in and keep their shoes on. And they are not taking their shoes off because they are nonbelievers. And I have got to say this is the first time I have been in a mosque where I kept my shoes on. And they are doing that to protect the rugs.  So we embedded - the whole idea was to embed this in a mosque and to attract the people in your community. But the first few weeks we did not have that.  The first people that actually showed up for the vaccine were outsiders.  Yes yes.  So were you surprised when you started seeing people who were maybe strangers come into the mosque?  I would not call them strangers because our job is to give vaccination to everybody. And it was a real pleasure actually to see so many people walking in through a mosque because it was perhaps their first opportunity to actually walk into a mosque.   Sheikh Nuru says this decision to turn the mosque into a vax center raised suspicion among some of the congregants.  Some also are saying that no maybe you guys are getting a lot of money you know? I said no no no no no.  Did some people think you were being bought?  Yeah like us and the executives.  Were getting paid to open a center?  Yeah. I said not at all. Never.   This is a tricky path. I mean what he was doing was trying to really frankly bluntly save his community right? But in order to do that he had to take certain risks. He had to work with the government and he had to support something that members of his congregation had real doubts about. And so he had to confront that and he confronted it in a variety of ways. And he decided he was going to start off and just get the jab - which is the way they call it here in the United Kingdom - the first dose himself.  When I took it even I had some close friends who said why? Why did you rush for it? You should have waited. I said no no no. There is nothing to wait about.  Did you also know when you did that that if it went well it would convince a lot of people here to get it?  Yes yes.  Was that part of the strategy?  Absolutely. I mean people wanted to see the reaction to make their mind. In fact some - I remember some trying to touch it.  Really? They touched your arm?  Yeah. I said of course. There is nothing man. Why are you worried? I am OK. I am strong. I am happy. I am looking forward to receiving the second jab. Sometime we may think people are not watching us not monitoring us not listening to us. People are listening.  It also sounds like they were looking for permission.  Yeah you know that is how it is. They were just looking for that. You know why are you worried? Go. It is fine man. We are all together in this.  Almost all the elderly congregants at the mosque - they have already been vaccinated and the mosque has been doing about a thousand doses a week reaching tons of people in the community.  What really surprised me is the response. Unbelievable. We never thought this place was going to be busy like this.  What was your expectation? Did you think people would not come?  No no we think you know our people will definitely come because you are in but maybe wider community might not come. Maybe they will choose another place.  You think they would not be comfortable?  Yes especially those who have never been inside the mosque and they do not know what mosque is all about.   Sheikh Nuru had done all this with his own congregation in mind trying to allay their fears and doubts about the vaccine. But in the end he seems to have put one of his own fears to rest - that outsiders might not feel comfortable entering this place even with shoes on even for the few minutes it takes to get a shot.  But it is really exciting to see the response. It is unbelievable.  In our next story we go from trying to persuade the doubters to enter your house to trying to make them beg to be let in. Exclusion as a persuasion tool when ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.   We are back with NPR's ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner. We are going to go now from Birmingham in the U.K. to Jerusalem home of our correspondent Daniel Estrin. And whenever I talk to Daniel these days I feel like I am getting a dispatch from the future. Each week it seems that Daniel is sending a report from some new place that is opened because enough people are vaccinated like this theater.   Once the lights dimmed in that theater and the actors came on stage you just started hearing people cracking up in the theater.   If that is not FOMO enough for you Israeli PR has dubbed the country the Vaccination Nation. More than half of the population in Israel has gotten at least one dose. And since early February all Israelis over age 16 have had access to the shot. Only here's a problem - when you look at Israelis in their 20s about a third of them still have not shown up for a first shot and they were eligible to do that already a month ago. And about 28 of Israelis in their 30s also have not gotten the shot yet. I have spoken to officials who have said they are just flabbergasted. Like we have all the vaccines that we need. All people have to do is show up. You know in other countries people are clamoring for these vaccines and dressing up as old people and whatever people are doing in the States. And here they are like practically begging especially young people to come get the vaccine.  Compare that to right over the border in the occupied West Bank. Israel has said it is not responsible for providing doses to Palestinian non-citizens though Israel has opened some vaccination centers. And the scene in some of those centers can be chaotic with people turned away who do not qualify. Meanwhile Daniel says in some Israeli vaccination centers health authorities are so desperate for arms to jab they are throwing parties.   I do not care. I love it.  Hello.  Hello.  We are from American radio. They are inviting DJs to come to the vaccination center and play upbeat music and they are doing giveaways - like free headphones for people who come and get vaccinated. And I was really curious. Like are people showing up for a vaccine just so they can get a free headphone - free set of headphones? And I mean they are not. The answer is the DJ the headphones is not what is bringing people in. It is pressure. At the vaccination center there was this long long line outside. And how old are you?  39.  And you are getting your first shot?  Yeah.  Why did you wait so long?  Because I am afraid and I am not so sure that .  She did not know by the time she would get to the front of the line whether she would actually agree to get it. She would heard all kinds of rumors about whether it would affect her fertility. That is a very popular false rumor going around Israel. But she said there was one thing that was getting her there.  The only reason that I am going to get this vaccine is because I want to go to the gym.  She wanted to go to the gym.  All of my friends do it only because of the gym.   This is the new law of the land in Israel. Gyms wedding halls swimming pools theaters sporting events - you cannot get in if you are not vaccinated or if you have not recovered from the virus.   I met one guy in the vaccination line who said I do not like vaccines I do not like taking pills but I am here because my wife's best friend is getting married and they will not let us into the wedding unless we get vaccinated.   A little bit of pressure goes a long way. So it works. The pressure works.  Yes the pressure works. .  Unfortunately.  Yeah.  You know we often talk about like a test of faith when your beliefs are tested. But I wonder if in a certain sense what is happening in that line is a test of disbelief. Like you have these doubts but now we are going to see just how willing you are to hold on to your doubts.  Yeah and honestly I have been surprised by how easy it is for people to give up those doubts.  Yeah the call of the Peloton.   Yeah.  And how is Israel enforcing that only those who have been vaccinated get to go into these places?  The government is putting out what they call a green pass. And it has a QR code and it is a government-issued document. Could you forge it? I do not know. It is kind of working on the honor system at the moment but people are taking this really really seriously. I was at a theater. It was opening night. And theatergoers were coming in and everyone was showing their green pass and some of them had laminated them and printed - you know you print it out at home. And I started chatting up the usher at the front Adam Chenkin asking these like 70-year-old Israelis to recite their ID number by heart to make sure that they are not cheating and bringing in someone else's pass.  You know it is without a picture the green passport.  So if they can recite their ID number by heart then you know that it is...  Yeah I am assuming it is - I am assuming it is them.  OK good test. People know that these are very important documents.  Yeah. It is like a - you know it is more important than their ID now I guess these days. .  I mean I met people who were ecstatic.  We are hoping to do this every night wherever possible as much as possible.  I met these two women Tirtsa Posklinsky and Orit Kamir and they were all dressed up. They were hungry for theater after so long.  And we are hoping that the rest of the world joins us as quickly as possible.  Do you feel safer knowing that everyone in the audience will be with a green pass?  Oh of course. Absolutely.  That is essential to come for me. We have been waiting for people to take responsibility and do that.  Yeah it would have been worrisome if we had to sit in a closed theater with lots of people breathing at us. And if you are dangerous to others you should stay at home. I think that is only fair.  Yeah I think that is up to you you know? If you feel like not taking a vaccine along with that you take the decision not to go out. This is just one choice.   They want to know that the people around them have gotten the vaccine whether they have been slowly persuaded to believe in the science or whether they just want to sit with other people in the dark indoors like normal.   Today's show is produced by Derek Arthur and Justine Yan. Our editor is Luis Trelles. The ROUGH TRANSLATION team includes Jess Jiang and Carolyn McCusker. Thanks to Larry Kaplow Kevin Beesley Robert Krulwich and Sana Krasikov. We are saying goodbye to our colleague Derek Arthur who started with us last year as an intern and ends as a lead producer. Derek it has been a pleasure to work with you. We wish you the best in your next chapter.   Neal Carruth Didi Schanche Chris Turpin and Anya Grundmann preside over our executive committee. Nicole Beemsterboer is our supervising producer. Our theme music was composed by John Ellis additional music from Blue Dot Sessions mastering by Alex Drewenskus. I am Gregory Warner. Back in two weeks with more ROUGH TRANSLATION. 