 One afternoon when he was 7 years old and living in a refugee camp in Iraq Ahmed Najm fell into a hole. The hole was so big or he was so small that his big brother Kamaran who had been walking on the road just next to him could not find him. That is Ahmed's memory anyway - his brother calling for him Ahmed crying too hard or his voice too soft for him to hear. Finally Kamaran does spot him and reaches down to lift him out. But Ahmed is stuck deep in the mud and he starts to panic.  It was a really like a really really scary moment.  So Kamaran starts singing to him - and not a song that his little brother likes.  I really hate this song so you are singing it just to make me angry just to take my attention to make me fight with him and not remember about this hole.  And it worked. Ahmed forgot his fear and he let Kamaran pull him out. When peace came and the family moved back home - they live in the northern part of Iraq called Kurdistan - Kamaran continued to watch out for his little brother. At school he would fight with Ahmed's bullies. In the family restaurant he would do Ahmed's shifts along with his own. Ahmed is eight years younger. He would tell him go outside. Be a kid. But then Ahmed started to see a lot less of his brother. When war came to Iraq again - the Americans invaded - Kamaran bought a camera and he would go to the frontlines to take pictures.  I still remember one day one of the local newspapers published Kamaran's photographs and he was really proud. And he showed that to my mom. And my mom said Kamaran congratulation but I have a suggestion for you. Why you are not going to buy a taxi and be a taxi driver? Kamaran got really really upset that my family could not understand what Kamaran was doing.  And Ahmed watched his brother change. He was hanging out with foreign journalists. He was drinking alcohol. He started dating a Dutch aid worker - all of these things that his father did not approve of.  And my father told him that he will not be his son if he continued to do his work.  Kamaran moved out. And in his brother's absence Ahmed took a different path - the path of his older brother Najat. He became an instructor at Najat's driving school and like him a pious Salafi Muslim.  I was really really strong Salafi. I had no beard because I was kind of really young but I was visiting mosques and reading Quran.  And then one morning he is sitting in his office...  Reading Quran waiting for my students to come. And someone called me and said hi I am a taxi driver. I brought something from someone that I have to give it to you. And I said who is this guy that send me stuff? He said I am just a driver. I do not know.   There was a box. And when I opened the box there was a dessert.  It was his favorite dessert - baklava.  And I took the dessert out and there was a small paper. It said Ahmed happy birthday.  It was his 21st birthday but Ahmed did not believe in celebrating birthdays. His Salafi faith told him it was individualistic and wrong.  That was the first time in my life to hear someone to tell me happy birthday.  There is only one person in Ahmed's life who would send him a birthday greeting that he did not want - the same person who would sing him a song that he hated to anger and distract him.  Kamaran called me 10 minutes later and said Ahmed happy birthday again. I know that you hate me to say that but you deserve it. And I do not want you to say anything.  Just come meet me.  We will make a small party for you.   So I was preparing myself to respond by Quran. This is not allowed. I respect that you are my brother but birthday parties is not allowed. It was - really made me nervous. I could not say Kamaran thank you or Kamaran I hate you.   I am Gregory Warner. This is ow that takes you to far off places with stories that hit close to home. Sometimes you know someone who is so persuasive that it can almost be scary to let them into your life. They can bring out a side of you that you were not sure you even had. Kamaran was that person not just for Ahmed his little brother but for so many people around him. Until one day he vanished. And everybody had to figure out not only where he was but who they would be without him.  We are back.  We are back.  We are recording.  Testing testing one two.  Karen Duffin has been reporting this story with Kamaran's close friend Sebastian Meyer. He is collected recordings that you just do not normally get from Iraq.   Kamaran Kamaran.  It is the sound of a country at war with ISIS...   Kamaran.  ...But from inside the life of one family...   Kamaran .  ...Their terrifying phone calls their urgent conversations recorded in real time. Quick warning about that - we do hear the sound of gunfire and there is cursing in this episode.   .  The story of Kamaran and the people whose lives he changed when ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.  Actually you know what? I am just going to pop this sweater off.  Yeah do whatever you need.  It is going to get hot in here.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner. Karen Duffin has spent years following the story of this Iraqi photojournalist and we are going to start it right where we left off with Ahmed receiving that forbidden birthday gift. Here's Karen.  Ahmed is staring at this birthday baklava thinking Kamaran knows I am a Salafi Muslim now. He knows I cannot accept this. So he decides that he will go see Kamaran. But when he gets there and Kamaran tries to tell him happy birthday Ahmed will give him a Quranic talking-to.  This is not allowed. Birthday parties is not allowed. We have to pray. You have to go to mosque.  Ahmed drives the two hours to see Kamaran. But when he gets there there is no birthday party no birthday greeting.  He was so smart. He was not talking about the birthday. He was explaining why he was doing photojournalism.  He started telling Ahmed about why he walked away from the family to become a photographer why he was not doing what their father insisted.   I always have thought that I have something a little bit more different not more important - I cannot say this - but different than what they ask from me.  This is from a video of Kamaran telling the story that he shared with Ahmed that day.   So I was...  Kamaran says he started out as a war photographer but this thing happened that changed him.   I was covering an explosion - a suicide bomb in Kirkuk. And then I phoned my agency say OK. I am on my way going to file the pictures. So they say well we are not going with that story. We have another story in Mosul.  His editor said look. There was a bigger bomb somewhere else so we are going to run those pictures instead.   That was the moment that I say hold on. Like there is something wrong with what I am doing. Like we are actually making our money by the number of people getting killed.  He tells Ahmad no one is telling the full story of Iraq. And there is no training school no agency for Iraqi photographers in the entire country so I am building one. I have started Iraq's first photo agency. We will train local photographers and place their photos - our way of seeing Iraq - in outlets around the world.  We have to show the beautiful side of Iraq as well.  Kamaran brings Ahmed to his new office and Ahmed realizes Kamaran has built himself a new family. There are all kinds of people coming in and out of the agency. His business partner even looks like he could be their brother.  OK. Here we go. Stop laughing. Stop laughing.  Sebastian Meyer is a photojournalist from New York. They met when he was on assignment in Iraq.  And with the same regularity...  He and Kamaran are the same height same dark hair...  The smugglers continue to spill - stop laughing.  No .  ...Same big smile that is both earnest and mischievous. They lived together worked together.  OK we are going to start again.  They were together so often that people started just referring to them as a pair.  They were always mentioning their name together.  Into into into into...  Kamaran introduced Sebastian to Kurdish food the Kurdish language.  Do you want me to tell you what he taught me how to say...  Yeah.  ...In Kurdish?  Sure .  .  We cannot say any word of this in either Kurdish or English. Wow.  Yeah.  That is offensive at every possible level.  Every possible - yeah.  Sebastian taught Kamaran American music...    Take me home...  ...Brought him home to New York to meet his mother and then to D.C. where they sat down at the Lincoln Memorial and read through the Gettysburg address together.   West Virginia...  As my mom was always saying They were brothers. They were real brothers.   Ahmed was not surprised to hear that Kamaran had convinced Sebastian to pack up his entire life and move to Iraq to help him build this agency.  Kamaran - he could change your mind pretty easily.  Kamaran could talk people into almost anything. One of his first shoots with Sebastian Kamaran talked their way into an oil smuggler's den.  You know these guys who live in the shadows who do not want to be photographed were so happy to have him around.   . Do you speak English?  Here they are interviewing foreign day laborers in Iran.   .  And you can hear as Kamaran walks through this crowd of workers he is trying to make sure that he greets each person in their own language.   This is Arab family. .  There was something about Kamaran that was just so captivating that you just wanted to be part of it.  Now Kamaran told his little brother Ahmed he wanted him to be part of this agency too. He says we are calling it Metrography and this is the kind of work that we can do together.  What I can do as a photographer to show that these are actually individuals like us - they have a family. They have mother. We talked a lot.  Kamaran tells Ahmed I want your help.  We have some activities that I want you to help me. I was not - I was speechless. I could not say anything. And I was just thinking about what I am doing right now why I am rejecting all the appreciation.  Kamaran is inviting Ahmed into this whole different way of thinking about who he can be but he is scared. If he agrees to Kamaran's offer his own family might reject him. So Ahmed decides he will keep his job at the driving school. But every chance he gets he also starts secretly helping out around the Metrography offices.  Kamaran was saying Ahmed I am counting on you. You have to be a coordinator in this project. You have to be an administrator for this project. You have to go to Security Forces Department.  Kamaran starts to introduce him to foreign journalists to the Dutch girlfriend who will later become his fiancee. He invites Ahmed to parties.   .  And Metrography starts taking off. Their photographers are getting assignments from The Washington Post The Times of London Der Spiegel in Germany.   And then they get invited to present at this big photo festival in the country of Georgia. A dozen of their photographers were going and Kamaran wanted Ahmed to come too. This would be the first time Ahmed left Kurdistan. Kamaran rarely talks to his father at this point. But he makes a trip to their family home just to tell him...  I want to take Ahmed to - with me to the trip. And my father said do not make him to be out like you. He said no no no. I am teaching him how to start on his feet. They had a really big fight. And he said Ahmed what are you going to say? And my father was looking into my eyes and Kamaran was looking into my eyes.   I born at this time because Kamaran gave me a option. You want to be like past or you start quite new. And I said Benas - Benas was my sister. I said Benas prepare a bag for me. I saw that there was a small smile on Kamaran's face. And when we went out my father threw a flip-flop to us...  A single flip-flop.  ...And said fuck you. You are not my son.  And we all flew over to Georgia. And I mean every single one of them had been a refugee multiple times in their lives. We had you know slept in filthy checkpoints together. Like we would just done like a lot of rough living. And there we are with cameras over our shoulders. There is a quartet playing string music and we are sipping white wine and discussing photography. I have such a smile on my face just remembering this. Like they stole the show. Our slideshow played - and like standing ovation today. And everybody - and Kamaran and I just sort of like - I just remember standing with him and looking back at this scene and just thinking like. Look at what we have done. Look at what we built.   Yes .  Ahmed says Kamaran never left his side throughout the entire festival.  And he was always telling me Ahmed break the rules. Make the new rules but better than the past one.  But Ahmed was worried. Like what if he loses the rest of his family?  I was thinking about my father's reaction and feeling what I am going to do?  Kamaran just kept reassuring him.   One day they will also understand the value of what I am trying to do.   Kamaran's vision of a photo agency that told more than war stories seemed particularly suited to Kurdistan where they lived. Kurdistan is part of Iraq but separate. It has its own borders its own government. And it had been a pocket of peace in Iraq until June of 2014.   As many as 500000 people have been forced to flee.  The Islamic State took over the city of Mosul.   ...The second city to fall into the hands of Islamist militants.  ...Just three hours south of where they live.   Thousands of Iraqi families left homeless and scared have fled to the Kurdish region in Iraq's north.  And then ISIS advanced into Kurdistan. That day Ahmed and Kamaran are in their car. And Kamaran gets a phone call. It is a Kurdish military commander. And he tells Kamaran the Kurdish forces are about to launch a counterattack against ISIS. And he invites Kamaran to come cover it so Ahmed drops Kamaran off to meet the commander in the city of Kirkuk.  Kamaran hugged me when he left.  Kamaran goes with the Kurdish forces to the frontline where they are launching this counterattack. He is with another journalist friend and he turns on his camera mic.   They are moving with the soldiers closer to the center of the battle. They stop in a canal.   .  I think they saw you.   .  It is getting dangerous. Maybe we should leave. Kamaran moves to his friend's right and a bullet whizzes right past his head.   Holy shit.  The next bullet hits Kamaran in the neck.   Kamaran. Kamaran. . Kamaran. .  He says to his friend...  .  I am dying.  .  I love you all.  .   We left Kamaran - was at 2 I think. And I drove to my home.  After dropping Kamaran off to cover that battle little brother Ahmed had gone home to wait. And after waiting a few hours he fell asleep - one of those weird afternoon naps where you go to sleep when it is light. And you wake up and it is dark.  And when I opened my eyes there was some noises some voices of people knocking the door. And I was hearing some people was crying crying. And I slept again.  Finally he gets up and goes into the living room. His mom is crying.  And the first thing that I saw on the TV - Kamaran Najm a Kurdish photojournalist just killed in Kirkuk.  He picks up the remote.  And I change it to  Kamaran's photograph. Kamaran killed by ISIS. Change it. PUK TV - Kamaran killed.  The only place he can think of going right then is to Metrography - to the agency.   When Sebastian hears the news he is on assignment a few hours away.  Tons of people are calling tons of text messages coming through people offering to help.  Sebastian also drives to the agency. And by the time they both get to the office there are hundreds of people there - in the parking lot in the streets. And they are all crying and hugging them.  But I was saying no no no no. I do not want to believe in that...  Ahmed does not believe that his brother is actually dead.  We do not believe it. I do not believe it.  Because Kamaran is smart. Kamaran is smart. I was always saying if he can talk he will survive.  Then the journalist who was with Kamaran in the battle shows up at the agency and he tells them what happened. He says Kamaran got shot in the neck so the Kurdish soldiers put him in the back of a pickup truck but they did not latch it. So when they took off Kamaran rolled out the back. The commander - Sarhad - and his men they jumped out of their armored car to try to grab Kamaran but they came under fire and had to retreat. Sarhad told him Kamaran was dead when I left him. And then the Kurdish forces released a statement.  Saying that he was you know officially dead.   Very early in the morning - say yeah about 6 in the morning - we all get in two different cars and drive to Kirkuk.  The police in Kirkuk said they knew where Kamaran's body was so Kamaran's brothers and some of his friends drive to Kirkuk. And they pull over to wait for specific instructions about where to go. They get out of their cars to wait. No one's talking. It is getting hotter.  We are standing there. And then all of a sudden Bidwa's phone rings. And Bidwa is Kamaran's best friend from growing up. And he picks up. And you just - we have a recording of it.  .  Bidwa it is me Kamaran.  Kamaran.  It is Kamaran on the phone.  Kamaran Kamaran.  .  Kamaran.  And he starts shouting Kamaran Kamaran Kamaran Kamaran Kamaran. Like everyone just went crazy. You know everyone's trying to grab the phone out of everyone else's hand. Everyone's trying to shout something at him. And...  .  Kamaran tells them find Sarhad Qadar - that is the commander he had been with the day before when he went to cover that battle.  He said go and find Sarhad Qadar to negotiate with ISIS.  It becomes very apparent very quickly that we are not out of the woods yet.  .  Kamaran's captors take the phone back.  .  When he said who is this? We are like who are you?  .  They respond we are the Islamic State.  The captors are speaking in Arabic so they hand the phone to the one person who speaks Arabic there which is Kamaran's older brother Ari. And Ari is this very tough guy. He is a former body builder. He is been to prison twice for attempted murder.  .  .  On this call he sounds scared.  .  He is calling the ISIS guy habibi which means my dear.  .  .  And ISIS tells them you need to get Sarhad not to attack this village near Kirkuk.  .  Do not attack the village or we are killing Kamaran.  So now they have to find Sarhad before he sends in his fighters. So they are looking around like who has Sarhad's phone number? No one. They ask Kamaran for Sarhad's phone number.  .  Kamaran said I do not know. But the start to the number is 1 5 0. I - just find the f number.  .  And then they hang up the phone.   Now they have to find Sarhad the commander and get him to pause the war in order to save their friend.  We now are headed straight out to the battlefield like to the frontline. And there is a lot of checkpoints. Then it is - you start to move into more and more dangerous territory.  They find Sarhad at a police station near the frontlines. He is in the parking lot. They jump out of their cars explain what happened and hand him a phone. He dials the number that ISIS gave them.  They pick up and he says you give me back the journalist. And they say the only thing you need to know is if you attack us we are going to kill him. And they just descend almost instantaneously into an argument. You attacked us first. No we did not attack you. You are working with the Americans. We are not working with the Americans. We are Iraqis just like you. Well f you. Well f you. And at one point they call back. And Sarhad says it is Sarhad. And they are like no it is not. And he is like it is me. Like it is me on the phone. And like we know what Sarhad sounds like and it is not you. And then suddenly Sarhad was like f we are being attacked. Like I have got to go lead my troops. And so he left. And then all of Kamaran's friends were just sitting there. And they are like...  I guess it is on us now.  I guess the negotiations are over.  They have to figure out how to get Kamaran home. And they will become the detectives in a case full of false leads and double-crossings and a chess match of tribal loyalties when ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.   I am Gregory Warner. We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. This may be obvious to point out but if Kamaran were a Western journalist kidnapped off a battlefield in Iraq there would be calls to the FBI and the State Department. There is actually a U.S. presidential appointee for hostage affairs. Someone professional would step in to coordinate this investigation. But the vast majority of journalists kidnapped in war are local and there is often very little the authorities do. So after that one failed negotiation with the military commander that was pretty much the end of any official help for Kamaran. So his friends speed back to the photo agency. They are going to do this on their own.   So we go back to the office and immediately just set up a command center in the upstairs room. We have got a bunch of whiteboards. We have got a big map of the province of Kirkuk so we could trace everything in terms of geography.  The first pin in the map goes on the city of Hawija - that is where Kamaran called them from.  We created this impromptu rescue team.  There is this photo of them in the command center. They are huddled around a table - some standing some sitting all serious faces all intensely focused on this cellphone that one of them is holding.   .  They are listening to a recording of the phone call from ISIS.  .  We are picking over every word trying to figure out what tribe he is from what region he is from. Why did he answer the phone without giving the full Islamic greeting?  The team now coming in and out of this office at all hours are people who two days before this would have never been in the same room. You have both sides of Kamaran's life - Sebastian the American Jantine his Dutch fiancee and then a bunch of journalist friends. Like there is the editor of a local paper who has a lot of on-the-ground sources that might be helpful. And there is also his religious family. There is Najat the businessman who runs the driving school. Ari the body builder ex-felon who is now a chef. And then there is the little brother Ahmed who is not a journalist. He is also no longer religious like his family. And he is not quite sure where he fits in.  The team of Sebastian and me and Jantine and also the family team.   From the friends' side of the team they get one of their very first leads. On day one someone saw Kamaran at 30 a.m. in the back of a pickup truck. And then later that day he sees three ISIS fighters eating sandwiches saying Kamaran was killed. But then the day after that another friend finds an eyewitness.  A doctor who said that he saw Kamaran. He is like you know I treated this Kurdish photographer - Kurdish journalist who came in. His name was Kamaran. He had a neck wound. All that I was allowed to do was give him painkillers but he needs surgery. And it is important.  That lead matches up with another lead - the same exact description of Kamaran's wounds. And Sebastian is collecting all of this intel. What is the - what is your system? Do you have a spreadsheet?  Oh right. Yeah so I have an Excel spreadsheet. And I - every time I get a piece of information I write it down.  The spreadsheet was something a hostage negotiation expert advised them to do. He told them take good notes.  If nobody writes this down it will be forgotten in 10 seconds and certainly be gone by the next day.  He also told them keep your emotions in check. But meanwhile no one's sleeping. It is also 100-plus degrees. And Kurdistan is at war so there is a water shortage. Gas is being rationed. And every day of that first week looking for Kamaran they are getting a different picture of what is happening. He is at the Hawija checkpoint. No he is actually at a sheikh's house sleeping on a bed. No no no he is being held at a high school. Some people were trying to sell them information. Other people were just telling them things they thought might make them feel better. It was hard to know what to trust.  Every piece of information was - this is the thing that will lead to Kamaran's release so we threw everything at it. Everything - you know time emotion. It was like...  Go.  ...Go...  Yeah.  ...Every single time. If you go hell for leather on every piece of information and then the next piece you are like I am not going hell for leather on that. I am not going to believe that necessarily.  Yeah.  How do you know that is not the piece of information that is the right one?  Right right. How do you pick the one that you decide I am going to sleep on this? On the whiteboard they keep a to-do list.  Yeah. It says on the board who will ask ISIS re Kamaran?  That just is like so meeting minute-y .  Yeah.  Like OK. Who is this - who in the room - raise your hand. Who is going to talk to ISIS? Who will talk to ISIS is actually the most important question. And here's where the religious brothers' side of the team might be able to help. They have friends with ties to people in ISIS.  There was a lot of sympathy for ISIS amongst very conservative Muslim Kurds. A way for us to access ISIS was going through those ISIS-sympathizing Kurds.  Most ISIS fighters are locals. They are Iraqis but it is not like Kamaran's brothers can just call up and say hey. You know your friend who is in ISIS? Can we grab dinner together? In this moment people with ISIS connections are being jailed. If you know ISIS people you are hiding it.  We are picking apart the tribes. Which tribe is with ISIS? Which tribes are against ISIS? Which sheikh can we get to? How do we get to them?  Eventually a cousin does manage to get them a meeting with one of the most prominent sheikhs in Kirkuk near where Kamaran was kidnapped. He has a lot of influence. They just have to convince him to take the risk of contacting ISIS on their behalf. So all of the men in the family will go to this meeting - Kamaran's father all of his brothers even Ahmed is invited which he is a little surprised about.  They are always telling me Ahmed you are still a kid.  Even though he is now 25.  I am not allowed to be involved in so many meetings.  So on the two-hour drive to Kirkuk Ahmed is trying to remember everything he can from his Salafi days so he can impress the sheikh.  We were walking inside the mosque. And when we entered the door it was a big hole. And the head of that tribe was sitting in the end of the room.  He starts citing passages from the Quran. The sheikh turns to him.  He touched my hand and he asked me to sit beside him. He did not ask my father to sit beside him. I was sitting there.   I was watching my father and my older brothers. And I was checking with them like you see? I am a big man. I am sitting beside the sheikh.  And they were not happy about it.  They cannot just start asking about Kamaran right away. In order to win this guy over they have to first pass a hospitality test.  A cup of coffee you know it is - in Arabic rules you have to drink it.  The sheikh is Arab. Ahmed's family is Kurdish and Kurds tend to drink tea not coffee. In fact this is the first time Ahmed's ever tasted Arabic coffee.  And I said OK. Thank you. You know Arabic coffee is really strong. It is really strong. And the head of that tribe was thinking that I really like it.  On his sixth cup Ahmed's hands are shaking. His heart starts racing. Finally Najat who is a businessman and has worked with Arabs signals to Ahmed just shake the cup and they will stop pouring.  And I had a fight with Najat. OK. Do I look like that I really am a big fan of Arabic coffees? I said why you are not telling me? Like I am dying. And then  he start laughing but I absolutely was sick for two days.  That was a hard night for Ahmed but that Sheikh does agree to help them. He reaches out to some of his ISIS-related contacts for them. And for the team it feels like maybe they are getting good at this.   Finally a week and a half in all of these contradictory and confusing leads start to point in one direction. On day nine a friend hears Kamaran was in ISIS court three times. He was found innocent so he will be released soon. On the same day a tribe tells a different friend that Kamaran's release is imminent. Another family member hears the governor of Kirkuk has good news. A brother finds out that his imam is arranging for Kamaran's release. And a different brother hears that Kamaran is already in a car on his way home. This is five pieces of intel from five different sources independently confirming the same thing - Kamaran is coming home. That night everyone gathers at the family's house. It is the first time in years that many brothers have been in one place. The friends also join. And everyone is telling their favorite Kamaran story. Kamaran's sisters keep hugging and kissing Jantine his Dutch fiancee. They are talking about all the kids she is going to have when Kamaran returns. The brothers even risk teasing Ari the bodybuilder ex-felon brother for calling the ISIS captor dear - calling him habibi. Early the next morning all of them - Sebastian Jantine Ahmed the brothers a few friends - they pile into cars and drive to Kirkuk.  And we were laughing we were singing. And me and Seb we were always singing the song of John Denver Country Roads.   Blue Ridge Mountains. Shenandoah River...  So on our way to Kirkuk we were changing the lyrics of the song to Kirkuk roads take me home to the place I belong. But we were not saying West Virginia. We were saying Sulaymaniyah.  .  I am so sorry for that John Denver but we did this one.   We will apologize to John Denver for you.  Yeah. Yeah OK.   Take me home country road.  They get to Kirkuk call the governor. All right where should we go to pick him up? They go to a cousin's house to wait.  We just sat in a house in Kirkuk and waited for the - you know for what to do next.  They have lunch. No one's talking.  And then we just waited for hours and hours and hours. And then we realized nothing was happening and we had to go back.  They got back into the car and they drove home.  We were totally silent and no one said anything.  .  That night at the Metrography office a bunch of Kamaran's friends show up. They are drinking and playing guitar and singing until the wee hours of the morning. Metrography has become this place for these raucous memorials. But on this night Ahmed is having none of it. He is furious. Who are all these people laughing and joking while my brother is a hostage? He shouts at Sebastian and storms out.  .  The kind of despair that follows this much hope is a poisonous kind. Kamaran's impromptu search team starts blaming each other. Why did you lie about that lead? Or why did not you double check it? But really what they are saying is how could you let me hope like that?  Being hopeful is killing us.   Next time on ntic story from Kamaran's past threatens his release. And his search team sits down with ISIS.  We were told you know you are going to have the worst fighters. You are going to have the nastiest people.   And I promise you - I promise you like this time is not the other times...  Yeah.  ...Like I am really sure about it.  I got a call at 1 oclock in the morning being like Ahmed's in hospital. One of his brothers has thrown him down the stairs.  That is next time on ROUGH TRANSLATION. In the meantime you can see photos of Kamaran and by Kamaran on our site npr.orgroughtranslation - that includes a photo that Kamaran took on that last trip to the frontlines. Today's show was produced and edited by our ROUGH TRANSLATION team - that is me Jess Jiang and Marianne McCune with Karen Duffin. Thanks also to Sebastian Meyer for reporting and editing. So many people listened and helped us with this episode. Thanks to Hanna Rosin Nancy Updike Lu Olkowski Michael May Audrey Quinn Autumn Barnes Sana Krasikov Jess Benko Jason Basso  Eroy Hijani  Donna Asad  Sourti Pinamanani  Pajar Mohammed  and Iud Mury . Our interpreter is Hussein Ibrahim . Sebastian Meyer just published a photobook about Kurdistan and Kamaran. It is called Under Every Yard Of Sky. A link is on our site. The ROUGH TRANSLATION executive team is Neal Carruth Will Dobson and Anya Grundmann. Aaron Register  is our project manager mastering by Andy Huether. John Ellis composed music for our show. Mike Cruz  scored the episode. If you want more stories like this in your podcast feed tell a couple of friends about the show. Leave us a review on Apple podcasts. It really helps us continue what we are doing. Drop us a line at roughtranslationnpr.org or on Twitter we are Roughly. I am Gr