 This is ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR. I am going to guess that not many of you have gotten to see up close a fighter jet refueling in midair miles above the ground.  It is actually kind of an amazing process. You would be flying along and suddenly this tanker plane comes and matches your speed. And then it is like two birds mating in mid-flight. This thing called a drogue sticks out and attaches to the other plane that is flying at high speed high altitude.  Like a little umbilical cord that is flapping around in the wind.  A drogue chute?  Drogue chute yeah.  Do you have any idea what that means?   Like a little chute.  Raj Shah has seen this firsthand. He is an F-16 pilot.  Certain types of planes can only refuel from certain types of tankers. Some refuel faster and slower than others. So there is a lot of complexity.  Planes actually refuel at different speeds at different altitudes. They use different amounts of fuel.  So there is a lot of math.  Raj did not think much about that math at the time. He did not have to worry about who was scheduling all these pit stops in the sky. All he needed to know was that he would fuel up and fly off back to the war in Iraq. But years later in 2016 he ended up seeing the actual place where these refueling flights were planned at the Air Operations Center based in Al Udeid Air Force Base in Qatar which - when you first walk in it looks very impressive. Think NASA mission control - big hall lots of computer screens. But sort of off of that hall is a windowless room.  It is a small room. Maybe there was you know eight or nine cubicles in it.  Air Force recruitment posters on the walls.  It feels like something designed out of the 1980s.  Let me guess fluorescent tube lights?  Absolutely.  And in this stripped-down room he sees about a dozen people gathered around a whiteboard.   The whiteboard is a 10-foot-by-5-foot rectangle with lots of little lines and squares and probably 100 you know little 1-inch magnetic pucks.  Written on the pucks are the name of fighter jets and refueling tankers.  And they just move them around.  This is where they plan how and when to refuel hundreds of jets each day.  You see two guys standing at the board with dry-erase markers in their hands two guys sitting in front of laptops. And in order to get data from one system into the other they are manually reading it on one screen and typing it on the other screen.  So like they are copying a string of very important numbers that mean someone getting fuel or not getting fuel and their airplane still flying and they are copying those by hand...  Correct.  ...From one screen to another screen.  And then you do not want to have a mistake so then you need another person watching it to make sure it got typed the right way.  Wow.   This is ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront our season about the civilian-military divide with Quil Lawrence. Today a story of how Rog Shaw set out to banish the whiteboard to write some simple code to do all this faster and better and save some taxpayer money. But to solve this problem is anything but simple. He will need to win over a senator a Gonker and the secretary of defense to cross the tech-mil divide.  Did you have a moment where you are just thinking I was one of those planes waiting for that fuel and...   Yeah.  ...This is how...  Exactly .  When HomeFront continues.  Hi ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am calling about HomeFront.  Hey this is Gregory just to say thank you for all of your emails and voicemails and phone calls about how this HomeFront season is resonating with you. Please keep those conversations going. We love hearing from you. We are listening.  I was an alien visiting another planet.  Now back to the show.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront. I am Quil Lawrence. Long before Raj Shah ever got a look at the whiteboard in the bowels of the Air Force command center he would been a witness to how military technology could lag behind even like the GPS in your car. A case in point - when he was flying F-16s in Iraq the pilots were actually worried that their built-in mapping software was so bad that they might accidentally cross an international border without even knowing it.  That same sort of era though you could rent a Cessna and fly with basically the predecessor of a iPad and get all that data.  Some F-16 pilots started strapping tablet computers to their knees in the cockpit so they could use Google Maps. And because this was not approved military hardware they had to sneak them in. Fortunately Raj is the kind of guy who enjoys breaking the rules.  Everybody wants to be a Han Solo .  Raj is a Star Wars fan in addition to being an Air Force reservist and in between deployments he is also a tech entrepreneur. He did not want to just complain about the military's bad tech. He wanted to fix it. But Raj had a trust issue. As someone working in Silicon Valley he would seen so many military buyers come and go.  We used to call it tech tourism.  So what is a tech tourist?  A tech tourist is someone that comes in and visits the Valley wants to see all the greatest technology be in awe by it but then not actually take any action.  He gives me this example. One of his startups makes software that could detect if a hacker from Russia or China or wherever had broken into a network and was moving around inside it. And the Pentagon was interested.  They were very excited. You would hear immensely positive feedback for the general or the senior leader. They would love it. They would say this is great. I want it. I am going to get my action officer on it.  OK action officer - that sounds promising sounds like somebody is actually going to do something. And then nine months later...  We had a subsequent meeting with that same general team and the conversation was the exact same. And so it just dawned. Look there has been no progress in nine months. We could have built deployed and had this thing scaled across your whole enterprise in like a month. This is just not going anywhere. And quite frankly after the 10th meeting we just stopped taking meetings. The Pentagon was just too hard of a customer.  This rift between Silicon Valley and the military was already pretty wide when someone widened it even more - Edward Snowden who you probably remember was a civilian tech consultant to the CIA who leaked documents proving that the U.S. government was spying on its citizens. Silicon Valley was rattled at the revelation that their users were being spied on and the military lost confidence in civilian tech people like Snowden coming into their ranks and spilling their secrets. Things got so bad that the head of the Pentagon ended up making a rare visit to the Valley.   Please join me in warmly welcoming U.S. Secretary of Defense Ashton Carter.  Thank you.  This 2015 speech at Stanford University was surprisingly big news. Journalists at the time noted it was the first visit to Silicon Valley by a sitting secretary of defense in two decades.   History shows that we have succeeded in finding solutions to these kinds of tough questions when our commercial civil and government sectors work together as partners.  And the secretary is here to say hey you know the military and the tech world - we used to be tight.   Like during World War II when the Manhattan Project the MIT Radiation Laboratory and others...  ...Or remember the internet.   Vint Cerf fathered the internet with a researcher at DARPA.  But those days of collaboration and shared commitment seem to be of the past.   We need to drill holes in the wall that I think exists and has been built up over the years between the Department of Defense and the commercial and scientific sector.  And to drill these holes...   We must renew the bonds of trust. So I am creating something we call the Defense Innovation Unit Experimental. First of a kind for us...  DIUx - Defense Innovation Unit Experimental.  I love that extra last word . Just - it makes it ungrammatical and fairly top secret-y .  I thought it was great.  Raj Shah remembers that speech.  Here was someone that understands the Valley to say we need your help. We need your innovation.  You could think of DIUx as kind of like a Pentagon outpost in Silicon Valley. It is a few miles from Google. It is their embassy to techlandia .   The reason that Silicon Valley is so successful is that it has the right people in it but there is proximity as well. There is an ecosystem out here. Everyone's in the same general area which not only helps forge relationships but also helps spread new ideas.   The poor guys had no credit cards had no budgets had no money. Literally it was six months.  Retired Colonel Peter Newell is a decorated combat commander who had a bunch of tech problems he wanted to solve. So he is excited to see DIUx until he actually goes and sets foot in DIUx. And he cannot believe what the employees are telling him.  I have no credit card even to buy toilet paper for the bathrooms in the building. I have no furniture to sit on. I got no phone number. I got no website. I have no internet.  They are using their personal cell phones as Wi-Fi hotspots.  They were opening the windows of the building and putting a hotspot on the windowsill so that it could get connection. You are surprised and you look at me dumbfounded. No that is not possible. Yes it is.  It was very embarrassing. It is like every time you bring someone in we had to kind of apologize upfront that we had no furniture and we did not even have a conference room.  Enrique Oti was one of the earliest employees at this new Pentagon embassy.  It was fine for the first month or two and people thought it was kind of funny. And it is like you guys are like real startups. Like yep. But once you get six seven eight months into it it is no longer a joke it now becomes a joke on us.  But things started to change - in fact a lot would change - when DIUx got a new boss - Raj Shah the F-16 pilot turned tech entrepreneur who hates tech tourists and said he was never going to take meetings with the Pentagon ever again.  I mean is this like asking Han Solo to suddenly take over - or actually maybe more accurately Princess Leia who is you know the leader of the Rebel Alliance officially?  Yeah exactly. The first among equals yeah.   DIUx may have been set up as an embassy to Silicon Valley but Raj believed that the real act of diplomacy that they needed to pull off was within their own ranks. And to convince the military to take them seriously he felt that they needed to build a piece of technology that the military would actually use.  I wanted to be able to show tangible results - technology or innovation that is now directly helping some you know man or woman in uniform do their job better.  And that is what would change DIU's reputation.  Exactly. This is a place that will get things done that matter for our servicemen and -women in uniform.  Which brings us back to that whiteboard with the pucks that little windowless room in the Air Operations Center in Qatar that Raj Shah visited in 2016 and learned that in-air refueling was being calculated by hand. He finds out that each of these airmen around the whiteboard has a job title. By the way the Air Force uses airmen as a gender-neutral term. The planners move the magnetic pucks around the board. There is a Thumper who is in charge of creating the master air attack planning tool kit. And there is a Gonker who enters the data into a spreadsheet called...  ...The gonkulator .    All right look no excuses. How much longer is it going to take to finish this gonkulator?  Now as any fan of the 1960s sitcom Hogan's Heroes might remember gonkulator is slang for useless gadget. Gonker is almost like calling yourself the doohickey operator.    A gonkulator major.  We are forcing our airmen to step back in time to fight a war.  Enrique says one of the problems with the whiteboard besides it being a whiteboard...  Yeah you fall you rub against it you erase part of the plan.  ...Is that you cannot adjust the plan if something comes up. And there is a war going on - stuff comes up.  An airplane breaks or there is weather or there is something going on...  You know a storm might roll in a plane has a maintenance failure.  ...And so that means any changes to the plan are also manually done. Manually planning the offload of hundreds of thousands of pounds of fuel - if it takes you 12 hours to plan the day's missions and a few more hours to type it all in they are starting over from scratch.  So what do you do when that master plan no longer applies? You need to send a whole extra plane. They call it scrambling a tanker.  Each scramble costs the government about 250000 in fuel and maintenance and - to fly these birds.  And these scrambles happened all the time.  That is when Raj called me from the desert and said OK you guys are going to build a tanker tool.   The way that Enrique and his team talk about this tanker tool it is so much more than just about making fuel delivery more efficient or cheaper. For them it was their chance to show the military a totally different way of building tech. They think of themselves as rebels.  We were those rebels trying to move more quickly trying to get beyond the status quo to achieve what was a very important mission.  And their rebellion is aimed against something called the program office.   In the military we have an entire section of the military responsible for acquiring technologies and delivering them to the war fighters. So F-16 you have a program office that builds F-16s. For the Navy you have got a submarine - a new class of submarine - you will have a program office established to build a new class of submarine. And so the same thing for the Air Operations Center.  That office had been working - I am not joking - for 10 years to update the Air Operations Center a projected 750 million overhaul of the whole center. And in those 10 years they had delivered nothing to the field.  And this is not unusual. This is traditional systems engineering approach. You want to make sure everything's perfect the first time it rolls out to the field so you have to do a lot of security checks a lot of quality control checks - could take eight 10 15 years. And that is traditionally how the DOD has operated.  DIUx their whole mission is to do things differently.  We did not follow traditional acquisitions processes. For us that was a badge of honor.  Their first act of rebellion was not to sit around for a few years planning the perfect tanker tool. They got in a room with some coders and they made something. They showed it to the Air Force team that was using it - that was a first - got feedback made some changes - in other words a Silicon Valley-iterative approach that was not how the military does things. Within a few months they had a tool that worked and that the command center liked.  What they discovered was because it was so fast to be able to build the plan that when an emergency happened rather than scrambling a tanker they could just reflow the plan and say OK tanker go here for a little bit and it all would work. And they could have two to three less scrambles per day.  Remember each scramble was a quarter million dollars.  The tool cost I think about a million and a half - so the thing paid for itself in a week.  Raj had done what he set out to do - to build something that the military could actually use to prove that Silicon Valley approaches to building tech could work with the military. The reaction from the program office...  We saw this tanker planning tool and we thought yeah that is kind of neat. But it is one application right? .  Steven Wert is the head of the program office that was in charge of overhauling the whole air operations center.  We had been beating ourselves against the wall for more than 10 years and had not delivered anything at all.  And now Air Force brass are hearing about this tanker tool that is getting a lot of attention and they are comparing it to his progress.  Raj Shah told the chief that the DIU could do what we were trying to do and could do it for one-tenth the cost and do it in less than a year.  Raj confirms he did say that but says he was talking only about the tanker planning tool part. The timing is especially awkward because just as Raj is celebrating his success Steve Wert's program is three years behind schedule and they are requesting that Congress appropriate an additional 65 million to keep going.  We were trying to figure out how to deal with the fact that there was a lot of attention on this thing called tanker planning tool while we were struggling mightily to do something much much much larger and more complex. So that contrast created tension.  Steve has been with the Air Force for decades and he knows how to defend his turf from any DIUx upstarts. So he talks to the Air Force and they agree they will stick to the original plan which for Raj is a big blow.  The office that was running it and the contractor was saying OK thanks for your demonstration. This is great. We will take some of that learning and incorporate it but we have a program. We spent money. We are ready. We will be ready in two years. Well this is working right now. Why do we need to turn it off go back to the whiteboard and wait for two years?  I mean was there a moment of God damn it this is going to get blocked?  Of course .   We were nervous that all the great work that the team was doing would end up being just a science project and not get continued. We spent all this time maybe we will not get there.  Raj realized that their tactic to build something that worked did not change the military culture. For all their innovation they were out in the cold.  We are those guys that were - I think it was the second Star Wars - there is some rebel base in the snowy distant land that has almost been forgotten. And that is us where we get brought back to the fight.  What brings them back into the fight? A tech tour - when ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront continues.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner. In the beginning of 2017 things looked pretty bleak for Enrique and Raj and their rebel alliance. But they did have a powerful ally late Senator John McCain former Navy pilot and then the head of the Armed Services Committee which controls military budgets. McCain had heard about the tanker tool and his office was putting pressure on Steve Wert of the program office. And Steve it turns out was also feeling frustrated after 10 years of working on this with nothing to show for it.  So I think there was a great willingness to try something different 'ecause we could not possibly  be doing any worse than we were doing at the time.  So you are under pressure?  Yes.  Meanwhile Enrique was realizing it was not enough to just create some cool software.  A lot of us early on myself included kind of had this rebellion aspect of everybody's against us we are just going to do it we do not care what they say. The reality is that creates more enemies and it actually slows you down. And so we started going with the approach of it is a revolution it is about winning the hearts and minds.  So that April Enrique Oti rolls out the red carpet dusts the proverbial embassy curtains and invites the program office to visit DIUx in California.  I think it was 14 people.  That was your tour group? Were you like standing in front of them with an umbrella saying now we are heading up to Google?  Yeah. Yep yep. That is me showing them around.  And on that tech tour? Steve Wert the big boss.  I would never been to San Francisco before so that part was interesting.  Enrique leads them into an office unlike any Air Force office Steve has ever been to. There is open tables instead of cubicles. There are dogs in the office people wearing casual clothes including hoodies.  And the young lady who was doing the paired demo with him had blue hair .  Beyond the blue hair he sees a team that is doing so much less advanced planning and so much more just making things and patching up vulnerabilities quickly.  And it took me I would say less than an hour to realize that this is what we should be doing for software not what the Department of Defense have been doing for many many years.  He was sold. He went back to his air base a convert.  Two weeks later I am back here in the office and a software program's in front of me telling me we are going to do a year or two of development followed by a year or two of tests. And four years from now we will deliver something. And my answer was no we are not going to do it that way anymore.   So what happened on that tour? How do they win them over? Well Enrique Oti has a theory. He would actually prepared carefully for this moment many months before when instead of hiring coders from Silicon Valley to make this tanker tool he called up his friends in the Air Force.  People I knew said hey do you know any airmen that know how to write code? And I was able to find these six.  And why did you want airmen in particular - who I know are airmen and airwomen - but why did you want them as opposed to getting coders from right there in the Valley?  It was to make a statement. If we had grabbed coders from Silicon Valley to come in and do this they probably would have done it faster I am sure of it and it probably would have been better quality if we would picked the right coders. But then the Air Force and senior leadership would have looked at it and said oh well this is just the same as outsourcing or contracting there is nothing new here.  Were you making this statement consciously when you did that?  Yes it was very conscious.  Enrique said he would realized something in all his efforts at diplomacy - he needed coders that military people could trust.  Good quality software actually requires trust. It requires the leaders and the users to trust that that software development team is going to build what they need. And I felt the best way to demonstrate that was with military members.  Steve the program office boss says yeah that was nice to see coders from the Air Force but it was not what changed his mind. What really shocked Steve was just seeing how this office worked up close.  And that is what DIU was intended to do right? Expose the Department of Defense to new ideas.  DIUx which is now just called DIU - they have dropped the X for experimental - was created by the secretary of defense with this idea that the military needed more proximity to Silicon Valley.  That was the part that was really shocking to me is that the Department of Defense had to learn this from completely outside the department which very quickly leads to the next thought which is - what else do we not know about?   So actually on that same trip out to San Francisco the program office people and Enrique and his team go into a room and decide what they are going to name this unit because in a very Silicone Valley way it is important to have a cool name. And the cool name that - they come up with it by popular vote is Kessel Run which of course everyone knows is a reference to Han Solo's speed record.    You have never heard of the Millennium Falcon?   Should I have?   It is the ship that made the Kessel Run in less than 12 parsecs. I have outrun Imperial star ships.  One of the models they have now is that we make products that airmen love to use which is such a Silicon Valley thought right? OK people are going to love to use this product. I do not think anyone ever in the entire history of the U.S. military thought about loving  really that many pieces of military hard- or software.   Kessel Run is not just doing the tanker tool anymore the Air Force tasked them with the whole upgrade of the Air Operations Center. And Kessel Run has inspired spinoffs in other parts of the Air Force and other branches of the military. Steve Wert now runs Kessel Run and when people from the Pentagon come to visit he is the one who gives them the tour.  We have nearly every week distinguished visitors visiting Kessel Run. Everybody wants to see it. It is open collaborative space. There is food snacks pingpong and a foosball table - a beer tap of course.  And then invariably those tech tourists leave and they do not necessarily support the budget. Kessel Run's been nearly zeroed out a couple times.  That is the frustrating thing is realizing how much visibility it is getting and how supportive senior leaders are versus the sort of budget process. That disconnect is frustrating.  The old way of acquiring software is still the norm in the military. That disconnect between the military and Big Tech...  I will be honest - I do not think we have crossed that divide yet.   Next week on ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront Marla Ruzicka was not the kind of person you would expect to meet in a war zone.  She bounced up to me and announced hi I am Marla and just sort of dragged me onto the dance floor.  But after her war would never be the same. Today's episode was produced by Matt Ozug. Jess Jiang co-reported the story. Our editor is Lu Olkowski. Sound design by Alicia Qian who also tirelessly recorded and rerecorded the sound of magnetic pucks on a whiteboard. The ROUGH TRANSLATION team includes Luis Trelles and Justine Yan. Critical editorial input came from Robert Krulwich Jacob Goldstein Nick Fountain and Steve Henn.  So many people helped us understand the inner workings of the tech-mil divide. Special thanks to Don Gansberger Bethany Coats Lauren Dailey Joanna Spangenberg Jones Terri Vanech and Melissa Boatwright. And thanks to the families of Ben Rast and Jeremy Smith.  The ROUGH TRANSLATION Jedi Council is Neal Carruth Didi Schanche and Anya Grundmann. Special thanks to Chris Turpin and Vickie Walton-James. Nicole Beemsterboer is our senior supervising producer. Greta Pittenger fact-checked this episode. Mastering by Isaac Rodrigues. Retired Army Captain Kimo Williams composed HomeFront's theme song. I am Gregory Warner back next week with more HomeFront from ROUGH TRANSLATION.  