  So how did you run into this story?  So I was 19.  Mmm hmm.  .  Ngofeen Mputubwele is a radio producer in New York.  I went to France with a whole group of folks from my campus college ministry. And then my brain turns on and like oh my gosh I speak French. I have been speaking French forever. This is fun. This was a lot of I am in this place and it is cool and like...  I belong.  I belong yeah. I have like skills.   My family is Congolese. And I have this kind of insecurity because I have Congolese French growing up in America I do not have fancy French. So if someone tells me the like right thing I am like oh OK cool.  And his French friends would instruct him.  Like yeah we do not use that.  A pen was not a beek it was un stylo. Or a towel is not essuie it is a serviette. And the news on the TV that is never ever le nouvelle.  Oh no no no. We do not use le nouvelle we use les info - like the informations . Yeah.  So you were like improving your French?  Right right right. Totally.  Even when the proper French turned out to be not French at all.  Yeah. The word in French for black is noir. We use that word in English sometimes like film noir. And so I would use the word noir to describe myself - like je suis noir I am black or les noirs aux Etats-Unis black people in the U.S. And then a friend was like oh actually we do not use the word noir for people like we use black the English word black.  Black.  Black. Noir is a little bit like mmnn  but black is better you know?  Ngofeen did not question this lesson any more than the others.  I remember coming back home and telling my parents like do you know that in France French - right? - I was like you say black not noir. I was like OK - fact I learned.   I am Gregory Warner. This is ow where we take you to far-off places with stories that hit close to home. Today's episode takes place in a country where language is so treasured and so reverently protected from foreign influence that just trying to change a word can be seen as a threat and a threat not just to tradition and the status quo but to the French self-image to what it means to be French. So we got two stories for you today two creative efforts to change the words we call ourselves and each other. We are going to come back to Ngofeen's discovery that black was the new noir and what happened next. But first a story that really shows the inner workings of how the French language is so closely guarded. And it starts with this other word.  I found out this crazy thing that just like sent me on this whole spiral of working on this story. You know what a ghostwriter is right? Somebody writes...  Writes the books for you yeah.  Exactly. The word in French for ghostwriter is France's version of the N-word. And I was like - I literally was like what?  So we are going to start with that story when ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. Just a warning - there is some strong language in this episode that we have left unbeeped  because this story's about strong language.  First thing - can I get you to introduce yourself?  OK. I am Nelly Buffon and I was working as a journalist for 13 years.  What does Nelly look like by the way?  She looks like a nice teacher - maybe like art teacher. Oh yeah Miss Buffon. I love her.   It is strange because as a mixed-race person you feel that you are 50-50. But here in France I know that for white people in front of me I am not black. When I refer to myself as a black person they said oh come on you are not so black . If you do not have your hair natural we will not even find out that you have black blood. It is strange.  Yeah.  It is really really strange.  Yeah. Like a lot of journalists Nelly has an inner novelist.  I wanted to write books to write novel.  So she writes up a manuscript and sends it off to publishers and gets a resounding no.  I felt frustrated because I wanted somebody to tell me what I have to do to do it better.  Nelly's looking around and there is not a lot of these things we are used to having in the U.S. like books on writing or MFA programs.  No blogs no websites - no no no. Everybody thinks that writing cannot be learned here in France.  Hm. OK.  It is something like you have the gift or you do not have it.  And so Nelly says I am going to start this consulting agency where I can help people learn how to write like connect them with people who can help like maybe an editor or a ghostwriter. Are there many black-owned...   No I am always alone. I have always been alone. I am always the only black person.  One day pretty soon after she starts this new literary consulting agency she is at a press conference hosted by the Ministry of Culture.  I remember exactly the place. We were in the temple of French literature the Centre National du Livre.  Imagine a fancy salon lined with books.  And this woman asked me this question - .  What this white woman asked Nelly was do you offer nigger services? That is the literal translation.  And that was really shocking and I was like having my heart squeezing and my brain totally freezing for some seconds. And I was like am I supposed to punch her?  Nelly knows this is the word for ghostwriter.  Everybody knows that word in France.  But it is one thing to know that word and it is another to hear it said to you.  And you are just shocked and you are a lot of...  It is like she is the only one hearing how painful that word is.  You feel just really confused.  The word negre - it can mean - like can translate as negro. But after talking to black and white people in France when it is used today it is much more like our N-word in the U.S.  So how did that word come to mean ghostwriter?  Negre was the word used to describe black people during slavery. Like it is funny like France is really proud of the fact that slavery was illegal in France but if you cross the Atlantic and landed in the New World places like Haiti or Guadalupe - which is where Nelly's family is from - or Louisiana that is where France enslaved black people in its colonies. They were the negre. So negre came to mean ghostwriter because a negre is the person who is doing all this work and not receiving any of the benefits of that labor. The most famous example that is kind of been carried down through history to us is with Alexandre Dumas.   Alexandre Dumas .  Dumas is one of France's most famous writers.   .  They actually made this film about Dumas and one of his ghostwriters.   .   You will remember from like the French literary world writing is a gift. It is like this -  ahhh .  That is right.  And so this great mind is actually using ghostwriters.   .  Dumas was mixed. His grandmother was black. So you know the guy who wrote Three Musketeers is a black man from France for the record .  And the ghostwriters he hired were white.  Yeah his ghostwriters were white. And so they started making fun of him.  People would say he exploits them.  Louis-Georges Tin founded the best-known black organization in France.  People would laugh at him calling him le negre. So le negre has - the nigger has niggers.  The thing is you - like it is an ordinary word that you can use whenever the word ghostwriter comes up. But back in the Centre National du Livre that white crowd is not going to have the same relationship with this word as Nelly does.  When I came back home I was talking with my husband about that. And I decided that I have to have a prepared answer if this came again.  Nelly wants people to stop using the word but she also has a business to run and clients to get.  And it was like .  Mmm hmm.  That means yes I see what you mean  but we do not use this term.  She decides to use the English word ghostwriter - ghostwriter.  And I am always saying that with a big big big smile.  And what is she trying to do in those moments?  She is trying to get white people to hear that word in the same way she is hearing it.  She is not just correcting their words she is saying did you hear what you just said?  Yeah. For years Nelly keeps correcting people. And then one day she is venting about all this at a friend's place.  We were in Brittany and we were drinking a lot .  The friend works for Greenpeace.  And at Greenpeace they used to launch a petition for every single thing they do.  .  And she told me but why do not you launch a petition about that?  But what Nelly's up against - wanting to change a French word - is a big deal because in France language is a matter of national identity. It is considered the foundation stone for the feeling of belonging to a community - that is not my words that is the government's words. There is a council set up hundreds of years ago to guard the language. They are called l'Academie Francaise. There is 40 members known as the immortals. They dress in these like embroidered boleros and meet in a cathedral.  What do they do there?  So they write the French dictionary.  Wow.  Nelly addresses her petition to them but the gears of the immortals turns slowly. So she also sends it to this other group and they too protect the language but they are more like a rapid response team. They meet not in a cathedral but in this ordinary government building. The name of the group is the General Delegation to the French Language and the Languages of France.  Do they have an acronym or anything ?  DGLFLF.  Wait - DGLFLF?   Can we just - can we deal with this?  Yeah. The linguists I talked to call them the DGLF.  OK.  So that is what we are going to call them - DGLF. Their job is to identify any specialized terms like all these English words that get created all the time - like smart home net neutrality freemium downcycling podcasting  - and help Frenchify them.  .  Gilles Siouffi is a linguist at The Sorbonne. And he gave me this example - infox. It is a mixture of information which is information or news and intoxication which is like - in French is like poisoning. So like poisoning news.   fake news.  Oh . Once the DGLF says OK please do not say fake news anymore - say infox - the government has to start using that word. That is now the proper French term.   .  So Nelly goes home and she crafts this petition and argues why this word should be changed.  Yeah.  And part of that argument is that...  We are supposed to be the people who are really caring about the words.  We the people who work in the craft of words we should be careful with our words.  Please care about the words when you are talking to me and care about this word especially.  She sends the petition around waits for people to sign on. And she gets...  Thousand and 500.  1500 signatures - not nearly enough. And one of her friends is like you should call Louis-Georges Tin.  I was contacted by a French citizen.  Louis-Georges - you will remember - he is the founder of that prominent black organization in France the Representative Council of Black Associations. And their acronym in French is CRAN.  Le CRAN.  CRAN.  Yes.  Louis-Georges remembers the day he got Nelly's call.  And she told me this funny and shocking story about people coming to her office asking for niggers. So that is funny but that is revolting at the same time. And I told her you did what you had to do. But because you are an isolated citizen of course you did not have all this success.  When all of this started Nelly just wanted people to stop saying the N-word to her. She was not trying to be an activist or anything.  At the first beginning I was not comfortable with the idea of contacting the CRAN because they have an image of angry black people. You know what I mean?  Mmm hmm.  And I really did not want to do anything with anger.  She told me that she had tried before and the petition did not work.  And so Louis-Georges he uses his connections to send the petition to thousands and thousands of people. Do you remember seeing the numbers ticking up like going up? Or...  Yeah. Yeah.  I remember I was at home going to my computer every 15 minutes. And I was like no - oh.  Plus thousand and plus thousand and plus thousand. It was quite magical.  It looks like they may actually get a meeting with the DGLF. But there is another problem.  Ghostwriters.  The word Nelly's been using is the English word ghostwriter.  Which is the American way.  But you  cannot go into the Delegation General a la Langue Francaise et aux Langues de France - which is just like too many references to French in the name - and be like hey can we use this English word? Can we say le ghostwriter? No. Louis-Georges was like you know what? There is actually a word in French for ghostwriter.  We have a word for that...  Before negre.  ...Which is plume.  Plume is feather or pen like a fountain pen. Prete-plume is loaned feather.  We want to go back to a very very classical way an elegant way of saying which is nice. And it is less racist.  The first time I talked to Louis-Georges on the phone he said something like if you are a minority and you want to see change happen you cannot be an idiot. You have to be strategic. And this is one of those moments where I see exactly what he meant. When this petition gets hate mail it is going to be criticized for changing tradition changing the French language. And so what they do is they are like oh you want to be traditional? We are going to be even more traditional even more truly French. And the petition gets them this meeting. They go to the DGLF take the steps up to this ordinary administrative government office. And they meet with a wizard.  He is like a court clerk.  Yeah. He is like the - he is like a clerk. I like to call him a wizard .  I found him friendly.  The fact that Nelly and Louis-Georges are even sitting in this office discussing this at all is pretty extraordinary. They do not have to respond to some petition from an ordinary citizen.  And they tell you we - we will call you next week of course. Do not worry.  It is going to the Ministry cabinet.  Next week comes. There is no phone call.  It is going back to the College.  You need to call them every week to say what is happening? Are you working on the issue? It is one month. Why is it so long?  Finally Louis-Georges gets word that they are going to issue the recommendation. So I am going to read the recommendation - . So in French dictionaries the word negre which is associated with slavery employed to designate a person of color is described as being pejorative racist and antiquated.  Wow. Pejorative racist and antiquated. It is like that is the coffin right there.  We after having convened and considered - we propose this new term prete-plume. And that is the win. And they send out the alert.   .  Nelly and Louis-Georges go on TV.   .  .  .  Now when people are using this term in front of me I just tell them that you know you are not allowed to tell that anymore.  She does not have to smile and choose her words carefully. She does not have to explain why that word is a problem. She just holds up this paper. We do not say that anymore.  I do not know. I am always thinking about my ancestors who were slaves. And I am always thinking that at a moment there were people who decided we would not be slaves anymore. And even if they will be killed five minutes later they decided we do not want to be slave anymore. For me it is so strong I think there is nothing above. If they have been able to do that I can do something as well.  You know I am just wondering. In this moment when Nelly is able to hold up that piece of paper this ruling from the DGLF that says we do not say that anymore like that we it feels like the idea at least is that the whole country tries to stay on the same page in terms of language. And I guess I am wondering if we had something like that in America would that be kind of nice?  I mean if I could pull out a piece of paper from the government every time someone asks me hey what tribe are you from in Africa? Like and the paper said the word tribe is antiquated and pejorative in that context I think I might love that. It would be kind of a relief to not have to explain every time. Like it seems nice to me in this situation. But I can also imagine a case where I disagree with the government's choice.   Which brings us to our second story. What do you do when the powers that be have determined the words that you can and cannot be called and you are not OK with that?   .  Remember I told you about that trip I went on to France?  When you were 19.  When I was in college I learned all these things. You say this. You do not say that. You say noir and you do not say black. So that was a long time ago. And since then I started asking like why do not you say noir? Like why do not you say that?  The French word.  Right. And to tell that story we have to talk about something that like long before me black Americans have loved about France.   .  .  So this is James Baldwin talking on French radio about when he first moved to Paris.   .  He got there in 1948. And he says that when he got to France was when he became an American for the first time.   .  Back home I was a sale negre is what Baldwin says - a dirty nigger.   .  This is in the era of Jim Crow. So in the U.S. he found whites-only signs and segregation. But in France he finds it completely different. In fact you are not even supposed to name race. And that tradition goes back to World War Two.   .  World War Two is this pivotal moment in French history. Like a lot of what France is today has happened because of World War Two. So during the war France was complicit with the Nazis. France like rounded up Jews deported them to the concentration camps. Your religion your race was recorded and used against you. So after the war the new president - that is Charles de Gaulle airport named after him...  Yeah.  ...He has the task of rebuilding the country and kind of recreating the French identity. And as part of that one of the ways that he does that is they get this new constitution. And in the constitution they pull from this old like French Republic principle that says that France is indivisible. And this one word is so important. It is hard to overstate how important it is. What it means is that France is one people. And the way that gets interpreted is that the government cannot ask for race in official documents - not on a census not on a college admission form.  It is illegal.  Yeah. The idea in France is that race is a false category.  So let us not talk about it.  Let us not talk about it.   .  Until the early '80s when a new word shows up.   .  .  There is this show that comes on in 1984 called H.I.P. H.O.P. which is the letters for hip-hop - H-I-P H-O-P.   .  And the guy who hosts this show is the first-ever black host on French television.  .  There is a lesson segment where the host teaches you - like I am going to show you how to break dance.   Le break machine.  He freestyles. He is like put your arm this way and you turn it all around .   And then on certain episodes they would get really excited because an American celebrity makes a guest appearance on their show.   Everybody be peaceful and strive on to be somebody.  Yeah.    Seeing black people in Europe it was like we were entering into a modern era - a new era.  This is Rachel Khan. She lives in Paris and she is a bit of a renaissance woman. She spent years doing ballet. She was a nationally ranked sprinter. She went to law school studied human rights law. And now she works in the artsy world. She is a writer and an actress. Growing up in France she was the only black kid in her class. And so she loved turning on the TV and seeing these black American celebrities.    No New Year's Day...  Stevie Wonder Angela Davis Carl Lewis...   These almost mythological figures who come in part from the U.S. and who really reinforce that strength.   Je m'appelle Lindsay .  Seeing these black people on screen it is like - they are people like her. And they have this new word - black or blehck  in French. And at first Rachel loved it.   How you feel now?   When you are a little girl it is immediately a way to distinguish yourself. You know using this English word you just come off as hip and trendy.  . I am asking Rachel if there was a moment when she remembers using that word and feeling really cool.   Totally. But the expression black is beautiful...  OK.   You have got a boy you want to flirt with at school - your first crush. And he would say yeah she is black. And you would respond... Yeah black is beautiful.  Aw.   OK. OK. .   So if we do not have power at least at that time being black meant we were strong.  And it is not just teenagers like Rachel embracing that word. Bit by bit people start calling French black people black like  - a black woman  - black people. And then in 1990 black enters the French dictionary. But as black's growing in popularity Rachel's also growing up. And she is noticing something about this word.   When Rachel was a sprinter winning her national championship everyone on the team except for one person is black. As she says they are all different shades of black. And the coach is a white guy. And the coach he calls the darkest of the athletes. He is like you are the most black. You are the blackest so you run the fastest.   And at this point it just started to become grating you know the exoticizing aspect of it. It is almost as though you become a black object and you are no longer a person. And I was hearing this thing - that this word black was fused with something very fantastical something from a fantasy world. A beautiful black woman - it all went together.  And what does the word black have to do with it?  Because it is an English word. She says you know how Americans use French words in English like soiree - we want to be kind of a bit fancy or sophisticated.  Rendezvous .  .   Yeah. It is like sophisticated.  Oui.  Voila.  Oui. In France when people use English words it is either about the world of work and seeming efficient like brainstorming - le brainstorming - or it is about seeming like cool and cosmopolitan.   At the beginning I really liked it. I liked the fact that my identity was associated with you know an English word. It gave me a very cool vibe you know like yeah I am black.  But then she realizes that the shiny coolness that comes with the word black is very different from what she is living as a black person in France. Like when she was in ballet school her teacher's always pointing out her butt that it is not right for ballet. After studying law she gets this very prestigious government job.   And so I said to myself it is amazing that France allows people like me you know the opportunity to work at a place like this.  But she is realizing she does not fit in here either. And she is asking herself like is it my clothes? Maybe I need to buy the same black pencil skirt that all the other white women in the office wear. Like maybe I need to reel in my personality and be more subdued. But after a while she is like...   Despite all of my effort...  My feet hurt from these heels that I am wearing .   You know my hair that I was totally destroying with all the straightening - and so I said to myself I am going to be truly myself.  And who she is is not black the American word. Who she is is noire. And so she comes up with a solution which is that she starts correcting people who call her black telling them to call her noire. And some people are fine with it. Some people are just confused.  .  And then...   These other people almost with this like militant mindset would continue to call me black.  I have actually experienced that tension Rachel's describing. Like when I asked one of my best French friends to call me noir my friend who is like progressive white guy like anti-colonial all the things - and he was like no I am not going to call black people noir.  Wow.  That makes me think of my racist grandpa who used to talk that way. And like I am not going to say that word.  He thinks that word is offensive.  He feels like he is being racist when he says noir.  And in some ways France has told him that.  Yeah. I mean that is the whole French system. And it is kind of one of those moments where you wish you had a piece of paper from the government being like use this word. But no there is not that paper.  The DGLF does not apply here.  This is not a specialized word so DGLF does not even come into consideration. On top of that there technically is a piece of paper. It is called the French constitution. And it says that France is indivisible which means do not talk about race.  Right.  So what Rachel wants to do here is in a way forbidden in France.  We have a history of black consciousness in France. But because of the Second World War it became taboo.  Remember Louis-Georges from our first story? He is the guy who teamed up with Nelly to take down ghostwriter. When he started this black organization the CRAN back in 2005 he deliberately put the word noir in the name - conseil representatif des associations noires.  We told them no we need to have a word to call ourselves.  He started out as an activist in the gay rights movement and he takes those strategies and applies them here.  So you cannot say it is OK to be black if you have to hide from being black and deny yourself.  So in your mind did you see using the word noir as a coming out?  Oh yes because this is exactly what I told my friends. We need to make our coming out like gay militants do.  Actually asserting we are here.  Yes. And like we are going to use the word whether you like it or not.  But there is this reaction in media in the papers. And it is like does France have noir?  That would be unbearable.  So even though it was a big move the CRAN did not change what black people are called in France. They are still black.  .  So that even more than a decade later Rachel is one of 24 black women interviewed about this for a documentary film.  .  This documentary is called Ouvrir La Voix or Speak Up in English. And it is something completely unseen before in French film.  .  There is a black queer film director Amandine Gay talking to 24 black women about their experience in France.  .  And while they are talking about sexuality and depression and school they are also voicing the same concerns frustrations about being called black instead of noir.  .  I actually talked to people after a showing of the film. And like they were really excited.  Oh yes - thinking like me every woman was talking.  But the audience was largely a group of people that wants to talk about race.  Yeah I was like oh finally.  This was not going to be heard by people - largely white people who are resistant to the word noir.  .  And it is not long after that film comes out that Rachel gets a text about doing something even bigger than that. It just so happens that it is her 42nd birthday. She is working this gig in Belgium and she is not having a good day.   And I am telling you I was so incredibly sick that day. And so I am there thinking I am going to die. You know this is my birthday. And at that moment I receive a text.  The text comes from another black actress - a more famous one - named Aissa Maiga.   I received a text from Aissa Maiga.  The documentary reached her and she wants to add her voice.   Come on you know we need to talk about our lives what we are experiencing. We need to speak up and change something.  There ends up being...  WhatsApp.  ...This WhatsApp group of 16 black women - all actresses - coming up with a plan for what they are going to do.   Come on. Let us write a book.  This book of essays about their experiences - they use the word noir in the title.  Noire N'est Pas Mon Metier.  Noire N'est Pas Mon Metier which means noire is not my job which is a way of saying first off we are noire. And second off it is not our job to just be noire like stereotypes in your movies. So they are going to take this book and they are going to present it at the Cannes Film Festival. Cannes is the second biggest media event on the planet. Everyone in the film industry wants to be there. And so they are taking this moment with all the cameras on them to announce to France and to the world that we are noire.   Harvey Weinstein will never be welcome.   The fear you know came bit by bit as we were preparing for Cannes.  They do a dress rehearsal of walking down the red carpet together.   Because at Cannes you are leaving the world of publishing and you are entering the world of the image.  The idea of black women walking down the red carpet together in Cannes - this is really scary to do in France. Rachel and these other actors are worried that producers are going to stop hiring them. They will think that they are troublemakers.   And you know there was this one other big fear. I really really did not want them to tell us that we are being communitariste.  This word communitariste - it is kind of the flip side of that idea that France is indivisible and colorblind. Like you are not supposed to ask about race on the census but you are also not supposed to segregate with your own people.  What is that mean?  You are just supposed to blend in and that means to blend in to white France. So here is what is really so tricky for Rachel Aissa and this whole crew of women. They have decided that in order for things to change they have to act as a group.   And there you go - a little panic a little stress. At the beginning as we are walking down the red carpet we are just super focused on what is happening. We are holding hands really tightly. Hearts are beating. It was like the 100-meter dash you know? I get it. It is 10 11 seconds of your life but so many things could have gone wrong.  On the red carpet camera shutters click. French eyes stare - 16 black women all different shades black and French. Right arms lifted up fists held high.   .  .  .  .  So I watched the French shows that covered Cannes. The anchors are using the word noir which is a big deal. But even bigger than that is that some of them are asking like why did you use noir instead of black? That seems to be something really important. Tell us why.   .  .  .  The way these TV hosts talk the words that they choose - they have a huge impact. We watch them every night. It is super important.  The host asks why are you using this word? And the women respond this is why. And then the host is like OK I will do that. They are recommending out to society like use this word.  And did this - I mean do we know - does this then start a conversation? Are people - are French people now using the word noir more?  So there is this conversation now around noir and black because of this book and the film and the CRAN and this whole body of activism that is been happening. Not everyone uses it. Like my cousins still use black. And you remember Nelly from the ghostwriter story?  Yeah - got the word changed.  Yeah. She is wrestling with it too.  I do not feel comfortable with it when I am saying noir. And I am trying to force myself to say it because I agree with the campaign about that to use the word as it is.  For Rachel nobody's called her black since the book came out.   For me it is a victory. You know it is a huge victory that we are able to separate these two stories. We do not have the same history as the U.S. or of England. Our story is French and black.  This episode was produced by Jess Jiang. Marianne McCune is our editor. And thanks to Cirielle Bedoo  Fia Benin  Joe Osmondson  Melissa Bunoit  Gene Demby Noel King Sona Krazikoff  Gabrielle Ramo  Nicola Sonja  and Sami Yenigun for listening to early drafts of this episode. Thanks to Carolyn Trotman  for voicing Rachel Khan. And thanks also to Nera Bigoo  Tyler Stovall  and Mark Memmott.  Ngofeen here. I just want to specifically thank the black women whose research into writing courses throughout this story - Crystal Marie Fleming author of Resurrecting Slavery Racial Legacies And White Supremacy In France Amandine Gay the director of the documentary Ouvrir La Voix or Speak Up the authors of Noire N'est Pas Mon Mtier - all 16. Here they are.  Do it.  Nadge Beausson-Diagne Mata Gabin Mamouna Gueye Eye Hadara Rachel Khan Assa Maga Sara Martins Marie-Philomne Nga Sabine Pakora Firmine Richard Sonia Rolland Magaajyia Silberfeld Shirley Souagnon Assa Sylla Karidja Tour and France Zobda and finally Nelly Buffon founder of Enviedecrire literary consulting agency in Paris.  And we will have links to all of that on npr.orgroughtranslation. The ROUGH TRANSLATION executive team is Neal Carruth Will Dobson and Anya Grundmann. Sarah Knight fact-checked this episode. Jane Gilvin helped with research for this story mastering by Andy Huether. John Ellis composed music for our