 I was talking to a reporter who spent a dozen years covering the war in Afghanistan for the BBC and then NPR Quil Lawrence. He was there for the start of the war when Afghans welcomed the Americans coming in. The U.S. military started building roads and hospitals. Quil saw them cheering for that. And then as the years passed Quil noticed that the story that Afghans told about the war and about the American presence there it started to change.  You would travel all over Afghanistan and you would hear crazy stuff about things the Americans had done. There would be a minivan full of women and children going to an Afghan wedding party in the middle of some remote province and it would hit a massive fertilizer bomb and it would kill all these women and children. And the Taliban who had set that bomb would absolutely succeed in convincing everyone that it was an American airstrike because the Americans hate your religion and they are here to take your women.  Even that paved road that the Americans had built to win hearts and minds the Taliban would tell people you know that was just built so they could occupy our country.   This is ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Gregory Warner. This is a show about how the conversations we are having in the United States are being heard and translated in some other corner of the world. By 2010 - so this was nine years into the war - the U.S. was at its peak presence in Afghanistan a hundred thousand troops.  And it was around this time you started to hear people in the military talking a little bit differently and saying things like you cannot kill your way out of Afghanistan. And I think it was an acknowledgement that they could win all of the battles and still somehow be losing the war.  The generals started talking a lot about how to communicate better what they were trying to do in words that the Afghans would trust and believe.  So in 2010 they start training up some of their people in Afghan languages and culture. And they called this program Afghan Hands.  Next thing I knew I am learning the language of Afghanistan.  Tim Kirk was one of the first graduates. And he is built like a football player but he is sort of a history geek too. He is got a Ph.D. in military history. And he was working for the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the Pentagon - this is the highest command in the land - and he felt guilty.  I said sir I have got to go...  He had to go where the war was.  ...It is not right that I am sitting here on Easy Street.  So he goes from a comfy desk in the Pentagon to eating stale bread with the Afghan army embedded with them learning Dari. That is one of the main languages in Afghanistan. And then he is assigned to an American base in Kabul called Camp Eggers.  So I know all the little you know .  .  Yeah. Yeah.  He had like the hip-guy pleasantries like  which is like how is your left lower lip?  Wow.  What is up? And they are like whoa. Wait a minute. An American you know someone in uniform who speaks Dari. This is hilarious. This is great. You have got to meet her.  I was like who? Who is this her?  You have got to meet the other American...  The other American?  ...Who speaks Dari.  And he goes it is her right there.  This Air Force captain named Felisa Hervey.  I was in a hurry and I was carrying a whole bunch of stuff. And I am heading to class probably late.  Felisa grew up partly in nearby Kazakhstan which is a majority-Muslim country. Her parents were missionaries. She is the kind of person who just always liked to do the hardest thing she could find. She applied and she got accepted to the Air Force Academy. And then two years after that she took some time off from the academy and went to Afghanistan which everyone told her not to do. And the U.S. is already fighting a war against the Taliban there. But Felisa went there to teach English at an orphanage and there she learned Dari.  You know I greeted her in Dari just to kind of see what are we talking about here? And I thought I knew you know good Dari but she was unbelievable.  Her Dari is fabulous.  .  She is 26... F.  Yep.  ...Marathon runner. She is got long brown hair. I am sure she had it up in a bun.  She was always climbing trees climbing buildings.  She speaks like five languages.  Big thoughts.  And Tim is thinking I have got to get her on my team. F.  I was not thinking that this would develop into one of the most life-changing opportunities that had occurred in my life so far.  She is back in the Air Force. She is back in Afghanistan. And this is at a time when instead of people saying you were crazy for going off and teaching at an orphanage suddenly her ability to speak Dari was in high demand by the top commander of the Afghan mission...   We have to recognize...  General David Petraeus.   ...That the Afghan people are the decisive terrain.  And he issues the Petraeus directive.   A nuanced appreciation of local situations is essential.  The Petraeus directive said things like be a good guest view our actions through the eyes of the Afghans.  Stop on the side of the road. Take off your helmet. Take off your gloves. Take off your glasses.  This is a direct order from the commanding general...  Right.  ...To take your sunglasses off.  And interact with the locals.  And Petraeus' direct instruction was quote...   This requires listening.  Spend time. Listen. Consult...   And it also requires...  ...And drink lots of tea.   Many cups of tea. F.  I remember being so excited when I read that when that came in. I said look. Look at this paragraph. You know this is...  This is from an audio diary that Tim and Felisa recorded. This was years later after they would become friends and intellectual soulmates. They totally nerd out on the Petraeus directive...  It is like paragraph F right?  ...Down to the paragraph. F.  Yes. F and G were both very good.  Felisa actually carried this directive in her pocket like a talisman. F.  Folded it up and put it in the lower zipper pocket of my ABS-Gs of my uniform and carried it around with me wherever I went.   The promise of the Petraeus directive was this - the U.S. would have better success in Afghanistan if it took more time to talk to Afghans.  Early on in their work together Tim and Felisa have this experience that puts those paragraphs to the test. They are both riding in a military convoy and they are crossing a big intersection in Kabul. And their convoy ends up clipping a motorcycle. F.  You know and kids involved. They went flying off the motorcycle. And even though it was not our fault it was perceived as our fault.  The size of that crowd was ominous.  This idea of traffic incidents might seem small but it was something that the military rightly started to focus on with trying not to piss off so many people. I do not know when you were there if that...  2007.  Yeah so they would already blocked off the road by the U.S. Embassy.  This huge concrete...  Yeah some of the men with mercenaries who just treat you like dirt. And so you have already pissed off the whole city. And there were cases where an American convoy had hit people and killed people. And the scene of that kind of accident can quickly become an angry violent mob scene.  People have died. F.  And it was one of those moments where you knew that many other people in the situation would not have even gotten out of the car.  But Felisa and Tim have this language training. And they are here to communicate with Afghans so they think let us give this a try. F.  I opened up the doors ran to help spoke the language.  . F.  Making sure that everybody's OK.  You know like be still be still. Are you OK?  They jumped out and immediately apologized.  And in Dari there is no way to say I am sorry. It is all forgive me.  Felisa's talking to the kids and speaking in Dari. And she and Tim - the way they describe it this fellow's anger just dissipated.  He just gets this huge smile on his face. And he just goes... F.  .  ...You are speaking Dari.  This little moment on the road in Kabul - it was not on the front lines of the war or anything but it did feel like proof of an important principle. Proof that if you talk to Afghans in the right way with the right words you could stop making enemies maybe even make some useful friends. That is something the U.S. struggles with not just in Afghanistan but lots of places the military's fighting. And Felisa and Tim would go on to test this principle again and again and again.   I should tell you that we had several conversations with Felisa. The tape you are hearing is not from those interviews because the Felisa we spoke to she sounds very different than the Felisa who headed off with the general's directive in her pocket. So to tell this story from the beginning means relying on old recordings. F.  And these details become important later.  And the memories of those who worked with her.  We will talk some more about how that unfolded. F.  Absolutely...  Yeah.  ROUGH TRANSLATION back after this break.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION and our story from reporter Quil Lawrence. Just a warning - if you are listening with small kids if offensive language is a concern for you there is one curse word - just one - in this episode. So here's Quil.  The very first thing that Tim and Felisa were up against was time. They meet at Camp Eggers.  And that is when I said OK Felisa here's what I am putting together.  Tim invites her to join his team that he is putting together to engage with Afghans.  And I need an operations officer. What do you say? F.  This was the opportunity that I have been hoping for.  I said all right but that means you got to extend. F.  Felisa's tour is almost up and...  I had to work the levers I mean...  Extending someone's tour over there is not nearly as simple as it sounds. It is not the way the military's set up to work. It is set up where you do your year or a little bit more over and then you go home. And that is something that makes it very hard for the military to do relationships. In Iraq and Afghanistan it is this thing where they sit down with a tribal elder and the guy says forget what Captain Mike told you. I am Captain John. And I am going to give you guys what you need. Captain Mike sucked. I am great. And I have also talked to Iraqis and Afghans who bless them were trying to say no no but before there was a man. He was the same uniform as you. His name is Mr. John from the Army. And he promised us that we would be able to graze our sheep near the base. Do you know Captain John?  Wow.  There is this churn. So it is not easy. And it takes Tim until absolutely the last possible moment...  She has a flight out at noon the next day.  ...Before he manages to get her extended. F.  It is such a huge hurdle .  Right. Right. And I remember your birthday. F.  Yes.  We got like the final notification. F.  Right. I felt it was a gift.  Yeah. Yeah. They not only approved a six-month extension. They approved three consecutive six-month extensions. You know that was gold.  Tim and Felisas mission is to connect with businesspeople activists the local media people outside the very narrow circle of politicians and warlords that the military ordinarily interacts with. They are not going to be in the trenches sort of on the tip of the spear fighting the bloodiest part of the war but they might be able to start dialogues with ordinary Afghans.  I do remember that first meeting actually the first few words Felisa said. She told us . I had heard a lot of Americans try to speak that way.  This is Aman Nuristani . He works for an Afghan NGO fighting corruption in Kabul. Did you see it making a difference?  What was different was the approach. You do not just have to speak the language. You have to speak the culture telling Afghans that listen you know there is not much difference between you and I I am here to help.  So Felisa just takes off. F.  And I was so excited because all of these ideas and contacts...  She already has all these contacts in Kabul from her time volunteering in the orphanage there. F.  ...To go and engage with those people and meet them.  Tim and Felisa do not just go out into Kabul. They also invite Afghans to visit their office at their base.  And I remember you were like this place needs a Moroccan lamp right? And I remember stringing that up over your desk. F.  And it did. It changed the entire room.  It was very much an Afghan hospitality orientation. And you had tea coffee. F.  Snacks.  ...Snacks raisins dates you Know the whole nine.  One day it is a cool afternoon in November just after Thanksgiving. They are coming back from one of their meetings.  Yup. So we are driving down right in front of the zoo on our way down to Ariana. And there was a bread shop and there was a pizza place.  Felisa still has the general's directive in her pocket the one that says when possible stop by the side of the road and engage with ordinary Afghans.  You make the suggestion hey we should take this opportunity you know to engage with the Afghan people.  So he says OK well we are going to stop and we are going to buy bread.  We placed a pizza order walked down the street talking with Afghans handing out business cards and saying hello. F.  And we got out I remember in full body armor with our helmets. And only those of us got out who spoke Dari so...  Right.  This is happening in a very safe part of Kabul right by the American University. He even brings along a public affairs photographer to document all of this. Like this is us accomplishing our mission engaging with the Afghan population.  You know you had had the old woman come up and hug you around the neck. F.  Yeah. And people were just shocked to see us walking around.  And then we went back to work. And three days later... F.  Intrigue.  Yeah hue and cry. What was it they called? F.  Pizza incident.  Yeah the pizza incident.  Tim and Felisa are written up in what the military calls a 15-6 investigation. This is serious. This is like a step along the way to a court martial.  I asked my boss what exactly is the crime? And the answer was you broke the seal.  So breaking the seal tells you how the military was thinking about their time in Afghanistan. They are sealed up in their four or five bases. And when they move between those bases they are sealed up in their protective convoys. And anytime you get out you have stepped out of that protective seal that is supposed to keep you safe in Afghanistan.  We tried to get a copy of this 15-6 report. The military says it does not keep documents like this longer than five years. But we did talk to people in the military who were there. None wanted to talk on the record. They said that the technical reason that Tim and Felisa were written up was because they did not get permission to break the seal. It was a question of paperwork. But many pointed to a deeper reason that they were in trouble.  The command really did not buy into what they were doing. F.  We were thinking about this whole sort of countercultural set of ideas.  And there is a huge divide within the military about this approach about meeting Afghans where they lived about drinking lots of cups of tea.  I mean I told you the tea-drinking cocksucker story right?  No.  I did not tell you that?  Tim tells a story about when he first got out of language school and met his boss at Camp Eggers.  And he says oh so you are the Afghan hand huh? You know what we call Afghan hands? And I said no what is that? And he says tea-drinking cocksuckers. And he says I just want you to know that you are not going to come anywhere near talking to an Afghan. The guy who came before you sat at that desk at that computer and did my PowerPoint slides. And you are going to sit at that desk at that computer and do my PowerPoint slides.  This sort of just shows you the two minds at work here. And one of them is that we are over in Afghanistan in a dangerous place I am over here for 12 months I want to make sure all of my soldiers get home alive with two arms and two legs and what if Tim makes a really poor choice and walks into what he thought was a meeting to drink tea and ends up kidnapped and on YouTube in an orange jumpsuit?   For Tim and Felisa this investigation basically means they cannot do their work anymore. People from their team are being pulled off to testify against them. And Felisa calls it near-complete mission stoppage. F.  We were able to ascertain that the hostility was not perceived or imagined. It was indeed real.  So Tim still has some connections in the Air Force back at the Pentagon. And he is able to call them and say listen I cannot work under this team you have got to get me out of here. And they say oh well General McMaster is right across the street. Would you like to go work for him?   H.R. McMaster is considered one of the smartest generals in the Army and later became national security adviser for President Trump. And at this time McMaster's trying to build up a team to do pretty much just what Tim and Felisa are talking about. And Tim says oh yeah I want to work for General McMaster. And they say good go for it. F.  They said start now. Start today.  Start today.  Tim and Felisa they do not just win themselves a transfer from one Army command to another. They are transferred from one school of thought to another - to this new command under H.R. McMaster who is a big believer in the whole talking and listening and drinking tea approach.  But before they can even kind of pack up their stuff they get word from people inside their old command that they probably should not even show their faces back there. F.  Right. And I mean there had already been drama. We knew you know the chief of staff was up in arms.  We get a call from the Army captain who works in our office. And he says hey sir if you are going to come back over here and trying to get your stuff will you give me a heads up so I can not be here? Because I have been ordered to apprehend you - as if we had gone AWOL or something.  What?  Yeah. F.  There were very few friends left.  Yeah.  Except all the Afghan guards they used to hang out and chat with. F.  Yeah.  The Afghans they whisk us through and make sure nothing happens.   We waited till after midnight to go back.  They snuck into the Army base.  Collected like pillows sheets clothes.  ...From the other Army base. F.  It felt like a good spy movie.  It really did. Remember. F.  Yeah.  We like wore hats and hoods. F.  Yeah.  Crept out like thieves in the night with their duffel bags. F.  Packed up a bag.  You know that is how they made their great escape to go work with General McMaster.   Tim and Felisa are now working for H.R. McMaster. And they are going outside the wire almost every day and engaging with the population. F.  And just people who were so eager to talk to us - so astonished that we would show up at their doors. I mean radio stations TV stations - just never had the opportunity to have a relationship with anyone before.  I mean Felisa is a hit. And she gets invited on to TV shows.  F.  .  Sort of like an Afghan Iron Chef show except they call it the Golden Chef which sounds nicer anyway.   .  An American woman on Afghan TV - who is she?  Aman says people were pretty stunned to see her. And so was his friend Rahim Wahidullah.  You suddenly see this lovely lady participating in a cooking show.  And then there is actually this one Afghan TV producer...  My name is Nemat Haidari.  ...Who has got an idea that fits with her perfectly.  F.  .  He is trying to help people understand each other through food.  F.  .  I want to change the mind of the people.  And he has been banging on the doors of the American military saying why do not you guys send me someone who could do this TV show and help sort of...  Share the experience.  And every time he does this the military people are like oh well I cannot really do that or I need to get permission. But then he asked Felisa and she says oh yeah I will do that. F.  .  So Felisa ends up cooking like a family recipe which is this tea cake.  Farzana...  They call her Farzana.  ...Make the dishes. She read this poem on the program.  She is doing this thing where you would expect on a cooking show and she is showing you how you measure this much and then you put it in. Then you bake it. But the whole time she is managing to with great agility slip in these little parables and Afghan sayings and things like that about corruption and good governance.  F.  .  But she is doing while she is cooking a tea cake. Like at one point she says imagine if there is a little bit of poison in that dough it will ruin the entire cake. And that is how corruption is too. It is like poison.  F.  .  Farzana for everyone is popular. You know when she is walking in the street buys something in the shop everybody's oh Farzana last night I saw you on our program on the TV you know.  One thing that made Felisa so good at these public appearances - besides her charisma and her ability to speak Dari - was her deep knowledge of Afghan poetry.  F.  .  The thing about Afghans is that they really like poetry.  F.  .  Felisa sent us this tape of her reading a 13th century Afghan poem about how all humanity is one big family.  F.  . I have never spoken the first words of those verses to an Afghan and not had them reply with the rest.   Afghans they use poetry when they are talking all the time. All my friends will drop little bits of poetry.  F.  Poetry here in Afghanistan is more powerful...  And the Taliban are total masters of this too. They know exactly how to push the buttons of Afghans especially young Afghan men. And they do it with poetry.  F.  If we can reference these poets and their poetry our communication can be infinitely more persuasive more effective more influential. And I speak from experience because I have seen it countless countless times.  What was really telling for me is that H.R. McMaster also felt that maybe she was someone who could as an individual affect the outcome of this war.  OK. I hate to plunge right into it because I would love to shoot the brief.  To see McMaster who is this huge bald guy busting out of his suit - I mean he won a famous tank battle in the Gulf War. He was giving absolutely no interviews while he is at the Trump White House. He was willing to talk to me just about Felisa.  Her deep knowledge of culture and history of the region allowed her to make analogies to Persian literature and poetry and - which of course had a striking effect on most Afghans . It was a joke. And as I said it would have the same effect as if a dog talked to us  in English. F.  They would reiterate over and over how they always got the Taliban's talking points within hours after an event but had to knock down our doors to get a response from us. And they said this is not good for you . And we said you are right.  What Felisa was able to do is to counter enemy propaganda and then to help grow the legitimacy and effectiveness of our efforts there as we worked alongside Afghans to help secure their country.  McMaster - he is thinking of her as a weapon. He wants to set her up essentially to be...  The spokesperson for the command.  Like the spokesman for the entire American coalition military to communicate their vision to the Afghans. He is basically saying we have got this young captain and she could actually hold her own in a fight with the Taliban over how the U.S. is perceived in Afghanistan.  It was on track. She was going to be the civil society adviser to commander of ISAF.  But Felisa's 18-month extension is almost up. McMaster's on his way back to the states now because his time is up.  I remember telling Tim make sure what you have started continues.  More ROUGH TRANSLATION right after this break.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. And where we left off Felisa was all set to become the spokesperson to the Afghans for the military. But first Tim says she needed another extension from the Air Force.  We were pushing.  And General McMaster had to go home so she has a new general in charge of her fate.  It comes back to the thing where you have got like you know Captain Mike coming in and he is promising everybody we are going to do this or that. And then the next year Captain John comes and he says forget about everything Captain Mike said I am going to do this better.  I went to see the Air Force commander the two-star. I say how many but sirs do I get here? Because but sir this is a huge opportunity we are missing.  Tim's appeals to the Air Force to let Felisa stay in Afghanistan were denied.  The Air Force decided to send her to Florida instead.  To do...  Public affairs.  Yeah.  Yeah.  After two years basically the Air Force says your time is up. You got to go home.  Are you crazy?  We reached out to the two-star star general the former Air Force commander who decided to send her to Florida. His office took a while to get back to us but finally they wrote an email. The general had quote exercised his responsibility to manage expeditionary force readiness during that time.  I went to her and said you got to go home.  And that is actually when Tim and Felisa sat down to make this audio diary...  And I will again talk more about that in our next recording. F.  Right.  ...To sort of make an oral history of what they had done.  We will go further with some cool stories and memories next.  And then Felisa's sent by the Air Force back to Florida. But she never gets to Florida. Her commission is up and she submits her resignation.  That was in 2012. A couple years later they are both in the U.S. Felisa is getting her Ph.D. in Afghan women's poetry. She is also started an NGO aiming to foster partnerships with Americans and Afghans. Tim is also retired from the military after 21 years of service but he is keeping tabs on what is going on inside Afghanistan. And what is really ramping up at this time - it is now 2014 - is something called insider attacks.   Eight American troops and a contractor have been shot and killed by an Afghan air...  An insider attack - or a green-on-blue - is when someone who is assumed to be an Afghan ally picks up a gun and kills an American usually on a base.   For the seventh time this year Afghan troops have turned on American and NATO forces.  Some of these really are Taliban infiltrators. But others are really more spontaneous. Like it is just a regular Afghan who is in the military and who is maybe been just soaking up a lot of disrespect by these American soldiers based in Afghanistan all these years. So they are on thin ice when they get there.  Very thin ice.  And then a lot of these insider attacks end up being the wrong word said - you know not knowing the basics of etiquette and respect in the local language.  That is right.  And so Tim is back home. And he is watching this and he is seeing these American troops dying in these insider attacks. And he is thinking...  Guys stop. Stop. Stop. Understand that you are on that thin ice OK? They already assume that you are a coward and a liar. So now how do you break that?  At the end of 2014 Tim goes back as a contractor. Every time America goes to war now there is an equal if not bigger army of civilian contractors who go along with them. And he convinces the higher-ups to let him give a series of lectures to American troops on exactly the things he wants them to know.   Today we have very different sort of class. And you may be asking yourself why are we talking about art and poetry? I mean we are all warriors right? We are security assistants right?  So Tim is back in Afghanistan but so much has changed from the Afghanistan that he left. Just the Taliban have taken up so much more territory. And the American troop presence has shrunk down. And there is a sense at home that this war has just gone on way too long.   Get the troops out of Afghanistan and end that war.   Our troops are tired and worn out.   My son's over there now. I do not think we should even be there.  No one's talking about the Petraeus Directive. General Petraeus is gone. General McMaster is gone. All of these champions drinking tea with the Afghans are gone. Now Tim does not mind being the lone voice screaming in the wilderness but he does think maybe there is somebody who ought to be here screaming in the wilderness alongside with me. So when another contract opens up he calls Felisa. He says hey.  If you are interested in this it is in the old office you know?  She said oh you know I am doing my dissertation. She is all but dissertation at this point...  Wow.  ...On Afghan women's poetry. He says come on over. You can finish your dissertation at night. You have got to do this. And Felisa misses the work. She misses Afghanistan and so she says OK.  When Tim promised Felisa that this job was in the old office he was not kidding. They are in exactly the same office where they started their work together under McMaster - same wall same furniture. The one difference and at first it just seems like a formality is that the job is privatized. Before she was wearing military fatigues the uniform of the Air Force. Now she is in civilian clothes.   Almost right away it becomes apparent that the people that they are interacting with on the military side do not get it are not interested are not helping them at all - quite the opposite.  We were both being harassed.  And this time Tim is not you know a colonel anymore. His status has kind of shrunk.  The first time I was a colonel.  And he just cannot call up his boss at the Pentagon now and pull some levers.  When you are a contractor you are alone and unafraid. I mean it is  one thing and you are out and your security clearance is gone and you are done.  They do not want to give up. They still think that they are doing some good. And so Tim is sort of doing his best to sort of lower the stress level on his team. He gets them together every Friday night for like pizza and a movie.  So we just finished the movie.  And they were watching the movie Idiocracy.  And as we are wrapping up you know picking up the pizza boxes and - one of the other team members walks in and says hey Tim you need to go to the clinic. I guess they found Felisa on the ground and she...  They would found Felisa. And she is collapsed on the grounds of the base. And so Tim rushes over to the clinic.  And when I saw her I did not think it was her. Then I realized that her hair was totally covered with vomit and had stuck to her head and that she had defecated and was in this grand mal seizure. And...  The aid station there is saying what kind of drugs was she on? What kind of drugs does she do? And he is saying...  What the hell?  She is a missionary child. She never - does not drink does not do any - that is impossible. They are saying no no she is having - she is clearly having some sort of a drug overdose.  Presumption was another junkie-type thing.  So they managed to get her up to Bagram Air Base which is a quick chopper ride away.  We get to Bagram and we started the wait.  Because she is not in a uniform. She is wearing civilian clothes.  Having sporadic grand mal seizures and nothing's happening.  Felisa is not a priority here at this military hospital.  I said God damn it. That woman is an United States Air Force Academy graduate and a captain with a Bronze Star and two years' service in Afghanistan. There are diagnostic procedures that need to be performed.   At about the three-hour point was when they put her into the CT scan. And exactly the four-hour point was when they diagnosed stroke.   There is no way we can explain why she had a stroke. No doctor would have predicted that this woman in perfect health would have had a blood clot that would shoot up to her brain. A couple years earlier she is about to become the spokesperson for the entire American military to the country of Afghanistan and now she is lying on a cot in this hospital at an air base in Afghanistan having grand mal seizures.   It just shows you how far everything that she and Tim are trying to do has fallen in importance to the whole American mission.  Tim sent Quil an email later. I just want to read a little bit of it. It says quote injuries are in a sense supposed to happen in a combat realm. You do not ever expect them. But when they happen you just somehow know what to do without thinking about it. Plus everyone is there to help. But in Felisa's case he says it was different. Quote this is not a uniformed person so there is no rush.   If she had still been in uniform she would have been medevaced straight up to Bagram and then flown straight to Germany where the U.S. military has this huge hospital that takes casualties straig