  Hey. It is Gregory here. And just before we start the show we would love to hear about you who you are what stories you want to hear maybe what you like and do not like about the show. Please go to npr.orgpodcastsurvey to complete a very short survey. We really want to hear from everyone even if you are a brand-new listener or an old hand to the show. So that is npr.orgpodcastsurvey - all one word. And thanks.   You are listening to ROUGH TRANSLATION from NPR.  I thought it will not be easy physically. You see Matt and the only thing I thought is the physical part right? So I thought it is not going to be easy but I can do it I can do it.  Last time on HomeFront.  And at the very beginning of these episodes he will tell me I am not angry of you. I just see everything red. I am just angry. And then I tell him what would you do if something does that to your girls? And then his answer was well I will ask him if their spouse is a veteran - justifying you know if it is a veteran then it is OK. And I said no it is not OK. I said it is no excuses.   We have been telling the story of Alicia and Matt Lammers. If you have not heard the earlier episodes you might want to go back and listen to Battle Rattle and Battle Lines. In those episodes we heard how Alicia fell in love with Matt and became his official VA caregiver something he needed as a triple amputee. But she discovered he also had a brain injury and PTSD and other behavior that she could not explain patterns of forgetfulness and anger and violence. And then he started being violent toward her. She did not know what she was still doing there.  I wonder that so many times. Why am I here? Why am I still here? Love? Yes I loved him. Also the more I got to know him the more I got to have the feeling of who else is going to do what I do? He needs someone here.  Alicia felt a duty to stay with Matt which is not unusual for people in an abusive relationship. But the duty she felt was not just to him or to the relationship or to their families she also felt a duty to her country.  She by staying is making good on a promise the rest of us made to Matt when he signed up. We have signed off on the laws that say we will take care of him afterwards.  That is Quil Lawrence NPR's vets correspondent and my co-host on our HomeFront series.  I do not want to sound all waving the flag here but we are all on the hook for this. This is something that we have promised to do.  The care that the U.S. government has promised to give veterans after they come home should not require the spouse or loved one of a veteran to stay in a dangerous situation. But Alicia was not sure what else to do.  It is easy to just look at it and say oh just get out of there. The problem with this is that no one's saying Alicia get out of there you know we will make sure he is taken care of.  So why is that? Where was the Department of Veterans Affairs in all this? Today we put that question to the VA on the third and final chapter of Alicia and Matt's story. Here's Quil.   Alicia was stuck.  What makes a woman stay with the man who is abusive and is choking you out?  I want to introduce you to the guy who helped her get unstuck.  My name is Sergeant Major retired Jesse Acosta. I served 34 years in the United States Army. I am 6'1. I am 250 pounds. I work out every day. So even though I am blind I still try to keep some type of shape to stay in shape.  For those of us not as familiar with Army titles sergeant major is as high as it gets for noncommissioned officers. So for troops on the ground this is a really high rank. This is who they listen to. An explosion in Iraq left him blind.  I am completely blind. I suffer from TBI - traumatic brain injury. So I did not know what the hell was going on from one day to the next.  After he left the Army he ends up working at this nonprofit that helps injured veterans get their independence and that is how he ends up meeting Matt Lammers.  He was hit by a bomb. I was hit by a bomb. He lost three limbs. I lost my eyes and suffered some other massive severe injuries.  When he learned that Matt also had a brain injury and PTSD and had struggled with addiction...  O-M-G. I completely understand that.  He knew that Matt needed help.  And we attempted to get him the help he needed.  His organization found Matt a treatment program. And then Acosta took this extra step. He flew out to Tucson to personally take Matt to that program. And for Alicia this visit meant a lot.  Sergeant Major Acosta he came to Tucson. And I remember him coming to see us and trying to get Matt - he did not even bring his service dog his guide dog.   To me it meant so much that he cares so much about us. So when I drop him off at the hotel we talk for hours and hours about what was truly happening at home. So that was the first time that I opened up 100 about everything happening to that point. He asked me do you have a phone with you? And I said yes.  He says look up secondary PTSD.  Just Google it and read it out loud. So I did that. And I remember reading and crying. And I cried till my eyes were like bubbled. But that day I just let go of so many things.   No woman no person should ever go through what she is gone through ever.  Jesse Acosta the sergeant major was able to tell her what no one else could. He was able to tell her your survival cannot be the price of taking care of Matt. And she could only hear that from someone who knew that sacrifice.  I got to talk to someone who was a veteran. And he was telling me yes it can be PTSD but you need to take care of yourself.  He was the only one who had the authority to tell her that so that she could hear it.  It was like this is not right. Like what am I doing to myself?  It takes some time for Acosta's words to translate into action. The abuse continued - until finally she calls a domestic violence shelter and talks to a counselor there.  And I told her I think I am ready to leave. But I feel guilty for leaving. So I know he has a brain injury. He has issues memorizing things. And I do not know maybe because he is in a wheelchair - but I feel guilty. So I need to plan it. So I created a binder with all his passcodes how to pay the rent how to pay this how to do that - everything I put on the list. And I went ahead and buy supplies for a whole month. I bought six cases of water and I preopened every single bottle of water because he has carpal tunnel. He cannot open them. So I preopened every single one of them so at least the waters are open for a month. I premade meals put it in the freezer. I put everything - the dishes - down so he can reach everything. And I made a list a long list of the things I needed to take care of so I can leave. And I told her it may sound like an excuse but I need this for him but more for me 'ecause I need peace of mind I do not want to feel guilty.   And the next morning at 4 in the morning I woke up and said today is the day I am going to go.  She packs up her car and she leaves. She ends up at the domestic violence shelter and there she starts going to group therapy. But then she says she has this moment in therapy where she realizes I do not know how to talk to these civilian women with their civilian problems.  Yes our spouses were there because they were like my husband is making me feel worthless or he is always calling me names or he is aggressive every single time he drinks or - you know issues like that. This is a time of my life that I am blocking myself from a lot of emotions so I am not allowing myself to sympathize with anyone because I am listening to their stories and I am like - I am not saying anything. I am not - but in my mind I am like I cannot believe she left for that.  Like a lot of people in group therapy Alicia found herself comparing her own situation to everyone else's. And to her what happened with Matt just felt so much more extreme - the armed patrols clearing houses doing one-on-one suicide watches to keep Matt from hurting himself only to be hit with Matt's sudden violent rage. None of the other people talked about things like that.  Nobody ever talk about having a gun on their heads. But nobody should go through the things they went through or I went through but I did feel different.  The way she felt different it reminds me of the disconnect that a lot of veterans feel trying to reengage with civilian life. Veterans will say they just do not know how to tell their stories of war to people who have never served and that is the same way Alicia felt.  Like in my mind they were not ready to hear my story because it was so shocking.  Alicia stayed silent.  It was hard to eat. I got the plate in front of me and I cried so many times because I did not know what he was eating who was preparing his meal. I worry a lot.   Hey Matt. It is Quil. Are you in there?   HomeFront will be back after this break.  Matt are you in there?   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront. I am Quil Lawrence. The first time I went to meet Matt in person was 11 days after Alicia had walked out.   Hey Matt? This recording is from October of 2016. At this point in time I did not know Alicia or Matt. I would never met either one of them in person. I was friends on Facebook with Matt and I would been thinking about doing a story on him. But then I saw that his wife had left him and his posts on Facebook started getting really dark. And so I jumped on a plane to Arizona.   Hey man.  Hey.  Did I wake you up? Obviously.  Oh no you are good.  Sorry. Sorry about that. Matt's in his wheelchair shirtless. He looks exhausted.  I have just got horrible insomnia.  Oh bummer.  It was like 3 or 4 when I was finally able to lay down.  He says he has almost nothing in his fridge to eat and he cannot drive to the store because he is lost so much weight that his prosthetic arm which he uses to drive does not fit anymore.  I just feel horrible and you came all this way. I just - so sorry about it.  No no. It is all right. It is all right.   And so at that point I mean I just kind of say OK I am going to drive you to the grocery store.  Sergio 2092 please. Sergio 2092.   He is been living off a big bag of rice and bananas. And we head straight to the aisle with Muscle Milk. Banana cream. Chocolate chocolate chocolate. Knock out chocolate.  I think that is all the vanilla ones they have.  Oh vanilla is what you are after?  Yeah. You are a lifesaver. It is my main diet.   And we are finally just headed into the laxative aisle.  Hello Bright  shoppers.  What are you looking for?  Prunelax. It seems to work the best.  Prunelax?  Mmm hmm. Yeah they send me all this stuff but it does not seem to do anything. Prunelax actually does seem to help.  Constipation is actually a problem for a lot of people who use wheelchairs because you are sitting down all day. My buddy is looking for a laxative called Prunelax.  I have not seen it in years.  Oh really?  Yeah. You might see it in Walgreens. But I have not seen it in a long long time.  But - and it is just prunes?  Get some prunes.  OK. Thanks a lot. At the time I am just thinking how can that be that a twice combat-decorated Iraq vet with only one arm left can need a reporter from New York to come and buy him like laxatives in the supermarket?  Are you on pain meds?  Yes.  Sorry.  Yeah when I had the baby I got so constipated. The skin of the apple is what helped me.  Really? OK.  Yeah it just helped push....  What I did not know then on that trip was that Matt had called the VA the week before to tell them that Alicia had left. And the VA's only response as far as we have been able to tell was to stop her checks. They cut off Alicia's caregiver stipend. Matt says the VA did not send someone out to check on him. The VA also did not call Alicia. They did not even call to get a status report on Matt.  ...One of the biggest issue. But yeah - but OK guys sorry.  Thanks.  Thank you so much guys. Take care.   This whole time in the grocery store in my head I am still stuck on that question - like where was the VA through all this? Sergeant Major Acosta has a lot of questions too.  And I am talking about the VA. Why did not they reach out to her and reel her in knowing what they were going through with Matt?  Matt was on record as being abusive to VA doctors and staff. He would been formally reprimanded by the Tucson VA. I met you at close to rock bottom then.  Yes. Yes. I would go out. I could have pleasant conversations here and there with people. And - but I was always - I just - I felt like every muscle in my body and even in my brain if that is possible if that makes sense it just felt like it was always tense or under pressure of some sort. And so the slightest thing unfortunately - and Alicia would catch the worst.  This conversation I had with Matt this happened after I would met Alicia and learned just how violent things had gotten. I asked Matt about the time he choked her until she lost consciousness. How often do you think about that?  Probably as much as Iraq. So it does come to mind quite a bit out of guilt the fact that I hurt my best friend.  I tried to ask him more questions about it. But you are also - I mean...  Can you excuse me? I just got nauseous.  Oh yeah yeah yeah yeah. Do what you need to do.  Let me take - I am sorry. OK.   And that is what I am talking about. Everybody thinks that oh you are in the hands of the VA you are going to be well taken care of . I beg to differ to the T.   I took the sergeant major's questions and my own to the head of the caregiver program.  Meg Kabat.  Hey Meg. It is Quil.  Hey Quil. How are you?  I have talked to Meg Kabat a lot over the years.  I am the senior adviser to the secretary at the Department of Veterans Affairs for Families Caregivers and Survivors.  That is her new position created this year. You can think of Meg as the most senior VA official whose job is to focus on civilians. She started out as a social worker at what is now Walter Reed Medical Center. She is actually been leading the caregiver program since it started a decade ago. So I asked her Acosta's question - why would not the VA have done more to reel in someone like Alicia?  You know I think there is probably multiple components to this. I do not know that the medical team knew that she was in as much trouble as she was. Individuals are very good at hiding what is really going on. You know it is very very hard to talk about these things. It is very hard to ask for help.  It might be hard for anyone stuck in a violent marriage to ask for help it is even more complicated to ask for help from a government department that is mandated to take care of veterans - veterans not civilians. And that mandate has dogged the caregiver program since it started in 2011. Meg says in the beginning there was a lot of pushback from VA staff about why they were focusing on civilian caregivers at all.  I am not her social worker I am his social worker. Why are we spending money on this program?  Wow.  Sometimes I would hear it from staff at medical centers but I also heard it from staff even you know here at central office.  Which brings us to the predicament that Alicia found herself in. For so long she was afraid to tell the VA about the abuse because she thought they would kick her off the program.   The VA knew this was a problem.  We heard unfortunate stories about caregivers who were staying in their relationship because they needed the income from the stipend. I mean in fact that is why you know we changed the regulations. And the new regulations state...  Now caregivers who leave because of domestic violence can get their stipend for a few more months so they have a chance to get back on their feet again. Since when - is that along with the new...  Yeah so that that did not start until October. But that was certainly part of what we knew we had to fix in the regulations pretty early on.  That is October of 2020. It took a decade before Congress managed to fix the problem that the VA knew about early on. 'ecause as soon as this was set up you saw that it could be a trap.  Yes.  The trap for Alicia was not just that she needed the stipend it was also that she took her responsibility as Matt's caregiver seriously. She saw herself as part of his treatment team. So I asked Meg did the VA see Alicia that way? Is that caregiver sort of part of the vet's treatment team now? Or what is - how do you define their role?  You know I mean as a social worker I would tell you that clinically that caregiver is of course always a part of that treatment team. Now it is very hard to have that caregiver be a part of the treatment team for a variety of reasons including time.  The provider might not have that much time.  Yeah it takes time to talk to families and to answer their questions and to really include them in all of the work that is going on.  Alicia saw herself as much more than just the family member.  We are the VA first responders. We are there. We are with the veteran 247. They need to give us the importance that we have.   I do not want you to throw flowers on me or send me a certificate but recognize that we are a very important piece on their care. We are part of their care team.  Alicia spent more than two months at the shelter.  And I needed that time for Alicia to heal 'ecause a lot of things happened through the years. I started to exercise a lot and running every afternoon. And Tucson has a lot of trails and they are nice trails with cactuses and things like that.   It sounds silly now that I think of - but I remember they invited us to this dance therapy. And they gave us a piece of fabric. So I remember picking a very hot pink almost fuchsia. And they play music. You needed to move from side to side just feeling the music closing your eyes making circles with this piece of fabric around you. And I remember I moved like back and forth three or four times and then I start crying. All this - many emotions just came to my mind. And it just - crying and crying. And I let go of this - whatever was going on with me.   Alicia still thought about Matt how he was getting by without her. And then he sent her a note on Facebook that surprised her.  The apology he gave me recognized all the things - well not all the things but a lot of things that he did wrong. So he is not telling me hey babe I miss you come back. He did not do that. He is saying Alicia I have been thinking about it. I am so sorry I hurt you. I get it. I know why you left. And I will understand if you would never forgive me. I will understand if you never come back. That is the way he approached me.  They messaged some more and he invited her to come over. She found herself hoping to see he was OK partly because she still loved him but also to assuage her guilt over leaving.  He will play something on the TV ask me should we eat anything? And I am like no I do not want anything. I do not want water. I do not want to eat anything. I was just like sitting here waiting for something to happen. And then it went well. OK I came back the next day.  The next day Matt still seems OK. A week later she spends the night.  When he asked me I do not want to push you to do anything you do not want but do you think you are considering moving in again? And I say yeah I am considering.  Did people try to talk you out of moving back in?  That is ROUGH TRANSLATION producer Jess Jiang.  Like your mom or your therapist or any of the women at the shelter or your counselor?  No.  One woman did ask are not you afraid of going back?  And I was like well yeah but I try to reassure that I was being cautious. You know I am being cautious. I am not taking all my stuff yet. I am just going to bring my backpack and you know that is it.  When she talked to civilians she would tell them things like I am protecting my boundaries.  Well I was more trying to convince them that I would be OK more than me. I did not know if I will be OK. But I will keep telling them you know I am giving him this one last chance. I wanted them to know that I had a plan that I kind of knew what I was doing. But the reality is that you will not know what is going to happen.  So she goes back to him. She says he is never violent with her again but he is still not the Matt she first fell in love with. He is moody and prone to depression. And then comes a crisis that leads to a breakthrough.  It started when he could not sleep. And then he is having these UTIs.  That turns into a bladder infection which sounds small but it becomes this constant source of pain and frustration that lasts years and takes over their lives.  And now I can see him being angry suicidal and then he is depressed and then he is crying and then he is yelling and then he hates me and then he loves me and then he needs a hug and then he is acting up again. And I am not used to that. It is happening in one day all day long for several days now. So it is like something's really wrong right now.   It used to be she could anticipate his down days. Remember she had this whole calendar of his mood swings so she would know that depression was coming in the winter and it would be followed by some better days in the spring.  But now it feels like all that is happening in two days.  One day Matt got so agitated that she called 911 and he was sent to a psych ward at a civilian hospital.  I saw Matt throwing urine on the floor yelling at nurses refusing to eat his food throwing the food on the floor yelling out names to the staff. He had no control over himself or the whole situation.  Alicia thought Matt might be institutionalized.  We are going to assign the state to care for him - I did not want that to happen. That will be very very devastating. And I knew they were going that way. So I feel like I needed to be his voice.   Alicia does something that she is never really done before. She goes to the civilian psychiatrist at the hospital.  And I told her I am going to bring facts. In this year this happened in that year that happened. And for two hours she just let me talk and talk and talk.  And this psychiatrist gives her time.  And then she said well there is no cure but I do have a diagnosis. I was happy when she told me because we finally had a name.  ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront back after this break.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront. I am Quil Lawrence. Alicia said she spoke to the psychiatrist for almost two hours and she told her all the clues she would learned about Matt's condition - the spending sprees the obsessive swimming the insomnia followed by bouts of depression where he would not shave or leave the house. She tells her about the neurologist who thought Matt had a traumatic brain injury. She talks about the drugs even the violence. And when she laid out all these facts she was trying to keep her emotions out of it just like they are two doctors discussing a case.  Because I was trying to speak for him instead of being the wife or the caregiver complaining. I was trying to give facts about behavioral terminology names of medications and what happened with it.  And the psychiatrist turns to her and says there is a name for this condition.  He is manic depressive bipolar and he is cycling. So when you do not treat bipolar disorder it started to get worse. So if you cycle every six months from being depressed to being hyper then you start cycling every three months and then every two months and then every day. So it escalates because you are not medicated. You are not under control. And your brain is tricking you.  The doctor convinces Matt to take medication to control his cycles.  So he took it. He had sleep deprivation for five years. And within three days he was already sleeping eight hours straight. It is the first time in years he woke up in the morning and started playing '80s music - like 80s music.   I can never be in a bad mood listening to '80s music. I love the '80s. I love that time period. I still have memories playing Cyndi Lauper on the boom box INXS .    Hey here is the story forget about the troubles in life.  And I am like what is going on? And he said hey babe how you doing? And I am like good morning. I am doing OK. And he said come outside. Is not it a beautiful day? He is playing songs and he is all excited. I am like oh my God. Like he is back. Like I knew he was back that morning.  So was this a turning point for Matt and Alicia? Before diagnosis after diagnosis?  Yeah absolutely. I mean it is amazing to me. This is a decade after his catastrophic injury and I really think this is the moment he starts healing and they start healing from the wounds that happened to them together. But it is not a sure thing. What they are dealing with is - it is not over - his injuries physical mental and emotional her trauma. And that is what pains me is that it is sort of saying well this is the process and someone like Alicia has to sacrifice as much as Matt while caring for him. I mean that does not seem right.  Yeah. I am wondering about - I mean kind of hypothetically here if instead of Alicia being Matt's caregiver if the VA had somehow paid for a professional home aide somebody would have done all of the tasks or many of the tasks of taking care of Matt but without the emotional involvement.  Well I think everyone agrees that the care from a loved one is better. This is talking about you know people who have studied this agree that no one can ever know Mat's needs as well as his spouse or you know a family member who is there all the time.  Well yeah so that is what I am wondering. Are you saying OK the loved one's care is better but the rest of that sentence is it is better for the vet.  Yeah. God you could not ever tell anyone to do what she is done. And so I feel really conflicted telling her story because are we apologizing for his abuse and his behavior? No we do not want to be doing that. We do not want to excuse it. We do not want to say that it is right that Alicia stayed. But we cannot make that decision for her. She is made it.  I did not consider myself being part of the military but there is one event - a couple of events that make me feel like oh wow I am part of this organization. And the first time was with General Beagle in South Carolina gave me a poem by this unknown author. And this poem talks about military wives. And I remember he gave me the paper said Mrs. Lammers do not read it in front of me because I cry every single time. But you know being Alicia I do not listen to men - I am just kidding.  I mean hearing her saying she does not listen to men is so great.  I read the first two sentences. It is like I am already crying. He is crying. And it just feels so good that he is giving me this credit that I did not feel I deserve. Hello Jess. I got the poem that I talked to you about. It is called The Silent Ranks.  I wear no uniforms - no blues or Army greens. But I am in the military in the ranks rarely seen. I have no ranks upon my shoulders salutes I do not give. But the military world is the place where I live. Behind the lines I see the things needed to keep this country free. My spouse makes the sacrifice so do our kids and me. One of the lines that always makes me cry is when it says my spouse makes the sacrifice but so do our kids and me - because it is true. Just being right next to him witnessing every step to recover this bumpy bumpy road to recovery. It is really really - it is a sacrifice.  I am glad she is been thanked. And I am glad she she is happy to get that thank you. But it just pains me that it is just more encouragement for her to stay in this situation that no one should have to endure. It reminds me of - there are these medals that they give out in combat. And there is a certain level of medal that you get for doing your duty. And there is a certain level of medal that you get for doing your duty really well. And then there is this level of medals which get up to the Medal of Honor that you get for doing something that no one could reasonably ever have asked you to do - to expose yourself to danger and to threat of harm and threat of death. And this is another civ-mil divide thing that if we were going to write a sort of a glossary of things you never say to someone like you never say happy Memorial Day - because that is about people who died at war - and you never say or I have learned from being corrected by veterans that you never say someone won a medal. You know it was not a happy day. Those medals are always given out because someone did something that they never should have had to do. So it is seeming to me more and more appropriate that if you were going to award a Medal of Honor-level kind of appreciation for what you do after the war to help veterans come home I mean we could pin one of those on Alicia. For me the most important point is that Alicia and Matt want their story to be told. What they have always said is that if another veteran or another spouse of a veteran can hear this and have an easier time than we did that is what we want. God these know pain like very few people I have ever met. And they want someone else to feel a little bit less pain than they did.   Join us next week as HomeFront continues with a very different story of crossing the civilian-military divide. The Pentagon decides it needs an ambassador to Silicon Valley. That is next week on ROUGH TRANSLATION's HomeFront. Today's episode was produced by Jess Jiang. Our editor is Lu Olkowski. The ROUGH TRANSLATION team includes Luis Trelles Matt Ozug and Justine Yan. Our intern is Alicia Qian. Many people listened civilians and veterans to early drafts of this piece. Thank you so much to Marianne McCune Robert Krulwich Bruce Auster Bob Little Andrew Sussman Liana Simstrom Jenny Lawton Sana Krasikov Laura Smitherman D.J. Skelton Victor Yvellez Nora Cronin Kristen Cramer Dr. Andy Anson Dr. Drew Helmer and Lawrence Carter-Long. The ROUGH TRANSLATION executive team is Neal Carruth Didi Schanche and Anya Grundmann. Special thanks to Chris Turpin and Viki Walton-James. Nicole Beemsterboer is our senior supervising producer. Brin Winterbottom fact-checked this episode - mastering by Isaac Rodrigues. Retired Army Captain Kimo Williams composed HomeFront's theme music with additional music from John Ellis. I am Gregory Warner back next week with more HomeFront from ROUGH TRANSLATION. 