 Hey Gregory Warner here just to say this is our fourth episode of ur response has already been just amazing. All of your comments on the show your story ideas your reviews - keep them coming. We are really reading them all. And it really does make a difference to help us keep this show going. Thanks. Here's the show.  Let us be nice to our guests Muffin.  We are in a little house on a hill in northwestern Oregon on a comfy couch with throw pillows - a little dog named Muffin running around.  OK so I will feel it buzz on my phone.  Jacquie pulls out her phone. She is got a message on WeChat.  And it will have her picture.  It comes first in Chinese characters or...  She is showing all this to reporter Marianne McCune.  Like this one is a red panda dancing between two eights. I had no idea what that means.  And she says eight in Chinese pronunciation is similar to the word bye.  The two eights signify bye-bye.  And you say...  I say I hope we can talk again soon. Have a good night. And then I sent the little red panda dancing between two eights.  So that is how you communicate with the woman whose baby you are having.  Most of the time yeah.   This is ROUGH TRANSLATION. We are a show that follows how something we are talking about in the United States is being talked about somewhere else in the world. When we hear the words international surrogate we tend to think of American couples hiring women from poor countries to carry their babies. But more and more with China's economy booming Chinese women are the ones who are finding surrogates in America. Surrogacy is illegal in China. So today we are going to tell you the story of two women - a Chinese mom and an American surrogate - each wanting something from the other that is hard to admit. And along the way they get a crash course in transcontinental communication. What is OK to tell the world? What is OK to tell your child? And what is the real advantage of an American passport even if you never plan to leave China?   The story comes from our own Marianne McCune.  Jacquie got the idea to become a surrogate in nursing school. She actually wrote a paper about surrogacy covered all the pros and cons - well not all but we will get to that later. She was happily pregnant at the time with her own son Elliott. He is now 6 and he is actually crawling under the coffee table and listening in while we talk.  Is she being on radio?  I am going to be on radio yeah.  Hardly needs to be said - it takes a particular kind of person to decide to carry someone else's baby. Jacquie grew up in a conservative Christian family of Texans. But her dad worked in the oil industry so she spent a good chunk of her childhood in Russia.  . Very little.  And Russia is where she started to think that a lot of what her parents had taught her was not right. By 13 she ditched Christianity. A little older she dated men and women. She met her husband a musician while serving pancakes at the local IHOP. And after having Elliott they left Texas for the coast of Oregon. They bought this old house painted the floorboards filled it with pets and antique furniture and lots of color. Her husband has purple hair. Elliott has green.  I know how to say something in Japanese. Konnichiwa.  It was after Jacquie had built this new life and family.  I saw an ad...  On Facebook.  ...Looking for women in Oregon who were willing to be surrogates.  She remembered that paper that she would written in nursing school. Her husband had doubts.  He did not understand why I wanted to do it.  But she talked him into it. Jacquie's the kind of person who avoids confrontation. But she also seems to find a way to get what she wants.  So I filled out the paperwork. They got in touch with me I think the next day. And they said here's a perfect candidate.  A 33-year-old nurse with her own healthy child a stable household a good income - so she was not just doing it for the 30000. She decided she would take the first couple the agency sent her.  I was raised by parents who were honestly racist. They probably would not admit that to themselves. And I probably have biases as well. So I wanted to overcome that.  So when the agency sent her a couple from China...  I had like maybe a momentary tinge of anxiety. The culture is really really different. But I had already made the decision that I was going to choose them.  Soon after Jacquie said yes she traveled to a fancy fertility clinic in Los Angeles to have the Chinese couple's frozen embryo the size of a pinpoint implanted in her uterus. And why?  Just helping someone else do something that they are not able to do on their own.  That is the first reason she could figure out. But it was not until the embryo that pinpoint grew to the size of a peanut and a walnut a grapefruit...  I kind of know which foods he likes already.  It was not until she was exchanging messages with the Chinese mom - those WeChats with the pandas - or talking about the Chinese soap opera Jacquie's watching so the baby can hear his language that something crystallized for Jacquie.  I started to really like her. And I think she likes me as well. I hope she does . It was a surprise.  Three months into the pregnancy Jacquie thinks this was the adventure she would been hoping for - this new friendship this strangely intimate bond with someone so far away.  I have never been to China. And I would like to see what their lives are like.  So when the Chinese mother asked if she could come all the way to Oregon for the 20-week ultrasound Jacquie was so excited. But the weekend would not go as she expected. Maybe no better way to learn about somebody else's culture than by having their baby.   Yeah I got a crash course for sure.   When ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. I am Marianne McCune. Jacquie and her husband and her son Elliott pile into their car and drive two hours to the Portland airport to meet the Chinese mother. To protect the women's privacy we agreed to use first names only. And the Chinese mom asked that we use her American name Jessie.  I am asking her where she is right now.  Jacquie's husband and son stay in the car while she goes in to find the Chinese mother-to-be.  She just sent me a picture of where she is. It is like a big American flag.  And then Jacquie sees her.  I think I see her.  ...In jeans and a purple rain coat.  Hi. Nice to meet you.  Nice to meet you. I am so excited .  Then Jessie looks at Jacquie's big belly.  A big belly .  And everybody starts crying.  Thank you very much.  You are welcome.  These two women hardly know each other. Most of their conversations have been translated by a computer.   My English is so poor.  Oh I have...  They try using Google Translate to talk.  .  But...  A now see you he has been with us because I imagined it was a long time long.  So our producer Jess Jiang starts helping out.  OK. I think I can step in.  Her parents are immigrants from China.  So she was saying I was so so emotional today because I have - sorry I think I am going to cry too. I have thought about this moment for so many years.  Thank you.  It is my honor. It is - can I have another ?  Another hug. And then they go shopping.  I wanted to show you some of the things that I used when Elliott was a baby that really helped me.  OK thank you.  First stop - Boppy pillows and baby carriers.  Have you seen things like this before where you can...  Oh.  Yeah you can wear the baby .  This one.  Maybe this one.  I know this carrier. And it is a commitment. It is one long piece of stretchy knit fabric that you have to crisscross around your body to make a pouch. People get lessons on how to do it. Jessie picks up the package looks curiously and...  OK.  OK .  ...She plops it in her cart.  Can you show me how to use this one?  Sure. I would be happy to .  Jessie has her own shopping list like organic formula.  I will show you.  She does not trust the formula in China.  Do you want me to pump milk?  She will tell us later for her this visit was not about becoming friends with Jacquie.  She is asking if we can now pay.  She is here to meet her and thank her and make sure everything is OK. But by the time they get back to Jacquie's hundred-year-old house on a hill Elliott her 6-year-old is holding his Chinese guest's hand tugging her into the house.  You can see my room.  Jessie meets their two ferrets their black and white cat their little dog Muffin.  He is being friendly.   She gave you a kiss. She really likes you.  And I really like you.  Thank you.  Despite coming from so far away Jessie looks weirdly just right in small-town Oregon. She is got long dark hair tinted red at the ends. She wears a plaid flannel and she ditches her makeup after one night. She and Jacquie are the same age. They are both into art. Jessie loves the half dozen electric guitars that line the walls of the room she is staying in.  She is saying your house fulfills her imagination of what American homes look like.    It has big skies and coastal areas. And this house also has music.  We are starting to form a bond that I hope will continue for our lifetime.  There are a lot of Chinese women coming to the U.S. to have babies...  .  ...Enough that immigration officials are on the lookout. And Jessie - she could not even get a visa her first time around. When she applied to come to California for IVF - for in-vitro fertilization - she says the guy at the consulate rejected her visa on the spot.  .  The way she remembers it he accused her. You are trying to get an American passport he told her trying to have an American baby.  .  It is a real thing among wealthy Chinese couples now. There was even a super-popular romantic comedy in China...    Why you come to Seattle?  ...All about a Chinese woman...    Sleepless in Seattle.  ...Who comes to spend five months in a secret maternity home...    I love that we...  ...For pregnant Chinese women which is also a real thing.  .  Jessie's story is different. She is using a surrogate not giving birth herself. But she says she does know a lot of Chinese couples considering delivering their babies in the U.S. So she knew what she had to do to get a visa. She had to prove that she was not trying to have a so-called anchor baby - that she did not want to immigrate to the U.S. She came back to the consulate as soon as she could carrying a clear plastic bag. Inside was the deed to her cosmopolitan apartment and proof that she owns a Mercedes-Benz. She showed them her husband's earnings as a futures trader and proof of her own stable government job. And she got the visa. Jessie says the people she knows who want American passports for their babies - it is not so much that they want to immigrate to the U.S. or even go to American universities. It is also because it gives them advantages in China.  .  Jess Jiang our producer asked Jessie a lot of questions about this.  I was really curious about this.  .  And Jessie told me there are these elite universities in China. And students have to take these tough entrance exams to get into them. They are far more important and far harder than the SATs. Kids study for them for years. But the top-tier universities in China - they want more foreign students who could raise the profile of the school. So those schools - they actually lower the standards for those students.  .  And foreign students in this case means Chinese kids with Chinese parents whose only foreignness is where they were born.  Jessie's baby will get an American passport too because he will be born to a surrogate on American soil. And she says she will be glad to have it. But it is not the reason she is spending several hundred thousand dollars on doctors and lawyers and lodging and Jacquie here in the U.S. Paying a surrogate is not legal in China. But she could have done it in say Ukraine for half the price. So why Oregon? When I asked Jessie she says the medical technology of course but also the clear laws in Oregon and other states that allow surrogacy. There are protections for the mom. Jacquie and Jessie negotiated a long legal contract. It says Jacquie cannot change her mind after the birth and keep the baby. It says if the parents want her to abort because of genetic disease she will. She agreed to never try to contact the child. And she asked Jessie for things too. Like she asked to spend at least two hours with Jessie and the baby after he is born - two hours. What Jacquie most wants is not written in the contract. It is that friendship that connection she is hoping for.  How are you? This is Yin. Another where - this is Elliott.  Hi nice to meet you. Hi my name's Yin. Nice to meet you.  The next day we all gather in Jacquie's living room with a professional interpreter so that Jessie can tell us why she turned to surrogacy in the first place. She grabs a pillow off the couch and hugs it against her belly and starts.  .  She tells about meeting her husband...   We are on fire.  ...His vow to be good to her forever...   ...Nice to you all my life.  ...Her parents' disapproval and their secret love affair...   I never told my parents.  ...His mom's struggle with cancer and how hard they worked to pay off all the health care bills.   It is very hard to climb out of that deep hole.  Finally their decision to have a baby.  .  She tries for four years to have a child every remedy Chinese herbs flushing out her fallopian tubes artificial insemination - until finally...  .  ...She pees on a stick...  .  ...And sees...   Yes it is two lines. You are pregnant.  She and her husband buy a crib. They take long walks together. But the more pregnant she gets...   My face my hands the skin - it is so tight almost like will be explode some day.  The doctors tell her not to worry. And then one day about seven months into her pregnancy she is feeling so strange she asks her mother to take her blood pressure.   She said I think this machine may be broken or something.  By night Jessie is in the hospital. Her husband is rushing home from a business trip to meet her.   Then I start vomiting - like explodes from my mouth - and cannot even stand up.  Jessie had a condition called pre-eclampsia. Her blood pressure was dangerously high. Her kidneys could fail. If the baby remained in her both she and the baby could die. And she was delirious. Her husband pushed her to sign papers allowing doctors to do an emergency C-section.   So I was kind of unconscious after the surgery. But I heard something on my side. I heard a baby cry once but then stop. So I ask doctor - I said why my baby only cry once? It stopped. Then the doctor says do not worry. The baby doctor is trying to save your baby's life. Do not worry. Be calm.  There are choices to make based on not enough information. Should they continue with the mechanical ventilator? Should they see if he can survive with less machinery?   After one and a half day my baby's gone - did not make it. .  No no no. .  At this point our interpreter Yin is on the couch next to Jessie rubbing her arm telling her in Mandarin no it is not her fault. She is not to blame.  .  Big pregnant Jacquie is leaning in too her hand on Jessie's shoulder. It is Jessie who finally says in English what she felt after losing her boy.  I also feel that I killed my baby.  No.  No. No. These people are trusting me. This is a huge responsibility.  We take a break. Jacquie scarfs a yogurt. Jessie gets some tea. And we come back to the couch. Jessie has one more important piece of information she wants to tell Jacquie while the interpreter is still here. She takes a deep breath and begins again. She tells us only her mom dad and husband know that she is having a baby through a surrogate. Outside that tight-knit family circle it is a secret from everyone.   You are the American. You cannot understand that if somebody knows my baby's not from my own uterus it will be really difficult for my child to grow up as a normal kid. You cannot understand how difficult it will be in China.  She is told all her friends a lie.  I only told them I am pregnant I am going to have a baby.  And as her pretend pregnancy advances she is telling people she is gone to the United States to have her baby like so many other Chinese mothers are doing. But really she is hiding out in China.   What I am doing is I rented a house far away from my residential area.  She has quit her job. And she is moved to a neighborhood where she is anonymous.   I live there so I avoid people knowing that the pregnancy if it is true or fake one. It is just Chinese society thoughts. I do not want anybody to know that you was the one help carry my baby. I know this is not fair to you and I know you will not feel good about that but it is possible I will not tell my kid forever. I am sorry. I really cannot keep contact with you after my child born. I am so sorry.  It is OK. I do not - I mean it is up to you you know? You are his mother. I was just hoping that maybe we could keep like a friendly relationship without mentioning the surrogacy if that is possible. But even if that is not possible I will understand.  .  Thank you. Thank you so much. Thank you.  You are welcome.  You are my angel. Thank you.  Before leaving Oregon Jessie will try again and again to explain why she cannot tell her son her secrets.   In China people like to debate your life. They think it is caring.  She says if someone cannot have a baby and uses a surrogate...   They might say that person - in the past life they must have done something really wrong because someone else had to have their child.  They might tell her son he is a bastard.   And then he would come up to me and say mom they say that you did not even have me. Why do I have to listen to you? You are not even my mother. There might be a kind of hate.  ...Hate leading to bad behavior.   On TV there are these stories of people who retaliate against society and it is serious and it is - it can happen.  Oh do not be sorry. It is...  Jacquie is trying to absorb all this - Jacquie who explains in great detail to her own son every unusual choice that she makes. And Jessie is telling us that if she tells her son the truth he might end up in jail.   I want my kid to be kind to people animals society to have a responsible heart.  She says she knows there is only a tiny chance of all these bad things happening but she just cannot risk it.  ...Because I am a mommy.  Yeah.  What?  . Because I am a mother.   That crushed me.  It is a few weeks after the visit and Jacquie's on the phone with me. She is six months pregnant now. It is the first time I have had a chance to ask her about Jessie's big secret without Jessie in the room. And she says she does not care so much whether Jessie ever tells her son about the surrogacy but...  For her to say after the baby's born I cannot talk to you anymore - it was like I was meeting a sister and then being told I only will get to cherish these few moments in my memory but I am never going to get to talk to her again.  After a weekend that she thought would bring Jessie and her closer it seems to have driven them further apart.  She and I have actually not been talking to each other as much as we did before. I sense that she feels a lot of guilt.  Meanwhile back in China Jessie is in her secret hideout with her two cats that her husband brought her as a surprise to keep her company.   One is really fat and so he is called Meat-Meat or maybe Meaty is a better translation?  She and Jess our producer Jess they have been exchanging audio messages.  She tells me all about her new home in the countryside and her life there.  Jess asks her if she is been in touch with Jacquie.  And she says no.   We have not been talking that much recently because I have been crocheting the baby a sweater.  It seems hard to believe the crocheting is what is keeping her from talking to Jacquie. So two weeks later our Jess sends another question by WeChat.  . I asked her do you feel like keeping a friendship with Jacquie is somehow in conflict with keeping your secret? And she sends me this message back saying she is been thinking.  .  She tells me at first actually she did not want a relationship with Jacquie. She was worried a friendship might mean her son would find out her secret. But she and her husband have been talking.  When Jessie came home and told the only people who know about Jacquie what she was like how generous they all started thinking.  .  Jessie says she and her husband decided they will tell their son about Jacquie. They want him to grow up to be the kind of person who can understand the complexity of it all. But she says they will need to wait until he is 20 years old or maybe 30 or 35.  And as for her feelings about Jacquie she uses this phrase that I have never heard before. It is . Jessie says it means they are the kind of friends that are so close that they do not have to talk every day. But when they do it is like no time has passed. But I asked my parents about this phrase. And they translate it totally differently. They say it is the kind of friends that do not talk about anything important just light stuff like water. The whole literal translation is two gentlemen who communicate about mundane things like water.  Jessie does start sending messages to Oregon again here and there - sometimes funny exchanges in English with 6-year-old Elliott.  Let me show you a rabbit.  The rabbit is very cute.  Thank you Elliott.  Jessie and her husband in China keep wrestling with what role Jacquie should have in their lives. And then something happens that we will take this whole question out of their hands. It starts around seven and half months into Jacquie's pregnancy. When I call her she says her legs and feet are swollen. And she had to take off work earlier than she expected.  I have a pretty high tolerance for pain and it is getting kind of painful . I have got a little bit of swelling. But it is been awesome. I just did not realize like how physically uncomfortable it might get.  She sleeps through a couple of our phone dates. She says it was not like this when she was pregnant with her son Elliott. And then five weeks before the due date our producer Jess gets a worried WeChat message from China. Jessie still in her hideout has just gotten the news from Oregon. And it is not good. When ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.   We are back with ROUGH TRANSLATION. And here is where we left things. Eight months into Jacquie's pregnancy she is diagnosed with the same high blood pressure condition that Jessie the Chinese mom almost died from - pre-eclampsia. That is how Jessie lost her first baby. And the odd thing about this is that when Jacquie was pregnant with her son she did not have any signs of pre-eclampsia. She did not have any family history of this as far as she knew. If she had been at high risk she probably would not have passed the screening to become a surrogate. So it was a shock to everyone. But there is some recent research on what might be going on. Here's Marianne McCune.  Pre-eclampsia is one of the leading causes of maternal death in the United States. Jacquie's doctors tell her they want to induce labor early. But they want to give the baby more time. So they send her home with instructions to take it very easy and remain calm. They also tell her something doctors and nurses are only just starting to understand the studies are so recent - that a likely factor in Jacquie's pre-eclampsia is the baby. The baby's genes can trigger something in Jacquie that drives her blood pressure up and up and up.  .  When Jessie gets the message in China she says she feels like ice water was thrown at her heart. The agency told her that her husband's genes may be to blame. His genes might have caused Jacquie's pre-eclampsia.  .  She says she feels that to Jacquie she will forever be sorry.  .  Then another even more urgent message from Jacquie - she is having breathing problems. She is in the hospital. It is four weeks before the due date but the doctors tell her they have to get the baby out now.  .  That is the start of a mad dash to northwestern Oregon.  Jess here the radio producer. I am recording this right now at the Portland Ore. airport.  At 00 in the morning Jessie and her mother leave to catch a train to Shanghai to try to get a plane to Los Angeles to San Francisco to Portland.  Jessie told me her head is spinning.  .  I camp out in the hospital waiting room. Hey it is Marianne. Jacquie's water has broken and it is 30 a.m. And now Jacquie is the one who has to make all kinds of decisions like should she take pain medication? The relief will help keep her blood pressure down but it will be a risk to the baby. Hey just wanted an update. I am just pacing.  She is doing real good. She is resting.  Hey I am pacing in the hallways like an old-fashioned dad. I cannot imagine how Jessie feels on a train and then a plane and another plane rental car trying to get here fast enough. At 2 in the afternoon... New nurse on duty - she has told me that Jacquie is 3 centimeters dilated but she is going to get a epidural really soon. At just after 00 p.m. I received the message I have been waiting for. OK I just got word from Jess who just got word from Jessie who is in the airport in San Francisco that the baby has been born.  .  Oh you have a beautiful mommy who cannot wait to meet you.  Jacquie's husband videotapes the baby's first cry. He is curled up on Jacquie's chest but a nurse is scrambling to shove a stethoscope between his limbs so they can listen to his heart.  .  My name's Elsa. I was the baby nurse that caught him. And he was vigorous at first and then he just sort of  and held his breath. And I was like baby - as I am stimulating his back - what are you doing? Come on cry for me. He did not want to cry. And that is when he started doing the grunting.  ...Like he cannot fill his lungs without effort.  And his color was not quite as pink so we went and immediately put on the oxygen.  Jessie changing planes in San Francisco receives a photo of her baby from Jacquie's husband. But when she asks how he is there is no response. She says her heart is going up and down.  .  Jacquie stays in her hospital bed exhausted and with her blood pressure still dangerously high. Jessie and her mom finally arrive in Portland. They have not slept in 36 hours and gladly accept Jess' offer to drive the two hours on a dark windy road to the hospital. Jessie's phone keeps buzzing with messages from friends in China congratulating her. Her husband told them she is given birth to a baby boy in the United States. Jessie still has not met her baby still does not even know how he is. And when they park the car at the hospital she runs through the parking lot her mom and Jess hurrying to keep up. They all arrive at labor and delivery.  I show them the way past the front desk.  I guess you know where you are going.  ...To where Jacquie is. ...To room 201. The nurse comes out. It is right here. And I gesture to the door on the left. She is in there. And the nurse she gestures to the door on the right.  And the baby's in here.  So Jacquie on the left baby on the right.  OK.  There are moments following a journey like this one that get imprinted on your memory. And for me this was one. Jessie has traveled so far and has waited so long to see this baby - the baby who has tubes in his nose to help him breathe - behind the door on the right. And she chooses the door on a left.  Hi Jacquie.  Hello. Oh my God.  Are you OK?  I am OK I am OK. Hi.  This is my mother.  I am Jacquie.  Jacquie Jacquie thank you thank you.  You are welcome.  Thank you thank you.  Have you seen the baby?  No.  Let us go see the baby.  Yeah.  Oh I have to call...  She has to call the nurse to get out of bed.  He is beautiful. He looks like you .  Really?  A nurse comes and helps Jacquie into a wheelchair.  Yeah a little swelling yeah...  Jessie looks at her IV and her blood pressure monitor.  Your blood...  Oh my blood pressure - 139 over 83 so it is good.  Oh OK OK.  We all crowd into the little room across the hall. Jessie is pushing the IV. ...Where Jessie meets her baby for the first time. He is lying on his back on a little stand knees splayed out to either side wearing a tiny diaper and warming under a heat lamp. He is got a tube blowing air into his nose and monitors taped over his lungs and another on his wrist and he is sleeping. Jessie - everyone - just stands frozen for a moment.  He is doing really good.    A medical interpreter will come in the morning but for now so late at night our Jess helps Jessie understand how different this time is from the last time she had a baby.  .  . Are the lungs completely formed?  They looked good on X-ray.  After Jessie gets through her questions the nurse eases the baby into her arms. And for the first time he opens his eyes and looks right up at her.   Oh.  Hey that is the most we have seen his eyes.  Jessie's mother stands behind her chair hands on her shoulders.  .  She said thank you.  Her mom is saying that this is the result of your mutual work and mutual success.  Oh thank you. How do I say thank you?  .  .  Thank you thank you.   Both Jacquie and Jessie stay in the hospital for the next few days. The baby does great comes off that tube blowing air into his nose within an hour of meeting his mom.  .  Down the hall it takes some time to get Jacquie's blood pressure down. It will look good and then shoot back up again when she does anything stressful like when she lets me interview her the next morning and her blood pressure machine starts beeping.  ...Pain medicine - Oh I have to take a break for a minute. It is 162 over 91.  Is that...  That is high right now yeah.  Should we stop talking?  Yeah I should probably take a break.  OK.   Weeks later after Jacquie has gotten the OK to go back to her job as a nurse I give her a call.  I can mostly fit into my scrubs - my work scrubs .  Jacquie says she is done a lot of thinking about pre-eclampsia and that her doctors say she likely got it from the baby she agreed to carry and give birth to. She was always interested in the medical adventure that surrogacy would take her on. And now she is read a pile of studies about how the father's genes may be a factor in pre-eclampsia.  And they used a term that I do not like at all called the dangerous father effect. That puts all of the blame on a person who has no control. Several people have asked me if you had to do this over again would you do it? And so my answer is yes and no. If I had known that I would have been at a high risk for complications I would not do it again.  She says she would risk her health for her family not for a stranger. But since she did take that risk for Jessie something has changed between them. Jessie and her baby had to stay in Oregon for weeks longer than she would planned because it took that long to get her son his American passport and do all the paperwork necessary to go to China. She and her mother rented an apartment and with Jacquie pumping breast milk every day Jessie came regularly to see her and pick it up. Jacquie got to hold the baby a lot more than the two hours that was in the contract more than she even wanted to. She did not want to intrude.  I would usually only hold him for maybe like two to five minutes at a time and then I would give him back to Jessie.  It was actually the moments with Jessie and her mom that Jacquie says she savored most. Jessie's mother kept telling Jacquie she is pretty. Once at the hospital she started playing with Jacquie's hair. And it was Jessie who beckoned Jacquie into a photo with her mom and the baby. She called Jacquie something in Chinese which the medical interpreter translated as the most important person. Jess' translation is security guard. Jess' dad thinks it is more like guardian angel. And the dictionary translation is benefactor.  She wants me to come to China and visit her family.  She does? Really?  She wants - she does yeah. So I am going to try to go within a year. She told me...  I really was not expecting that.  I know I know. The way she phrases it is welcome to China. When we use WeChat app that is how it translates - welcome to China.   Today's show was produced by Jess Jiang. Thanks to our interpreters Yin Hanson and Jess Jiang's parents - Zhidian Deng and Wei Jiang. Thanks to Detour the audio walk company for use of their studio. And thank you Elizabeth Senja Spackman for introducing us to Jacquie. Hey if you have a story of cross-border communications or something that shows a cultural perspective on something familiar we would love to hear from you. Send us an email at roughtranslationnpr.org. Editorial he