 Hey. I am Gregory Warner and this is ROUGH TRANSLATION. So here's a piece of junk mail that came to my house a few months ago. It says Trump's war on truth. Only fearless fact-based journalism can stand up to him. And on the back it says save our democracy. We must win the war on truth. You hear this language all the time now this idea that journalists need to fight an information war on the side of truth. To me it feels a little like deja vu because I would heard this language years before. And I knew just who to call.  Hello.  Ruslan. His name is Ruslan.  Ruslan Deynychenko.  He is a journalist in Kiev Ukraine. He spent thousands of hours watching Russian TV trying to sort the real from the fake.  My family members - they are complaining that oh you watch Russian television all the time.  .  They lie all the time. And we have to listen to all these lies about Ukraine.  I would first heard about Ruslan's project three years ago when I was in Ukraine for NPR. One of the stories I was reporting was about how fake news from Russia was streaming over the border into Ukraine. I though was not using the words fake news. In 2014 Americans were not using that phrase. But Ruslan was. He was in fact busy trying to figure out how to stop fake news from starting a civil war. And so what do you think Americans can learn from Ukraine example. What is the lesson for us?  Yeah. The very first lesson - do not ignore this problem because it allowed Russian media to influence local people to kill each other.   ROUGH TRANSLATION is a brand-new show from NPR where we follow a conversation that we are having in the United States and hear how it is playing out in a different corner of the world. Today we are going to go to a place where some of Russia's fake news tactics were first developed tested and rolled out. Ukraine has dealt with fake news in higher doses than almost anything we can imagine. There is a war right now in Eastern Ukraine and we are going to go to the front lines. But first we are going to go back in time a bit to follow the people who fought to stop fake news from splitting their country apart. It was a fight that ended up changing them - when ROUGH TRANSLATION returns.   Hello? Greg. How are you? Get on board.  Thank you. Sunday morning - outskirts of Kiev. Ruslan Denychenko picks me up to take me to his house.  Hello. Good morning .  He is got a boyish face graying temples Led Zep on the car radio. Ruslan trained as a journalist in America. And the house where he lives is not like anything I have seen in Ukraine. What are the styles of these houses called?  Yeah. They call it North American style.  North American style.  North American .  It is a gated community that promises American-style cottage living down to the traditional American barbecue area.  Even names of the streets - they are written in English. And over there is a Lexington Avenue. And...  Lexington Avenue.   Lexington Avenue.  And every yard has a picket fence.  I do not like when people build these huge fences and...  Ruslan can look right over his fence at his neighbors. And his neighbors can look over their fence at him.  This style of life represents my - probably my imagination about the way I would like the whole country lived - more transparent more friendly talking to each other discussing issues discussing problems.  .  The reason I went to Ukraine back in 2014 was because the country had just had a pro-democracy revolution. Protesters in the capital Kiev demanded that the government take steps to join Europe and become less dependent on its neighbor Russia.  .  Russia opposed this uprising. It wanted Ukraine to stay its little brother its mladshiy brat. But when the protesters succeeded and the pro-Russian president fled Ruslan realized that Russia was fighting back but in a way that took him a while to understand. Russia did not send tanks or bombs - not at first. First they sent news.   .  Ruslan respond with turn on his TV to these Russian channels that millions of Ukrainians were watching. And he would hear warnings about neo-Nazi fascists roaming the streets.  People saw on TV that they are in danger and they need to protect their families. They need to protect themselves from fascists in Kiev. But they are no fascists here.  Ruslan could look out his window and see the streets where peaceful. Barricades on the square in Kiev were covered with fresh flowers. But Ukrainians who were not in the capital Kiev got scared. So while Ruslan would watch these stories and think...  Some bullshit .  ...In other parts of the country people started standing guard. Ukrainians in Crimea rose up. They rejected the revolution.  They want to be part of Russia.  Here everybody - everyone is Russia. And the Crimea was Russian before so...  Protesters in Crimea quoted the Russian TV stories about fascists begged Russian troops to save them.   There seems to be a kind of feeling that the new government in Kiev is hostile to Russian speakers and ethnic Russians here.  Russian troops arrived. And Crimea voted to secede. Ukraine wanted to fight back. And the solution they came up with was a news blockade a complete ban on Russian news channels.  I was against that decision. I was in favor of as much sources of information as possible.  A Ukraine that banned media?  This is not democratic.  That was not the Ukraine that the revolution had fought for.  Ukraine - if you want to be a democracy - should allow to have another opinion.  And Western diplomats agreed.  This is censorship.  The government backed down because of free speech and democracy. And Ruslan came up with a radical new plan to fight back. A team of top journalists would fact-check Russian news and broadcast the results. And at the time that felt really scary.  To me it actually meant that I am kind of putting my life on the line.  This is Margo.  I am Margo Gontar.  She was tapped to host a show that would debunk Russian fake news. And so it would be her face on the screen that any Kremlin agents might take note of.  Yeah. I got my knees shaking. I got my knees shaking for half an hour.  What did you tell yourself before you went on the first time?  I am doing this because I think this is what should be done. And I - like I am coping with all the consequences it can bring with it. It was actually kind of the first moment I really felt connection with like my people you can say.  The name of this new show - it even sounded like a journalist superhero.   .  The show is called StopFake. It is a roundup of all the false stories you might have missed that week.   Welcome to StopFake.  There is also an English version of the broadcast.  And I will be helping you to tread through this week's load of informational mendacity.   Ukraine's ballet dancer Sergei Polunin is a Nazi.   Impending food riots and ration cards.   Claim that these human organs included nasal septums and sphincters.  The StopFake team would trace how false quotes were shared from outlet to outlet. They blew up videos to show where the vial of fake blood might be hiding.   ...Published a story with this misleading headline.  And you can hear many of the stories...   Ukraine is poised to enact a new language law which will ban Russian and make...  ...Are about Russian speakers being persecuted in Ukraine.   Only Ukrainian cafes and shops...   Because of pending legislation on the Ukrainian language.  To understand what was going on here it helps to think of Ukraine as kind of two Ukraines east and west. The east borders Russia. It is got more Russian speakers. The west borders Europe. It has more Ukrainian speakers. And east and west - they are not different ethnicities. They are more like cultural groups. But there has been friction in the past. And Ruslan says it was easy for Russian news to insert itself into this divide.  They want one part of the country - Russian-speaking - to hate another part of the country - Ukrainian-speaking.   .  This was one of those stories on Russian TV. It reported that Ukrainian soldiers had seized a Russian-speaking toddler ritually stabbed him and then nailed him to a plank of wood - a literal crucifixion.   .  The StopFake team and other outlets looked into the story. There were no other witnesses to this crucifixion that supposedly happened in front of a huge crowd. StopFake also found extremely similar phrasing in the Facebook post of a Russian extremist published three days before the TV channel reported it. And a few months before that a very similar crucifixion scene playing out in a show that is very popular in Russia...   ...Game Of Thrones.   That is it for this week. Remember consuming fake news is bad for your health your brain and the psychological climate of society.  At first StopFake was a success beyond what Ruslan had even imagined. The debunked stories were a hit on social media and other news outlets picked up their stories. More than that the StopFake crew of volunteers felt like they were winning the war the war for truth. And then the real war came.   The situation in Eastern Ukraine seems to be getting worse.  Separatist militias were rising up in all kinds of eastern cities...   The police line was not strong enough.   Donetsk came under heavy attack today.  ...Rejecting the government in Kiev declaring allegiance to Moscow getting help from Russia.   This morning gunmen in camouflage fatigues took over...  Ruslan was watching his country split in two wondering what did he miss? What more could he have done? The clue came one sleepless night after watching all this war news. He thought back to one of the stories that he had debunked months before. It was a little story. Russian media had claimed that thousands of Ukrainians were fleeing over the border to Russia. This was back before the war had started when Ukraine was peaceful.  Yeah so I called federal immigration service of Russia.  .  He taped the phone call for StopFake.  And asked the person from federal immigration service if it is true or not.  .  Was it true that even though there was no war no violence in eastern Ukraine - that thousands of people in the east were abandoning their homes for refugee status in Russia?  She told me no this is not true. We have just several phone calls and we are - we have nothing unusual.  Thousands of Ukrainians were not fleeing to Russia - because why would they right? I mean Ukraine is totally peaceful. Except Ruslan did not hang up just then. He kept talking to this Russian official. And what she told him next he would not realize the significance of until months later - months later when war had come to eastern Ukraine and thousands of people were fleeing their homes.  It was several months later in the middle of the night when I remembered that phone conversation. And I went to my computer and I listened this conversation again. And bam it was kind of a thunder strike to my head.  What she had told him was that yes there were no refugees right now.  But she told me that we have received an order from Moscow to prepare places for refugees. So there were no refugees but they starting preparation process for refugees.  Ruslan had thought the news was not true. Actually it just was not true yet.  Yes sometimes they just preparing you for events that still have not happened.  This seemed like something a lot weirder and a lot more dangerous. Before he would known that fake news could inspire fear and distrust. But now it seemed to be planting ideas in people's heads. And for Ruslan this little moment on the phone with the Russian official it felt like he would accidentally pulled back the curtain on the stage set before it was done.  So now when I saw something on Russian television I usually ask myself what might be their plan?  Ruslan started to doubt that truth alone could win this war especially if today's fake news could become tomorrow's reality. When ROUGH TRANSLATION returns we are going to go east to the place where the information war and the real war meet.   When you drive out to the front lines in eastern Ukraine you have to leave early. For much of the trip my car is the only one on the four-lane highway. We slow down just to pass through each Ukrainian army checkpoint.  .  .  .  .  If you imagine Texas which is about the same size as Ukraine imagine a piece of Texas pledged allegiance to Mexico and started trading in pesos. There is now a line that is dividing eastern Ukraine. And on one side of that line are separatists who reject the government in Kiev and get help from Moscow. This side of the line is patrolled by Ukrainian government troops. I am now 500 miles east of Kiev 500 miles from Ruslan's picket fences and his Lexington Avenue. And I am getting another house tour.  .  Oh this was destroyed by the shelling.  Mm-hmm.  ...This one from Alexander Ivanovich age 64. He shows me where a shell fell on his doghouse. His dog died. Oh my gosh. Another hit a tree. We are only alive because of a tree he tells me. Alexander lives on the government side 2 miles from that front line. His sister lives on the separatist side and his father's grave is over there. And the screen door opens.  .  .  Gregory.  .  His wife Nadyejda  greets us me and my interpreter. She says nice to meet you. Are not you afraid to come visit?  .  .  . I am out here to follow up on that odd thing that Ruslan told me about how today's fake news may tell you what will really happen tomorrow. And of all the folks I meet in Avdiivka it feels like Alexander this guy showing me around his backyard is the most likely to have an answer because he is this town's only newspaper seller.  .  I met him earlier that morning in a market at the center of town in his corrugated metal shack filled with newspapers. It is a market where you see locals mixing with soldiers in their green uniforms buying provisions. Army trucks are rolling by. Alexander's got laugh lines all over his face including in front of his ears like sideburns. Everyone seems to know him. Some just call him Uncle Sasha. They come here to rib him with jokes.  .  .  ...To complain about their health...  .  ...To sigh...  .  ...And to discuss the news. Do you to discuss the news with people?  .  Yes of course he says.  .  He says they very much want to know what is going on how Ukraine is living. That means a lot you know? We do not want to be cut off from the country which makes what he tells me next so odd.   He reads the news all the time. But when he sees a journalist coming around he gets scared.  .  If the television crews show up that is when the shelling begins. That is interesting. I do not get it though what that means that the journalists come and then they start shelling like...  .  That is why our relationship with the press is very tense he says.  .  When he sees a TV crew he says they try to leave immediately because they start to shell in exactly that place. . A little later - different part of town. These two other guys start waving me away as soon as I approach with my interpreter as we introduce ourselves as journalists they are like fellas please do not come to this spot.   When you arrive we are starting to being shelled.  I am not - I did not do the shelling. You can hear I am still treating this like a joke that I just do not get. But then a few minutes later when those guys have left I am standing on the same street corner with my interpreter Anton. He says you know...  You know everybody like strongly believes here that every time you drive to such kinds of towns...  Every town on the frontlines.  ...Everybody's saying oh you are a journalist. Now we will be attacked because when journalists arrive the war starts.  When journalists arrive the war starts. I could not put this out of my mind because it means that people here believe that this war is being fought mainly so that someone else can watch it on TV. It is like a reality show war but with real bullets. And Alexander is one of the unwilling extras. Alexander even told me...  .  We already know in advance it is a show. And we do not like it. There is actually an old Russian joke from Soviet times. It goes like in America you do X but in Russia X does you. For example in America you can always find a party. In Russia the party finds you. In America you break the law. In Russia the law breaks you. There is so many versions of this joke it actually has a name. It is called the Russian reversal. And listening to the people in Avdiivka I felt like I would walked into the middle of that joke. I would come to see how people watch the news. And they are telling me no hear on the front lines the news watches you.   Back in Kiev on Ruslan's patio he is chopping wood with this little axe. It is like Ukrainian Village meets suburban...  .  Firing up the grill of his family's favorite Sunday meal cheeseburgers. I want to ask Ruslan to make sense of what I would heard on the frontlines - about this being some kind of reality show war. But before I can even bring it up he wants to show me something. He leads me to the living room. There is his kid playing on the floor. It is a separatist TV channel.  Yeah.  On the screen is a guy in camouflage fatigues. He is one of the Ukrainian separatists who has declared independence from Kiev. The press conference is actually taking place on the other side of that front line. But Ruslan is not apparently interested in what that guy is saying. The channel's on mute. He directs my attention down to the bottom of the screen where the microphones are arrayed on the podium. He is counting the Russian mics.  When you see one or two mics - and these are local TV channels - it is OK. But when you see 10 mics from Russian TV networks it means they are going to do something. It is a shelling or some kind of event that might be dangerous.  See the people in Avdiivka know that because when I came they said we do not like you journalists because when you journalists come...  Yeah. So I think local people - they have noticed this correlation.  There is this one really unnerving difference between his theory and the one that I heard out on the front lines. For Ruslan it is the Russian mics that you have to watch out for. They are there to make Ukraine look bad. But for Alexander it is the Ukrainian mics aiming to make Russia look like the bad guys which is improbable but almost impossible to fact-check in the fog of war. The perception that it is true though is almost as scary. Both Ruslan and Alexander believe that journalists are in cahoots with their governments fighting the information war alongside the real one. And if you believe that you can just ignore any piece of news you do not agree with. Just chalk it up to enemy strategy. Back in Kiev Ruslan decided that the Russian media was the enemy. And fact-checking was not going to save Ukraine.  So then we realized that we need to protect not just our profession but to protect the whole country because it was then a question of surviving for Ukraine.  And for Ruslan the only option left was the one that he would once begged the Ukrainian government not to do - to censor the Russian news channels.  I changed my mind dramatically. I was 100 percent sure - I was damn sure that we need to cut it right away.  StopFake handed its archive of Russian propaganda techniques to the Ukrainian government which promptly used it as evidence.  If we did it earlier I think we might avoid a lot of deaths.  Ruslan believes this ban did stop the front line from moving further west. It prevented more Ukrainian cities from falling under separatist control. It also opened his mind to the power of censorship.   .  Watching TV one day with his 3-year-old he heard the host of this Russian kids' show praising Vladimir Putin for protecting Ukraine. Ruslan sent an angry tweet and that show was pulled off the air. And then also cut were Russian talk shows soap operas a wildlife channel hunting and fishing show. And Ruslan defends all this.  I am not sure if we are 100 percent protected right now but at least we are moving in the right direction to protect ourselves.  Ukraine then took this direction even further. A Ukrainian hacker group with ties to the government published a list of every journalist who crossed that front line to interview people on the other side. Thousands of journalists were on this list including a number of international journalists from NPR from The New York Times. The title of this list was simply Scoundrels. A Ukrainian lawmaker called them terrorist collaborators simply because they would just gone over to the separatist side of the line to interview people. Ruslan did not see any problem with the list.  Why not? I think what they do is useful. Publishing names emails and personal information of reporters it might be OK. But labeling them all enemies it was stupid.  Wait was not it worse than stupid though? I mean it seems pretty intimidating of journalists.  Yes naming them traitors that was not right. Sometimes it is not very easy to tell yeah to be just straightforward and to...  Neutral.  Yeah neutral. Yeah we want this country to exist.   There are costs to fighting an information war. The obvious one is that you start to adopt the tactics of your enemy. Today it is common to hear a critic of the Ukrainian government tagged a Kremlin agent. There is even a term for someone who is an agent without actually getting money or direction from Russia. They are called an unwitting agent. Ruslan though talks about a different cost. Spending so much of his time fact-checking fakes he is got no time to write stories about Ukrainians who are making things work despite their differences - the sort of stories that he imagined himself writing when he first moved to that house with the picket fences.  ...Stories that inspire other people. This inspires. This is true journalism to check somebody's lies and to keep somebody accountable. I cannot tell that I would be happy to do it all my life all right? I am afraid that Russia understands it and they do their best to make us enemies forever. And at the end of the day it will be very difficult to sit at the table and talk like friends.   That is it for this episode of ROUGH TRANSLATION. Keep listening for a preview of our next show right after these messages.   Hey Jess Jiang here producer of ROUGH TRANSLATION. Next week the story of a country known only for one terrible thing and what happens when a journalist calls that one thing into question.  I was constantly confronted with the idea of why am I looking into this? Why do I want to be the one to like blow that whole narrative apart?  Finding a way to tell the truth when it is not your truth to tell - next week on ROUGH TRANSLATION.  Today's show was produced Jess Jiang and edited by Marianne McCune. Thank you to Lucian Kim NPR's Moscow bureau chief also Ukrainian journalists Natalia Gryvnyak  and Anton Skyba and Peter Pomerantsev Joanna Szostek Megan Metzger Denis Stukal. Thanks to the Planet Money team for editorial guidance also Lu Olkowski Laura Starecheski Michael May and Charles Maynes. Fact-checking for this episode by Camille Salas and mastering by Andy Huether. ROUGH TRANSLATION is advised by Neil Carruth Alex Goldmark Mathilde Piard and Anya Grundmann. We would love to hear from you. Rate the show on Apple Podcasts. It helps people discover the show. And write us that travel story you are still trying to decode. You can email us roughtranslationnpr.org or find us on Facebook. Previous episodes at npr.orgroughtranslation. Original music composed by John Ellis. I am Gregory Warner back next week with more ROUGH TRANSLATION.  