So today we have a story that we think might make you believe something that right now you do not believe. And to tell that story I am joined here in the studio by NPR science reporters Alix Spiegel and Lulu Miller. Hey there guys. Hi. Hello. And do I have this right? So you bought a rat and you brought it to NPR headquarters in Washington DC? We did. Alix bought the rat. I did. And where at NPR did you bring the rat to? We ferreted it into a little kind of edit booth type thing--  Hi buddy! --type office. And we invited people into the room one by one. So can you just describe what we got here? It is a rat. Pinkish ears. Red eyes. Long nose. And sat them down in front of this rat and asked this question. Do you think that the thoughts that you have in your head-- OK the private thoughts that you have in your head-- could influence how that rat moves through space? No. No. No. No. And it was almost unanimous. People did not believe that their personal thoughts would have any effect on the rat at all. Because that would suggest some sort of telepathy which I do not have. And Ira maybe that is what you think too. That is what I think. I do not think that people thinking thoughts will affect a rat's behavior. Well you are wrong. No. CHUCKLING Yes. OK so who is this? This is a man named Bob Rosenthal. He is a research psychologist. And early in his career he did this thing. He went into his lab late at night and hung signs on all of the rat cages. And some of the signs said that the rat in the cage was incredibly smart. And some of the signs said that the rat in the cage was incredibly dumb even though neither of those things was true. They were very average rats that you would buy from a research institute that sells rats for a living. So then Bob brings this group of experimenters into his lab and he says for the next week some of you are going to get these incredibly smart rats. And some of you are going to get these incredibly stupid rats. And your job is to run your rat through a maze and record how well it does. Can you just pick up the rat? So Ira we actually did a very lo-fi unscientific version of this in that little room in NPR. They let you do that? We did not ask permission. Is that OK to do? Yeah. Yeah. And you have probably already guessed where this is going. Yeah. In Bob's real study the experimenters ran the rats that they had been told were smart. She has sort of an intelligent looking face. And the rats they had been told were dumb. Yeah he seems kind of lazy. It was not even close. The results were so dramatic. In Bob's real study the smart rats did almost twice as well as the dumb rats. Wait even though they were the same? Yeah even though the smart rats were not smart and the dumb rats were not dumb. They were all just the same average kind of lab rat. It was so shocking people did not really believe him. I was having trouble publishing any of this. And so what was going on? Like what was actually happening to make the rats do this? So what Bob figured out was that the expectations that the experimenters carried in their heads subtly changed the way that the experimenters touched the rats and that changed the way that the rats behaved. So when the experimenters thought that the rats were really smart they felt more warmly towards the rats. And so they touched them more gently. We do know that handling rats and handling them more gently can actually increase the performance of rats. And how does this play out when it comes to people? How do our expectations of other people work? Well what you saw in the rats totally holds for people too. I talked to Carol Dweck who is a psychologist and researcher at Stanford. You may be standing farther away from someone you have lower expectations for. You may not be making as much eye contact. And it is not something you can put your finger on. We are not usually aware of how we are conveying our expectations to other people. But it is there. And it happens in all kinds of areas. Research has shown that a teacher's expectations can raise or lower a student's IQ score that a mother's expectations influences the drinking behavior of her middle schooler that military trainers' expectations can literally make a soldier run faster or slower. So my question was-- you know how far does this go? So Carol clearly these expectation effects exist on a continuum. So for example if I expect that if somebody jumps off a building they will be able to fly that is not going to work out so well right? Mm-hmm. So what does science know about where we should draw the line? Does it have a clear sense of that? No. That line is moving. As we come to understand things that are possible and mechanisms through which a belief affects an outcome or one person affects another person that line can move. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Today on our program we have a kind of hard to believe example of what expectations can do to people. This story is from a new radio show and podcast that Alix and Lulu are launching this week. It is called Invisibilia. It is about the invisible forces that shape human behavior like beliefs and assumptions and emotions which I know sounds a little abstract. But in execution I have to say it is anything but. Alix used to work here at our program. Lulu worked at Radiolab and their new show is sort of halfway between the two. A quick heads-up before they launch into this. As you may have noticed their voices sound a lot alike. They are. Sorry. Yeah. Yes I know that is not news to the two of you at all. So stay with us. And Lulu let us just jump right in. Where do you want to start? Well I will start with a question that I asked the rat scientist the expectations guy Bob Rosenthal. OK. Could my expectations make a blind person who literally has no eyeballs see? No way. The expectations will not make him see. How sure are you about that one? Positive. So I am deep in the woods of Southern California with a man named Daniel Kish. We have been hiking for hours climbing over tree stumps and along the edges of a steep ravine. And we are just sitting down in the dirt to take a break. Could we look at your eyes? In terms of them being out? Yeah. Yeah. And then Daniel pulls down his lower eyelids-- Let me just-- --and removes his eyes. They are prosthetic of course and they clink a little bit as he hands them over to me. That is so cool. Two of the most beautiful hazel-blue eyes I have ever seen in the palm of his hand. Can I hold them? Yeah. OK. Is it OK if my hand-- Mm-hmm. Wow. They are so lifelike. Does it feel odd to not have them in? Yes. Oh it does? Oh yes. OK. Daniel's eyes had to be removed when he was just a toddler because of cancer. Retinoblastoma which is basically eye cancer. And yet he is the one who is led me on this hike deep into the woods. We get to forks in the road and he knows they are there. He leads me across a footbridge that is maybe two and a half feet wide without slowing down. I think we have passed what I was looking for. And over and over the path takes us right alongside the edge of a cliff. And Daniel gets within inches but always senses it. So how does he do it? Well he is got a cane and a hiking stick. But mainly--  --he clicks. You press the tongue on the roof of the mouth. Is it kind of like ? You are creating a vacuum. Huh. He clicks with his tongue as a way of understanding where he is in space. This is basically what bats do. Echolocation the scientists call it. It is like sonar. From the way those clicks bounce off of things in the environment Daniel gets a sort of sonic representation of what is around him. So here  I can sense trees poking up. Now Daniel just happened to intuitively invent this when he was a toddler. No one taught him or trained him. He just made it up. And since he is been doing it his whole life he is now so good at it that he can tell all sorts of things about what is in front of him-- if there is a wall if the vegetation is dense or sparse. So here's a bench. Yep. Garbage bins. Ding ding ding. Outhouse. Wow. And not only does this allow him to hike-- So we will go this way. --navigate foreign cities alone rock climb horseback ride but the one that gets all the attention is that he can ride a bicycle. Meet Daniel Kish. He is blind but that does not stop him from riding his bike. You may have heard of Daniel Kish before. Daniel Kish is completely blind. He is usually called the Batman. This real life Batman-- Because he is the man who clicks like a bat. His remarkable bat-like abilities. And he has made the media rounds to demonstrate what is usually described as his most amazing-- Extraordinary. Phenomenal. Remarkable. --nearly superhuman ability of being able to ride a bicycle even though he is blind. As you watch him remember he cannot see a thing. A narrative that Daniel thinks is all wrong. SINGING Dee dee dee dee dee dee dee dee. Step right up! Step right up! The amazing Daniel Kish will demonstrate one of his greatest tricks to date. This is Daniel's buddy Brian Bushway who has had to watch his poor friend wheel out the old bicycle so many times for the media that he could not help but mock the whole set up when I asked him to do it for me. And then he will proceed to mount himself on a bike and ride. And though Daniel indulged pulling figure eights and riding beautifully as I ran beside him with my microphone the two of them made it clear that my amazement was kind of offensive. So step right up step right up and see the amazing Daniel Kish do something that everybody can but most people do not. And here's where we get back to expectations. See Daniel thinks there is nothing amazing about him. He thinks that most blind people who do not have other disabilities could do things like ride bikes. I definitely think that most blind people could move around with fluidity and confidence if that were the expectation. See he thinks the reason that more blind people do not is not just because they have not learned to click. But it is because the expectations that you or I are carrying around in our own heads about what blind people can do are simply way too low. They would not be able to hike. They would not be able to run. They would not be able to engage in manual labor. Daniel like Bob thinks those expectations those private thoughts in our heads are extremely powerful things because over time they have the ability to change the blind person we are thinking about. That psychology becomes inculcated in the blind person absorbed and translated into physical reality. And so Daniel thinks if we could all change our expectations of what blind people are capable of then not only would you see a lot more blind people on bikes but-- More blind people could-- --in a very real way-- --see. Yeah he just said see. It is actually pretty simple and straightforward. And it turns out neuroscientists are looking into this idea and seeing some pretty shocking results. And we will get there. But first to understand what Daniel means how expectations could give a blind person vision we need to first see how Daniel himself shot through this forcefield of low expectations a story which starts back in 1967 when Daniel was 13 months old and that second eyeball had just been removed. Oh my gosh. This is Danielle's mother Paulette Kish. And a few days after taking her son home from the hospital Paulette realized she was facing a really difficult choice. My mom thought that I should put him in cotton. Cotton? Wrap him in cotton so that he did not get hurt so that he was so protected. That is really how she felt. See Daniel was a very rambunctious little guy. He started climbing when he was six months old before he even walked. And that did not change when he went blind. We had bookshelves he would climb so I would have to move everything off the bookshelves because he would get into them. So Paulette needed to decide was her mom right? Was it time to start putting some restrictions on him or was she going to raise him like a seeing child allow him to explore his world with very few restrictions on him for blindness? And Paulette went with option two. She was going to banish her fear. Just put it away. In the beginning I think that is what I did. I just put it away. And so when two police officers showed up at her door-- Two big huge police officers holding my child. --having picked up Daniel for climbing the fence into their neighbor's yard-- You cannot let him do that. He could fall. --Paulette felt their same worries-- It is very scary. --but did not make Daniel stop. I just climbed everything I could find. And when the elementary school called and asked her to make Daniel stop clicking-- It is not socially acceptable is what they would say. --Paulette said too bad. He needs to know what is around him and that is how he does it. And so Daniel clicked  past people doing double takes on the street  occasionally bumping into things. CHUCKLING Yep. And then pretty soon-- Your blind kid is not only scaling trees and fences by himself but using just his clicks-- not even using a cane at that point-- he is walking to school by himself crossing busy roads exploring his way into neighbors' driveways. A friend of the family had an undersized bike and I started riding alongside this retainer wall until I realized I did not really need the wall and I could roll alongside the wall without having to touch the wall. And then-- Oh goodness. I just could ride it. He would have to click way more than usual. Peppering the environment with a barrage of clicks.  But by six years old he could do it-- ride completely comfortably on the bike.  And when neighbors would pop their heads out the door-- How can you let him do that? --with their concerns-- How can you let him do that? How can you let him do that? How can you let him do that? --she would look at his smiling face--  --and think-- How can I not? Hey Lulu? Yeah Alix? Can I cut in with a question? Yeah. Did he ever get hurt? Like really hurt? Well-- I used to have this game get to the top of our road and yell dive bomb and I would ride insanely fast down the road. And everyone would have to scatter. Well one day I did the dive bomb thing and as I was screaming down this road bang. I just collided into a metal light pole. Oy. Blood everywhere. And this was not the only pole in Daniel's life. On the schoolyard he ran into a pole and knocked out his front teeth. Teeth. A few years after that he ran straight into a soccer shed. And it just destroyed my whole mouth. So yeah he got injured pretty badly a bunch of times. But the way that Paulette reacted to these injuries-- Mm-hmm. --was that she always let him keep going. I mean shortly after the bike thing a bicycle appeared under the Christmas tree. And like I am a mother and I think that if my kid kept showing up with his front teeth knocked out I would begin to wonder if I had made the right choice. Yeah. Paulette knows it seems extreme which brings me to the reason she decided to do this to raise her blind kid so differently from the way that most blind kids are raised. It was my first marriage. It was not a good marriage. My father was an alcoholic and he was abusive. Daniel's biological father who is now dead would hit Paulette. Sort of a barroom brawler type. And he was tough with Daniel and Daniel's little brother taught them to fight. And we had to learn to sort of take physical punishment as it were and be able to dish it back. And Paulette says this is why she ended up being so hands-off with Daniel.  Everything that happens in your life has its effect has its effect. She says that after years of feeling so small and powerless in that marriage when she finally made it out she vowed never to be ruled by fear again. I mean there is life and then there is living your life. There is a difference. And the same would go for Daniel. She refused to let those scary thoughts of what could happen make her keep Daniel too close. But what if Daniel ended up being hit by a car and killed? I asked her. Like what if-- what if a car just hits and just plows him down? But that could happen to anyone. That could happen to anyone. There was a group of four kids on the corner up about a block a car went up the curb and hit them killed two of them. It could happen to anyone. And so bikes were bought for Christmas. Yeah. And tree climbing was permitted. OK. I will just close my eyes. And this blind little boy was allowed to wander the world as freely as any sighted child. From the fifth grade on I walked to school almost every day. I had to cross major streets. I participated in extracurricular activities. I made my own breakfast. I made my own lunch. I mean were they considered outside the norm? Did they consider themselves outside the norm? I do not think they noticed it much. I do not think they thought about it much. Particularly Daniel did not know that there was anything odd about the way he got around the world. Until Adam. My name is Adam Shaible. Excuse me for a second. So Alix? Yeah. This is where the story takes a kind of complicated turn because Adam is basically the first other blind person that Daniel ever encounters. They meet in the fifth grade when Adam suddenly enrolls in Daniel's school. I will say I was a rather small fellow at the time. When I was 11 12 I was under 60 pounds. Wow. And Daniel was not exactly welcoming. He just was not a nice-- a nice fellow. Daniel said that Adam completely unnerved him because of how incapable he was of getting around on his own. Literally just running into walls. I mean he would just walk along and his forehead would connect with a wall. And we would be on the other side of that wall and we would say OK that is Adam he is coming kind of thing. Is that true? Was it like that bad? Yeah. Adam says he had simply never needed to get around on his own before. I went to the School for the Blind from age five to age seven. And there he was taken around on someone's arm almost all the time. In the lunchroom people brought him his food. They helped him carry his books helped him tie his shoelaces. I do not know why people did things for me. They just did. And Daniel was baffled by Adam. At the time I had not really conceptualized blindness in that way for myself. And I just did not understand it. He would come home to his mom mystified. He would say Adam cannot do anything on his own. If I got lost I used to get terrified. Why? I just-- I did not feel safe. Why? And then what happened is that the kids at school started to mix up Daniel and Adam. People started just lumping us together as the blind kids. We were the same age. You were the blind boys. Yeah. They would mix up our names and I did not like that at all. And so almost to prove his distinction from Adam-- I did the things that kids will do in situations like that. What did you do? Um-- He made fun of Adam. He started bullying him. I wondered if there was something I had done. He would tease him in front of other kids-- I was pretty brutal. --and even beat him up a few times. Yeah. And that in my aggressive little mind was the thing that set me apart. I wanted to be his friend. So then what happened? Um-- Time moved on. Adam and Daniel went to different schools and Daniel just tried his best to forget this kid so like him who could not get around in the world. And um we just lost track-- We just lost track of each other. Daniel goes off to college does not really associate himself with the blind community. His plan is to become a researcher an autism researcher. And then one day he happens to pick up this book. The title is The Making of Blind Men. The Making of Blind Men by Robert Scott. I go by Bob. You can spell that either way. All right. This is the book's author Bob Scott a former professor of sociology at Princeton. And inside this book was the idea that would change Daniel's life an idea that when you first hear it sounds kind of out there-- that blindness is a social construction. Wait was Bob saying that people are not physically blind? Kind of. But let me just tell you how he gets there. OK. OK? OK. So fresh out of grad school Bob got this job to conduct a huge multi-year long survey to see how effective blindness organizations were at helping the blind. Yep. And so he begins interviewing hundreds of blind people goes out on hundreds of site visits. Basically gathering information in any way I could imagine that I could get it. And then one day many months into the process he had-- What might be called an aha moment. He was out walking in a snowstorm in New York City when he happened to see-- A blind beggar-- --asking for money-- --standing on the corner at Bloomingdale's. And he thought hey someone else to interview for my survey. I said would you allow me to buy some of your time? And I gave him-- I do not know-- 25 or something like that. We went in and sat down at a restaurant and I said tell me your story. Turns out the man had worked at a paint factory until a few years before when an accident there left him blind. And the people at the factory really liked the guy so they said look why do not you go to an organization for the blind get some training and then come back and work for us? So the guy said great. He went to an organization for the blind. He said I have got this job all lined up. Can you just help me with a few basic things. And the blindness organization said no. Oh no. You cannot do that. Blind people cannot do those things. What we are going to do is put you through a program of rehabilitation and then move you along to our sheltered workshop that manufactures mops and brooms. And Bob said there was one sentence in that response that jumped out at him. Blind people cannot do those things. And he began to wonder wait is that true? Could this guy really not work in a paint factory? Because over the course of his research he would seen blind people that could do all sorts of things. And the more that Bob looked around he started to see that message-- Blind people cannot do those things. --being communicated to the blind people by the blind organizations that serve them-- not necessarily always as explicitly as in the case of the paint guy. Like how else then? Well take the fact that at that time of the almost 20000 blind kids that were in America 23 of them were being kept on the sidelines in gym class. Play tag run around on your own-- Blind people cannot do those things. And then there was the organization's insistence that adult blind people get help getting around. They are picked up at their homes. They are driven there. They are met at the sidewalk walked into the agency escorted to wherever they are going-- everything is being done for them. And even though all this was intended to help Bob began to wonder if maybe just maybe the organizations' low expectations for what blind people could do was in some way actually limiting the blind people that those organizations sought to help. What I came to realize is that how they functioned was a process of learning. It was not imposed on them entirely by the fact that they could not see. Hey Lulu? Yeah Alix? So is Bob saying that blindness is mostly in our head? That blind people can actually do everything that sighted people can do? Because my dad is blind and he is very very limited in what he can do. And I gotta say I do not feel like the obstacles that he faces are obstacles that he would not face if he just thought differently about his blindness. Well Bob is pretty hardcore about this. I think he would say that with enough time your dad actually could do a lot more because he thinks the only real absolute physical limitation of blindness is about an inability to perceive things in the distance. Exactly anything that I cannot reach out and touch. But you can compensate for everything else. And Alix? Uh-huh? Bob was not actually the first person to come up with this idea. Blind people were. A group called the National Federation of the Blind has for a long time advocated this kind of idea. This is a group formed by blind people for blind people and they think that the physical condition of blindness-- It does not explain nearly as much as people believe it explains. So if you buy this logic people who are blind-- like the only thing that is standing between them and walking around the world like Daniel does is our beliefs? Yeah. You know that sounds totally crazy and that is exactly what he is saying. Which brings us back to Daniel. Daniel reads this book and he starts thinking about Adam. If I got lost I used to get terrified. You know maybe it was not that Adam was this weirdo tentative kid but that he was a very typical product of a system. You mean like the system taught Adam that he would have trouble moving around. Yeah. I mean he was led around school. People brought him his food-- I do not know why people did things for me. They just did. And when Daniel looked at the world around him he thought you know a lot has changed. But a lot is frighteningly similar. From then till today things are similar? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I called around to over a dozen blindness organizations all over the country. My name is Daniel Norris supervisor of adult services for the Vermont Association for the Blind and Visually Impaired. And supervisor after supervisor told me that what Bob Scott saw is still very much alive today. In what way? So most children who are blind in America do not actually go to schools for the blind anymore. Right. Thanks to the Education for All Handicapped Children Act of 1975 most blind kids stay in their local public schools which is great. But on those public school grounds says Norris-- There is a lot of pressure to keep a child safe especially in a litigious society. So many of the blind students are still placed with a paraeducator which can be good. But sometimes-- Those paraeducators can end up doing the work for the kids. Like Adam. When you lighten someone's load you do not allow them to expand. I talked to mothers whose blind kids were pulled off of playground equipment. And perhaps the most chilling thing is the fact that most blind kids will intuitively start clicking--  --or snapping or stamping to test out their environment with sound. But they are so often discouraged-- It is not socially acceptable is what they would say. --that they never get the chance to develop their skill to the level Daniel did. So how are we doing as a nation? We have not taught independence. He points out that in America a majority of blind people are unemployed. And while that could be for a lot of reasons Norris thinks that is on us. What we are doing is we are creating slaves to others' thinking. That is Daniel Kish again. Slaves to others' perception slaves to what others think they should be doing. And somehow we are comfortable with that. And so though he had never wanted to work in the profession of blindness-- in fact he would wanted to get as far away from it as he could-- Daniel Kish decided he sort of had no choice. It sucked me in kind of kicking and screaming. He could see what was happening. And he held in his tongue  a way out. So he decided that he would dedicate his life to trying to liberate blind children. Kind of like Batman? Exactamundo fighting for good in the world in a kind of vigilante way because actually the way that you go about liberating a blind child from the constraining forces of culture it can get kind of ugly. Coming up the Dark Knight rises. Lulu and Alix are back in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program we have a story from a brand new radio show and podcast called Invisibilia. It is from NPR News. Science reporters Alix Spiegel and Lulu Miller are the hosts. And they are here today talking about how profoundly other people's expectations can affect us and about a blind man named Daniel Kish. Anyway again here's Alix. So when last we met Daniel he had decided that he was going to become a kind of real-life Batman who would save people who were blind from the low expectations of their culture. But before we keep going I should probably point out that lots of blind people do not necessarily want him as their savior. A bunch of them told us basically clicks shmicks! Because I get along just fine without doing that clicking noise or whatever he calls it. This is Bob Ringwald a musician in California. He says he is got a cane. It works great. He does everything he wants. When I wanted to learn guitar I did and I have done a lot of climbing around on my roof and climbing up poles. And anything I wanted to do I did. Now Bob Ringwald-- in fact all of the blind people that we spoke to for this story-- agreed with Daniel that low expectations hold blind people back. But that did not necessarily mean that they wanted to echolocate. For example when Bob Ringwald was seven in school for the blind back in the '50s he knew some kids who clicked and said they just seemed a little weird. I really did not want to go through life clicking all the time. A lot of people think blind people are strange. So I did not want to be any stranger than I already was. A lot of instructors do not like people to do that because it does look funny. Eric Woods is also blind and a retired mobility instructor in Colorado. And it is socially unacceptable-- not unacceptable but it is socially different. And so it has been discouraged. I have heard plenty of people discourage it. And Daniel knew this. He knew what he was up against. So Lulu what did Daniel do? Well he starts up a nonprofit as you do-- a nonprofit that will teach people how to echolocate. Grace. This is one of his early instructional videos. It is now 2001 and since his aim is nothing short of liberation he calls it World Access for the Blind. World Access for the Blind. Now the only little problem that he runs into is that at that time a blind person teaching another blind person how to get around is basically unheard of. The blind cannot lead the blind is right out of the Bible. It is fundamental to our culture. In fact until the mid '90s-- There was no certification for blind people to train other blind people. Wow. Blind people cannot do those things. So this is actually when the bike trick became big-- like though he sort of hates Look at the blind man ride a bike he realized that could get him attention. So he starts going on all these TV shows with his trick. And my segment was between something about vampires and some other thing about faith healing or whatever. And on these TV appearances he would try to send some sort of signal to blind kids who might be watching who might be able to contact him.  Dan can anyone learn this? Echolocation is a skill-- piano playing for example. Some people may be more talented than others but I think that anyone could learn it. And it worked. Yeah. Slowly but surely families started contacting him which meant that Daniel was now faced with a question. Could he actually undo the damage of low expectations? And this is where things begin to get a little morally complicated. The example I am about to give is an example that took place about 10 years ago. Daniel told me about going out to teach one of his first students ever a little 10-year-old boy. He lives on an apple orchard-- Out in Washington state. I come out. And basically what I see is a boy who will not leave his house. And so Daniel's idea was to get him to climb a tree. They live on an orchard full of trees for goodness' sakes. But the kid will not budge. So to get him out the door Daniel takes away all his toys. Our purpose was to kind of simulate the world that he was choosing for himself. So this is what life will have in store for you-- basically nothing OK? Nothing. And after about a week the kid finally agrees to go climb a frickin' tree. And he gets up onto the first branch and the second branch and then says OK. I give up. I give up. Yeah but you know what? Giving up is not an option. You can decide never to climb a tree for the rest of your life but we are going to climb this one. And I said you can go up you cannot go down. And he just had a fit-- literally screaming himself hoarse. I mean he actually jumped at one point. Like he actually leapt off the tree he was in such a frenzy. Oh my god Lulu. And what does Daniel do? Well he catches him. He is right below him. And he just says no. You can go up. You cannot go down. And they stay in this tree battling it out. Inch by inch by-- it took three hours to get up a 60-foot tree. But by the end the kid was doing it himself. --doing it himself. He started finding his own footholds