Noah Abraham King Solomon-- they all sacrificed animals right? That is just the way they did it in the Old Testament. That is how you worshipped God. And the Old Testament is pretty unambiguous that this is God's very favorite way for people to worship. Exodus says that we are supposed to continue doing this for generations to come. Deuteronomy warns us against worshipping in other ways quote detestable ways that God hates. See that you do all I command you. Do not add to it or take away from it. So as a kid going to Hebrew school in suburban Baltimore I never understood why we were not doing this for God how we got off the hook from animal sacrifice the thing that he specifically said was the very best way to show our feelings for him. And it was not until this week that I finally learned the reason that we were off the hook. And the reason turns out to be astonishingly simple. Here's a scholar from Boston University named Jonathan Klawans who is deeply over-qualified to answer this question. The book of Deuteronomy actually also makes very clear that the only legitimate place for sacrifice is in the place where the Lord God will choose. And the place that God chose was the temple in Jerusalem. When that was destroyed back in the year 70 it became basically illegal for Jews to sacrifice animals anywhere. Anyway Jonathan Klawans says that there is a real bias against sacrifice today that began with people centuries ago. None of these people were vegetarians. These were not animal rights motivations. This was a notion that somehow prayer is better than sacrifice because it is more meaningful. It is more spiritual. In a way I view sacrificers as a historical underdog. In our conversation by the way he was careful to point out that he is not an advocate for animal sacrifice. Hold those emails. But he wrote a book that covers this material called Purity Sacrifice and the Temple. And he thinks that modern people have not bothered to think through what it would feel like to bring an animal to temple to kill it to burn parts of it-- or all of it-- as a gift that you were personally giving to the creator of everything. It is stuff. One is giving something. One of the points that is often emphasized even in the biblical tradition-- and also in later rabbinic tradition-- about sacrifice is that a proper sacrifice is something that one owns. You cannot go steal an animal and sacrifice it to God. And we also have to remember even if we think of animals as property ancients-- one has to imagine the domesticated life of people shepherds living with their animals who know their animals. A proper sacrifice has to be unblemished. To have an unblemished goat one has to really care for that goat from the time that the goat is born to ensure that that goat will not become blemished in some way. So you have a relationship with that goat. When you inspect it for blemishes-- which is Bible speak for any kind of nick or bruise or anything-- the goat looks you in the eye. And when you give this animal that you personally know to God God is not some abstract being. He is someone someone who takes delight when you bring something to him who you have this very literal interaction with. The Bible talks about the smell of the smoke reaching and summoning God. So yes there is something really powerful there. There is a ancient writer who writes in the Roman defense of sacrifices. And he says worship without sacrifice is just words. I love that phrase because it totally turns us on our head. We moderns assume that prayer is better than sacrifice. We are so programmed to this. We think that words are better than deeds. Or we think that thoughts are better than actions. But talk is cheap. Of course what the animal gets out of this transaction-- the Bible does not say a lot about that. But understanding sacrifices weighing the sacrifice that an animal makes for us that raises some very basic questions. What is sacrifice? Well today on our program animals and what they sacrifice for us. We have a story from Susan Orlean about household pets that are asked to get off the couch and do much more than my dog or yours ever does. And how I learned that everybody who I work with here at This American Life-- they have for years been very very concerned with one animal. I really had no idea at all. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Semper Fido. So our show today is about animal sacrifice. And of course there are times when we ask animals to make the ultimate sacrifice. And in this act I am not talking about the cows and chickens who die for burgers and fast food. I am talking about pets-- dogs specifically. Susan Orlean tells the story. Tommy was not a bad dog. He was not a mean dog but he kept getting into trouble. Tommy was a German shepherd who belonged to the Snyder family in Allentown Pennsylvania. Tommy's trouble was impulse control. He refused to stay in the yard. He chased ducks in the city park. And on at least one occasion the authorities had to round him up. Gina Snyder was in high school at the time. The problem with Tommy was that I thought he woke up and he said oh for the open road. He was ready to take off. Run anywhere that was his nature. Even though he was fastened to the doghouse if he wanted to go he would go. He would take the doghouse with him and run out the front yard and down the street-- Dragging the house. Dragging the house behind him. This was in the early 1940s before there were dog whisperers and dog therapists and beef-flavored Prozac. The Snyders really liked Tommy but they just did not know what to do with him. But then World War II started and provided a solution. New recruits a small detachment of the 125000 dogs ordered by the quartermaster general for rigorous training in connection with MP sentry work the world over. They are using purebred Dobermans shepherds Dalmatians setters collies Airedales even poodles and Great Danes. And each dog is carefully selected by experienced trainers for boldness and aggressiveness as watch dogs fierce enough and tough enough to hold a man at bay until human help arrives. There are lots of dogs in the US military these days. That has not always been the case. The US did not have a canine corps in World War I even though every other country in the war did. And at the time of the attack on Pearl Harbor the only American military dogs were a few dozen huskies in Alaska. There were though a lot of people who believed we were missing out on an opportunity. After all dogs could do certain things like sniffing for land mines that human soldiers could not. And they could handle jobs like guard duty on their own and free up troops for more demanding roles. The biggest advocate of dogs in the military was a very determined New York socialite named Alene Erlanger. Between lunches with her friend Eleanor Roosevelt caring for her aviary of 500 rare songbirds and operating the preeminent poodle kennel in the country Erlanger helped found an organization called Dogs for Defense to promote the cause. She managed finally to persuade Quartermaster Edmund Gregory to try out a few hundred dogs to guard ammunition plants and depots. It was a success-- in fact such a success that Gregory wanted 125000 more dogs as soon as possible to serve beside American troops. Each sentry dog must immediately learn not to get excited by the presence of another dog. The untrained  dog's greatest failing and so they are trained to walk through a group of dogs paying attention only to the soldier trainer. The problem was finding 125000 dogs on short notice. The solution was something never done before or since in this country. The Army asked Americans to loan their pets to the war effort to sign them up as soldiers. Using Rin Tin Tin the movie-star dog as its mascot Dogs for Defense began running ads and news features recruiting dogs for the Army. And amazingly enough tens of thousands of people from all over the country responded. Of course this was a time when people did just about anything they could to support the war effort collecting scrap metal rolling bandages growing victory gardens. And now the War Department received thousands of letters from eager volunteers-- that is people eagerly volunteering their dogs to volunteer like this one. We want to kill all of the Japs we can. We are glad to give Laddie away if he will help. Or this one from Bogalusa Louisiana. I went to the picture show last night and on a newsreel reel or something I saw where they are training dogs to help our soldiers on guard duty. Now I have a pretty dog. He is a very smart dog. He was my brother's dog but when he joined the Navy he gave him to me. Now if you all can use him and promise to feed him well you can have him for I know if he could talk he would say that he wants to help our country. Yours truly Earl Buck Boyd. Here's one last one from a woman in Towson Maryland offering her nine-month-old pup. I love him because I know he will make a fine dog. But I also love my son and I gave him up for war work. And I will give my dog also if he can help in this war. It is not much I can do but if you can use him send for him any time you want him. But when the war is over and he is still alive return him back to me. As for Gina and her German shepherd Tommy Gina's father liked what he had heard about Dogs for Defense. At any rate someone came out to look at Tommy. And they said yes they would take him. And as I think back on it it is sort of like if you have a teenager who is just difficult having a lot of trouble you cannot really get him to be going the right way and you think oh let us send him to military school. That'ill probably straighten him out get education and organization and so on. And this is sort of a little bit the way I think that Tommy went to the K-9 Corps that they would train him-- Shape him up. Shape him up. The training's all important and stress is laid on perfect and immediate obedience learning to sense and discover the presence of suspicious persons out of sight or earshot of their MP master to attack when ordered to grab a trigger arm if there is a gun. Go get him King. Get that trigger arm. Hold tight. At first the Army and Marine Corps accepted just about any healthy dog that was at least 18 inches high at the shoulder. Over time though it became clear that not every dog was Army-ready. Great Danes were too big for combat. Hunting breeds were too easily distracted. And Dalmatians were too easy for the enemy to spot even after the Army dyed them brown since the dye came off in the rain. So the Army politely refused any dogs other than German shepherds Belgian sheepdogs Dobermans collies huskies malamutes and mutts that were mostly one of those breeds. There were an estimated 13 million dogs in the US at that time. America was undergoing the great migration off of farms and into cities. And people had less space than ever. And yet the number of dogs was exploding. The thing is we were keeping dogs for different reasons than in the past. Instead of being workers on farms and ranches now dogs were just kept to be our companions. They were emotional allies. Now dogs lived among us inside our houses rather than out in the yard and treated as family members rather than livestock. Sending them off to war was not exactly the same as sending off a son or brother but it was a lot more intimate than donating scrap metal or buying a war bond. Each enlisted dog was issued a record book in which trainers detailed the animal's progress with comments like Rollo is a high-spirited dog. He was very successful and did his job excellent. And War Dog Mitzi has been on 25 combat patrols. Or Dog caught cold while at sea feverish. Or Dog found to be out of her head. Trainers were unable to work with her. Just as people wanted to know how their family and friends in the Army were getting along they wanted to know how their dogs were doing. They sent them Christmas cards and birthday cards and wrote to the Army asking after Butch and Chips and Peppy and Smokey. At first the Army tried to respond to all these inquiries. But as the mail piled up they resorted to sending out a form letter saying that in the interest of military secrecy no further information about the dogs could be provided. Not everyone was satisfied with that answer. One couple a Mr. and Mrs. Powell complained to their congressman when they did not get any news about their dog Lucky. The congressman contacted the quartermaster who wrote back saying The desire for such information is but a natural one and well understood by this office. However due to the large number of dogs constantly being received for training it is physically impossible to furnish the desired information to each individual donor without incurring the expense of employing a large clerical force. It is the desire of this office to assure Mr. and Mrs. Powell that their dog is receiving the best of care and attention and has been given a position in the War Dog program where he will do the most good. All that most people knew was that their pets were helping win the war. In the National Archives there is footage of canine training that the military did not make public until after the war. It shows dogs crawling through tunnels running telephone wires across mock battlefields and delivering ammunition and carrier pigeons to soldiers in trenches. In another scene the dogs practice attacking enemy soldiers played by Japanese-American volunteers. There was one job in the K-9 Corps that I did not know about until recently something the Army called Bunker Dogs. In the National Archives I found pictures of three of them a German shepherd a Doberman and a collie each wearing an elaborate canvas saddlebag. The next photograph showed the contents of the saddlebag-- 40 pounds of explosives a time-delay fuse and a detonator-- with the caption Bunker dog loaded for operation with equipment shown. These dogs were training to be suicide bombers. In the pictures they look eager and happy their ears and tails at alert the way dogs so often do. Did you ever try to picture where he was or think about his circumstances once he had enlisted? Well I think maybe only in the sense that I might have thought about my high-school friends who had gone into the Army. Again Gina Snyder. I am probably brainwashed by some kind of movies or something because I could see him walking with a soldier and scouting patrol or looking for Germans probably very unrealistic kind of daydreamed-- but bravely doing a service out on the battlefield. When you donated your pet to the military you had to sign a form saying you understood that the training and experience of combat might change your dog's personality permanently and that the government was not liable if your dog came home a killer. This could have had a chilling effect so the Army publicized the fact that every dog would be deprogrammed before it was discharged with lots of petting and cuddling. Newspapers ran encouraging stories about demobilized dogs and their successful return to their families along with photos of the dogs at home with captions like Here's Spike in civilian life and Goofy the Warrior Dog comes home and letters from families describing happy reunions. Even Lassie got in on the effort. In 1946 the collie starred along with Elizabeth Taylor in The Courage of Lassie a film about a gentle collie named Bill with PTSD. A sudden cruel twist of fate took Bill away from Kathie and he found himself in a different world among strange people who fought and killed. Mutely and heroically he struggled against this man-made inferno. Wounded and spirit shattered Bill broke away and returned to the land he once knew. But he came back a killer. He heard the call of the wild and answered.  Of course this was war and some of the dogs never came home. Here's Marine Private First Class Mason Wachtsletter writing to the owners of a dog named Tubby. Tubby was in the front lines 23 days and had been on about 15 patrols. The second night in he ran four Japs into a cave. And when they thought he was coming after them they blew their heads off with hand grenades. Now I have to tell you the worst. Tubby was shot and killed the night of August 31. He behaved like a true Marine at all times and did not even whimper when he died. We have buried him in the Marine Cemetery along with the other real heroes of this campaign. And if it is at all possible I will send you a picture of his grave. He has a cross with his name and rank. He is a corporal. The first news the Snyders got about Tommy came some months after he had joined the Army. It did not say killed in action. I think that would have impressed itself on my mind. It said killed something and I do not know what-- killed in service or what it was. I do not know what he did was it a scout dog a patrol dog. I have no idea. But all I remember is standing by the window crying of course. But as I look back on it-- and I think even at that time-- I thought I hope he was brave. It was somebody in your family who had served and had died in the service. And that was it. Oh that is so sad terrible. Well Susan I have to tell you it is sad. It was sad then. It is sad now. But I have to be honest and tell you that underneath it all I am still very proud of him. It is silly but I take pride in the fact that he performed a service. And I do not know how useful. Maybe he saved somebody. I just do not know. I do not know what. Or maybe he was totally irresponsible and got killed that way. I do not know. But I am proud of him just as I would have been if it had been a member of my family. His life was worth something. Dogs for Defense disbanded in 1945 but that was not the end of dogs in the military. It is just that borrowing people's pets was much more complicated than anyone had imagined. All those letters from anxious owners all that petting and cuddling required to get the dogs reprogrammed as civilians. The Army decided it would be easier to buy dogs outright or accept donated dogs only if the owners agreed to give them away for good. From that point forward the dogs in the Army became property of the Army. And they were then treated like property just like a gun or a hand grenade that had been purchased from a military supplier. There were thousands of dogs used in Korea and Vietnam. And almost none of them came back. It was not till the year 2000 when Congress passed a law making it possible that the dogs' handlers or police departments or just dog lovers were allowed to adopt them after the war. Before that when the war ended the dogs were left behind. Or in many cases over the protests of their handlers they were euthanized. Without knowing what the war was for the dogs had done what they would been asked to do. Because that is the nature of the bond we have with dogs. We take care of them and ask them to trust us and they do. Susan Orlean-- she is a staff writer at The New Yorker. An account of the World War II Dogs for Defense program is part of her book Rin Tin Tin the Life and the Legend which is out in paperback. Incredible photos of dogs in World War II from the National Archives including dogs in suicide vests are at our website thisamericanlife.org. Coming up Hop Along Catastrophe. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program animal sacrifice stories about what other creatures give up for us. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two Rabbit Run. No Really Run! This is a true story this story of crime and murder from Camas Davis. Sometime between 130 and 800 AM on January 8 2012 five adults including a nursing mother and 13 juveniles vanished from their cages in a Portland backyard. 10 one-day-old babies were left behind and subsequently died. We are talking rabbits here compact cute furry doe-eyed white brown and black little hopping animals that were being bred and raised for meat meat that would feed the rabbits' owners and a few of their friends. These are the facts. I am a journalist by trade but to feign impartiality in this story from this point on will be nearly impossible because I also own and operate a company that teaches people how to slaughter and butcher whole animals for personal consumption. As it so happens on the morning of January 8 I was scheduled to co-teach a class on how to raise and slaughter rabbits for meat. The 11 rabbits we used for that class also came from the backyard of the vanished rabbits. However they would been transported to the location of the class the night before. These 11 rabbits did not vanish in the same way their brethren did. They did however die. Here's how they died. Within the span of one second we broke their necks. Within the span of another second their eyes closed their nervous systems shut down their brains went dark. That was it. They were alive one minute gone the next vanished. Some people call this slaughter. Some people call it dispatching. Some people call it killing. Some call it murder. Some call it torture. Some call it vulgar. Some call it food. Here is how the 10 day-old baby rabbits without the warmth or sustenance of their nursing mothers died. They suffered from hypothermia they slowly starved to death or they did both. Some held on for a while with the help of a man-made nest of blankets and attempts to bottle-feed. Some did not. By the end of the day of January 8 within the span of 6 to 12 hours all 10 of them had died vanished. Some people call this slaughter. Some call it killing. Some call it suffering. Some call it justice. Some call it saving sentient beings from the evil hands of a murderer. It all depends of course on who you ask. My co-instructor for the class on January 8 was also the co-owner of the vanished rabbits. His name is Levi. Together with his friend Chris Levi breeds and raises a small number of rabbits to feed their friends and families. During their lives the bunnies live in cages that are larger than the Humane Society says they need to be with plenty of room to move around and hop. On the morning of January 8 when Chris discovered 10 day-old babies struggling to stay alive he tended to the most important detail-- keeping those babies alive and trying to ease their suffering. He knew of a local rabbit advocacy group that usually had nursing mothers. In the course of talking to them Chris and the advocates realized that his stolen bunnies had been anonymously donated to the organization. The organization had immediately fostered the rabbits out to various homes. Then an unexpected turn. When the organization realized these rabbits were headed for the dinner table they announced they did not want to give the rabbits back. They got their animal-rights lawyer involved. He told Levi and Chris that the foster parents of these rabbits had grown attached to their new pets. The organization offered 1500 in total for all of the fostered rabbits. That is 83 a rabbit. Levi and Chris typically charge between 15 and 20 for a live rabbit which reimburses them for the cost of raising them. Levi and Chris told them these rabbits were stolen. We would like for you to return them. If you would then like to knock on our door and buy them from us at cost we would be happy to see you. Chris and Levi waited to hear back. The advocates waited for them to change their minds. It was a standoff. The lawyer acted as go-between. In 2009 after 10 years of working as a magazine editor in New York and then Portland I was laid off for the first time in my life. Like so many victims of the recession I pouted for a while and then decided to completely reinvent myself this time as a butcher. I asked chefs and butchers if they would be willing to teach me. None had the time or the interest. Through a friend of a friend I found the Chapolards a French family of four brothers who with two of their wives own and operate a farm in southwestern France where they handle every aspect of getting pork to dinner tables. I bought a plane ticket. I spoke no French. The Chapolards spoke little English. They handed me knives and pointed to pork legs and bellies and heads and shoulders and trusted I would find my way. I returned to Oregon wanting to learn more. I told all those chefs and butchers who would not teach me before that I would find students to pay them to teach the art of butchery. The Portland Meat Collective was born. I had no idea that classes would sell out. The basic idea behind the Portland Meat Collective was this. I wanted omnivores carnivores pescetarians fruititarians vegetarians breathetarians and vegans alike to have the chance to truly engage with their food with one another and then decide where they stood on the meat-no-meat spectrum. Some students simply want to learn to raise animals. Some want to preserve meat at home. Others show up to learn how to butcher whole animals. And a few show up to see if they can stomach killing an animal. Media often question whether the Portland Meat Collective is just a bunch of privileged hipsters worshipping at the feet of the bacon gods. I usually tell them this. I am not obsessed with bacon. I do not growl and flex my muscles after breaking down a whole pig. I do not have a tattoo of a pig head on my bicep nor do I have a boning knife tattooed on my calf. I abhor the term meat head. and for the most part so do my students. I tell them that after taking my classes many report that they eat less meat. My students also tell me that they cannot bring themselves to buy most of the meat they see in grocery stores anymore. I tell them that that is what happened to me too. I tell them I was raised as a hunter and fisher that my dad handed me a fish whacker when I was 7 and told me to hit the fish in the head with it after I hooked it and slowly reeled it into the boat to ease its suffering he said. I tell them I turned vegetarian for 10 years and then ate meat without thinking about why or from whence it came for another 10 years. The Portland Meat Collective is where I stand now I say. It feels honest and blatant respectful and messy. I tell them that there is something about all of this that makes some people really really angry. When the rabbits vanished Levi Chris and I chose to publicize it to try and get the rabbits back and in hopes of finding the person or people who took the rabbits. Stories appeared in local and national newspapers. Sometimes I woke up to emails like this. Things you should do today. Number one get cancer. Number two rot slowly and painfully. Others imagined my demise in more inventive ways. You are chicken . I would love to see you in a lion's cage and see what you think of butchery then. The meat-eaters were just as impassioned. Here's a comment from my website. People enjoy eating meat. Animals are made of meat. Therefore we must eat the animals. Small woodland creatures such as rabbits rats mice et cetera are just the chicken nuggets of the animal world anyway. And yes I will eat near any animal long as you cook his ass up right. While I found myself in the thick of this online fight conducting media interviews and fielding death threats by phone Chris and Levi were enduring visits to their homes by rather angry vegan activists. Levi took to sleeping with a gun under his pillow. While all this was happening the rabbit advocacy group eventually returned via their lawyer all but one rabbit to Levi and Chris. The one rabbit that was not returned was a male breeder rabbit named Roger. Roger had been fostered to a woman who decided to hire her own lawyer. On January 12 2012 just four days after the rabbit had gone missing the lawyer sent a letter to us stating that the woman had grown attached to Roger and would like to offer 200 or the cost of replacing Roger whichever was greater. In describing her client's feelings for Roger which had developed over the course of four days the lawyer also quoted Anatole France a French poet journalist and novelist. Until one has loved an animal part of one's soul remains unawakened. Levi and Chris responded in the same manner as before. Return the rabbit please. Then come talk to us and we will sell him to you at cost. The woman did return Roger eventually. The hand-off occurred in her lawyer's office. She did not show up for the event. It was just Levi the lawyer and Roger sitting alone together in a conference room. Well this is awkward Levi said to the lawyer. A few weeks later Chris and Levi decided to sell the juvenile rabbits back to the rabbit advocacy group. I do not know the details of the sale but the plan was to donate any profits to a Haitian charity that Levi works with a few times a year. Levi then received another letter from the lawyer representing Roger Rabbit is foster mother. Instead of simply knocking on Levi's door and offering 20 for Roger the client offered to donate 1000 to Levi's charity. Levi accepted the offer. Roger was returned to his foster mother. Everyone was happy especially the Haitians who will benefit from a new program seeded by the 1000 donation that teaches them how to raise rabbits-- for food. After all of this it is my hunch that few if any minds were changed. People on all sides of the fight continued to do whatever it is they do. People who did not eat meat continued to not eat it. People with bacon fetishes continued to wax poetic over pork belly. People who hate killing spiders continued to not kill spiders. Factory farms continued to cram thousands of cattle into confined spaces. Those who think of me as a sociopath continue to think of me that way. My classes continue to sell out. And yet I cannot help but pay attention to the fact that all of us-- Levi Chris the people who stole the rabbits the people who took them into their homes and I-- all have something in common. All of us held the rabbits in our hands at some point felt their pulse contemplated their life their deaths. Each of us tried to find meaning and make a stand within our very different acts. All of us thought we were doing the right thing. For those of us who choose to raise and kill animals for food it is anything but a simple choice. In fact it is hard and complicated every time. I look the animal in the eye as we breathe the same air. The same tree shades us. The world slows just long enough for us to see our shared place within it. And just before that moment that so few of us want to admit we are capable of-- that moment in which one animal chooses to kill another for food-- we are not only forced to realize what it means to be human we are forced to realize what it means to be animal too. Camas Davis in Portland Oregon. A version of her essay first appeared in Oregon Humanities magazine.  Act Three Human Sacrifice. OK this is a story that has been seven years in the making though I did not realize that until very very recently. In this story it is not really the animal that is making the sacrifice though you can be the judge of that. Here is Nancy Updike. There is a file in my brain labeled Piney P-I-N-E-Y Piney. It is a slender file compared to lots of others. For instance the one labeled Ill-Considered Actions 1987 Through Present. But the Piney file is intriguing exactly because it is so thin. What do you know about Piney? I do not know a lot about Piney. What do you know about Piney? Piney's sort of this mysterious figure in our life. I mean my first impression was just Piney is misunderstood. I would love to meet Piney's doctors. I have heard he has a team of doctors. These people are all on staff at This American Life and Piney is Ira's dog. The name comes from Ira's wife Anaheed. She had a dream about having a dog named Piney. What else do people know? I know that Piney has to eat really specialized food. We get boxes in the office and those boxes are-- Kangaroo? Kangaroo dry-ice-packed kangaroo meat. I know there've been others. I know there is been rabbits. Maybe there was bison but I am not sure. Yeah there was bison. OK. I would like just a full list. I do not see it as extraordinary. I do not understand how you do not see it as extraordinary. You are getting kangaroo meat delivered to our office in a radio studio. All right I agree at the point. Ira was the only person in the office who did not see anything noteworthy about all this. I have known Ira for 17 years and nothing he is ever done has raised more questions than Piney. It is not that he talks about Piney a lot. We are not a pe