OK so let us begin today's program with a story about a 25-year-old reporter namely me at 25. This clip that I am about to play you was on an NPR program called Let us Hear It though I have to say I think the 25-year-old me would find this intro that I am doing right now to the story to be kind of mumbly and understated. Here's how 25-year-old me kicked off his story. And now true-to-life adventure stories. Yeah I had flair. That is how I talked back then on the radio. Today's adventure story began this way. I was sitting outside the office of Betty Bird. She is one of the producers of this radio program and she is blind. OK I am just going to stop the tape right there. I have so much to say about this but I am just going to let this play for a minute or two first. Stay with me here. OK I am outside Betty Bird's office. And I overheard her tell this story. She was walking down the street. She was with a friend. And some woman a complete stranger walks up to the two of them catches up to the two of them. And this stranger says to Betty-- Well how did you lose your sight? And I said I do not usually share that with anybody except friends. And she said well I just want to know. I just want to know. When did you lose your sight and how did it happen? And I said well I do not really care to discuss that with strangers. And she said well I do not know why. You certainly do not have a very Christian attitude. You should be grateful. I have given money to the blind. You should be grateful. I said you have never given any money to me lady and crossed the street to get away from her. Now when I heard this story I got really excited. And that is because the woman who I have been involved with for the past three years-- her name is Cary LaCheen-- has these sorts of experiences with strangers on the street. Sorry I just cannot help myself. I have to pause this again. Could there be a more awkward way to say my girlfriend than the woman I have been involved with for the past three years? Anyway my girlfriend Cary-- who is not blind by the way. She is only got one full arm. Her left arm stops at the elbow. And complete strangers have approached her on the street to ask her what happened to her arm. So I did not say anything about Cary to Betty at the time. I was just eavesdropping. But I did go home and tell Cary about Betty's story. And her response was-- Shock and excitement of recognition. I have been pretty isolated from other people who are disabled for a number of complicated reasons but I just have never been in a position to really trade those stories with anybody or to hear that other people had the same experience that I did. So I decided to try to capture stories like this true-to-life adventures with strangers approaching disabled people on the street for other disabled people and for able-bodied people to hear. I talked to five people including Cary and Betty. Here's Donna Vino. And this one is a series of personal stories all of them I would say pretty good told by great funny talkers. Me jumping in now and then with narration to point out some bigger lessons that we are supposed to draw from the stories. Playing this for my girlfriend this week-- excuse me-- playing this for the woman I have been involved with for the last year and a half she had this reaction which was like it is clear what you are trying to make and who you want to be but you are not doing it right. And I think that is really a good way to put it. I was vaguely stumbling on my way to making the radio show that you are listening to right this second where people come on and tell personal stories. But at 25 all the moves I make are really clunky. I am trying so hard. Near the end of the story when I try to point out some bigger idea from the story it could not be more didactic. Now if you are an able-bodied person listening to this I do not want to leave you now with fear somehow or leave you scared that you will say the wrong thing to some disabled person. Here are three general rules that you can follow. Number one you should not offer help to someone unless they actually look like they need help. And in that case you should go up to them and you should ask them first if they want your help. It is really crazy that I thought that it would be necessary to say this after at that point 11 minutes of stories where non-disabled people walk up to people with disabilities and make complete jackasses of themselves. Though I have to say I was surprised listening back to this recording how good the interviews are. That part of it I had down. And also by my sheer desire to entertain. This story was the kickoff to a series of stories about awkward encounters between people with disabilities and non-disabled people. And in my sign-off to the story you can hear a little bit of how I sound today yes but also a little bit of the teenage magician that I had been not that long before this. This is Ira Glass. I will be back next week with more true-to-life adventure stories. Music maestro. Next week we hear true-to-life adventure stories from dinner parties. People tend to-- OK then there is a clip from next week's story and then-- Tales of embarrassment and inappropriate behavior by able-bodied people next week on this public radio program. This version of the story ran a month before my 25th birthday and then another version minus the organ music ran on All Things Considered a month after that birthday. At that point I was not a beginner in radio. I would been doing radio for six years. And at the time I really wondered if I ever was going to get it. I was a freelancer and I was so slow at making radio stories that to earn money I also worked as a temp secretary. And I would hear the NPR reporters that I admired the most cranking out these perfect little gems of stories in a day or two. And it was like they had some I do not know superpower that was somehow unavailable to me no matter how hard I tried. At 25 I was still figuring a lot of things out. And I bring this up today because this fall marks the 25th anniversary of our program This American Life. And rather than spend an hour looking back it seemed more interesting to do a show about what it means to be 25. Not what it means for a radio show to be 25 because who cares but what it means for a person to be 25. It is such a particular age. You are an adult but you are new enough to it that it still can feel like you have a long way to go to turn yourself into the person you want to be. So today on our show we have collected a bunch of stories about all kinds of 25-year-olds-- some of them struggling some of them focused and accomplished and not struggling at all and then a couple who are somewhere in between. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One 29 Versus 19. So our first story in today's program is reported by one of the youngest people on our staff Noor Gill who was 25 when she applied for her job here. She is now 26. Hi Noor. Hi Ira. So Noor before you get to the person who you are doing your story about just take a second and remind older people what it is like to be the young least experienced person in some workplace. I think it is like it is scary because you are trying to prove to people that you are not an idiot but then you think you are an idiot too. So it is just it is hard. You worry about the smallest things like stupid things like how I would send an email or like how I am sitting in my chair. I think you worry about how your coworkers are going to see you. And then you start to realize that no one even cares. I have definitely shown up late and it made no difference. Like nobody was paying attention at all. Everyone else is so busy no one pays attention. But that is a good thing. Once I realized that I did not feel as stressed about every little thing. OK so the story that you put together that people will hear now it is about somebody who is 25 in the same kind of position that you are in except in a job where the stakes are higher right? Yeah way higher. All right. Well take it from here. I came across a profile in The New York Times this summer about a 25-year-old who had a job that seemed very consequential way more consequential than any I have had. She was a scientist working at the biotech company Regeneron part of the team racing to find a treatment for COVID where actual people's lives are on the line. And I remember thinking she is only 25? How did she even get that job? Her name is Stephanie Giordano. I was not the only person who saw the article and reached out. Yeah it was like teachers from high school teachers from college every single one of my ex-boyfriends' moms. Oh that is funny.  Why do you think the boyfriends' moms? Not to brag-- no I am just saying that-- I won Best to Bring Home to Mom and Dad in high school. That is a category? That was a superlative in my yearbook. Moms love me. But I am polite. Stephanie's nice to talk to. She laughs a lot and she is funny. She has some pink in her hair. Working on a project like this was not some huge goal she would set out for herself. She loved science but she loves a lot of other stuff too. Back in January she was living in New York City with her roommate and commuting to the suburbs for work at Regeneron's headquarters. And it was then that COVID first became a part of her life much earlier than for most of us in the US and long before there were many confirmed cases or anything closed down. She first heard about it at work and did not think too much of it. I guess it was like early mid-January when it became a topic of conversation in the lab not really in my social spheres or with anyone outside of the lab. Honestly in the beginning it was just sort of chatting. It was like let us just keep an eye on it and see how it spreads. It was really just a side idea at the time. And then it got really intense. Regeneron has thousands of employees working on all sorts of things. Stephanie happened to sit right between the two people in her department who were spearheading the COVID project. Kristen the lead sat next to her. And then right behind me was Vincenzo who was also on the rapid response team. The rapid response team was not working on a vaccine. They were making a drug to treat people who got COVID and help them recover. The idea was to make a cocktail of different antibodies to neutralize the virus. Kristen and Vincenzo were talking about the plan constantly across Stephanie's desk and Stephanie could not help but overhear. But she was busy with her own assignments until one night-- this was still back in January early in the outbreak-- when she was getting ready to take the 530 shuttle bus to her train back to the city. She saw Kristen and Vincenzo were in for another late night and offered to stay back and help. I saw if another set of hands were there it meant that they can go home at 800 PM instead of 930 PM. At that point I did not realize that one day would probably be a lot longer than just one day of taking the later shuttle. Raising your hand to be the one who stays late? This is something we know how to do at 25. I am very familiar with this move. Within a few days Stephanie had dropped all her other projects and was working full-time on the COVID treatment. Her team's project was to come up with a way to quickly screen which antibodies actually worked against the virus. As part of that project Stephanie's assignment was to make what she calls a virus-like particle a fake version of the coronavirus that could infect cells. It came down to testing hundreds of different recipes getting the conditions exactly right. She was working long hours lots of weekends as the team rushed to get the project in place. Her job was slowly becoming her entire life. At some point in February months before anyone was wearing masks before COVID was even officially a pandemic she started to get nervous riding the packed train every day to work. So in March she moved from her apartment in Manhattan to a temporary place near Regeneron's headquarters and threw herself fully into the project. I was so excited. Yeah it was just like a pretty huge undertaking. It was a little sad. I felt really weird leaving the city. I felt weird. I could not see anyone. So I did not see my boyfriend for like almost two months. And it felt really-- it felt really hard to prioritize what at the time was just my job just putting my job before a lot of things that I normally prioritize. But I just knew that in my heart that this was going to be something much more important. After that every day she would wake up in her empty Airbnb drive the seven minutes it took to get to the lab spent hours each day alone in that lab that had to be kept dark staring into a microscope. She would stay there until around 1000 or later only to drive back and do it all over again. It was just really lonely. I had not ever lived alone without any roommates before so that was really weird. It was really quiet. Was there a day or a week that it was just so lonely that you thought maybe you could not do this anymore? I just remember being up at 130 in the morning and the TV in the bedroom-- I did not really know how to use the remote because I never really watched it. And I just turned it on and it was on PBS. And it was LCD Soundsystem's live recording from like 2012 and it just made me incredibly sad. And then they played the song All My Friends which is just this song about no matter what at the end of the day whatever happens you have the people in your life and they are always going to be with you. Here I was in this apartment alone doing God knows what. I have not seen anyone I love or care about and I do not know the next time that I will. And I was just watching. I just started hysterically crying which is really dramatic but I think that was probably the lowest moment. Meanwhile outside of Stephanie's Airbnb and the lab things were turning for the worst. Hospitals in New York worried about having enough PPE. The schools restaurants and bars started shutting down. There was one moment during those first few intense months of work that stood out to Stephanie. It was when she finally got one of the first key steps in the experiment to work. She was testing to see if her virus-like particles the fake viruses were infecting cells and acting like the real thing. To do this she designed an experiment that would cause cells to glow green if they were infected. She spent days trying to get the conditions right. And then one day-- Oh my god. I was on the Zeiss one of our microscopes here. And you can scan the whole plate and it is like 3000 images. And I just remember it hit like 1500 and I saw green. And I was like . And I just ran out of the room and found my boss. And I was like I think it worked. How did your boss react? I think everyone else was like yeah it works. Of course it works. But for me I was like but it worked when I did it. When you are new and not used to things going right even getting the smallest thing to work out can feel huge. Getting those cells to light up green was just a tiny step in a thousand other steps that ultimately worked out. Regeneron started testing their antibody cocktail in June. It was one of the treatments President Trump got back in October and it was just approved to be used in emergencies by the FDA last month. It is not a cure-all but the treatment has been shown to help some high-risk patients. Do you ever feel like-- this is going to be a sports analogy-- but like you are a rookie who played a couple innings on a team that won the World Series? Do you ever feel like that? Oh yeah absolutely. Yeah that is actually a really good way to put it. I guess to stick with the sports analogy a lot of the time in big meetings and stuff I would be on the sidelines listening in. And even if it was data I helped generate I would still be like wow who put that together? That looks amazing. You are so modest Stephanie. I wish I could be like-- I think I can fluctuate between thinking I am a god-- not really but being like wow I look awesome. I am doing awesome. I got a 401k. Yeah that is better than me. And then I am like oh I am just a regular idiot just trying to figure . Do you think this is going to be the biggest thing you will ever do in your life? It is kind of sad to think of it like that but I cannot imagine anything else being as impactful. Hopefully it does not end here. So it is not all downhill from here? It might be. Maybe I have a quarter-life crisis and let myself go. I do not know. But I hope not. I am hopeful about it. She told me she knows she is not some super genius. A lot of scientists could have done what she did. She just happened to be in the right place at the right time. Noor Gill is the production fellow of our show. Act Two Buy Like A Butterfly. So we turn next to another 25-year-old who is already achieved some things in her life-- in fact achieved at a level that most of us never get to even when we are older. Her name is Claressa Shields and she has won two Olympic gold medals in women's boxing. And in addition to that all kinds of other championship titles and belts and accolades. But this year this year at 25 her big accomplishment was different. With boxing shut down for COVID she bought a house. She bought a house on the outskirts of her hometown Flint Michigan. Sue Jaye Johnson has known Claressa for almost a decade. She made a radio story about Claressa with the documentary series Radio Diaries and then produced a film about her called T-Rex Her Fight for Gold. She got in touch again with Claressa to ask about this latest achievement. The idea of Claressa owning a house is wild to me because I have known her since she was 16. I met her at a boxing tournament in 2011. I was photographing and interviewing the women who were competing to be on the first-ever Olympic team for women's boxing. It was Claressa's first adult tournament and she made heads turn. Claressa Shields! She was faster and stronger than any other boxer but what really caught my attention was this determined look in her eyes. That and the way she thumped her chest when she won like she was already the greatest. Claressa's one of my favorite people. It is been a privilege to have a front row seat on her life all these years including this new chapter. Ever since she was 16 she told me she wanted two things-- a gold medal-- she got her first one a year later-- and a house a safe place for her and her family. All right. She gave me a little tour of it on FaceTime. So here we are at my house. This is my fireplace here. On top of my fireplace I have of course my TV. Then I have the 2020 Barbie doll of the year.  That is my smoke detector. I have not changed the batteries. It is nice. Not massive but big. Brick and gray vinyl siding with generous windows a two-car garage. It is got three bedrooms. A Jacuzzi in the master bathroom which was a big selling point. She says when she first saw the living room she thought she would need three or four couches to fill the space. There is also a pool in the back that she says can fit about 20 people and a yard. In the dining room a long welcoming table set for eight. And at the head of it a hint of her royalty. The queen chair is down there. That is my chair. All the other chairs do not even have the studded diamonds. That one does. You have a chair studded with real diamonds? Why not Sue? Because you have a throne. I do not know. Who thinks of that? It is only two chairs. It is only two chairs so it did not cost that much. And then we come over here where I have my trophy case which I only got one more drawer to fill. Turning 25 the most exciting thing that I have done is buy my house. I am like a big person with numbers. So 25-- 2 plus 5 is 7 and 7 is my favorite number. So I knew that something special would happen at 25 in my life but I just did not see me buying a house. It all just kind of just happened. I just feel like it is the opposite of what I grew up in. Claressa never had a solid home for very long growing up. She lived at something like a dozen addresses before she was 17 had to deal with all kinds of abuse and deprivation. And it started early. She was moved out of her mom's place when she was five. And I lived with my grandmother to the age of nine. And all this time I spent away from my younger brothers and my sisters. Also too moving back in with my mom abusing alcohol. And moved out from with my mom and moved in with my coach Jason. That was my decision. Jason and his wife Mickey. Claressa calls her Mama Mickey. That was when she was 17 the first time she had her own bed her own room. She was there a little more than a year then started living on her own. Lived in Colorado for a couple years in Florida for a couple more. Always rented so now having an entire house of her own it is a big deal. And I have to say I have had some great moments in my life as I am a two-time Olympic gold medalist and nine-time world champion and three division world champion faster than any other male boxer in history-- any other boxer in history period. But when I got the keys to my house it was this overwhelming feeling of joy and internal happiness of knowing that I will never be homeless ever again in my life. I will never have to worry about where I am going to live. My family if they need somewhere to come stay if I cannot find them somewhere to stay I always have an extra room for them. And it just gave me this whole sense of just like you really grown now. I have a therapist now just to help me deal with the stress of not being able to fight. All of her fights were cancelled this year because of coronavirus. She says it is been really hard on her. Because I am used to fighting all the time and being on TV and always being on the go. And it is like having to deal with all the trolls on Instagram and Twitter and just deal with life in general and how to express my emotions not with anger and not with tears and not sink into depression. Depression has got too hard to deal with by myself so that is 25-year-old decisions putting yourself in therapy. Yeah. I could not imagine me at 17 owning a house. It just would not work out. I would throw parties all the time.  To paraphrase Corinthians when Claressa was a kid she had the dreams of a kid. She told me when she was 16 that she wanted to have 10 children by the age of 26 not factoring in the difficult math of that or how 10 pregnancies might affect her boxing career. She laughs about that now but the spirit of that dream has stayed with her-- surrounding herself with family being a protector. And slowly the details became more realistic. She thought winning the gold medals would lead to a bunch of endorsement deals and that she could buy a house not just for herself but for her mom preferably somewhere other than Flint which can be pretty rough. But the endorsements did not materialize. So she made the transition from the amateurs to the pros started earning a steady living as a boxer. And she thought she could at least convince her family to move away with her which is why it was surprising to me that she wound up with a house in Flint. I remember the goal that you had was to get out of Flint. Mhm. That was one of the reasons why you wanted to get the gold medal so that you and your family could get out of Flint is you would not have to live there. I just know I wanted a better life for myself. I wanted to be more financially stable. I wanted to have food a bed. So I do not really think it was not being in Flint. I think it was more of like I just do not want to be poor. And what about getting your family out? You used to talk a lot about getting your family out of Flint like keep them safe. Over time I have also tried that. When I moved to Florida my younger brother moved with me. But my younger sister and my mother would not come. It was like all right so now I am just in Florida with none of my family except my little brother. Can you all be quiet a little bit? While we were talking four of Claressa's nieces were huddled together on the big gray sectional sofa in the living room. Her nieces and nephews are over a lot these days playing video games jumping in the pool. She is strict with them sometimes when the house gets messy. She makes her nephew Fat Daddy do the vacuuming. But she likes having them all there. And there are not 10 of them there are 11. She is filled her house with a bevy of kids like she wanted just not in the way she expected which is true generally for her at the moment. The life she has now with the house in Flint? It is not what she imagined but it fits all her needs and desires. It is what boxers do. They respond to what is thrown at them and they adjust. But she says this is not the end. She still has big dreams. In fact she just announced that she signed a multi-year deal to be a mixed martial arts fighter where the money is better for women. She wants to buy a second house a mansion in Vegas. Sue Jaye Johnson. She is a writer and filmmaker. Her film T-Rex about Claressa's journey to the Olympics you can find at PBS.org. Coming up a woman at 25 who decides after years of saying no to her parents about something to try it their way for once. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program 25. To commemorate our 25th year on the air we have stories today about people human beings who were created the same year as our program. We have stories of 25-year-olds. And I just want to note before we go to the next story that the one other thing that we have done to mark our 25th year is that we set up a web page with a list of favorite episodes from over the years. It has the very easy to remember address thisamericanlife.org25years. And if you go there you will see a mix of audience favorites but also some deep cuts I bet you have never heard or you probably do not remember if you did hear. My personal suggestion among those OK is the show called I am From the Private Sector and I am Here to Help where Nancy Updike takes you into this world of not the American military but the private contractors who worked alongside the military in Baghdad in 2004. And the episode is part-- I do not know-- like The Office or Veep and part a war. There are lots of other shows in addition to that one ready for your holiday listening while you are cooking or shopping online or whatever. Anyway thisamericanlife.org25years. And with that we have arrived at Act Three of our show-- Act Three The Rest of His Life. So some of us here at the radio show read this essay back in June that really got to us that Mitchell S. Jackson wrote about a 25-year-old. The essay's about Ahmaud Arbery who was 25 when he was pursued by three white men in Georgia and shot to death while out for a run. The essay was published in Runner's World magazine. And as you will hear it leans into the running parts of things just a little bit but it is also so much more than that. Mitchell talked to Ahmaud's closest friends and his family members to create a portrait of Ahmaud Arbery that is really unlike anything else we had seen about him. We asked Mitchell to adapt a version of his essay for our program today. Here he is. Ahmaud Arbery by all accounts loved to run. But he was not by his own account a runner. There is no evidence of Maud training for 10Ks or full or half marathons or obsessing over his miles or PR times but he loved it. Maud would run in a white T-shirt and khaki shorts. He would run shirtless in basketball shorts. He would run in a tank top and hoop shoes. As his day-one homeboy Keem sums it he could run in anything. When Keem was home from college he and Maud would cruise to one end of the longest-spanning bridge in all of Georgia. They would do some warm-up stretching and jaunt back and forth across it a distance of just under 3 miles. The pair would keep a steady pace. But sometimes Keem says Maud would push him. On February 23 of this year Maud went out for a run. The location of this run was a subdivision in Glynn County called Satilla Shores. It is a neighborhood of waterfront properties of upper and middle-class families of retired folk and fresh transplants. No one can know for sure the route he took before reaching Satilla Shores but he would set off from his home. So that means there is a good chance that on his run he passed homes flying a Confederate flag or the Do not Tread on Me Gadsden flag and hella homes warning No Trespassing. On February 23 when Maud went jogging he was dressed in light-colored low-top Nikes a white T-shirt and khaki cargo shorts. Maud who was 25 years old jogged alone. Maud's family home in Brunswick the one where he lived at the time he was killed is a mere 2 miles from Satailla Shores. But in meaningful ways it is almost another country. Matter of fact the poverty rate of what young Black residents call The Wick is a staggering 38. The Wick is where Ahmaud Marquez Arbery was born on May 8 1994. He was the third beloved child of Wanda Cooper-Jones and Marcus Arbery Sr. Their working-class family included his older brother Marcus Buck Jr. and sister Jasmine. The family called Ahmaud Quez a shortened version of his middle name while his friends called him Maud. Maud had a slight gap in his front teeth and dark skin forever burnished by hours outside. When Maud was in middle school the family moved to a small white house on Boykin Ridge Drive where Maud continued to share a room with his brother. Per his big bro Buck Maud was the slob. In high school Maud landed a gig at the local McDonald's. He did it to keep some scratch in his pocket but also to help his mother who often worked two jobs. Some days Maud's homeboy Keem would swoop in from work and wheel them to the Golden Isles YMCA. They would hoop or work out for six or seven hours straight before bopping over to the Glynn Place Mall for the fries and wing combo at American Deli and heading right back for beaucoup hours more of playing and training. Back then Maud favored slim jeans bright-colored polos and rugbys and kept his hair shorn low with the crispiest of edge-ups. Maud played football from the peewee league through high school and ended up an undersized varsity linebacker. But he was also a team captain who led his Brunswick High School Pirates in pre-game chants. Though never cock-diesel strong Maud owned a super-hearted fearlessness on the field and often astonished his coaches with big hits and his senior year made the storied Florida-Georgia War of the Border all-star game. Not to mention this was South Georgia football so Maud competed in a league that produced pros and played before some of the biggest high school football crowds in the country. Before he was an all-star though Maud tore his ACL and meniscus in a JV game. While a less dedicated player might have given up he committed to a laborious rehab. His junior year he wore a leg brace a hindrance that diminished his chance of playing in college. Like Maud I was a passionate high school athlete. My sport was hoop. Like Maud no major college program offered me a scholarship. Both Maud and me attended small schools in our home state. Maud quit after a year and returned to Brunswick and his mother's home. I too quit my first community college. But unlike Maud there was no need to return home to my mother's cramped apartment as I was living there all the while. The year after he graduated Maud was arrested for carrying a gun and sentenced to five years of probation which he violated by shoplifting. A few years after I graduated high school I was arrested with drugs and a gun and sentenced to 16 months in an Oregon state prison. At 25 Maud was a runner who had every reason to believe his life had more miles ahead of him than behind him. At 25 I enrolled in the first of two graduate writing programs. Today Maud-- dear God why-- is dead. And I by grace am a writer-professor hurtling toward middle age. At 104 PM on February 23 a security camera shows 25-year-old Ahmaud Arbery wandering up a sunny patch of narrow road and stopping on the lawn of a sand-colored under-construction bungalow addressed 220 Satilla Drive. Maybe he wondered what the skeleton of beams and sheetrock and piping and wire would look like when it was finished. Maybe he imagined a family who could afford to live in a place so close to the water. What we know for sure is that while inside Maud touched none of the construction materials laying about. We also know that Maud was not the first person whose curiosity urged them into the site. Security cameras rec