From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Ira Glass is off this week I am Sean Cole. So there is this guy who is been on our show a few times now Kirk Johnson. He is this extraordinary person. In his early 20s he went to Iraq and ran rebuilding projects in Fallujah for USAID after the invasion. He saw that Iraqis who worked for the US military were being threatened and killed because of it and were not getting asylum in the US. And he was outraged. So he single-handedly launched a campaign which changed US law on this. And for years after he championed these cases saving thousands of people's lives. It was beyond difficult an extraordinary stressful job. And so to decompress Kirk took up fly fishing which is where today's story actually starts. It has nothing to do with Iraq or refugees. It begins on a river in New Mexico. Fly fishing just in case you do not know you are using this special lure that looks like an insect. That is the fly. It floats on the water. Kirk makes his own flies out of things like rabbit fur-- so taking parts of one kind of animal using it to imitate another kind in order to catch a third kind. So Kirk's on the river with this guide a guy named Spencer Seim. This is back in 2011. And at one point Spencer reaches down to fetch something out of his tackle box. Here's Kirk. And I caught this really colorful flash-- really beautiful looking fly. And I asked him what it was. And he pulls this thing out and it is a salmon fly. That is it is used to catch salmon. Kirk had only ever seen trout flies which are kind of brown or gray. But this thing was intricately tied together with bird feathers and silvery thread maybe an inch and a half long kind of a moth-sized peacock like an Impressionist version of an insect or a dream about an insect. And it is got these emerald and canary yellow and ruby-colored strips from feathers of these exotic birds maybe 10 or 12 species in total. And they are arranged in this really ornate pattern where the hooklets and the barbules will connect to this. It is really nerdy yes. But I would never seen anything like it. It is a beautiful piece of art. And he then said to me-- he goes well if you think that is crazy you should hear about this kid who just broke into the British Museum of Natural History to steal hundreds of these exotic birds for their feathers which he sold to Victorian salmon fly tyers because he wanted to buy a new golden flute. An actual flute a musical instrument made of gold. And as soon as he said that-- I mean I am not over-dramatizing the moment. I was in the middle of a cast when he was telling me this and I just kind of froze. I was like this is the craziest sentence I have heard. Kirk started plying Spencer with questions on the spot. He wanted to know everything. So they went back to Spencer's place that night and looked up the kid's profile on Facebook. His name? Edwin Rist R-I-S-T. And even that did not seem like a real name to me. It seemed like some 19th century-- you know he is one of these Victorian boxers. Edwin had broken into the museum two years earlier in 2009. This was a branch of Britain's Natural History Museum in a little town called Tring. So Kirk starts Googling around to read everything he can find out about the case. But there was not much just a few articles in the British press that covered the basics which were-- Edwin Rist was from New York originally. He was in London studying music. He was exceptionally talented on the flute. He was only 20 when he stole the birds 299 of them. And not just any dead birds they were from one of the most important collections in scientific history. And also their feathers would fetch about a million dollars if he took them apart and sold them to salmon fly tyers-- which he did some of them. And he was caught. The police arrested him. And yet somehow he was now walking around free auditioning for orchestras in Europe. And a huge number of the birds were still unaccounted for. Kirk wanted to understand how this happened that a 20-year-old flutist with no particular experience in museum larceny made off with some of the most precious specimens in the world. And he wondered where the missing birds were. Kirk's guide Spencer told him if you really want to find those specimens you should get yourself to the 21st annual International Fly Tying Symposium. It was in Somerset New Jersey at the Doubletree Hotel and Conference Center. About a hundred people were there. If you have been to any trade show you can picture it sort of a maze of booths selling all kinds of fly tying supplies hooks thread feathers. And you can buy whole birds there too. I went into one guy's booth and he had a pretty large box just full of parakeet heads. And all of their beaks were kind of open like they were chirping at the moment of-- Oh my god. I will not go too gory there but-- Were you about to say at the moment of their death?  Yes I was. I was actually going to say at the moment of their decapitation. But there are bits of birds everywhere. And the guy with the parakeet heads was busily tying a fly in a hook clamped in a little vise and attached the feathers with thread wrapping it around the shaft. All of these spectators were gathered around him like he was a sidewalk magician doing a trick. Kirk posed as a customer at first but the guy could tell he was not serious about buying anything. So Kirk finally came clean and said to him that he was thinking of writing something about that museum heist. And he looks up from his fly and he said I do not think you want to write that story. And I said no? Why? And he goes because we are a small tight-knit community. And you do not want to piss us off.  I was just like momentarily stunned. But in my mind I was like holy cow this is awesome. This is so--  Because what would happen if you pissed them off? I do not normally pull this card out but I feel like my time in Fallujah has calibrated my threat perception a little bit differently. I would imagine. And so a dude with a bunch of feathers pinched between his fingers does not constitute a threat to me. That guy's threat had the exact opposite effect on Kirk than he intended. And something kicked in for Kirk at this point like it sometimes does when he gets an idea in his head. To me it was just a very clear-- you know a flare fired. Like if he was trying to turn me away from this story it was like he had just filled my tank up. It was like hey pay more attention to this. This is crazy. It is crazy the stuff Kirk found out. You cannot turn away once you start hearing all the details not just about the heist and risk but where the birds came from and the whole surreal subculture of salmon fly tying what Kirk calls the feather underground sometimes characterized by shady dealings and obsession. Kirk interviewed more than 50 fly tyers and discovered things that the people investigating the case did not find out. And that is our show today the story of what may be the greatest feather caper in history. Expect high drama and ornithology. And stay with us. Act One The Specimens. A quick warning that this episode contains a few swear words that we have un-beeped for the podcast version. You can find a version with beeps at our website thisamericanlife.org. The birds Edwin stole I said they were valuable. Some of them were collected in the mid 1800s by one of the greatest scientific explorers of his time a man named Alfred Russel Wallace. He was like another Darwin and a peer of Darwin's. Alfred Wallace spent nearly a decade thrashing through the Malay archipelago capturing and preparing animal specimens and shipping them back to England. He lived in tiny huts his flesh regularly invaded by bugs. And about four years in he contracted malaria and figured he would just hunker down in his shack to sweat it out. And while he is in the middle of this fever he has a eureka moment and figures out evolution through natural selection completely on his own. He is like I have got it. Like I figured it out. And this is before Darwin came up with it? Well but this is the kicker. He sits down and he writes this paper meant for publication. And he puts it in an envelope and emails it to Charles Darwin--  --who had never published anything on this yet. Darwin had figured it out too at that point but he had been too scared to put it out there. These specimens were as important as Darwin's finches-- which by the way are also at the Tring Museum. They are early evidence of evolutionary theory. And specimens like these can inform scientists about everything from climate change to the way we perceive color. Scientists are still using them. Alfred Wallace himself once wrote that each species each bird is an individual letter building the words and sentences that describe the deep history of our planet. If we allow these letters to disappear that history disappears with them. He also wrote that it is probably best if people from the West never see birds like these in their original habitat in all their beauty and glory because they would just plunder them and ruin everything. He had no idea how right he would turn out to be. Not long after there was an industrialized slaughter all over the world. And it was in the name of women's fashion. This was back when women wore a lot of hats. And anyone who was anyone wore hats with a lot of feathers on them from parrots egrets ospreys. Designers in the US and Europe could not get enough of this stuff. Whole species were decimated by the fashion industry. You would see hats decorated with entire birds. In the 19th century this was like the Gucci bag. If you could only afford a robin that was one thing. But if you could afford a bird of paradise-- and we are talking about the whole bird being mounted with outstretched wings. And sometimes these hats had several different birds mounted on them. Holy crow.  Sorry. And it is-- I mean it is punny but it was how they demonstrated their own perch in society. Some women had so many birds on their hats that they had to squat just in order to fit into their carriages-- so gaudy and inconvenient. Meanwhile the gentlemen of the era were also sort of using feathers as accessories. Salmon flies were like hats for guys. This was also around the time that all these exclusive fishing clubs were popping up on the coasts of England and Scotland. And each club had its own special patented salmon fly. And the flies themselves had all these names. They are absurd. They are like the Exordium the Jock Scott the Durham's Ranger. Can I-- I just wanted to-- Please. Can I just-- Yeah yeah. Just to give people a sense of-- OK so this is the recipe for the first salmon fly that Edwin ever tied. It is called the Durham Ranger. This is a recipe from the 1840s. And they call it a recipe? Yes. The tail calls for feathers from the Indian crow which is the red rough fruit crow that is all over South America. The butt requires two turns of black ostrich hurl. The throat has light blue hackle usually from the cotinga which is from Central America. The wings have a pair of long jungle cock feathers with double tibbetts on both sides. And it goes on like that. The cheeks are from a bird called a chatterer. The horns are blue macaw which is a parrot. Of course back then when you wanted these feathers you went down to the local plume merchant-- or in Paris a plumassier-- and you paid real money. Around the year 1900 certain snowy egret feathers were more expensive than gold. But for me all I kept fixating on was that this is all bullshit.  There is no reason why a salmon should care about any of this. They do not. I mean you could tie a chocolate wrapper to a hook and catch salmon. Oh. So all of these little subtleties of which subspecies did you use for the cheek of the feather they do not even see any of that. But that did not matter to Victorian salmon fly tyers back then. And these days the community tying this kind of fly still tries to do it according to the same classical recipes in these 100-year-old manuals. Except now they do not even fish with them. They are just for show. They use feathers from the same species arranged the same exact way. So the fixation is on historical authenticity like a fly tying version of civil war reenacting. But because we have murdered so many birds for so many reasons over the years a lot of the most coveted species are now endangered or protected. There is a species of cotinga that is just completely illegal to buy and sell. It is the Cotinga maculata. And they completely jones over this stuff. I have been struggling to find another hobby whose adherents are so quickly driven to break international laws to do the art. I mean you do not get into the dark side of knitting. Of course not every salmon fly tyer is breaking the law but some of them openly flout the rules or just ignore them. Violators can be fined thousands of dollars. There was a post on the main web forum for this hobby classicflytying.com that sums up this slavish addiction to certain feathers. One guy said there is something to a fly tied with the old materials. And someone else responded I have met this something. I am haunted by it constantly now. It is like a drug. Nothing else matters. Nothing else compares. When it touches my fingers I feel the history. I am taken back to a time when fish were as big as logs fresh from the sea reds yellows and shades of blues. Their texture and color have that power to push you to do your best. There is nothing else that compares to that power. Act Two The Flutist.  Kirk wanted to talk to the bird thief Edwin Rist. He emailed him every now and then over the course of three years asking for an interview. Edwin always said no that it was still too raw. And then finally he agreed gave Kirk like a week's notice. Kirk and his wife Marie-Jose flew to Dusseldorf where Edwin was living playing in an ensemble which is the music you are hearing right now.  But Marie-Jose was worried. They did not know this guy. He had broken into a museum after all. Who knew what he was capable of if he was dangerous? And they were meeting him at their hotel room. So they hired a German bodyguard who sat out in the hallway during the eight-hour interview. They need not have bothered. Edwin while tall was not imposing even in his black pea coat. He was friendly. Kirk liked him though they are very different Kirk's oh gosh farm boy Midwestern-ness and Edwin's living in a rarefied world of flutes and feathers in Europe. We asked Edwin if we could air parts of their interview on the show and he said no. So you will not hear his voice. But a lot of what we know about how he came to be in the museum that night comes straight from him. He grew up in a quiet town in New York State south of Albany. He was cute looked sort of like Harry Potter with thick wire-rim glasses a bit of an indoors-y kid home schooled along with his younger brother. And even back then he was shaping up to be a great musician. Edwin's parents were both journalists. And when Edwin was about 10 his dad was researching a story for Discover Magazine about the physics of fly casting. So Edwin happened to watch an instructional video on how to tie flies using this specific kind of feather called a hackle. --but let us tie the hackle around the base of the wing so that it floats lower in the surface and perhaps looks like a mayfly at rest. And the feather is transformed. It is suddenly the hook has like a thousand little legs sticking out in every different direction. Oh it looks like a centipede kind of. Yes. And for whatever reason 10-year-old Edwin's brain was just frozen by this. Seeing something so ordinary transform into something extraordinary like that was amazing to him. Edwin told Kirk that he and his brother watched that part of the video maybe eight times. And soon he was rummaging through the garage and the basement looking for a hook and thread anything he could find to try it himself. He plucked the feathers from his mom's down pillow. His dad seeing all of this finally brought Edwin to a tackle shop got him a vise and some hooks and other materials so he could start tying flies for real-- trout flies to begin with the ugly ones. Edwin's brother got into it too. They took classes spent hours hunkered over their creations in this kind of fuzzy trance. Before too long they were winning fly tying competitions and going to conventions. And it was at one of those conventions where Edwin laid eyes on his first salmon fly. It was at the booth of a prominent fly tyer named Edward Muzeroll or Muzzy for short. And once again little Edwin's mind just froze. It was the same reaction Kirk had that day on the water total bedazzlement. And he is kind of oohing and aahing. And he starts talking to Muzzy. And then before you know it he is arranging for private lessons with Muzzy to learn how to do this new type of fly tying-- new to Edwin. And so I think he was 14 when he went up to Maine one summer and got lessons. I think it was eight or 12 hour days where Muzzy proceeded to walk him through not just the techniques but the history of this art form. During that first tutorial with Muzzy though where Edwin tied the Durham Ranger they used substitute feathers or subs meaning no red-ruffed fruitcrow no black ostrich herl. Instead they used like dyed chicken feathers or whatever. And Muzzy who'd been tying flies longer than Edwin had been alive could tell right away that Edwin was a natural a prodigy. And so at the end of that first session when Muzzy's saying goodbye he gives Edwin an envelope and kind of in hushed tones said this is what it is all about. Edwin opens the envelope. And inside is 150 or 200 worth of exotic bird feathers. From the red-ruffed fruitcrow and from cotinga I think. Now Muzzy's stuff was legal. And it was a gesture to this young acolyte almost like work your way up to these things. You know? Like when you get good enough try using one of these red-ruffed fruitcrow feathers. And that is when Edwin caught the bug. All he wanted to use in his flies were exotic bird feathers from then on. He started doing chores for his neighbors gathering firewood just for a little extra feather money. He soon grew into a master fly tyer-- which by the way means an expert mimmicker-- able to consistently and perfectly hew to the same classic recipes again and again. But there was always this one limitation as to what he could accomplish. As good as Edwin got-- and I mean he was heralded as the future of fly tying by Fly Tyer Magazine which I subscribe to. Of course you do. You know he was completely embraced by this community by his 16th birthday I think. I mean he was a legend already. But as good as he was he was a 16-year-old who was not really flush with cash. And so whenever there were these occasional eBay auctions of the species that he wanted he always got outbid by these wealthier older fly tyers who had disposable income. And so his devotion to this art form was kind of always defined by a longing for what he did not have. These other guys would say yeah well it is a good fly but talk to me when you get some real cotinga. That is not going to feel that good. No. Especially to a kid. Edwin has this specific way of talking perhaps cultivated from living in Europe for many years. And on the topic of using substitute feathers instead of the real thing he told Kirk the knowledge of its falsity eats at you. So in a way Edwin was a pauper musician gazing through a shop window at a shiny musical instrument-- which by the way he literally was that too. At the same time he was excelling at fly tying he was also excelling at the flute. Just to give you a sense this is a YouTube video Edwin posted of him covering Master of Puppets by Metallica playing all the parts on different flutes.  Anyway he was finally admitted to the Royal Academy of Music in London but he did not bring any of his fly tying gear or feathers with him. He said Customs would not have appreciated his birdy bag. Around the same time a fly tying friend in Canada-- and something of a mentor to Edwin-- sent him an email saying basically hey while you are over there you have got to check out this place north of London a branch of the Natural History Museum in a town called Tring. He attached pictures of drawers filled with brilliantly colorful bird specimens. They were not on display. They were stored away in a special wing of the museum that the general public is not allowed into. Act Three The Museum. The Tring is this big old brick Tudor building from the 1880s. On the outside it looks more like a private mansion or a boy's school than a museum. The only way you can see that special bird collection is for legitimate research purposes. So Edwin came up with a plan a lie. He emailed the museum and told them he needed to photograph the birds for a friend's PhD thesis. And on November 5 2008 he brought a camera to the museum signed the visitor logbook using his own name and was escorted to the Birds of Paradise Collection. You can tell a research specimen of a bird from a mile away. Their eye sockets are stuffed with cotton their wings folded down at their sides legs stiff. They are referred to as bird skins. And importantly the legs have these tags attached to them with the species and date and other bio-data and in this case Alfred Wallace's signature. Without that tag the specimen is not a specimen anymore. It is just a bird. Who knows where the hell it came from? But research of course was the last thing on Edwin's mind looking at the birds. He was just in awe of their arresting beauty. He made this analogy. He said if I put a gold brick on the table it is really impressive. There is a shock value of understanding wow that is really valuable. And then this is what he told me. He goes if you go to Fort Knox if you go into the vault there is a drastically different feeling than just seeing a gold brick. Quote For a fly tyer for someone who understands the feathers and sees the potential in them and who really has a passion-- I guess you could call it an obsession. I do not like to use it because it sounds like a negative term-- but that overwhelming wow what have I just seen feeling was all that I had. And I remember it to this point because it was just so extraordinary. And the sad thing he told me is that many many many-- well most people have no idea what that feels like. Edwin photographed all sorts of different species of birds that day. And he says he was not casing the museum that first time. He just wanted to look. Except he also took pictures of the area around the museum. Those surely were not interesting photographs but they may have proved useful later on. Oh and also-- He opens up Microsoft Word on his computer and creates a file called PlanforMuseumInvasion.doc.  No he does not. I swear to god. That is a little on the nose. I know. But you do not think anyone's ever going to see your hard drive you know? In some ways it is a smart thing to do to build a list of the things that you are going to need to pull off a museum heist. You do not want to just wing that. Wing it? Hey-o! No but I mean he wrote on there that he would need a glass cutter. And I said was this like one of those things you see in the movie where it is some perfect disk-shaped glass that is cut? Exactly like in Pink Panther. Yeah. And it was just like a handheld-- almost like an X-ACTO knife. And I was like well did you practice? And he is like no. I did not think is going to be that hard. The evening of June 23 2009 Edwin finished playing a concert at the Royal Academy of Music and boarded a train to Tring. According to him he brought along only one empty suitcase a pair of latex gloves he took from his doctor's office some wire clippers a little LED light and the glass cutter. Act Four The Heist. So Edwin came up from the station he is saying on foot with his suitcase on the night. Obviously he would been up here before. The detective on the case Adele Hopkin took Kirk to the crime scene up public footpath 37 in Tring to a secluded area outside the museum. --and then came along here. And then he is saying he shimmied up this wall-- which is doable-- up here onto the top. He clips some strands of barbed wire in order to get to a window. This window here which has now got the bars. And was the reason he brought the glass cutter which it turns out he dropped along the way somewhere. He had a moment of doubt where he started saying to himself maybe that is some kind of sign that I am not supposed to do this. Like maybe I should just bail on this whole thing. But then this other voice in his head said no you have been planning this forever. Just figure it out. So he used a different kind of glass cutter a giant rock. --and then just smashed one of the windows and then went in. Edwin says he is not sure how he did not cut himself up on the glass. And an alarm is triggered in the museum. And there is a security guard there that night. This is a very contentious point but Edwin told me that he thinks that the security guard was engrossed in a soccer match. The museum virulently denies this. And they told me that particular security guard does not even like soccer. But one thing that we are certain of is that an alarm was triggered. The security guard did not notice it. And Edwin had the run of the place. And he was in there undetected for at least an hour. It was a weirdly easy thing to pull off. His plan had just been to take a couple of the best specimens of each species. But in the dark with just his little LED pinch light he could not see which were the best ones. So he just started grabbing whatever he could fit in his hands. The cotingas were small. He bagged about 100 of those. The resplendent quetzals though were trickier. He had to carefully coil their long tails in order to make them fit. He moved from cabinet to cabinet sometimes emptying whole drawers-- or nearly. He took 47 of the museum's 48 red-ruffed fruitcrow. He only left the last one because he did not see it wedged in the back of the tray. Because he is been here before he knew exactly where to go for what he wanted filled up his suitcase-- you would not believe it would you-- and just walked back to the train station. Kirk tried to get Edwin to describe the feeling that he had loading the birds into the suitcase. But sitting together in the hotel in Dusseldorf Edwin was strangely devoid on this score. He told Kirk it was not like ah they are mine now ho ho ho. It was surprisingly unexciting and technical. Like how do I make them fit? Though he did admit that even he was amazed he managed to pull it off. Edwin said quote the fact that essentially an idiot with a rock could steal a suitcase full of birds from the Natural History Museum even as I think about it-- and I have thought about this myself-- it is absurd. And then he went out the way he came in shoved the suitcase back out of the window first and climbed out after it. At which point this total exhaustion fell over him dragging one foot after the other back to town. And mixed in with the fatigue was paranoia. When he got to the train platform every set of footfalls on the walkway above him was a potential threat. And he was there for hours. He had missed the last train back to London that night and had to sit on the platform with a million dollars worth of birds until 400 in the morning. He got back to his room had this kind of euphoric moment where he laid out all the birds and realized the success of his haul. On the floor or where? I think he laid them out on his bed. Uh-huh. Did he like roll around in the dead birds?  That I do not know. But there was nobody else on planet Earth that had this many flawless specimens of these species. To now be sitting with this haul like he would punch through to the highest level of fly tying because he would not want for anything. And he would just have this kind of-- you are totally in a different game now and no one else is able to play with it you know? And if they wanted to play they would have to pay through the nose. Again Edwin had stolen 299 birds from the museum. He would never have to wonder again where his next feather was coming from. The broken window was not discovered until the following morning. The cops were called in. They look around and the museum and the cops together conclude that nothing seems to have been stolen. Wait. What? Yeah. They went looking for the things that they knew had a huge market value like Darwin's birds. Darwin's birds the famous finches which were still safely cuddled in their drawer. Once again Alfred Wallace was second best to Darwin. Yeah. I went through all that. To me it was like one of the final blows to him is that if they had cared about Wallace as much as they should they would have gone and checked to make sure that Wallace's birds were still there. But they did not. And if they had done that they would have found out right away that they had been robbed. They would have had a big head start on things. But as it happened it took them almost-- it was well over a month before they even found out that they were robbed. 35 days in fact. The closed circuit surveillance cameras in the town of Tring reset after 28 days. In a statement to us the museum said-- I am paraphrasing here-- that there is nothing more important than the security and welfare of the collection. And after the theft they changed how they grant access to the collections and also beefed up their security measures. Act Five The Investigation. It was only when someone wrote to the museum with a question about one of the species that a curator went to that cabinet opened the drawer and saw that it was empty. It was a huge blow. The curators at the Tring are part of a long lineage caring for and protecting this collection. During the Blitz of London in World War II bombs raining down everywhere it was their predecessors who bundled up the museum's bird specimens and secreted them out of the city up to their new location in Tring. That is why they are there so they would be safe. And now under the watch of collections manager Robert Prys-Jones this happened. There is a missing chunk from the record. And in something like  bird it is a missing chunk that-- you know a really substantial-- possibly over the half of the world's resource of that species is now missing. The whole thing was a complete kick in the guts. It was desperately deeply depressing. Alfred Wallace's birds survived Hitler but not Edwin Rist. The investigators did not have a lot of obvious clues to go on. There was almost no physical evidence. But had the police or the museum looked in the visitors log they would have found Edwin's full name which if someone had Googled it they would have found edwinrist.com on which he was selling some of their specimens using their Latin names. They also would have quickly discovered that he played the flute. And if they had gone looking for the birds on eBay or the fly tying forums they would have found birds for sale from someone with the handle FlutePlayer1988. One of the posts was titled Indian crow feathers for sale-- buying new flute. If any of the buyers asked Edwin made up stories as to where the birds came from. But mostly no one asked. They did not want to know. The way Edwin finally got caught was sort of random. A tip came in from a fly tyer who had seen a bird skin at a festival-- in the Netherlands of all places-- that looked like it might have come from the Tring. And the guy traced it back to FlutePlayer1988 on eBay. It took some doing but the police finally tracked Edwin down and showed up at his apartment with a warrant one year after the break-in. He confessed immediately. Brought the officers into his bedroom where his girlfriend was still sleeping and showed them the birds. Since he confessed and plead guilty the case went right to sentencing. Edwin was looking at 10 years for burglary and 14 years for selling stolen goods. But during the sentencing process Edwin's lawyers brought in a psychologist who diagnosed him with Asperger's syndrome. That changed everything. The judge in his statement said that Edwin's crime wholly merited a lengthy prison sentence. He said the crime amounted to quote a natural history disaster of world proportions. But he said because of the diagnosis and a legal precedent in the UK involving Asperger's a long prison sentence would probably be overturned on appeal. So he sentenced Edwin to one year suspended. There was a financial penalty too but no time behind bars. Of the 299 birds a third of them came back to the Tring unscathed. Another third had been plucked at or dismantled or i