OK so before the president got coronavirus which is sending everything now into some new and unforeseen reality there were certain things about the election that had settled into predictable rhythms right? The president will talk about rioters in the streets and law and order. Joe Biden will talk about Donald Trump's character and the way he is done his job. And when it came to the actual process of voting and the mail-in ballots that are going to be used by record numbers of people this year the talking points lined up like this. The president said that mail-in ballots were going to be a disaster. Joe Biden said they were a perfectly good way to vote. The experts said the evidence backed up Biden. Then the president would again insist that they are a disaster. Biden would again say no. The experts would again back him up. The president again would call them a disaster around and around and around in a circle that never ended a very tedious circle. But you know we can remove ourselves from that circle right? For a little perspective.  Good evening town of Nokomis. For a few weeks now one of our producers Ben Calhoun has been calling around to the people who actually handle these ballots that everybody has been yelling about. These people touch them with their hands and they stack them in stacks. Ben? Yeah so the person you are hearing this is Wendy Smith. She is the person who is responsible for running the election and dealing with mail-in ballots and all that in a small town in my home state which is Wisconsin. She is in Nokomis which is way up north. And I called Wendy because I was wondering how this bizarre year was going for clerks like her. I had seen Wendy in a newspaper story. She had tattoos on both arms and this T-shirt that said Why should only one hour be happy? And it said that she rode motorcycles. And I just kind of thought I wanted to talk to her. When I originally reached out to her she was busy sending out absentee ballots to people who'd requested them. You do not mind if I work and talk at the same time do you? No no I actually imagine that you have a lot to do right now. Yeah I came in to 29 absentee ballots and I have got a stack more that have to go. Oh wait so how many total are you looking at compared to a normal year? Oh my gosh. My last presidential I had 100 absentee voters-- Total. --four years ago-- total. I have already almost tripled for this election what I did four years ago. Tripled. So that is like 300 voters out of maybe 1000 that she is responsible for. Wow. And she is getting more requests every week. I have talked to Wendy a couple times now actually. And both times she has worked the entire time that we have been talking. You can hear her keyboard and her printer going in the background the whole time. As I have been talking to you I am printing off all my absentee ballot requests because I have to have them open and done and in the mail today. Wendy told me in all her years as clerk this is definitely the most work she is ever had to do for elections. And one of the reasons for that is that the legislature and the governor keep fighting over how everything should run. There are also lawsuits in Wisconsin like there are all over the country about what the rules for the election should be. And all the little changes that come out of that stuff can be a ton of extra work for Wendy. Like in Wisconsin at one point they changed the rule about how many days somebody has to be a resident in order to vote. So Wendy started scrambling to fix all that. She is redoing all these envelopes. And then they just changed the rule back meaning that all of that scrambling and work was for nothing. So then you went back to trusting your envelopes. Ugh. So all the envelopes that I pre-- you are laughing but try being a one-man-show doing this.  No I am just so sorry. I imagine you-- I just had an image of you buying Pepto Bismol at Costco by the case or something. Yeah. And compared to a normal year how many more times work do you feel like you are doing this year on elections? It is a full-time job. Is this your only job? No this is my part-time job.  What do you do when you are not doing this? I work for an insurance company. I am still working plus putting over time in there plus working here. Oh my gosh. Which is fine. When do you sleep? Um--  OK so she is got the rule changes. She is got tons of extra ballots she is got to keep track of. Mm-hmm and the other big thing that is taking up a bunch more time is helping voters. Because people will just fill things out wrong or they do not know where their ballot is. I talked to her the other day and she was telling me about this couple. I got to try to locate their number. They are snowbirds. Their ballot went down to Florida. They are not there yet. The ballot came back and now I got to try to find a way to reach them. Oh wow. Right so I get to dig through about 300 applications to try to find their-- see if they have a phone number. So Wendy was trying to find them which it seems like something she kind of does a lot. She digs up numbers for people. She finds people on Facebook. So now I mean I know where they live. I can probably drive over there when I am done with work and say hey what do you want to do? The clerks that I have been talking to they all kind of talk like this. They have this down-to-earth sort of civic-mindedness. Yeah. There is this other clerk Marilynn Pedretti. She is in this town called Holland which is slightly bigger than Nokomis. It is like 4300 people. And Marilynn Pedretti spent five years in DC where she worked for a congressman and then she worked in the Senate. But she got sick of Washington and so she spent the last 20 years as the town clerk for Holland. I want votes to count. I will not disenfranchise somebody and be lazy. I will do everything I can. I try to find their phone number first. If I cannot find that I try to email. If I do not have that I will send them a letter. So yeah we are doing everything we can to make sure those votes count. The one thing I find very frustrating is the conspiracy theories that are out there. And people believe them. I am like hello I am your town clerk. I am not going to throw your ballot away. And you can track it. There is no way I can throw your ballot away. So when you hear these stories about somebody picked some ballots out of a garbage and they open them up it is like number one whoever opened them up should be put in jail because you cannot open up the ballot. If it is sealed you have to leave it sealed until election day. And we have 1800 municipalities in the state of Wisconsin. It is not centralized. It would take 1800 clerks to do the wrong thing. Are there clerks out there that make mistakes? You bet. But when people come in with these conspiracies that the whole system is rigged I am like no. No it is not. All the clerks that I talked to-- and this is in Republican areas and Democratic areas. They all seemed like this was sort of driving them a little nuts people getting the idea that what they do is very loosely goosey and that people are just going to cheat the system. To them that is just outlandish because they say that there is too much security built into everything. Security like what? Well they keep track of every request for a ballot. Unless you cannot leave the house you have to submit your ID to get an absentee ballot. Clerks put tracking info on the ballot. And then they keep track of them when they are sent out and then coming back. And then when it comes back in it has to have a voter signature and a witness signature for verification. At the end of the whole election they also have to have report back to the state what ballots ended up where like which ones went out and came back and which ones went out and never came back. Say somebody moves and they ask for a ballot in a new location that is also something the state tracks. And I just want to say Wisconsin is pretty typical for how all this stuff works. I feel like all these details exist in this universe that does not overlap in any way with the discussion that I see in the national media and the arguments that I heard during the presidential debate. It just seems kind of sad that that universe the national politics universe is lobbing grenades into these women's universe. Yeah I know. I mean I have been at this for a couple weeks and I have not found one clerk that is worried about fraud. All of them are worried about the rule changes and the number of extra mail-in ballots. I mean they think they can deal with that. It is just a lot more work. But they are running into these conspiracy theories a lot-- locally. Yeah I know. Yeah yeah no that is what I am hearing. Marilynn she is like Wendy. She is a clerk part-time. And she also gardens two acres and she sells vegetables on the side of the highway. I mean I have a roadside stand and I am out there. And people know who I am. And they will talk to me about election stuff which is fun. But this woman who is out there buying my vegetables and knows that I am the town clerk is telling me that all these dead people are voting. And it is like um no. It is pretty much impossible in the state of Wisconsin for a dead person to vote. If they had died the day before election maybe I will not catch that and maybe that ballot will go through. But that is one vote. It is not like the whole cemetery is voting. And I just looked at her said ahem you know I am the clerk right? Yeah yeah. Do you think I would let dead people vote? Well no not you but somewhere else. I said cannot happen in the state of Wisconsin. Well um it happens in other states. No it does not. Stop listening to that stuff. And I do it cheerfully. I do not yell or anything. Just like this is-- it is just wrong and you have got to stop listening to that stuff. Well Ben Calhoun thanks very much. Oh sure. Are you going to stay in touch with these clerks as everything heats up in the next couple weeks? I mean as long as they will answer my calls. There are so many jobs like this around the country. Some of them are part-time like with these two women. Some of them are full-time. Some are paid jobs lots of volunteer or people get some tiny stipend. These are people who are throwing themselves into the details of some tasks that just needs to get done for our country to function and doing it in the normal decent civic-minded way that you would imagine and that you would hope for. And it is corny to say it but we are a country blessed with armies of people who are trying to contribute to their communities in all kinds of ways. And today's program is about a group of people like that people who are as best we can tell trying to do a good job for all of us. They are trying to protect the public. But in this case too often they are failing. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  Act One Clinical Trial. So the people that most of today's program is about are doctors doctors who have agreed to sit on panels to judge other doctors to discipline them or revoke their licenses when they behave badly. Every state has these medical boards. They grant medical licenses and they are the ones responsible for taking them away. We heard about all this from a law professor at Vanderbilt Rebecca Allensworth. In 2018 she started going to medical board hearings in Tennessee where she lives. It was research for a book that she plans to write about licensing boards. And what she saw when she got there horrified her. Dana Chivvis is going to take it from here. When it comes to the Tennessee Board of Medical Examiners Rebecca is like the one die-hard fan in the stands at a town softball game. She knows all the board members by name. She is interviewed most of them attended all their meetings in person or watched the livestream. She even went to their offsite retreat last year. Before you went to any medical board meetings how did you imagine they would be? I thought they would be pretty boring. But I think I also thought it was going to be in some sort of grand state government building. I think I had our state capital in mind or something. But it is just like an office park. So yeah so describe what it actually looked like. It is like a three or four-story square office building probably built in the '70s or '80s. This is Nashville so there is copious parking and-- It sounds like Dunder Mifflin to me. Oh my god it looked just like Dunder Mifflin. It looked just like Dunder Mifflin. The first meeting she went to an OB-GYN appeared before the board to request a new medical license. The board had taken his old license away six months before when they learned that he would had sex with 11 of his patients. He would done drugs with at least one of them too. He would also prescribe them and other people who were not his patients controlled substances like codeine and Xanax. So this doctor was there to ask the medical board for a new license. All that stuff the sex the drugs had happened years before. He would been to rehab was sober now saw the error in his old ways. And the board gave him a new license with some conditions attached but he could practice medicine again. Rebecca could not believe it. There just has to be some sins that are unforgivable in the eyes of the board. The board is a regulatory body. They are not your priest. They are not deciding whether or not you are really sorry. They are deciding whether or not you are a safe provider. Officially the board's mission is to protect the health safety and welfare of people in the state of Tennessee. Board members and staff repeat that mission all the time like a mantra. But since Rebecca has been following the board she is seen a bunch of cases like that OB-GYN where doctors have done something really bad seemingly irredeemable and somehow they have managed to keep their medical licenses. They are out there working as doctors in Tennessee right now. So this became the question of her research. What was going wrong in the system? Why were these doctors allowed to keep working? One case in particular became the focus of her attention because it seemed like a perfect storm of regulatory failure. And that is what I want to tell you about today. It is about a doctor named Michael LaPaglia. I will start the story back in 2013. LaPaglia was working as an ER doctor at the time. And late one night police got a call about a domestic disturbance at his house. When the police arrived they smelled weed and searched the house. They found-- actually let me just read from the police officer's affidavit. Quote A search of the residence pursuant to the search warrant revealed 45 quart-sized Mason jars which contained marijuana 127 glass pipes used to smoke marijuana Glock 19 9 millimeter grow light with ballast timer digital scale and ledger detailing namesamounts. Also discovered were approximately 52 diazepam 22 amphetamine and 24 oxycodone pills. In addition the police found on a shelf in LaPaglia's office vials of fentanyl morphine and propofol which is used for general anesthesia. LaPaglia's girlfriend told police that he had threatened to use that stuff to kill her. In the petition she filed for a restraining order the next day she said quote Michael told me that if I ever contacted the police for help or reported his drug use Michael would use his powers as a physician to have me committed to psychiatric facility. Michael stated he would make sure my body would not be found. Michael stated that he would take my life away. I am in fear for my life and my son's life. LaPaglia told police his girlfriend was delusional. He was arrested and charged with two drug felonies intent to distribute a controlled substance and intent to distribute marijuana. He pled no contest and went to inpatient rehab. He was addicted to Valium at the time. He lost his job at the hospital. The medical board put him on probation. And he surrendered his DEA registration number which is the thing you have to have to prescribe controlled substances. That is a big deal. It is very hard to get a job once you have lost your DEA number. No one wants to touch him. No employer is going to take him-- very few employers anyway-- with a record like that. Private insurance forget it. Hospital forget it. A few years later he files for bankruptcy because there is no way to earn money back at the same clip as you are as an ER physician. But he got a job at an addiction clinic a friend of his owned. It was called EHC Express Health Care. LaPaglia would see patients like a regular doctor work up a treatment plan and everything and then another doctor would write their prescriptions. Dr. LaPaglia helped a friend of his Dr. Charles Brooks get a job at Express Health Care too. Dr. Brooks was also on probation with the medical board. He would had sex with a patient-- he says they were having an affair-- and at least once given her a controlled substance-- he says to calm her nerves because they were having an affair. But unlike Dr. LaPaglia he did not lose his DEA number. He could still prescribe. Dr. LaPaglia left EHC. And in early 2018 he and Dr. Brooks started up a little side business. So he and Dr. Brooks kind of hatched this plan. LaPaglia and Brooks realized OK well here's what we are going to do. We are going to start a clinic called LB Healthcare LaPaglia and Brooks. But LaPaglia does not have a DEA number so we will use Brooks's. LaPaglia is going to do the work. He was going to write the prescriptions. It is his phone number on the prescription pad that they make out. But it is Brooks's DEA number and it is Brooks's signature. Sometimes they were presigned. Sometimes LaPaglia forged the signature. Oh and they sell them for 300 cash out of LaPaglia's home at least once in a McDonald's parking lot. LB Healthcare did not have an actual brick and mortar office. LaPaglia would see people wherever it was convenient write prescriptions for controlled substances like Klonopin Valium and Suboxone. When the facts came out about their operation it looked like they were selling prescriptions for cash like drug dealers with stethoscopes. LaPaglia and Brooks say that is not the case at all that they were legitimately treating people with addiction problems by prescribing them controlled substances. It is something called medication-assisted treatment like the way methadone is used to treat heroin addictions. So that is what they said they were doing. Regardless it was still illegal. A few months into the venture the Feds busted them charged them with drug trafficking for writing prescriptions for controlled substances without the authority to do so and fraud for using Brooks's DEA number in the scam. Brooks pled not guilty but Dr. LaPaglia signed a plea deal with federal prosecutors. He is still waiting to be sentenced but he could be facing prison time. So that is the federal criminal court. LaPaglia still had to face the Tennessee Medical Board. And when they found out about LB Healthcare they summarily suspended the doctors' medical licenses until they could hold disciplinary hearings for them. The case unfolded over three hearings from March to July 2019. The first one in March was the disciplinary hearing for LaPaglia's partner Dr. Brooks. Rebecca was there. She would been going to medical board meetings for a year at that point. And I see this guy who is doing something that actually even I think the physicians on the board find really offensive which is giving up control of your pad. And to hand it over to somebody else is really seen as pretty unethical. Most doctors do not view their pad as a moneymaker. These medical board disciplinary hearings are technically administrative courts. They run kind of like the criminal and civil court systems. But the question they are addressing is more pointed. It is whether a doctor should be allowed to continue to practice medicine. Dr. LaPaglia agreed to testify against Dr. Brooks in front of the medical board. The signature on that prescription says Charles Brooks correct? Correct. Is that your signature there? That is my writing yes. Just to set the stage the guy asking the questions is Andrew Coffman. He is the prosecuting attorney. He works for the Tennessee Department of Health. Dr. LaPaglia is the one answering his questions. While you are partners with Dr. Brooks to your knowledge was he aware that you were signing his name to blank prescriptions? Yes. What makes you think that he was aware? Because sometimes I would run out of presigned prescriptions and had to do what I had to do to take care of the patient. And we have discussed it. When you went to work for-- with Dr. Brooks did you believe that what you were doing was against the law? No. Dr. LaPaglia was like yeah I think we probably cut some corners. I think you know mistakes were made. No we discussed it and we knew that what we were doing was not ideal because we had very little resources to get started. But we never imagined that we were breaking the law. His general attitude was like error in judgment not a big deal. But has your opinion changed about whether you were breaking the law? Yes. Why? Because federal prosecutors have convinced me otherwise. I spoke with Dr. LaPaglia. He did not want me to record our conversation. And we did not talk for long before he got off the phone. But he reiterated to me that he and Dr. Brooks did not think they were doing anything wrong. When they worked in addiction clinics the doctors there would hand prescriptions to receptionists. And the receptionist would call them into a pharmacy. It happened all the time. He told me quote We did not see any difference between him giving me verbal authorization to call them in and verbal authorization to write a prescription. I still do not see a difference. And if someone had a problem with that the federal government had a problem with that they could have just told us to stop. They did not have to indict us and charge us with two felonies. I reached out to Dr. LaPaglia several times after that initial call but he declined my request to talk further. There were three board members hearing Dr. Brooks's case that day. And they were not swayed by this defense that they did not know they were doing anything wrong that they were just trying to help their drug-sick patients. In fact the board members suspected that LB Healthcare was not a legitimate business at all. Here's Dr. Charles Handorf one of the board members questioning Dr. LaPaglia. Did the clinic ever apply for or receive a business license? No. Did the clinic ever apply for or register articles of incorporation with the Secretary of State-- No. --of Tennessee? Has the clinic ever filed tax returns? Um not to date no. OK so sitting here it sounds like this is not a business at all. So that was Dr. LaPaglia testifying at Dr. Brooks's disciplinary hearing in front of the medical board. Once Brooks's case was adjudicated it was LaPaglia's turn for discipline. He and his attorney had worked out a deal with Andrew Coffman the Department of Health attorney. It is called the consent order. It is basically the board's version of a plea deal. So at the next board meeting in May Coffman presented this deal to the board members. The board had to decide whether to accept it. Good morning Andrew Coffman with the Office of General Counsel. And here's what the deal was. Basically LaPaglia could go back to practicing medicine in another month. But he would be on probation for five years and he would have to be monitored by a physicians' addiction group. And he would be banned from prescribing controlled substances for two years. It is similar to what Dr. Brooks got in March but slightly less because LaPaglia had admitted guilt and had testified against Brooks. It is what they call a downward departure in the criminal system. Cooperating witnesses often get lighter sentences. It is supposed to give people an incentive to tell the truth. But the board was not having it with this deal. They looked at LaPaglia and saw a guy whose medical license was already on probation when he used another doctor's prescription pad to write controlled substance prescriptions. Here's Dr. John Hale one of the board members. This seems rather light. I mean we just had a physician whose prescriptions were stolen and his fines were significantly more than that. I cannot in good conscience approve of this. I am sorry. The board has 12 members appointed by the governor. And three of them are not doctors. They are called consumer members-- in this case a real estate agent an academic advisor and a political fundraiser. They were even more pissed than the doctors on the board. This man does not need to be on the streets or in his office writing prescriptions in the state of Tennessee as far as I am concerned. And we are charged with the responsibility of protecting the citizens of Tennessee so that is my concern. So how do we get to that point? Well the only thing you can do today is reject this order. Thank you counselor. That is all the-- Ms. Cole I would really appreciate your insight too as a consumer member. I share their feelings completely. I live in Knoxville. I know this McDonald's. To think that he could be back there ever is scary to me as a consumer member. And as I have young daughters and this man is not safe to be out in the public I do not think. Just a tour guide's representation here this McDonald's is two blocks away from one of the major high schools in Knoxville. So again I agree with her. This man does not need to be on the streets with this type of ability. All in favor of denying the motion for this order on LaPaglia say aye. Aye. The board rejected the plea deal. It was unanimous. So now Dr. LaPaglia's case will go to trial or the medical board version of a trial a contested case hearing where he has the possibility of getting a much heavier discipline. They could suspend his license for even longer for instance or even revoke it altogether. I had been following this case. And so yeah I wanted a full hearing. I wanted the opportunity to see Dr. LaPaglia testify and maybe try to talk to him. And I figured everything was lining up for them to finally throw the book at somebody. Rebecca had been to several of these disciplinary hearings by then. She would seen so many doctors get away with what she considered to be light punishments. But it seemed like the board was finally going to put its foot down with LaPaglia. Dana Chivvis. Coming up what goes wrong when the board gets a chance to finally put its foot down. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues.  It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Trust Me I am a Doctor. We have stories about people trying to do civic-minded things for their own communities and in the case of medical boards sometimes failing to accomplish that job the way that lots of us would want them to. Right now we are in the middle of Dana Chivvis's story and we pick up where we left off. The Medical Board in Tennessee has rejected Dr. LaPaglia's plea deal. And two months after that at their next meeting the board holds a hearing for his case. Here's Dana. How these hearings work they are basically mini trials. Each case gets assigned to a panel of three board members. LaPaglia's panel was made up of two doctors and a consumer member. They sit at the front of the room facing everyone else. And they are going to decide if the prosecutor has proven his case and if so how to discipline Dr. LaPaglia. There is also an administrative law judge who acts as a referee more than anything else. Today the board will be considering the case of the Tennessee Department of Health versus Michael LaPaglia. They hold Dr. LaPaglia's hearing in the Iris Room a name which defies the interior decorator's vision-- beige carpet beige walls fluorescent lights. Dr. LaPaglia is sitting at a table with his attorney facing the panel. The prosecutor Andrew Coffman he is sitting at a table to the right. And Rebecca's there too in the front row. It was really weird. It was weird from the first moment when they did opening statements. Good morning. I am Andrew Coffman. You heard me introduce myself earlier. The prosecutor went first Mr. Coffman and he said-- We are going to hear a lot of facts today good bad and ugly. --this is a rare case where we basically agree with defense counsel on everything. And in an unusual twist there is not much dispute between the parties about what those facts are whether they are good bad or ugly. And it was just kind of a half-hearted prosecution. I mean OK it is an administrative hearing. It is a little more casual than a criminal trial or something. But it is meant to be adversarial. Now I think that the evidence is going to show that Dr. LaPaglia believed that he was providing good treatment to people that actually had a need for that treatment. Coffman is there to prosecute LaPaglia but it seems like he is going pretty easy on him like that 2013 drug bust the one where the cops found Valium Oxycodone amphetamines marijuana a gun a scale a ledger paralytic agents and other sedatives. Coffman does not say the charge was possession with intent to deliver. He just says LaPaglia pled to some charges-- That related to his own personal use of controlled substances outside the bounds of the law. And the very next month-- If I were prosecuting I would probably use some stronger language. LaPaglia is coming across as a guy who once struggled with a substance use disorder but got help sobered up and then in the course of trying to help other people who suffer from drug addictions unwittingly bumbled his way into this next bit of trouble with Dr. Brooks. Here's how LaPaglia's defense attorney also described him in his opening statement. He may be dumb but he is a good doctor. He is responsible. He is done a lot to help the community. It is like everyone in this trial was on Dr. LaPaglia's side. I asked Andrew Coffman why he handled the case the way he did. He said basically this case was not contentious by its very nature. His job was to prove that Dr. LaPaglia Paglia had written prescriptions for controlled substances using another doctor's prescription pad. His star witness? Dr. LaPaglia who had admitted repeatedly that yes he had used Dr. Brooks's pad to write prescriptions for controlled substances. But also there is another reason why the prosecution was maybe a bit anemic in this case. The Department of Health attorneys Coffman and his colleagues were feeling frustrated. When this whole thing started back in March at Dr. Brooks's hearing-- Dr. Brooks LaPaglia's coconspirator-- Coffman had asked the board to revoke Dr. Brooks's license. But the board rejected that and said it was too harsh. So the prosecutors went easier on LaPaglia in his plea deal. And then the board rejected that said it went too easy on him. There was no consistency to their logic. Coffman's boss said later at a board retreat where they discussed this case that they felt a little bit knocked down by the whole thing. So at LaPaglia's hearing Coffman just presented the straight facts of the case and told the panel what their options were for disciplining him did not suggest a punishment. They did not know what the hell the board wanted so they did not try to guess. And this brings us to the single biggest problem Rebecca sees in the system-- the doctors who sit on these medical boards. It is a distinguished position to be on the Tennessee Board of Medical Examiners. They have to be appointed by the governor. There is a full-time staff that supports the board-- attorneys administrators medical consultants. And they sit in judgment of doctors. But as far as judges go they are amateurs. Most of them are doctors. They have lots of training in medicine and very little training in administrative law. The deciders in Dr. LaPaglia's case the three board members on this panel were Julianne Cole-- she is a consumer member-- Dr. Phyllis Miller an OB-GYN and Dr. Stephen Loyd. Dr. Loyd was the newest member of the board. He would never done any of this before. In fact this was his second day on the job. I had not even had orientation. I mean I walked in there-- and never been to a board meeting. I read all the rulings-- When they were like we are going to split off into panels for the contested case hearings now did you have any sense of what that meant or what it would look like? None. Nope none. So what did you do? Did somebody tell you you go into this room with these people?  What did I do? Yeah. I shit a sideways brick is what I did. I mean I had no idea. It is ju