Hey everybody. Ira here. This episode of our show contains words that were beeped when we broadcast this over the radio that are not beeped in this online version. Leonetta Sanders the principal of Harper High School in Chicago has a decision to make. And she has to make it right away. She has to decide whether to cancel the school's homecoming game and dance. Coach Reed I need you in the Melon room at this time Coach Reed. Coach Sales. She calls her staff together for a meeting. The day before this when everybody was at a pep rally in the gym for Homecoming a 16-year-old who attended Harper last year and dropped out who still had friends here was shot just a few blocks from school. Immediately the staff jumped into action. If you heard our radio program last week you heard this part of the story where it was the gang responsible for the shooting had members on the football team. So Principal Sanders was scared that there might be retaliation at the game or at the dance. They sent home a handful of kids they thought might be in danger. Here is what happens next. When the staff now assembles on Friday afternoon Principal Sanders informs them that there is news. Another incident. OK so I just got word that there was a shooting. But it was a shooting in the neighborhood. Anthony Harper's father picked him up. And by the time he crossed 67th there were shooting. So it is starting already. Nobody was hurt in this latest shooting. Though I think to any outsider it is hard to imagine Harper not canceling Homecoming at this point. The school has just come off a terrible year in which 29 current and recent students were shot. Eight of them died. Dozens more were in incidents where bullets were fired but they did not get hit. These murders as you would expect were hard on faculty and students alike. But partly because it is been so tough Principle Sanders wants very badly to give her students the fun normal stuff that other high school students get as much as she can. She really wants them to have a Homecoming dance. And so her decision-- We are going to move forward with this dance. I have been on the phone basically all day with Tony Ruiz Chicago police. So they are going to be standing on corners. Tony Ruiz says he is going to have some undercover police cars and rapid response. When school lets out at the end of the day it is tense. There are more police cars than usual. Harper security staff and administrators are out on the sidewalks in force. Principal Sanders is wary as she looks up and down the street for any kids that seem out of place who might be there for the wrong reasons. I will make sure I-- who is that? He do not go to Harper. Who is that? I will check. When I go back in I will check. You know when they get cold they start wearing these damn black hoodies. It is really pissing me off. Why he walking this way? Sanders talks to one of the police officers. He throws on his lights drives down the block questions the kid puts him against the wall and checks for weapons and then lets him go. And very soon it is time for the game. Let us go Cardinals! Let us go! Let us go Cardinals! There is no violence at the game unless you count the incredible trouncing the Harper Cardinals give to Marshall High School.  Final score 40 to 0. Later at the Homecoming dance dressed up kids slowly stream through the metal detector. If you are not a Harper student have your IDs out. As for the dance after all the worrying and the beefed-up security what ended up happening is nothing-- the best possible outcome. The teenager who had been shot on Thursday James Williams made it to the hospital and survived. Maybe because of that there was no other immediate bloodshed. Kids dance in a darkened gym. On the bleachers you can make out Barielle the Homecoming Queen her dainty crown bouncing up and down at the center of this mass of kids. For the staff who have been here at this point for 14 hours the significance of this moment is not lost. It is regular life. They were able to give the kids regular high school for a night-- a dance. Three girlfriends collect crumpled dollar bills together to make 10 bucks so they can pose one in wobbly high heels in front of the fake Roman columns and sky-blue backdrop the photographer's set up. On three-- one two-- That is him. Three. There you go. Today on our radio program we spend a second hour at Harper High School on Chicago's South Side. We sent three reporters there for five months starting at the beginning of this school year because of all the shootings they have had. We have all heard a lot about gun violence and kids in the last few months. Here at our radio program we wanted to understand what the staff and families at Harper know about this violence that most of us around the country do not know. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. You do not have to have heard our first hour on Harper High School to follow what happens in this second hour. We are going to be focusing more on the students in this hour. We are going to get to know a few of their stories. Stay with us. Act One The Eyewitness. Most murders in Chicago-- 82 of them in 2011-- happen in public places parks and streets and alleyways and cars. And lots of kids at Harper will tell you that they personally have actually seen someone shot. One of the three reporters we sent into the school Alex Kotlowitz has this story about a student who has seen more than his share. In the five months I spent at Harper nearly every time I visited the school's social work office which was often Thomas a junior would be there too during classes passing periods lunch whenever. So much that one day I asked him hey every time I come here you are here. Why do you hang out here so much? Nay I as not gonna give you no answer for that. Every time I come here you come. And I am for real. No every time I come you are here.   Sometimes I just need to talk to somebody. That is why I come here. Thomas has witnessed an incredible amount of violence. Last June he was standing on the porch of an abandoned building talking with another Harper student Shakaki Asphy when she was shot and killed. This though was not the first murder Thomas had witnessed. Back in 2006 he was at a birthday party for 10-year-old girl Siretha White nicknamed Nugget when someone shot though the front window. Thomas says he remembers being led out of the house by the police and seeing Nugget laying on the floor with what appeared to be her brains next to her. Nugget's killing happened when Thomas was 10. Shakaki's murder was when Thomas was 17. And as his social worker Anita Stewart tells it there have been many many in between. Last summer one of the kids in the neighborhood got shot in the face. He witnessed that. Then it was a student here that got shot in the leg. He was a witness to that. And there was some guy-- and I do not know. He never really fully told me about this story. But he got shot in the head. And he was talking about his brains being on the ground. So he witnessed that. Thomas's brother has been shot on three separate occasions. Thomas witnessed all of them including the time his brother was paralyzed. Good morning Thomas. Good morning. And I can understand why you did not get here on time this morning. You know that your sister says that she wakes you up every morning. My mama just brought me here. Lower your voice. I am right here. It is so good to see you this morning. Why you just come talking about-- Thomas and Anita have an interesting relationship. He is pretty combative kind of churlish. At times it almost seems like he does not even like Anita very much. But the truth is they are incredibly close. Anita splits her time between Harper and another high school. And the two or three days a week she is at Harper Thomas always comes to see her. She frequently visits him on his block and at his house and affectionately calls him big baby. I do not think Thomas opens up much to many people but he does with Anita. You know Nugget's little brother got shot Monday. No. Is he OK? He go shot in his stomach and his leg. Her little brother? How old is her little brother? Like 15. And what school does he go to? I do not know. So what did you think about it when you heard about it after you heard about it? Nothing. Nothing? Just another person got shot. Just another person got shot?  You can hear it in Thomas's voice muffled and sluggish as if he is speaking from deep inside a cave. Even his physical demeanour makes it clear he would just as well disappear. His braided hair hangs over his eyes. He often has a hood on. He will not look you in the eye. Anita's trying to pull him out of his hiding. Hey Thomas. What did you think of the memorial for Shakaki? I walked past it. I do not know. Have you looked at it? At the end of October on the first floor the school put up a memorial display for Shakaki the girl Thomas was standing next to when she was killed. It is a glass case filled with pictures of her and her friends a basketball signed by her teammates and a note Anita had written to her after she died. Shakaki who like so many kids at Harper half expect to die young had told Anita if she was killed she wanted her to put a note in her casket. After she was killed Anita wrote the note but you could not bring herself to put it in which Shakaki. Anita had worked with Shakaki for two years. And she is still struggling with their own grief over her death. And partly it is the shared grief that draws Anita and Thomas together. Like Thomas Anita has not been able to bring herself to look at the memorial. Because I have not looked at it. I saw it. But I could not go up there. I am not ready to go up there yet. So why have not you gone up there to look at it? I do not need to go up there right now. OK. I do have a question for you Thomas. With all of the things that you have experienced which one is constantly on your mind? You have experienced so much. I do not think about none of that. You do not think about none of it? None of it is on your mind. Not the situation with your brother? What about at the bus stop? What about at the party? No I do not think about that. You do not think about the party when you were a kid? Man I got older. That stuff is old now. It is old? You remember what happened right? Right but-- Does it really get old Thomas? It is done now. It is done. I know and I understand that it is done. But does it really get old where you can say OK this is over I do not think about it anymore? But if I think about it I will do something. You will do something like what? Try to hurt somebody. Try to hurt somebody he says. Trying to hurt someone or wanting to hurt someone these are things Thomas has said a lot. One time when I asked him where he thought he might be in 10 years he said might be in jail because I think I am going to hurt someone. Mostly it felt like tough talk like teenage bravado. But on this day when talking about Shakaki it started to become clear that this kind of talk talk about hurting someone is not just tough guy bragging. I began to realize that Thomas was trying the best he could to be honest about some feelings he has feelings that scare him. Thomas begins by haltingly explaining what happened the night Shakaki was shot. He was standing on the porch Shakaki next to him. They were just hanging out just talking. Thomas's brother was in his wheelchair on the sidewalk in front. When the shooter dressed in a gray hoodie came running up alongside the building Thomas pleaded with him not to shoot. But the shooter fired several rounds hitting Shakaki three times and Thomas's brother once in the thigh. Thomas ran but quickly came back. He says that when Shakaki was laying on the ground he first thought she would be OK. Because when she got shot then anyways she gonna be all right then. She was talking right? She was on the ground. She was talking. But all she kept saying it burned. She was saying that it burned. When the ambulances finally showed up they took Shakaki and Thomas's brother to the hospital leaving Thomas alone. He did not go home. He was just alone. Then they took her. Then they took my brother. Then I walked off mad. I walked to the gas station to see who I could see. At the gas station he did not find anyone. And ever since that day I was just trying to hurt everybody. I did not sleep that whole week she got killed. She got shot on Saturday. She died Sunday. I was sleepless for a whole week. He was filled with grief anxiety guilt. And then he got into a fight. And what did you get into a fight over? Nothing important. Thomas says an older kid on the street pushed his little cousin to the ground. Thomas was furious. He went after the older boy. It was not no fight. I just hit him. And he walked off crying a whole lot. I did not know his teeth was in my hand until I looked at it. Thomas punched the boy so hard one of the boy's teeth got stuck in Thomas hand. Later that night his grandma took him to the hospital. And he eventually had surgery on his hand. He told me that once he hurt his hand he was able to sleep again. It was that simple. Getting into this stupid fight it brought him relief. Thomas has said many times that he knows something violent is going to happen again. It could be random. He says bullets fly all the time. One could come through the living room window and hit his grandma. Or a stray bullet could hit Anita when she is on the block. What happens happens he often says. And when it happens next he knows he will need relief again. If it happens again I do not think I could stop. You are worried that will be the breaking point for you? No I as not worried about nothing. If it happens again though I know I could hurt a lot of people if I wanted to. I do not think you want to. I really do not think you want to. Anita's trying to convince Thomas to deal with his feelings in other ways. Not long ago they visited Shakaki's gravesite together. Anita says is was big deal for Thomas to go. I am proud of him she told me. Alex Kotlowitz he will be back later in our hour. Act Two Your Name Written On Us. In the unofficial school calendar for Harper there are these anniversaries of days that certain kids were shot or the birthdays of those same kids. They have a big enough effect on what happens at school that the administration and the police department keep track of these days. They can be dangerous. One of the important anniversaries in the fall is TG day named for Terrance Green. In all kinds of ways since his death at 16 Terrance Green has become one of the iconic figures in the neighborhood around Harper. Ben Calhoun looked into how that happened. Terrance Green was murdered during summer break July 2009. But more than a month later when kids came back to school the grief over his death. It was still flooding from the neighborhood into Harper. It was the largest fallout of a student death I had ever seen before. Even the boys could not hold back their tears. Crystal Smith one of the school's social workers. In some ways she says that was not so surprising. Terrance was popular and charming and funny. But she was still not expecting what she saw next. I started seeing this TGC TGC TGC everywhere. Whether it be I was seeing it on book bags or tattooed on one of the kids. And I was like what is that? And they were like oh you know this is the Terrance Green Crew. It turned into a whole different gang. The new clique the new gang that Terrance's death gave birth to today it controls 23 city blocks in the neighborhood east of Harper. It is called Terrance Green City goes by the initials TGC. Sometimes it is called True Gangster City. For TGC and two or three other allied gangs the dates of Terrance's death and his birthday in November in the neighborhood those days are a big deal. Hundreds of people turn out for street parties. And around those times the hostility over Terrance's murder it can all come back. Crystal remembers last November. The staff was told to clear out of the building immediately when school ended. And they had called in for extra police support. Somebody told me they were like they brought the big guns out. Assault rifles. Some of the police outside the school were carrying assault rifles. But then as I was driving down the street it was just like a scene I had never seen. I had never seen so many kids posted on the corners at one time. And I had never seen them standing outside with bats and sticks and stuff. And they were like on every street. Three years after Terrance Green's murder the legacy left by it continues to sprawl. The song you are hearing is just one of the many tributes to Terrance online. There is also slide shows collages videos some with slick editing and production. Lots are on YouTube. SINGING Yeah TGC you already know man. Young Life Seven Deuce man. RIP my nigga man. Prince TG Prince mother fucka TG. Yeah we gonna miss you. I got you tatted on my arm man. The grief's still sitting on us so we got your name written on us. You know how that go. The mythology around Terrance and the devotion to him it is intense. Kids who know Terrance use his last name Green in place of their own. This was confusing at first when I met several of his friends who told me their last name was Green. But the most troubling example of Terrance's legacy was this series of videos made by kids. The footage is choppy and grainy like it is shot on a cell phone. It is of about a dozen kids walking around the street at night. They range in age from maybe 9 or 10 to early high school. Here they are threatening and taunting a rival gang S-Dub which is also called the Dub. It is the gang that is widely believed by students Harper staff and police to have killed Terrance. For the rest of my life I am screaming fuck the Dub! Fuck the Dub! Fuck the Dub! Toward the end of the video one particular kid appears. He looks like he is barely out of middle school somewhere between 12 and 14. In his right hand is a gun a semi-automatic. He points it at the camera. He shouts hate at opposing gangs. He praises the territory he says he is protecting Terrance Green City.  The feud between TGC and S-Dub that followed Terrance's death it is turned into a long chain of retaliation. Principle Sanders says her staff knows of seven murders and more than 10 other shootings that lead back to Terrance. This list includes Cedric Bell one of Harper's students killed last year. And it is not like Terrance's story is one of a kind. There is other cliques around Harper named after kids who were murdered. There is Bird gang northwest of the school named after Martel Barrett whose nickname was Bird. He was killed the same year as Terrance. There is Face World named for a kid whose street name was Face. There is Frank World and Dome City. It makes you wonder about the lives of these kids kids like Terrance. Why did his death lead to songs and kids using his last name in place of their own to assault rifles outside Harper and a remapping of the violence around the school? Why this 16-year-old? This is an eighth grade graduation picture. What a cute kid. Terrance grew up in a house with two loving hardworking parents. This is his dad here Tony Owens. He is a full-time bus driver and a union official for the Chicago Transit Authority. His mother Lorraine Green works at a bank. Together the couple raised five kids. Terrance's siblings at this point have all graduated from high school. One's in college. The rest are all doing well. His older brother is a pastor. Hey hey here's my man Boogie here. How are you doing? It is nice to meet you. He is here. Hey man what is up ? A friend of Terrance's dropped by during one of my visits to Mr. Owens. Boogie was one of the closest people to Terrance. They were friends since third grade. As you are going to hear there are some big differences in the way they see Terrance's story. But here's the stuff they agree on. Terrance was an amazing athlete and a leader. When he was in middle school he played quarterback for a youth league team that went to a national championship. And they both say the problem started when Terrance was in high school. He and Boogie had to walk to Harper through a rival neighborhood. The kids there would bully Terrance and his friends. And then Terrance he had a teenage fling with and then dumped the little sister of a gang member from the other neighborhood from S-Dub the gang that people believe killed him later. And she told him that my brother going to get you. She told Terrance that. My brother is going to get you. My brother gonna get you because he was not dating her. The way Mr. Owens describes the situation it was half girl problem half bully problem. There were some fights in school some fights on the street. And one Friday afternoon Terrance got shot in a drive-by. Police reports show the brother was brought in for questioning but was not charged. No one was ever charged. And this is where Boogie's version of the story separates from Mr. Owens's on a crucial point. Mr. Owens says Terrance and Boogie and their friend's were not in a gang. Boogie says that was true but only at first. Boogie tells the story this way. When it all started there was the gang that the girl's brother was in S-Dub. They were fighting with the older guys in Terrance's neighborhood who were in a gang called Seven Deuce. Boogie has no idea what that war was about-- girls money who knows? They would been at it for years he says. He and Terrance and their friends they were separate from all that. They were just kids. They were interested in sports and music. They could cross into S-Dub's territory. They would go over hang out play basketball. It was no big deal. But by the time they got to high school it was like a switch flipped on them. Once they come through and we taller now. It is all about height and stuff like that. So they call it hard legs shooting at any hard legs. That means male-- any male that look of age. Any male that look of age will get shot. So that is where it started right there. You involved now. That is the thing. Now you a part of it. Boogie says the guys from S-Dub they just assumed they were with Seven Deuce because they were young men living in the neighborhood. So S-Dub would drive up point guns at them threaten them. They would steal from them and take their stuff embarrass them in front of girls. It was humiliating. And avoiding all that did not seem like an option. Police or parents or teachers were not about to step in and fix it. So they turned to each other. They did what a lot of teenage boys might do in that situation. They decided they were not going to back down. One member of TGC tells me Terrance got his friends together for a meeting. He said he was starting something new a new group. He named it Yung Lyfe which stood for young unique noble gentlemen living youthful and fulfilled every day. Fear drove us to really get into it. We felt like we had to fight fire with fire. Like Terrance he always was a stronger leader because he was the quarterback of a football team. So he knew how to lead a team. So we thought if they want to come burn us down we gonna come burn they town down too. All this was news to Mr. Owens Terrance's dad. He never knew that Terrance and his friends were fighting back this way. And when he hears fight fire with fire the implication of that it is not something Mr. Owens is really ready to accept. You know let me cut in just for a minute. When he say they retaliated off of that I mean what can they do? They did not have no guns. I do not see how you all could retaliate when you all did not have what they had. They had more power than us. But we had more heart. Terrance had a big heart. You can hear how delicate and respectful Boogie's trying to be with his friend's dad. But Mr. Owens insists you did not have any guns. And finally Boogie admits it pretty plainly. Yeah they had things like guns and all type of weapons. But we had the same. We just did not have as much as them. They had cars and all type of stuff. We were still using CTA. It was crazy. But when they got back and forth when the war really started if they came on our side they would have to worry about making it back to their side. And it was the same way for us. Other friends of Terrance's have told me by the summer when he was killed the shooting was pretty much constant. One said I am not going to lie. We were shooting pretty much every day. It was wolf season he said. When they talk about what all this was like you can totally see why they memorialize Terrance the way they do-- because there would been this moment when they felt scared and unprotected. He was the one that rallied them. He was their leader. And because he was their leader he became a target. He died for us Boogie told me. You can see why they would want to name their neighborhood after him. Boogie says part of what made those years so frightening for them is that they were underdogs. They were younger smaller. And they had to figure out for themselves how to fight back. The older guys the ones in Seven Deuce who'd started the war they had not recruited them. They had not taught them how it all worked. I am not blaming it on nobody. But the older guys on our side they kind of set us up for failure because they let the pressure fall on us. They did not give nothing to us. But they let the weight fall off onto us. Now it is off of them. All the weight is off of them. But now it is our problem. Their problems are our problems now. The weight was put on our shoulders and just dumped. Like the older guys they so separated from us. It is so segregated that we do not even know their names. But they the ones who started the war which led to Terrance getting killed. But I could not even recall one of their names if I wanted to. Of course to an adult this is upside down world logic that the one thing that could have helped them and maybe saved Terrance's life was being recruited and trained by a gang that the only adults who could have helped them were gang members. And the more Boogie said stuff like this how they inherited this war the more upset Mr. Owens got. Do not say you was inheriting nothing because you was not. Inheriting means somebody gave you something. And nobody gave you nothing. And that is what I was saying. I am saying you did not have nothing to do with what was going on. You all was just kids is in hood. You all did not know nothing about these guys. And I never heard this before. Mr. Owens has lived in the neighborhood since 1986. He thought he understood how the gangs worked. They were organized. They sold drugs. You joined got initiated. You became a bad guy. It was clear who was in them and who was not. The world Boogie was describing where his son was kind of drafted into a gang war he did not even really want to be a part of that did not make sense to Mr. Owens. Towards the end of our conversation we looked at a map of that new reality. We looked at the gang map Harper High School uses where Terrance's initials TG City sit on a big rectangle southeast of the high school. Mr. Owen's had never seen anything like it. It upset him even more. TG City he said. He would always thought that was just a nice nickname the kids had given to the neighborhood a way of remembering his son not a gang. And that is what you just showed me. I would never seen it. I never heard it before. I do not like that. I never heard it. I do not like it. I do not like it. I do not like that. When you showed me a map of the gang names and TG in that oh no. That is his initials. He do not fit in that. He do not fit in that. After a few minutes we walked outside to take a break and get some fresh air. Mr. Owens stood on his porch. He told me a story about how the last time he would seen Terrance was on his porch. It was morning. Mr. Owens was on his way to work. And he watched as his son walked around the corner to see Boogie and go get a haircut. Today he stood there staring at the house kitty corner to his. On one wall of it there was spray paint that said TGC. Mr. Owen's stared shaking his head. I do not like that he said. I do not like that at all. Ben Calhoun. Act Three How Kids Get Guns. Chicago's gun control laws are strict. There are no gun shops in the city no shooting ranges. There is a ban on assault weapons and high capacity magazines. But somehow of course kids are being shot by other kids. Teenagers cannot just walk into a store or a gun show and buy a gun. So how do they get them? The third of our Harper reporters Linda Lutton asked. I talked to eight Harper students at school one day. Can you all come in a little tighter? Most them are freshman 15 years old. It was often hard at Harper to get kids to talk about how they felt about the violence in their neighborhood. But when it came to something concrete like where a kid around here would get a gun it was easy to get into a detailed conversation about dirty guns and clean guns and the prices of each. They said if it is a cheap gun on the street you have to be careful. It might have a murder on it. It will usually have a murder or something on it. And they know how clean guns guns with no murders on them end up on the street. They got they gun cards. And then when they sell them they just report them stolen-- like a month later reported stolen. OK what is the cheapest? Even if it is a dirty gun with a murder on it what is the cheapest? Like 100. It depends on what kind of gun it is. 100. And what kind of gun would that be for 100? Because you gotta trick some people. They would be like give me 100 for a .22 caliber. Boy I do not even play with those. What I am going to give you 100? I will give you 25 for it. The boys argue for a while over how much a .22 caliber handgun would be worth-- 25 40 150 or if it is worth anything at all since it is not a big gun. And who are they getting the guns from? As a kid how do you know where to go to? I go to one of the guys. That is what I was going to say too-- one of the guys. What does one of the guys mean? What does that mean? One of your friends. Well like for some people like if you are in a gang or something you gonna automatically have that. So if you have got connections to a gang then you gonna have it. So how do know who in the gang has the gun? We know. We know. I have actually made phone calls. If wanted a gun-- That is what I am saying too. I could make a phone call. Of course this is not the most satisfying answer to the question where do you get your gun? To shrug and say from my friends it does not explain how your friends get them. Guns arrive in the neighborhood through all the means you have probably heard of-- straw purchasers gun show loopholes. The feds recently charged a college student with buying duffel bags full of guns at Indiana gun shows for sale on Chicago streets. A University of Chicago crime lab analysis has shown that the biggest proportion of police-recovered guns around 40 are purchased legally just outside Chicago in the suburbs or Indiana. One of the police officers who works at Harper told me 40 or 50 would be a normal price around the neighborhood for a revolver. 100 will get you a semiautomatic. But talking to these kids I realize they often can get a gun for nothing at all. They are free. This kid got two guns from his brother. When my brother got it of course he gonna give to me. Because my brother he went to jail for a charge. He is still in there right now. For a gun charge? Yeah. My brother got several guns though. But the one that he got caught with they got it. But he got several of them. So I am going to look at them for him while he in there. One kid says he was given a gun by fellow gang members who handed it to him he says for having certain rank in the gang. He was 14. Another boy who is backed away from his gang he moved out of Englewood says he could still get a gun if he needed it for something as long as he promised to bring it back. Another boy says his mom has a gun a legal gun. She keeps it in a box he says. I was 12 when I got my first gun. I was 12. I found it. I saw it. I found it. He was near 67th Street three blocks from Harper. Just in the middle of the day you are going to your grandma's house. And you find a gun. Yeah it was 4 oclock. And I walked through the alley because I had come up to my grandma's backyard. And something just told me look down. It was five six houses down from my grandma. People stash guns outside. They do not want their guns in the house. All the kids agree if a gun's in your house the police can find it in a raid. So p