The US has been in Iraq for seven years and I realized the other day when I heard this clip of tape that I am about to play you that I have never even really understood what Baghdad looks like. So what are we looking at? Right now we are here right almost in the geographic center of Baghdad on the fifth floor of a hotel. This is Larry Kaplow a journalist who reported from Baghdad for the first six years of the war. He went back this summer with one of our producers Nancy Updike. They spent a month in Iraq. Think of Miami because it looks like that. It is totally flat and there are lot of palm trees and lots of big highways. And think if you came out of Cutler Ridge or Coral Gables but it was walled in. Just to drive along a street and have two feet away from you you look of the window of your car you see nothing but wall. It is too tall to even see the top of it out your car window. You just looked out and you see wall segment wall segment wall segment. So it is like Miami except these concrete blast walls that honeycomb the city 12 feet tall giant great dominoes thousands of them creating a kind of endless maze. They fully enclose entire neighborhoods. Which means that to run errands or go to your job or do anything normal outside your own neighborhood you go through checkpoints each time you cross from one place to another over and over. Even the soldiers at the checkpoints find these checkpoints so depressing that lots of them are decorated with fake flowers bleached by the sun in strands and bunches. Now the other thing about the way the city looks Larry says and he is back in the States. He is actually sitting right here with me in the studio is that with Saddam Hussein gone Baghdad is now clearly a Shiite city. It is been majority Shiite for generations but you could not tell before Saddam fell because Saddam led a regime dominated by the Sunnis and they tried to paper over the religious differences between the two groups. But that changed the day the US invaded right? Right. I was there and within hours after the regime fell we immediately saw people putting up the Shiite flags the satiny all black all red all green banners going up on houses offices mosques. Along with these portraits or icons of Shiite figures. And it was like suddenly there was this whole other geography of the city. A place we thought of before as like OK this is just a poor neighborhood suddenly it is like wow this is like a really-- this is all Shiite. And then you go to the other richer neighborhoods and they do not have any flags here. These must be the Sunni engineers and professors who were in the regime. And it really changed your whole sense of geography of the city. And let us just review before we say anything else about Iraq. Shia versus Sunni. Well it is a big over simplification but one way to think about it is that they are like Protestants and Catholics. Shiites being like the Catholics. They have a hierarchy of Priests or Imams leading all the way up to Ayatollahs and Grand-Ayatollahs the way Catholics have a hierarchy of priests leading all the way up to the Vatican and the Pope. They have much more of an emphasis on rituals on icons on what we call saints their religious leaders throughout the centuries. And Sunni does not have that? The Sunni do not have that. And some Sunni will say the Shia are not focused enough just on Mohammed and God that they have created this assortment of religious leadership. They would look at Shia and say they are are too showy. I do not need to show off my religion like that. The same way some Protestants will look at Catholics and say that and sort of turn up their nose at that. Now the Sunnis are the minority in Iraq. Saddam Hussein was Sunni. And now that he is out the overwhelming majority of the country the Shia are in control. In the past in Iraq Shia and Sunni lived side by side and they inter-married. Since the invasion as we have all heard there have been been periods of Sunni and Shia killing each other. So today are they are getting along? Well Nancy Updike who was in Iraq with Larry is also in the studio. Nancy how is it going? Well Larry and I talked to this Shiite guy he is an educated man a professor you have known him for years right Larry? Right I have. Although he still did not feel safe to be speaking to Americans on the radio so he did not want to be identified. I just wanted you to meet him and hear him talk about daily life. Like he told us that his salary which was 3 a month before Saddam fell is now 1000 a month. And that is very typical for people now to have more money. On the other hand he told us that he has to go through 10 checkpoints every morning to get to school. The trip used to take 15 minutes now it can take an hour or two. And then in the middle of this as we were talking to him about his life I was surprised because people do not usually talk about this so openly he goes into the tension between Sunni and Shia. We have not recovered fully. We are still in the recovery period. So he is Shia he is got Sunni friends he has a Sunni girlfriend. And he told us this story about a Sunni friend of his who owed him 200. And they were going to lunch to settle up this debt. The professor suggested a fish restaurant in a Shiite neighborhood that would be safe and comfortable for him. And the friend the Sunni friend wanted to go to a neighborhood called Al Adhamiya. Just a year ago the professor would never have gone to this neighborhood. It just would have been too dangerous. But he let himself get talked into it. So we were there in a restaurant invited by him to tell the truth. At that time sitting in that restaurant I had my concerns. You did not feel safe? Yes of course. Because I am Shiite. For a Shiite to be in Al Adhamiya it is a danger. And a big danger. By the way my family blamed me. You go for such a place. And alone? Why should you have gone to such of place and alone? I told them but he is my friend. Even though do not trust him. So the professor is sitting there with his Sunni friend in this pizza restaurant this is all just a few months ago and he is trying to keep the conversation on politically neutral subjects. How things are going at the university. And then an Iraqi army convoy passed in front of the restaurant's window and his friend watched the convoy pass and made a comment. He said OK when the Americans will withdraw their last soldier here from Iraq we the National Resistance-- The National Resistance meaning the Sunni insurgency-- --will restore things to normalcy. Normalcy for him means that they should be in the lead. Sunnis should be in power. Like they were in Saddam's day. I just you know gave him a fake smile which was not real and OK-- and then he says Why do not you claim you are Sunni? Not say I am Shiite. Because your thoughts are very nice. And your thoughts are in conformity with ours. Always do not ever say I am Shiite. Now in Iraq there is a freedom of speech but still we have to you know we have to be careful when speaking. In Iraq now there is a big division. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International I am Ira Glass. This August when the United States declared an end to combat operations in Iraq and pulled back its troops officially lowered the numbers to under 50000 one of the things you did not get very much in the coverage is that you did not hear many Iraqi voices. So Nancy and Larry spent a month in Iraq and talked to lots of people. Because we wanted to understand with the US pulling back finally how are things going? How well is the country emerging from the war? How are people feeling? What is Iraq going to be like after us. That is our show today in three acts stay with us. Act One What Just Happened? Lots of us understand it is still kind of a mess in Iraq right now but the specifics of that mess are a little vague. And to get a grip on that let us start with the story of one man and everything that this one man has seen since the invasion. The man's named Abu Abed. Nancy tells this story. Here's what I knew about Abu Abed when I met him. He was an Iraqi who had fought with the Americans in Baghdad during the surge and he would become a small legend. The game changer who help the US drive al-Qaeda out of one of the most dangerous neighborhoods in Baghdad. Probably the bravest man I ever met. This is Colonel Dale Kuehl. The US commander of the area in Baghdad where Abu Abed fought al-Qaeda. He confronted them face to face on the street. How many people can say they did that? Stood up to al-Qaeda when they were controlling a town like that? Where 16 American soldiers died in one month. Two years after helping the US route al-Qaeda in Iraq Abu Abed was living like a fugitive. A suicide bomber tried to kill him in Baghdad and he and his family fled Iraq for Jordan. It did not help. They had to change addresses every couple of months. Abu Abed was attacked in the street. They were getting death threats from al-Qaeda including a note handed to his son at school. His wife was stabbed during an attempt kidnap their son. A few days before I got in touch with him Abu Abed paid a smuggler 50000 to get him his wife and their two children to Sweden. Abu Abed whose real name is Saad Oraibi Ghaffouri Al-Obeidi has letters full of praise from American generals saying he should be allowed to come to the US. General David Petraeus former top commander of the war wrote one for him. But America turned him down flat no explanation even now. Abu Abed sits on the edge of a couch unshaven in cropped khaki pants khaki shirt and sandals.  We were told to go to the embassy where I waited in hall fully expecting to be granted my visa. And they said you have been denied. It is a final decision. I could not believe it. I felt like I would just gotten a bullet in the head. Sweden is still deciding whether he can stay.  They asked me well here you have these recommendations highest ranking American military personnel why are not you in America? How have not they taken you to America? And I do not know what to say. The Iraq war has had one question at its heart with an answer that keeps shifting who is our enemy? Abu Abed has gone from being a central character in US strategy to an exile sleeping on a friend's floor. And those are only two of the roles he is played in the Iraq war. At every turn in the war every change in US tactics or strategy Abu Abed has been there either benefiting or getting pounded. He is a living catalog of the seven years of decisions successes and failures that have made up this war. During the first phase of the war Abu Abed was our enemy. He was a captain in Saddam Hussein's air force. In intelligence he says. His country was being invaded. Then the war very quickly entered its second phase the insurgency. IEDs car bombs sniper attacks. The insurgency was led by Sunnis many of them former Iraqi army officers. Abu Abed was a Sunni and a former Iraqi army officer. But he insists he was never part of that. He never fought the US. I asked him about it so many times he got exasperated.  If I wanted to I could get up and say that I fought the Americans. I could take pride in the fact that I fought the occupation and I would be able to win many people's respect in Iraq and in the region. But it is just not true. This has been Abu Abed's official position for years so it is hard for him to back off it. But a US army captain who later befriended him says Abu Abed told him the truth. He did fight the US he was part of the insurgency. But to make things even more complicated he was also reaching out to the US as early as 2004 feeding them information. Like any smart gambler he was placing more than one bet. In this early stage of the war the insurgency one of the coalition force's main tactics was raid arrest interrogate. Which happened to Abu Abed. He was picked up in a neighborhood sweep.  Soldiers came in translator told me to put my face to the wall. I said What is going on here? He said Just put your face up against the wall. I confirmed with another US officer that Abu Abed was arrested early in the war. Abu Abed says he was interrogated by American civilians private contractors.  I was put in a room where I was hung by my arms. I could not sit down I could not rest all the time with a bag over my head. For days I was dying of thirst for water. They would not let me drink they would just pour the water on my face. They would not let me drink from it. Abu Abed says the civilian interrogators held him for around 20 days. They were insisting they knew who he was. They kept calling him a name he remembers as something like Shaddat and they wanted him to admit it. Nothing he said could convince them otherwise. Abu Abed says the torture and interrogation ended when he was suddenly switched to a different room.  Given a bed. Given a TV with a DVD player and DVDs. They asked me what kind of movies would you like to watch? I said I like Sylvester Stalone movies and Arnold Schwarzenegger movies. So they brought me a bunch of those movies. And they said Listen we are very very sorry. But we have discovered it is true that you are not Shaddat. They said Please you know we WERE looking for this person and we realize we made a mistake with you. And I said No. I can appreciate that. I understand what the problem is. And he said So we are friends? And I said Yeah we are friends. By 2006 the war had changed again. Many Iraqis now refer to that early insurgency as the Honorable resistance to distinguish it from what happened next. Iraq turned into a sectarian war that was basically a gang war. Sunni gangs often allied with al-Qaeda versus Shiite gangs. And if you were a regular person trying to live your life and were not in one of the gangs yourself the differences between them seemed mainly stylistic. One man told us The way you know al-Qaeda is coming up to your house to kill you is that their addressed like ordinary guys and shouting Allah hu akbar. The way you know a Shiite militia is pulling up to your house is that they are dressed all in black and shouting the names of Shiite saints. Abu Abed's neighborhood in Baghdad Amiriyah is a Sunni stronghold. A place where members of Saddam's military got nice houses and had lived well back in the day. Some Sunnis in Abu Abed's neighborhood joined forces with al-Qaeda against their common enemies. The Shiite militias and the Americans. In fact at the height of its power al-Qaeda declared Amiriyah its capital. They appointed their own finance minister education minister. The new Iraqi government was desperate. 2006 we virtually lost control over Baghdad. This is Saad Motallebi an adviser in the current Iraqi government. We were completely surrounded. They had control of many areas in Baghdad and the Americans did not know what to do. And 2006 2007 we were seriously worried. But then something changed. People started to hate al-Qaeda. In Amiriyah al-Qaeda kidnapped and brutally killed an older Christian couple who everyone liked. Abu Abed saw a friend whipped in the street.  They would whip a person strip him of his clothes and then whip him either with a whip or a stick. Cut off a person's hand they would cut out a person's tongue. They forced every female teacher to if she was not wearing a hijab she would be executed. Al-Qaeda went into Iraq seeing themselves as liberators overplayed their hand and alienated people. And that is when the American forces and the Iraqi government got their big break. The sons of Iraq also sometimes called the Awakening or the Sunni Awakening. The Sons of Iraq was a very decentralized organization. In fact calling it an organization is probably not the right way. This is Colonel Kuehl again whose area of command included Amiriyah. Before the Sons of Iraq showed up the US had been focusing for years on a failed plan recruiting and training the Iraqi army and police to get them able to secure the country. When they stand up we will stand down. It was not working. In fact it was making things worse. The police force we were building which is overwhelmingly Shiite had pockets of Shiite militias who would kidnap and kill people often without bothering to change out of their uniforms. Abu Abed says two of his brothers were killed by a Shiite militia. In Amiriyah the Sons of Iraq started in late May 2007 when Colonel Kuehl got a phone call from a local leader a Sheikh and an Imam who Kuehl had chewed out 10 days earlier following an IED attack on his men. Kuehl had told them You have to help us fight al-Qaeda. Calls me it was in the middle of the night and says Hey we are going after al-Qaeda tomorrow. And I am like you are going to do what? He says we are going after al-Qaeda tomorrow we just want you to stay away. We just want you to stay out here. And I said Sheikh I cannot do that. I cannot leave the neighborhood. We argued for about 20 minutes. I said give me the intelligence we will go after it. He said No it will not work. We have got to do it ourselves. After a while I said OK do not point your weapons at my soldiers and do not point your weapons at civilians or we will engage you. We will shoot at you. We will shoot you. I think literally I said We will kill you. He said OK. And then I wished him luck. What followed was a quick initial victory and then a furious counter attack by al-Qaeda. The Imam called Kuehl for help and the US forces went in and pushed al-Qaeda back and then-- That is when the negotiation started. On how are we going to do this? I got a call from another Imam I would say who is probably the most influential in the neighborhood and he said OK there is someone that you need to meet. And so that is when I met Abu Abed. One of the strangest experiences of my life. Because I am in there with guys who look like insurgents. It was out at the mosque we met. And he was exhausted and the first meeting did not go so well. He was making demands that I am like nope we as not going to do that. What were his demands? He was saying if you just let us do what we need to do we will clear this place out. Basically free rein to take care of business. That was a bit much. Their point to me was that the US Army and the Iraqi Army could not do it without their help. And it was a humbling experience someone telling me what do you mean you know I am-- I am the US Army. I am the US Army I can do anything. But he was right. We could not do it alone. And this was Abu Abed saying this to you? That is correct. Each Sons of Iraq group developed its own working arrangement with the US military in the area. When Abu Abed and Kuehl joined forces they signed a memorandum of agreement which was also signed by the Iraqi army commander in the area. The deal was Abu Abed and his men had to coordinate their operations with the US military and the Iraqi Army. No going off on their own. Anyone they detained had to be turned over to the US at first within 24 hours later within two hours. No torture. All the fighters had to be fingerprinted and given and eye scan. In return Abu Abed got an office four pick-up trucks. They all got uniforms. The US paid them about 300 a month and promised to help them get jobs later. Abu Abed commanded a shifting group of men that at one point numbered several hundred. Overall the Sons of Iraq was a total of 103000 people countrywide at its height. A huge boost to the American forces who numbered 170000 in 2007. This is the most successful phase of the Iraq war. The part we have come to shorthand as the surge. What this meant in Abu Abed's case was that the same men who'd fought the Americans who have been picked up and tortured by coalition forces three years earlier had reached out to the US military and was now working with them every day.  You are having a soda on top of a US tank.  Abu Abed has dozens of photographing from his time fighting alongside the US military. The photos were among the few things he insisted on bringing with him when the family was smuggled to Sweden. In the photos Abu Abed is leaner than he is now with a mustache. He looks relaxed and energized. A man whose talents are in demand. The more he shuffles through the photos the happier he gets telling war stories.  There was a time when we went right into a al-Qaeda hide out and bullets were flying from every direction flying at us. It is a most animated I ever see him.  Every American we talked to who fought with Abu Abed said he was an incredible soldier. One Captain Brian Weightman described his as fluid. That 1 who can remain calm in the middle of hair-raising chaos able to inspire men Weightman said including him. Some Americans called him a brother. Once the Americans embraced the Sons of Iraq it forced the Iraqi Army to work with them. And in Amiriyah the three groups together were an unstoppable force against al-Qaeda. In the midst of this triumphant military campaign in which Abu Abed was a crucial partner trusted every day with American lives two US captains Abu Abed worked with came to him and said they would been told to take him to some meeting with some people. So Abu Abed went to the meeting not thinking much of it.  And they open the door and I saw this group of people that said they wanted to meet me. And I instantly new who they were. I knew exactly who they were. It was the group of civilians who had interrogated him in 2004. The same people he says beat him hung him from his arms and held him captive for as long as they wanted. Those same people were now smiling at him and saying how glad they were to see them. Abu Abed tried to stay calm.  They asked me if I remember them and I said No I do not know who you are. I do not remember you. Because I was so hurt I said I do not remember you even though of course I did. And they said Well we forget the past right? We are friends now. Are you sure you do not remember us? Yeah I do not know who you are I said. Then they opened up a laptop with a picture of me and they said well who is this? And that picture of me with a number across my chest the number of me when I was captive. I spoke with one of the captains who sat in the room not really understanding what was going on who these people were to Abu Abed. The captain said there were other photos on the laptop too like a book of mug shots. Fighters the US was looking for and the interrogators seem to be asking Abu Abed if he knew anything about them. But all Abu Abed could focus on was his own picture. Why did they show that to him? Either it was a threat help us or else or maybe to the interrogators the torture of three years earlier was such ancient history that they did not think it would matter. That was yesterday we are friends now.  I started asking myself all kinds of questions. All kinds of questions were spinning around in my head. I wanted to know how did they see me? What was I in their eyes? Was I a terrorist? Is that how they perceived me? I feel incredibly wronged. But I did not know what the point was. It is still not clear what the point was. Except that Abu Abed got whipsawed by two different phases of the war the raid and interrogate phase and the brotherhood phase. The Sons of Iraq were widely loathed by the Iraqi government and its security forces. And they did not keep their loathing to themselves. And Iraqi Army officer accused Abu Abed of killing one of his relatives. The US investigated but could never confirmed that the man who'd allegedly been killed had ever existed. Other accusations against Abu Abed cropped up some are still out there unproven but impossible to refute-- That he killed 35 Shiite civilians that he beat an innocent man to death. And then in November of 2007 a story came out in a British newspaper The Guardian that starred Abu Abed in the worst way. The reporter spent three days with him and painted a portrait of an arrogant power hungry thug kicking and slapping a man outside his house for a supposed insult screaming at the security detail for Iraq's vice president Do you know who I am? Here I rule. I am the commander of Amariya. Did you dare to show your faces here before I kicked al-Qaeda out? Also interrogating a child about an alleged weapons cache. The lingering image from the article is Abu Abed's men holding him back as he tries to put his gun in the child's mouth. I did not believe that that story was truthful. I thought it was embellished. Could I be wrong? Sure. Colonel Kuehl published a long rebuttal to the story saying the overall picture of Amiriyah it showed was wrong. The Sons of Iraq seemingly running rampant with little or no supervision by the US military or the Iraqi military. His rebuttal did not however refute any of the specific incidents the story described. In fact he concedes that some of them happened though he does not believe Abu Abe put a gun in a child's mouth. When the story came out Kuehl was furious at Abu Abed. He believed Abu Abed's vanity his desire to build up his own reputation as a tough guy was putting the entire Sons of Iraq project at risk. He called Abu Abed in for a talk. I was telling him listen I might have to remove you. Why did not you? People were very willing to report bad things going. Whether it was Abu Abed or somebody else. In this case I got nothing. And so why I did not believe the story and again could I be wrong? Sure. But I just did not have the evidence here other than the story. And am I right or wrong? I do not know. And there was one time we actually considered is he the right guy for this? What happened? We came to the conclusion that this is the right guy. I compare them to having a crocodile as a pet animal. This is Saad Motallebi again the government adviser who talked earlier about how he worried they might lose control over Baghdad. He is talking about the Sons of Iraq they were the crocodile he saw. Armed men not under government control roaming the streets. The US military had a solution to that. They thought the Iraqi government should absorb most of the Sons of Iraq into their security forces the police and the army. Make those mostly Shiite forces represent the country as a whole by adding Sunnis. But to many in the Iraqi government the Sons of Iraq were insurgents period. And its leaders like Abu Abed were former officers from Saddam Hussein's army. The insurgency they did not fight for the new Iraq. That is the way we saw it. They fought for control over the region that they had previously control over.  The way that the government dealt with us was to just slowly squeeze us out. Abu Abed says he and other Sons of Iraq wanted to form a police force in Amiriyah. He says they were prevented by the government.  They appointed a police officer to lead the police station in our area who was from the south. Meaning Shiite. And then they appointed his deputy and then they appointed others who would work under him all to make sure that we were squeezed out and that we would not have any official capacity. The Iraqi government essentially won this argument in part because the US was eager to move on to a new phase of the war the phase it is still in-- achieving political stability so the US forces can leave. What this meant for Abu Abed is that when he talked to US military guys there was a new catch phrase Iraqi sovereignty. Meaning if the Iraqi government wants to put someone else in the police in this area instead of you and your guys that is their business and we are not going to intervene. He says this was different from what the US military had been saying to him before this point.  One of the things that they said often was that you will have a place in the new Iraq. That they will not deal with you on a sectarian basis that you will be included in this new leadership. And did you believe them that that was possible? And they could deliver that?  At the time? Yes.  Why did I believe it? Because this was the force that brought down the previous regime in Iraq. This was the force that created the Iraqi government that established the Iraqi army. Of course I believed it. The more successful the Sons of Iraq were in neutralizing al-Qaeda the less necessary they became. They made themselves obsolete. Kuehl saw this coming and tried to warn Abu Abed. Later Kuehl led a big effort to try and get him to the US rallied a network of churches and people and vouched for Abu Abed personally. But Kuehl was blunt with him when they were recruiting for the new police force in Amiriyah. Did not really see him as a serious candidate to be the head of the security force. You did not? I did not. And we were actually trying to figure out who would be the right guy to do that so. Just so I understand fully this is somebody you would been working with for months leading this group trusting him the bravest man you ever met why not him? It goes back to what I think he was good at. I think he was a great fighter. I think he was great at-- very charismatic. I think he was the right guy to go fight al-Qaeda. I did not think he was the right guy and the right temperament to lead a police force of a community like that. He is a hot head. Meaning what? He has a temper. And it has caused him some problems that he is still having to deal with. We would not have rooted al-Qaeda out there without a guy like him but I think there was a transition that needed to happen. Somebody that had a probably better temperament that could deal with the politics of just being the leader of a community. General Petraeus added a handwritten note to hit type-written letter of recommendation supporting Abu Abed's application to the US. The notes says He risked everything to stand against al-Qaeda in Iraq and he is paid a heavy price. We should help him. He underlined should. A lot of Iraqis have helped the US and paid a heavy price. And we have turned many of them away for any blemish or seeming blemish. And who has more blemishes on his record than a fighter? The Sons of Iraq our alliance with them was a big success for us. And this is the mess that goes along with it. Abu Abed's old neighborhood Amiriyah today is mostly calm but bleak. Some of the buildings are pitted by gunfire and crumbling from bombings. There is not a Sons of Iraq leader in Amiriyah anymore. Abu Abed's successor was blown up by a suicide bomber a few weeks before we got to Iraq. One of the few Sons of Iraq foot soldiers left in Amiriyah was working at the check point into the neighborhood. He had not been paid in two months. US and Iraqi officials say the Iraqi government has stalled on services in Amiriyah and others Sunni areas in part to undermine the popularity of Sons of Iraq leaders. The US has been pushing reconciliation in Iraq saying it is key to stabilizing the country. Trying to get Sunnis and Shiites plus the Kurds to work together and share power. It is not working. The Chief of the US reconciliation program in Baghdad told me. Sons of Iraq especially its leaders have been arrested. Some are being killed sometimes with their families by al-Qaeda by other rivals or enemies. Some like Abu Abed have fled. There is an arrest warrant out for him in Iraq now. Some US officials believe the charges are politically motivated. The cold fact is that Iraq may not need reconciliation to have stability depending on how brutal the Iraqi government is willing to be and we are willing to let them be. If they put enough Sunnis in prison or drive them out of the country while welcoming the few they do feel able to work with the Shia majority might be able to run the country without ever reconciling with the Sunnis. Which might be fine with us if Iraq were our only war. In Afghanistan Afghan fighters have raised the issue of what is become of the the Sons of Iraq in meetings with the US according to an American officer who served in Afghanistan. Everywhere we want local fighters to help us they are going to ask themselves how will we end up? Nancy Updike. Coming up what is that crushed garbage under foot everywhere in Iraq cities? And other things that nobody has told you about life in Iraq today. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today on our show Iraq After Us. Reporter Larry Kaplow and one of our producers Nancy Updike spent a month in Iraq this August as US troops were ending their combat mission. And they traveled around the country interviewing many many more people than we will be able to fit into one hour today. To try to understand how things are going in Iraq in this half hour of the show we are going to hear two more stories two more acts from the stories that they gathered. And we are goin