   Today we wanted to bring back a story that is I mean one of my personal favorite stories that we have done. This particular story we aired in 2015 so a lot of you may not have heard it. And it goes like this.   Hey I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   This is Radiolab. And today ...   My name is Peter Lang-Stanton.   My name's Nick Farago.   Well we are gonna get a story from two reporters.   I am a freelance filmmaker.   Freelance reporter.   Writer slash radio producer. Too many slashes.   It is a story that goes back about 70 years.  It all feels like unreal in some way.   But there is something about this story that just -- you hear it and you cannot help but think about now.   Should we start with -- with air currents or like with ...   I mean I wanna start with -- could we got to Thermopolis Wyoming? Because that was one of the first really well-documented landings.   Thermopolis Wyoming.   It is the first week of December 1944.   This is Ross Coen. He is a historian and he wrote a book that is pretty much the definitive account of the story you are about to hear. Anyhow Thermopolis Wyoming December 1944.   And there are three miners at a place called the Highline coal mine which is outside of Thermopolis. They step outside the mine one evening it is just about dusk. And just as they step out of the mine they hear this whistling sound over their heads. And then a moment later there is ...     ... a tremendous explosion. And they see this rising cloud of dust about a mile away across the valley. They turn and look -- it is dusk and so in the fading twilight they cannot be sure exactly what they are looking at.   But above them there is sort of this fluttering white circle.   Just floating there.   They made sense of it by thinking it was a parachutist.   They watched this parachute as it is drifting away from them. They get in their car and they chase after it until eventually they lose sight of it in the darkness.   Right around that same time about 500 miles away in Colorado ...   A boy and his dad are working in the barn ...   when ...     ... they hear an explosion.   They run outside and in their yard there is just this smoldering crater.   In Wyoming a nine-year-old boy playing in his front yard hears an explosion.   All throughout the winter of 1944 ...   In Burwell Nebraska ...   These strange parachute things.   Native residents hear a loud explosion.   Just start appearing in the skies all over America.   Napa California. Lame Deer Montana. 20 or so miles from downtown Detroit.   Over farms.   Nogales Arizona. And slipping behind hills.   Rigby Idaho.   Everybody who sees these things ...   All of them have different explanations for what they think they are witnessing. They think it is a plane crash.   Or an oil tank exploding. The US military sends out an APB to local police stations saying We need information. What are these things?   Try again?   Testing testing.   There we go we fixed it.   Okay. Whoa.   Enter Sheriff Warren Hyde.   My name is Marion Hyde.   Warren Hyde actually died in 1989 so ...   I am the oldest son of Sheriff Hyde.   We talked to his son.   He had a presence about him that -- he kind of commanded a room.   Sheriff Hyde was a big guy.   Black wavy hair. Broad at the shoulder narrow at the hips.   Stetson. Gun on his hip.   And one day he is at his office north of Salt Lake City when his phone rings.   From what I understand a dry farmer called him.   Said there is this strange contraption in my field.   Some kind of balloon parachute-looking thing floating around.   So he jumped in the car and went hellbent for leather out into the Blue Creek area.   There is this crazy story where he rushes out to this farm to investigate.   Hops out of his car.   Rips off his belt with his .38 pistol because a man cannot run with a .38 pistol on his waist.   And took off after the balloon.   Here's what he sees in that field. It was -- I mean if you look at a picture of this thing it is this huge globe. 30 feet in diameter.   Oh wow!   Paper white.   And then coming down from this globe are these thick 40-foot ropes. And at the bottom attached to it is a heavy metal chandelier with bombs hanging off the bottom. And Sheriff Hyde he sees this thing runs out into the field grabs onto the ropes to maybe tie it down. But just as he grabs it ...   A gust of wind comes by.   Lifts him up off the ground.   Like he was a paper doll.   And so he is dangling from the ropes of this thing. The balloon is above him the explosives are -- are below him. And it takes him across this canyon. And he is holding on just dangling from it still trying to wrangle it like some bucking bronco. He lands again he tries to tie it to a juniper bush or something. But the wind catches it again and goes back over the canyon.   Back to the first side?   Back to the first side.   And they started to float around the field. He kept wrestling this balloon for a long time.   He is nauseous from being spun around on this balloon.   His vision's getting blurry.   His hands are becoming raw from the rope.   But he feels this like sense of duty.   He knew that the government wanted one of these balloons.   It is his territory so he gotta take it down.   That is right.   He finally lets himself free fall so he can grab it again. So his weight will jerk the balloon to the ground.   Wow!   Then finally the balloon came down in -- in kind of a little ravine where sagebrush were growing. And a root had been exposed on the side of the ravine from a sagebrush.   And he hooks his arm around this root.   Then he was able to hold the balloon without being carried into the air.   So he actually captured the thing?   Yeah. J. Edgar Hoover wrote him a personal letter of thanks.   They end up shipping all of the evidence off to the Aberdeen military research facility.   Where they had gathered all this different evidence from all over the country.   And after looking at this stuff for a while they were able to tell that ...   Apparently this bomb was not of any particular American make and matched known characteristics of Japanese bombs.   So it is Japanese.   Yeah.   But it is impossible to send a balloon across the Pacific Ocean at this point. I mean it is never never been done. I mean it is basically an intercontinental ballistic missile.   So they are trying to figure out where it is coming from.   They thought maybe they were being launched from submarines. Maybe they were coming from beaches in North America from saboteurs.   There was even speculation at one point that maybe they were coming from Japanese internment camps in North America.   Ah!   Then ...   Two days before Christmas 1944.   In Alaska a native Alaskan trapper tracks one down.   And it has two sandbags still attached to the bottom-most ring.   And that turns out to be the key to the mystery.   Sand?   Yeah.   Well it is not just sand. There is a lot in there. My name is Elisa Bergslien and I am a forensic geologist.   We called up Elisa to help us understand this next part. What happened was the sand from the balloons was sent to Washington DC to some scientists at the U.S. Geological Survey.   Right away ...   They discover that there is no coral.   So finding no coral you know you are talking cold water now.   They look at the diatoms.   Marine bivalves.   Microscopic fossils.   Mollusks minerals.   By compiling all of these different characteristics ...   Put that all together where would you find these diatoms these minerals that you would not find coral all those different pieces of information.   All together.   The geologists are able to determine that there are two or perhaps three beaches in the world.   That fit all of these qualifications.   Where they believe this sand could have come from. And all of which are on the east coast of Honshu the largest of Japan's four main islands.   You can get that kind of specific from sand?   Yup. That kind of specific.   Pretty incredible.   All right. So they came all the way from these particular beaches on the coast of Japan.   Yeah.   That is like thousands of miles across the Pacific Ocean.   And why would the Japanese choose to -- to deliver bomb payloads by balloon? It is a strange choice.   Particularly after Pearl Harbor. You know it is like we already know they can do planes right?   Yeah they got planes.   Yeah why balloons?   Well ...     It grew directly out of the Doolittle raid.   Back in April of 1942.     Jimmy Doolittle and his raiders ...   Took off from an aircraft carrier deep in the western Pacific.   And dropped bombs on Tokyo and Yokohama and Kobe and a number of other cities across Japan.     Now they did not do a lot of damage physically.   But it was such a shock to the Japanese to think that their homeland could be invaded that these planes could actually fly over the Imperial Palace the home of the Emperor. And it could not go unchallenged.   Doolittle went over the palace? I did not realize that.   Yeah.   He went all the way downtown in Tokyo.   Oh yeah right over the city. And so immediately after the Doolittle raid an order went out it was just Find a way to bomb America.   Now Japan's navy is stretched so thin at this point in the war there is no way they pull off something like the Doolittle raid. They did not have aircraft carriers that could get their planes close enough to the U.S. mainland. But what they did have was the wind.   Today we call this the jetstream. That name did not come along until after the war.   At that point we barely knew about the jetstream.   But prior to and during the war the Japanese did extensive research into these winds.   Okay so in 1924 there is this meteorologist named Wasuboro Oishi. And he goes to the top of a mountain and he releases a bunch of these little paper weather balloons. And he discovers that at about 30 thousand feet up there is this river of fast-moving air. Speeds up to 175 miles an hour carrying anything in its midst -- pollen insects -- all the way to North America within days.   And after the Doolittle raid they thought maybe if we were to release a bunch of balloons in just the right place at just the right time ...   Maybe this jet stream of air could ...   Push these balloons across the Pacific Ocean.     So this is Tetsko Tanaka. She was interviewed in this independent documentary called On Paper Wings.   In 1944 she says she was a teenager when the Japanese military came to her school and basically turned it into a factory.     She and hundreds of other school children were conscripted to begin making this special kind of paper out of mulberry wood called ...   Washi. Handmade Japanese traditional paper.   This is Maho Shina who now works at the Noborito Institute in Japan.   Huge amount of paper was required.   Maho says that girls would work 12-hour days making thousands tens of thousands of these sheets and gluing them together.   Why did not they have adults in the factories? They were all fighting the war or what?   Young girls' hands is very good for building the bomb.   The girls had a certain dexterity for the paper-making?   The nimble fingers. I think I read that somewhere.   Oh wow. Okay.   And after they finished producing the balloons and after the balloons were strapped with bombs they were shipped off to those beaches and just let go.   People from the Japanese side watching them take off said they looked like huge jellyfish swimming through a pale blue sky.   These perfectly silent vehicles. The only sound was the rustling of the paper as they took off.   But how many were launched?   From November 1944 to April 1945 they launched 9000 balloons.   Wow!   Now the engineers in Japan who designed this faced a very serious problem.   Once they got the balloons up into the jetstream and they were cruising along ...   They are floating at speeds from 50 to 100 miles an hour.   But every night ...   Temperatures are gonna fall to -40 centigrade. And the fixed volume of hydrogen inside that envelope is going to contract the balloon is going to lose altitude drop out of the jetstream and down into the ocean all together.   So to solve this says Ross they -- what they did was this. They took 32 sand bags hung them on the balloon and then connected those sandbags to an altimeter.   Set to a preset minimum such as 30000 feet. In the night time when the balloon loses altitude the altimeter ...   Will engage. Trigger a fuse. Which cuts off one of those sandbags and drops it into the ocean.   And now the vehicle will re-ascend back into the jet stream.   Because it is lighter.   Because it is lighter.   So these balloons they are riding the jetstream. And then every night they would start to descend. But then off would go a sandbag and they would go back up. And whenever they would cooled off enough to drop same thing. Drop then rise drop then rise. Over and over. 32 times until every sandbag was gone.   Once all the sandbags have been dropped now you have only the bombs remaining. And the bombs are held in place with the exact same mechanism as the sandbags. And now by the very same system the bombs are the last to go. And presumably the balloon is now somewhere over North America.   Oh I see. So it is a sandbag countdown. 30 29 28 4 3 2 1. I hope I am in Oregon.   Right.   And when it was in Oregon or wherever the idea was that it would drop its last bomb float away and basically self-destruct.   They I guess figured it would be -- it would be more terrifying to have bombs raining down silently from above with no calling card at all than with a Japanese calling card.     This is audio from a declassified Navy instructional video made about these balloon bombs in 1945.     It explains to soldiers how to -- what to do if they find one of these bombs and how to defuse the bomb. But I think the most interesting thing about the video is this text that is written in huge block letters right at the bottom of the screen. It says Do not aid the enemy by publishing or broadcasting or discussing information.   Information can be a powerful tool. It can be a powerful tool for good and a powerful tool for evil.   This is professor Mike Sweeney.   And I am a historian of wartime censorship.   And he says that immediately after those first balloons landed ...   There are a few stories that appear in the local newspapers in the far west. Stories about a Japanese attack on the mainland of the United States.   Time and Newsweek even picked it up.   Saying we are not sure what these are but you know are these Japanese spies coming in on these balloons?   Is this a large scale attack?   What is going on?   And then ...   Very shortly thereafter ...   Just three days after those Time and Newsweek articles.   The Office of Censorship initiated a press blackout.   This blackout on news.   They sent out memos and telegraphs to all the major wire services.   The UPD AP and the INS saying ...   Keep any news of these Japanese balloons off the wires and out of print.   Any stories about these bombs will have to be approved by the appropriate authority of the U.S. Army if you wish to publish or broadcast news about them.   And why would they want to keep this secret?   So the government's ideas about why balloon bombs should be censored and particularly the Army's ideas were number one to avoid panic.   These things are instruments of terror right? You cannot be afraid of something you do not know exists.   Number two is avoid helping Japan. It was thought then that if we printed exact coordinates of particular bomb landings that this would help Japan better target the bombs.   And what did the reporters think about this?   They grumbled sometimes but they complied.   Really?   Yep. Everyone in the news industry was as patriotic as the rest of the country. That is the vast majority of journalists supported the war. And of course if you screwed up and you sent out a story that got American lives killed you could be prosecuted under the Espionage Act. Furthermore can you imagine what your listeners would do if you were the radio station identified as killing 100 American sailors?   So the newspapers and radio stations kept their mouths shut which meant that most Americans never even heard this was happening. And more importantly the Japanese were not really hearing about whether their bombs made it or not. So they probably concluded that it was basically a failed experiment which largely it was. Of the 9000 released virtually none caused any damage and certainly not any terror. Except for this one balloon.   That is coming up.       Hey I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   This is Radiolab. We continue now with our story from reporters Peter Lang-Stanton and Nick Farago about the 9000 or so balloon bombs that Japan sent to America in 1944 and '45 that rained down on American soil and created nothing really. Nothing happened. No damage no terror nothing.   But then we get to this tiny little town called Bly.   To me there is no place like old Bly.   Bly is this sleepy little logging town at the base of Gearhart mountain in south-central Oregon.   There is a lot of pretty scenery.   And Cora Conner who you just heard was born and raised there.   You know everybody and they are just like a big family out there.   In the '40s when Cora was a young girl there were about 700 people living there.   Yeah but we did all kinds of fun things. We had a fish fry up at Dog Lake. Huge catfish fry up there. The whole town stayed all night went back home the next day. In the winter the canals would freeze over and we would have bonfire and ice-skating parties and it was a fun place to live.   Can you tell me about the morning was it a Sunday?   Let us see what happened? I am trying to think. Saturday I think. May 5th is all I can remember. Yep that was May 5th.   May 5 1945.   It was a beautiful day. The sun was shining bright.   And the Reverend Archie Mitchell and his wife Elsie who was five months pregnant with her first child ...   Knew them very well. Sunday school. I went to church occasionally up there.   They took their Sunday school class out for a picnic. There were five children that went along on that trip ages 11 to 14.   And one of the kids ...   We called him Dickie. He had a crush on my sister who was a little younger than me. And they wanted her to come on this picnic so they came by and stopped -- the Pastor and his wife stopped and the kids all piled out.   They stopped before they went up?   Yeah trying to talk -- convince my mom to let my sister go or both of us or whatever. But mom did not want us to go because Saturday was our chore day. And my day to work the switchboard which usually made me pretty angry. But that was my job. And she said No. No way. Well my sister did not really want to go because she really was not encouraging this relationship too much.   With Dickie?   Yeah Dickie. yeah.   She did not want to lead him on?   No.   So Archie and Elsie and the five kids get back into the car ...   And they drove up to Gearhart mountain.   A couple miles up a logging road they pass some Forest Service guys working on the road. They go a little further to where the road comes near a creek.   And Archie pulled the car around and parked. The kids jumped out of the car and started running down toward the creek. Elsie who was pregnant as I mentioned and she was feeling a bit carsick she jumped out to get some fresh air and to chase after the kids while Archie went around to the trunk of the car to get out the fishing poles and the picnic baskets et cetera. One of the children saw something on the ground a large canvas white-gray balloon of some kind spread out on the ground. Called to the other children to come have a look. The children and Elsie apparently gathered in a tight circle around the balloon. Archie later reported that while he was getting the picnic basket out of the trunk his wife called to him Honey come look at what we found. He turned and just took a few steps toward them and at that moment -- we will never know exactly what happened but apparently one of the children reached down to pick up the device. The bomb detonated. All five children and Elsie Mitchell were killed instantly.   The Forest Service guys down the road were close enough to hear the blast.   They come running when they hear the explosion and they see Archie Mitchell has run to the site and his wife's clothes were ablaze. And Archie was kneeling over his prostrate wife beating out the fire with his bare hands.   Hmm.   There is no wind.   On our last day in Bly we went to visit the site where the bomb went off.   It is in the middle of nowhere. It is just a chain -- it is this little fenced-off area like a little pen.   And there are these tall pine trees.   There is these huge cuts in the tree.   Those are shrapnel cuts in the tree?   Yeah.   Yeah they still -- this has not -- has not healed.   Eerie place.   Of course I did not know -- did not know what was going on.   This is Cora Conner again. At the time she was at her job watching the switchboard when ...   The guy that was working up there for the Forest Service come rushing into the telephone office and I mean he was scared. Pure white and scared. And I thought My God what is going on? What is happening? And he came in and made the call to Lakeview.   The naval base in Lakeview. And about a half an hour later this you know big imposing military guy comes in.   He was all medals and all. In full uniform you know? And he must have made it it seemed like in the blink of an eye. And I thought My God what has happened? And then when he talked over the phone I knew what was going on. He said they would had a bomb explode up there with -- with casualties. And then he talked to me. He said Do not talk to anybody about anything that you have heard here. Not your mother not anybody. He says Now you are not to leave this office. By then I was just jelly I was so terrified.   He leaves and the word is trickling around spreading around town.   They knew something had gone wrong. And they gathered at the phone office because the phone office knows everything in the whole valley. And they knew I knew what was going on. And that is when it all hit.   Pretty soon there was a crowd outside.   Screaming and yelling at me.   At you?   Yeah. We know you know what is going on. You better come out and tell us. We are coming in there and you are going to tell us what is happened. And ...   And these people are -- are your neighbors and things like that?   People -- yeah.   That know you and they are saying that?   They know yeah. Because Bly is a very tiny place. I probably knew every one of them. I was about -- you can imagine the state I was in. And Mr. Patsky ...   Dickie's father. Dickie was the boy who had a crush on Cora's sister.   I can tell you exactly how he was dressed that day. He had on a red and black checkered hunting shirt and his red hunting cap.   At the time all he knew was that his son was missing.   He stood out there and he shook his fist and he yelled and he scared me half the death threatening to come in and all that. He says You know what is happening. Let us know what is happening. And I could not do anything. I sat there all day.   How old were you?   16. You know it really really tore me apart. I was just in a complete fog for days. I never talked too much about it.   Really?   Nope.   Within a day or so the military told most of the town what actually happened that day.   And then a short time after that a big army truck -- well there was two big army trucks and they stopped right out in front of our house. We wondered what was going on. You know your little town like that anything different everybody goes to the window and takes a look. And here come -- okay this is awfully hard for me. A woman and a little kid jumped out of the back of that truck. She was Japanese. They were on their way to the Tule Lake.   The Japanese internment camp nearby.   And she is screaming and crying and praying. Please we need water. We need water. It was hot. It was really hot that day and they were in a canvas-covered truck jammed in there. And I grabbed a pitcher a bucket or whatever was there in the kitchen filled it with water and started out the door. By that time they were throwing rocks at that lady and her kid. People in that town were so terribly upset and they were throwing rocks at her. And Mom would not let me go and I screamed and cried at my mother because she would not let me go. She says You cannot go out there. They will throw rocks at you. I will not let you go. And to this day that picture is in my mind. And I have prayed to the Lord to forgive the people that were doing that and to try to -- I cannot accept it. There is no -- nothing can make me accept what happened. I thought that was the most horrible thing in the world people could do. A woman and child they had nothing to do with the bomb nothing to do with the war nothing. It is still hard. How can people be that way? It upset me so horribly bad. I did not want to talk about it. I could not talk for 40 years.   It is weird. Like there is a kind of weird scary symmetry to this whole thing. Like the Japanese military was trying to create terror right?   Mm-hmm.   Like what they felt after Doolittle. And so they wanted to make this situation where like bombs were falling silently from the sky. We could not even tell where they were coming from. Almost like the gods were dropping them. But we kept it quiet so nobody panicked. Except by not saying anything at least in this one small instance it created exactly the situation that the Japanese military wanted. I mean not on the scale that they wanted but like in its effect. It is like a concentrated version of the thing that they were trying to create.   Right but that is the ...   That is the problem.   That is not a problem. Five is -- five is a sacrifice in war. What is it five six people?   Yeah.   There were 125 million people in America then.   Hmm. I think there actually might have been a little bit more than that.   Well you can see what it would have been like listening to this story. You can see what it would have been like if this story had been well-known and had been told from person to person. If everybody was looking up and wondering where the next strange thing was coming from.   Well they would not -- there might have been panic but those kids would not have tugged on the balloon.   That is the choice.   Because they would have known yeah.   Hey I am sorry to jump in here. I just know that we do not have Ross much longer and I want to respect your time.   This is our producer Andy Mills who worked with Nick and Peter on this story.   Before they kick you out the only last question that I kind of had on my list is like why is it that we do not know about this? Like I have never heard of this before. I do not know if Robert if you have heard of this before.   Never.   Why the hell is this not a thing we know?   I think it is directly an outgrowth of that censorship policy. At the end of the war the war department destroyed all of the evidence. They did not want any evidence of these balloons just out there in general circulation.   Huh.   This is one of those footnotes to the war that you know at the end of the war just never -- people forgot about something that they did not know about anyway.   Wow.   Ross are there any more out there?   That is a very interesting question. It is estimated by the War Department that of the 9000 released they thought that maybe seven to ten percent of the total would have survived the trans-oceanic crossing and arrived in North America. That is 900. 300 are confirmed as having arrived in North America. So that means there are dozens perhaps hundreds that arrived in North America but were never accounted for. In the 10 or 12 years immediately after the end of World War II a couple dozen of these things were found. Several in Oregon in 1948. One in Alaska in 1955. One in Idaho in the early 1960s. And then the recoveries stopped.   Were they live like the one in Oregon? If you touched them would they blow up?   Some of them were. Some of them were.   Wow.   Some of them were. Now here's the fascinating part. Last October -- October of 2014 I kid you not.   Dave was ahead of me and he stopped and said I think I saw the bomb.   A couple of loggers ...   Yeah my name's Brad Simlinger.   My name's Dave Bridgeman.   In Lumby British Columbia who were doing some survey work.   You know this is the middle of nowhere.   Found the remnants of a Japanese balloon that had been on the ground for 70 years.   And we definitely worked in remote areas and in general we do not see much except trees and rocks. But you know there are those odd special days where you see things that no one else gets to see.   This happened just a few months ago.   Huh.   I tell you if you are hiking if you are out in the woods in the Pacific Northwest watch where you step.   By the way Fugo F-U-G-O that is the codename in Japan for these weapons. They were called Fugo F-U-G-O.   It is also the name of Ross Coen's book.   The curious history of Japan's balloon bomb attack on America.   Thank you to Peter Lang-Stanton and to Nick Farago for their reporting and extensive reporting of this.   Yeah big thanks to them. Big thanks to them.   Also thanks to Ilana Sol whose documentary On Paper Wings was a big source for us.   You heard those Japanese voices in the middle of the story. That came from her documentary. Also we have original music this hour from a couple of folks Jeff Taylor Michael Manning David Wingo Justin Walter.   We had production support from Andy Mills and Damiano Marchetti. And if you want to see these balloon bombs we have some incredible pictures on our website radiolab.org.   One more thing. Since this episode first aired we -- we got some sad news. Cora Conner the woman you heard telling the story of you know being 16 and operating a switchboard at the Bly telephone office well she passed away in December 2016 at the age of 87. She was a member of the Klamath County Historical Society in Oregon and she continued telling the story of the Bly balloon bomb throughout her life.   I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   Thanks for listening.   To play the message press 2. Start of message.   Hi. This is Alyssa Bella-Feinberg calling from Factory. Home of the Ruth Bader-Ginsburg action figure in Gowanus Brooklyn. Radiolab was created by Jad Abumrad and is produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Bethel Habte Tracie Hunte Nora Keller Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Malissa O'Donnell Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster. With help from Shima Oliaee Audrey Quinn and Neil Denesha. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris. Bye-bye.   End of message. 