 Today on RX and NPR Eye Of The Beholder - amazing stories from real people who are not as they may appear. My name is Glynn Washington. Please get your top hat and snowmobile boots out because you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT.   OK SNAPers before we even get started I want you to know that we have changed the names of some of the participants in this next story to protect the innocent. And they are all innocent. Now on ow that we have taken you to the highest mountaintops into the depths of the deepest sea but today we are about to take you to one of the most scariest places ever - summer camp.   .  It is three days before the big dance at Camp Discovery in northern Minnesota. Camp's in full swing. They are singing around the campfire. Kids are at waterfront. They are playing those trust games where you get blindfolded and have to walk around cones.  Right.   Forward.   Left forward.  Forward forward.  .  But there is also so much excitement about the dance. Everybody's scrambling to get a date and there are more girls than boys.   There is so much drama. Oh my goodness.  Caitlin's  13. She is into gymnastics. She has long dark-brown hair. She is popular. And she says if you want to stay up on the drama - who is asked who who got dumped - there is one place to be.  If you go play basketball usually you are like - the basketball crowd is kind of the - it is kind of like the gossip area. That is where most of the things happen.  And the negotiations of who is going to ask who are kind of complicated.  So it is kind of like oh I want him. Wait I also want him kind of thing. And then you have one friend who wants to go with him but it is like oh wait. I wanted him too. And so should you say yes because you are my friend or...  Most of the boys seem like they could care less about the drama and the dance except Nathan . He is a boy on a mission to get a date.   Nathan's 11 funny and a little sheltered. This is his third summer at camp.  That is one of the reasons I like to come here 'ecause you do not have a parent  to keep going hey do not do that. No hey do not do that. But in other cases it is learning what happens when you do not listen to your parents .  Last year Nathan had an amazing time at the dance. He was too embarrassed to ask anybody but he wore a suit which was a big hit. This year he really wants to go with someone. He is already asked one girl.  And I might have gotten rejected. I do not know yet. She said I do not know. And I am so nervous 'ecause I want to take her.  Are you going to ask again?  Yes.  What is going to go through your head when you walk up to her?  Fear - mostly fear. You know what girls do when they like a guy they hit him. They do stuff like that. I know from experience. And guys I do not know what they do. Showing off - that is what boys do.  So Nathan asks the girl again. She says no.  I cried in the cabin. I cried in my bed. I cried in the bathroom.  What made - why were you crying?  Well because I had never been rejected before.  Never?  Never. Not like that.  Most of the kids here are really used to getting rejected because they all have skin diseases.   Some kids have splotches or moles or scales. Some are bald or allergic to the sun. Some have life-threatening diseases. There are kids who get enormous blisters from just walking eating even changes in temperature. They are covered in bandages. They are in wheelchairs. Camp's swarming with dermatologist and nurses. There is a big table in the mess hall where kids line up to get their medicine. Compared to a lot of the campers Caitlin's skin disease is pretty mild. She has eczema. She is an Army brat and every time she starts a new school she has to explain what is wrong with her skin.  I remember one time I was going up to get a math sheet and there was this person who I thought was beginning to be my friend kind of. And I was going up to get a sheet and she touched my elbow which was really dry and rough at that time. And she like yelled really loud ew. That is disgusting. Your elbow's so rough and dry. And then everybody came over and touched my elbow and I felt like - you know how you go to a museum or something and you are all staring at like a lizard inside a box or something? I felt like so much like that.   Everybody at camp has this feeling like all the time in their normal lives. I have a skin disease. I have had this feeling. I came to this camp as a kid and as a counselor.  It is like you are at a regular camp but it is the only time you will ever be normal.  There is a sense here that you can just do whatever you want be whoever you want and your personality can completely change from school to here. I think this is a complete bully-free zone.  At Camp Discovery Caitlin's not a lizard. She is beautiful. She has her pick of suitors but she only has eyes for Christian  a boy in a wheelchair who has epidermolysis bullosa. It is the most severe disease at camp. In some cases it is fatal. Christian's skin is covered in blisters. His hands and feet are knotted infused with scar tissue. His arms and legs are covered in bandages. And last year he and Caitlin they hung out.   We talked a lot during the dance and after horseback riding we went and saw the puppies and stuff - that was pretty cute - and took pictures with him and the puppies.  OK so you guys definitely - you know each other.  We are friends yes. It is kind of cute I guess. Last year we danced a lot and he asked to take a picture with me at the end of the dance.  But it turns out Rachel  Caitlin's cabin mate also likes Christian. Rachel's quiet funny but quiet. She does not want to be interviewed. She has a disease called vitiligo so her skin's really really blotchy. Rachel's already going to the dance with Christian but she invites Caitlin to come as a sort of triple date. This is a power move in the world of middle-school-girl politics. They are both going to the dance with Christian and nobody's feelings are getting hurt. Meanwhile Nathan is still on the hunt for a date. He is also got EB but not as badly as Christian. He wears bandages on his hands elbows and feet.  It is basically where there is layers of skin. And my skin it does not have the glue between the layers so it just peels easily.  And it like makes blisters? Is that right?  Yeah blisters. It is junctional EB. It is not the worst but it is not the best.  Now there is a girl who likes Nathan. She is cute but her skin is worse than those other girls. Nathan does not ask her to the dance. He asks someone else. And girls whose skin diseases you cannot really see keep turning him down.  One of the reasons why I aim for the pretty girls is I cannot see myself - in my head I have an envisioning of like a kid with no blemishes on the skin. And so I just went for the - them first.  I mean when you think about the possibility of you not being asked because of your skin how does it feel?  A bit of anger but I would understand.  Why would you understand?  'ecause I did not ask Savanna . I mean it is not all because of her skin. It is just - well some of it is yeah.  You know like thinking about how she feels you know not being asked maybe a little bit because of her skin...  Yeah.  What does it make you feel like?  I do not feel like a total monster but it seems a bit mean just a bit.  So at skin camp looks matter unless you have really bad EB the blistering disease. These kids bandaged and in wheelchairs they become the darlings of camp especially the boys who usually end up getting asked to the dance.   The last day of camp before the dance a lot of girls leave waterfront early to get ready. Caitlin's the cabin makeup guru. She helps other girls with eyeliner and lipstick. The boys are not so worried about how they. Nathan's one of the first kids ready for the dance. He tells me he brushed his teeth and used AXE body wash. He brought his dress pants to camp. But he is packed them so he is wearing yellow gym shorts. The mess hall's all decorated. The tables are pushed to the sides. The lights are low. Music's pumping. Caitlin and Rachel look cute in their dresses. Christian's wearing a button-down shirt and they head into the dance together. Nathan waits outside for his date. It is been a rough week getting rejected by girls he thought were in his league. At the last minute his date ditches him and he is left alone.  I feel a bit sad that I was rejected again basically. I do not know if I was rejected...  Slow dance.  It is time to slow down.  OK. I am outside.  Are you guys doing that? Are you guys doing it?  Are you going to stay outside during the slow dance?  I wonder if my date will come and find me if I still do have one. I wonder if I have a plan E.  Do you need a plan E?  Maybe just in case. I do not like slow dancing.  I do not either.  I do not either. It is the worst. I slow danced once with one of the younger girls here and they are like...  Nathan's pretty bummed so I let him call his mom from my phone. He explained what happened with all his dates.  Wait. Tonight's the dance.  Yes it is but...  So what will you do?  Well I...  Yeah because I - last year - did you tell Sarah  what you did last year?  Well last year what happened? I wore...  Where you wore - you took your nice suit and you did not plan to ask a girl. And girls were telling you to ask someone and you absolutely refused to. You just went and danced and had a great time.  I was embarrassed yeah.  So you were too embarrassed last year to ask?  Yes.  But you wore that wonderful suit which you then got all bloody.  Bloody.  Oh so he did tell you about that.  Yes that he came home wearing a bloody suit.  Oh yeah with shower shoes that he had worn to the dance the night before. And you know he has fragile skin and someone had stepped on his foot that night at the dance.  Yeah.  And about a third of his foot was a new wound. And he was so excited and tired he did not tell anyone so he traveled home that way.  Oh my God.   I know.  If it...  So I told him he is not allowed to come home without making sure that you know somebody's looked at his hands and feet at least a little bit. So Sarah said that she would like me to encourage you to go in right now and so that means right now.  OK.  Will you do that for both of us?  Yes madam.  I love you Son.  I love you Mama.  So Nathan finally heads into the dance. Inside things start off OK. I ask Rachel how it is going. She says go talk to Christian.  Can I talk to you? You have two dates. What is that like?  It is fun.  Yeah? What is the best part about having two dates to the dance?  Dancing.  It is pretty nice. You get to dance with both of them.  What?  Yeah. I said you get to dance with both of them.  Oh.   But the thing is he is not dancing with Caitlin. She is disappeared and is dancing with her friends. Christian starts asking Rachel where Caitlin is. He gets more and more upset and then he storms out of the mess hall and back to the boy's cabin barricading his wheelchair against the door. Counselors finally convince them all to come back into the dance and they start dancing in this weird sad line. Rachel's holding a counselor's hand on one side Christian on the other. Christian's holding Caitlin's hand and her face is buried in her counselor's stomach. She is sobbing. The dance ends and they all leave sad.  Because it like broke my heart to think that he probably does not get this much attention at all. And then I ask him to the dance and I do not dance with him. I just wanted to dance with some of my friends. It is like I am being a bully. And I - yeah I felt like I was a bully in a place where there is supposed to be a bully-free zone.  Yeah. You know it is like - it is cool to go to the dance with the kid who has the worst skin disease but then you do not dance with him you know?  Yeah. It is like - it makes it even worse that like the people who have it worse I am also like the meanest to it feels like. Like all of a sudden that I am picking on the ones that like - I went to the dance purposely to go - to not dance with him.  I do not think anybody thinks that is true.  I do.  Well I guess this is something where you just kind of learn you know?  Yeah I - yeah. Right now I feel like I am not learning anything but - right now it just feels like this is mean pain.  And the night still is not over. I am talking to Caitlin by the bunks when there is a knock on the door. It is Christian flanked by counselors. He is come with flowers and he asks for Caitlin.  Could you have her come here?  Yeah I will. Sure.  Thank you.  There you go buddy.  But Caitlin's so embarrassed and ashamed she hesitates to even go to the door.  You will feel so much better. Let us do it.  No I will not.  Yeah you will.  No. Every time I look at him I feel 10 times worse.  I know but that is why we have got to fix it.  It will not be fixed. I will always feel like this.  You do not have to always feel like this.  But I will. When I get something in my head that I did something wrong I just feel like that forever.  He wants to make it better. Yes he did.  It is 'ecause he did nothing wrong.  He wants to talk to you. He does not know that he did nothing wrong. He wants to talk to you and work it out.  So Caitlin reluctantly goes to the door. Go on lady. You got it.  I am sorry OK?  Thank you. I am sorry too.  It is OK.  Caitlin's counselors whisper to her to see if she can give Christian a hug.  Ask him if you can give him a hug.  No no no no. Can I give you a hug?  Yeah. I am sorry.  I am sorry too.  Christian hands Caitlin a little bouquet of flowers. The thing is Christian has spent the whole night chasing Caitlin. Rachel the girl with the more visible skin disease his other date has been forgotten. Lacy's  their counselor. She is a dermatology resident and she watched the whole night unfold.  I think it probably is the most painful thing I have ever watched in person.  Why?  I think mostly because this camp is supposed to be a place where kids are safe from things like this and they come here to fit in possibly for the first time in their whole lives. And then - and even the ones who are doing the hurting they understand what they are doing to the other kids but they cannot stop doing it.  I mean yeah. That is like the catch-22 of this place right? Like...  It has its own hierarchy. And in some ways it is different than the rest of the world but in other ways it is not because even that backfires. I just wish that this was not a place that that could even happen I guess.  She says that kind of makes it worse. A rough night turns into a rough morning. At the airport all the kids are hugging and crying. Getting on that plane means heading back to the real world. Even though last night's drama was intense nobody wants to go home.   Yes there is lots of love for everyone at Camp Discovery. It is sponsored by the American Academy of Dermatology and it is free. It is fun. Learn more about it by going to aad.org when searching for Camp Discovery. We will also have a link on snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Sarah Harris. Well Sarah is a reporter at North Country Public Radio in northern New York and Sarah received the assist from our own Anna Sussman with sound design by Renzo Gorrio.   When SNAP returns a relationship is doomed before it even gets started and we introduce you to the very best dentist in the world for real when e Of The Beholder episode continues. Stay tuned. 