 OK so the thing about my brother is my brother always had schemes - always. Forever plotting and planning for the next big score. So when I called to tell him that he needs to move to Japan I know just the right words to use. Dude it is the land of opportunity over here. Forget go west young man instead go east. But can I get paid? Yeah you can get paid. He comes over and sets right to work. First he is got this psychic friend phone exchange thing. Then there is an import-export scheme selling stamps from Palau. And there is the ever-present phone card scam. Whatever it is he knows it is going to be the next big thing. And he is loving it. Bro good call. This Japan thing is great. And one night he takes me out to see a show. He promises that these guys are going to be the next big thing. Huge huge I guarantee it. All right man. We go - and it is terrible.   Two Japanese guys called the Maryoka  Brothers or something and they are doing some kind of awful James Brown impersonation - horrible horrible like they are wearing blackface horrible. Trying to be black and it is so bad I am embarrassed for them. My bro drags me backstage after the show and the two guys looking all downcast - they cheer up when they see him. My bro tells them not to worry. No problem fellas.  . I am going to hook you all up with some soul.  And I am like good luck with that. No dude help me help them. Do not you see? We will think of some corny English line to stick in the song and we cannot lose. I tell them there is not enough soul in the world to help these fools. So it is maybe three months later my brother takes me out again. And it is not 'til we are at the club having a drink that he springs it on me. Hey hey remember that group I was working with? Well everything is fixed. They are about to come out now. I want to go on tour with them. I laughed out loud. Brother they suck. They suck so bad their suckiness is going to suck around and suck up other stuff that sucks. I told you I fixed it. Throw in some nonsense lines some English words it is all set. We are going on a 12 city tour. Right. Watch the crowd see if I am lying. The guys come out and a few of the ladies actually scream. This time they have cleaned up wearing these aluminum foily suits and they have got a new name The Bubblegum Brothers.   And immediately I have to admit something is different. They have got a headshake a confidence a swagger. And it is not their swagger it is his swagger - my brother's. And then I hear him singing along.   It was kind of nice. My brother's like wait for it wait for it. They have got a line. The uptown Tokyo slamming night. What did they say? Uptown Tokyo slamming night? Did you make that up? You did not make that up. Who made that up? I told you man. I am going to make big cash. It is going to be the next big thing.   And here's the story - my brother's actually right. The song ends up being the next big thing. A huge crazy super monster hit. But the tour bus takes off without him on it. My brother does not make a dime. Not a single yen. He acts like he does not care but being his older sibling I love pouring salt in new wounds. And I ask him what is up with those Bubblegum Brothers? And he is like forget them man. That is old news. But hey if you have got some extra change you are not going to believe the deal I got going on a robot sake bar. 