 Next SNAP JUDGMENT's Stephanie Foo drops us into another locale all together. Louisiana. Stephanie Foo take it away.  So a couple of months ago I found myself deep in the Bayou of Louisiana where the houses are on stilts and the gas stations have these big signs advertising fresh shrimp. And it was there I met Kirby Verret.  OK my name is Kirby Verret.  I met Kirby in his church 'ecause he is a Methodist preacher. He is also a Houma Indian. And he comes from legit Bayou stock people like his grandpa Matile .  Grandfather Matile Verret. He was very much of a hermit in a sense. You could not get to his camp by car you had to come there by boat. This little bitty camp I mean it might have been 10 feet by 12 feet. He was known for living by himself with his 17 dogs.  Whoa.  Yeah he loved dogs.  Each of those dogs had a purpose to help him hunt. He had spotters retrievers - living that far out in the Bayou Matile was not going to the Piggly Wiggly to get eggs.  He was just one of those men that loved living off the land and the water and providing for himself. But unfortunately the game warden always thought Matile was poaching deer.  And technically Matile was doing that. But...  I do not know why you call it poaching if you are killing it for food? But still it was considered illegal. And so this game warden had made up his mind that he was going to catch Matile with a deer.  Fortunately grandpa Matile had a secret weapon. A dog named Brown.  Brown a black and white hound. Brown's main job was to listen for the game warden. He had the skills of hearing when the game warden would launch his boat about a half a mile down intercoastal. The moment that boat would hit the water and the game warden would start that motor Brown would give a little - a warning woof letting them know that company's coming. And so grandpa would start heating up the water put on some coffee.  Hide any pelts he might have look casual.  And by the time the game warden would pull up to my grandfather's dock coffee was just being made.  And so the game warden would eye Matile suspiciously but he would not ever find any deer. All thanks to Brown the dog.  Brown became my grandfather's favorite companion. My grandfather would go so far as to even have a special pair of sunglasses he had for him - state trooper glasses big aviator glasses. Had a white shirt. He had only the front part he would put on him with a tie.  He even folded a brown paper bag and made a round hat for Brown. And grandfather Matile dressed an awful lot like Brown himself.  When he put on a hat just like the dog wore but he did not have two pair of sunglasses. So they could not dress alike you might say.  So imagine this big dog fully dressed in hat glasses shirt and tie sitting at the kitchen table for meals.  Well he would actually a climb on a chair and he had a little white cup with a green ring around it and he knew his cup. It was unbelievable to see how that dog would sit in that chair. I mean he was so honored. I mean he just sat there so respectable. He had that posture that just made you feel like golly this dog really - he may not be a human being but boy he is sure pretty close to it.  So one day Brown barks a warning and sure enough the game warden floats up on his boat. But this time he decides hey I am actually going to come in and have some of that coffee look around. So he steps out of his boat and...  All the dogs would scatter except for Brown. Brown would stand there like the guard - walk with him all the way to the camp. The game warden would say what is wrong with Brown? Say oh do not worry about Brown. He is just - that is the way he is.  The game warden took a seat at the tiny kitchen table and looked uneasily at Brown whose tie and paper bag hat were disconcerting to say the least.  Brown sit right next to him and staring him right in the face you know not taking his eye off of him. Game warden just kind of you know it makes you feel uncomfortable when a big dog like that is just staring at you and giving you one of those low growls. Grandpa got all the coffee ready and puts a cup in front of the game warden puts a cup in front of himself. And he reaches over and pours the coffee in cup and boy the game warden sitting there just watching the dog. When game warden picks up that cup the dog goes haywire. I mean the dog jumps up and starts barking crazy jumping at him you know with that big hound voice. The game warden's just - you know he is cornered.  Brown had the warden pinned against the wall his teeth bared at his neck. And the warden's screams...  Matile Matile what is wrong with Brown?  And Matile says oh you are sitting in his chair drinking out of his cup.  Grandpa Matile had given the warden Brown's cup and Brown did not appreciate it.  The game warden did not know that the dog love coffee. The dog knew his coffee and he knew his cup. And this game warden drinking out of it. I mean he - it just got him very upset.  Well legend has it the game warden did not come back after that. He did not really know what all was happening out there with Matile and that dressed up dog but deer be damned he did not care to find out.  That is a true Bayou story.    I try and talk to my friends but I might as well be talking to a dog. Try and talk to my friends people but I might as well be talking to a dog. I will tell you why if you do not do not they will be sippin' on your coffee pot.  Really Stephanie Foo? Really? The dog dressed like a person? He did not like the officer drinking out of his cup? All right well please note that neither SNAP JUDGMENT industries NPR nor the Queen of Norway will vouch for the veracity of this piece. But we still thank Kirby Verret for sharing his story. And I got to say that song with the dog drinking coffee - well played Stephanie Foo well played. You have made some time for yourself ditched the knuckleheads and arrived at the every end of the SNAP JUDGMENT episode. But do not be sad do not be blue full episodes pictures movies stuff - available right now at snapjudgment.org. Twitter - snapjudgment.org. Itunes Stitcher SoundCloud you understand what I am saying here? And how is it you are not yet my friend on the Facebook?  Now just because the Corporation for Public Broadcasting has those nice long hallways does not mean you can set up bowling pins and a leader board in front of the director's office - even if you did happen to bowl a perfect 200 game and they are only complaining because they lost. It still does not make it the right thing to do. I read it just like you all said it see? Much love to the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange bowls like my grandmother on happy hour Thursday's that is to say not well. Keep the ball in your lane grandma. PRX.org. Now you have probably already got it figured out this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact you could go play darts with the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and kick their sorry behinds and call that the losers buy beer and watch them stand around with their hands in their pockets talking about they never heard that rule before. And you could do all of that and you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 