 Radiolab Extra Henrietta Lacks 13 httpswww.wnycstudios.orgstoryradiolab-extra-henrietta-lacks JA-Jad Abumrad RK-Robert Krulwich   Hey this is Jad. We just wanted to throw an extra episode on our feed in honor of a movie that were really excited about. But first a couple weeks ago I stepped in here and I sort of laid out a challenge grant that we had gotten from the Tao Foundation and the deal was if you remember that if 700 of you guys listening step forward agreed to kick in seven dollars a month to support the making of Radiolab then the Tao Foundation would give us 70 grand to help make the show  31   So again 700 people decide to donate 7 dollars a month we get 70 grand. That was the deal. Alright so. How did we do? How did you do? You crushed it. Just crushed it. OK we needed 700 people as of right now I think were at somewhere over 3000. You did so well. We did so well. The Tao Foundation just came back to us and upped the ante. Full on stretch goal  01   Because heres the thing 3000 people is amazing but that is just a tiny percentage of the people that actually listen to this podcast. So their thinking is lets capitalize on this momentum get the other 99.9 percent involved so their new stretch goal is they have agreed to match any donation that comes to Radiolab right now up to 10 grand. So if you decide to make the 7 bucks a month deal that becomes 14 dollars a month. If you decide to do a one time donation of 60 bucks thats now 120  33   Tao will matc it. And this just as a reminder this is how were able to do you know the year long investigations in the police shooting or the nuclear chain of command just to name the last three that weve done this is how we pay for it. And this challenge grant will allow us to go farther. So if youre down go to Radiolab.orgmatch or you can text the word match to the number 69866. Again text the word match to the number 69866  03   A little formal pop up and you can donate in a matter of seconds and thank you.  14   Alright so tonight is the premiere of a move were really excited about. Its called the Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. It stars an up and coming actress maybe youve heard of her Oprah Winfrey.  30   And it is based on the book of a very very dear friend Rebecca Skloot. Best selling book. Youll be able to watch the movie in a couple days on HBO but in the meantime were just so proud of Rebecca. Thrilled that this movie is getting out to a wider audience because everyone should know this story. SO in honor of that were gonna play for you a documentary that we produced with Rebecca. We worked on it for a few years with her while she was sort of formulating the book. And it includes tape that you wont hear anywhere else.  58   We can move me closer   Hello hello   And the story   OK  Is about a tumor that expands and never stops. Begins in 1950 a black woman in Baltimore is in her bathroom and she discovers pretty much all on her own that she has cancer   Its all a bit of a mystery how she initially knew this but she knew it was there.  MUSIC IN   A knot she called it. She had told her cousins for awhile that she thought there was something wrong her with her womb  32   And she climbed into her bathtub and she slid her fingers up inside of herself and found this lump   Chapter 1   First she went into her local doctor   By chance I happened to be an attending at that time  The guy she eventually ended up seeing at Johns Hopkins University was this fellow Dr. Howard Jones   Im 98 next month Ill be 99  Wow. So when she came in to see you can you tell me anything about what she was like?  01   Well she was a--  You dont remember anything?  No I really dont  But you remember her tumor right?  Oh absolutely. I never saw anything like it before or after   And this didnt look like a normal tumor. It was it was deep purple and   About as big as a quarter  Sort of shiny   Very soft. That was another thing about it. On examination  Slightly raised   When you touched it you might think it was red and jello  There was something really strange about the way it looked  30   There was something weird about it   So doctors took a sample   Yeah so they would cut off these little teeny tiny pieces   Really small   Teeny tiny   A bit or two   They would take a piece   Put it in a tube   And one would go to the lab for diagnosis   And in this case since it was Hopkins   They would take an extra piece and give it to a man named George Guy   Two. So George Guy was a researcher who worked at Hopkins. He had a deal with the clinic that anytime they got a patient with cervical cancer theyd give him a tiny piece  00  Of the tumor. What he really wanted to do his main mission--actually not just his scientists everywhere were trying to do this they wanted to find a way to grow human cells outside of a human being   In a dish?   In a dish   George Guy had been trying to do this working on this for decades   And why exactly?   Um. Its sort of like its sort of like having a little tiny bit of a person in it in a lab thats detached from then so that you can do whatever you want with them. You know you cant bombard some person with a bunch of drugs and just wait to see how much they can tolerate before their cells all explode  33   But you can do that in cell culture so--   Oh so this is like this is like the basic thing you need to study human biology?   Mhm   You need cells in a dish   Yes   Problem was anytime they tried to grow human cells in a dish    My dog--come here  They would die   Yeah they die.  This is George Guys former lab assistant   Can you just tell me your name? You know my name is so and so  My name is Mary Ill put my maiden name in there.  Oh sure  Toy Kubichek  03   Mary lives just outside Baltimore about an hour where she used to work with George Guy   This is--this is Dr. Guy  She showed me some pictures   And hes sitting at a microscope  Look at him he looks--he seems like a really big guy a really tall guy  He was a big guy  At least 65 judging from the picture   Yeah he was  And in every slide that she showed me he had kind of a crazy smile on his face   Like hes got a like hes having a good time  Hes like a big bear of a man is what I always thought  Oh yeah  In any case Mary says they were completely stumped at why the human cells always died  33   But they just did  Yeah  So on the day that George Guy walked in handed Mary a tube of a little chunk of a nameless womans cervical cancer inside   I knew nothing about her  No one expected anything   No he was doing--well he probably was ever hopeful but you know. I was eating lunch and I thought oh the heck with it you o know its not gonna grow. Im gonna finish this sandwich. And thats what I did   Three   Then I went in and  00  She gave the cells some food   Did my usual  Turned on all the machines and left came back the next day. They hadnt died. So she came back the next day. And they were growing. And then the next day. Still growing.   They just kept plugging along.  And the next   They grew a lot   Rebecca says they doubled in size   Every 24 hours   Yeah   They just grew   All of a sudden you know I had--kept transferring them and making more tubs kept transferring them making more tubes and transferring--they were very reliable   And stronger   They just kept plugging along plugging along  35   Meanwhile the woman who had spawned all these cells died   Right. Officially she died of uremia which is toxicity of the blood because she wast able to get rid of the toxic waste that usually goes out in your urine   Plugging along plugging along  But not her cells   Plugging along   And to tell us this story its a privilege to introduce Dr. George Guy   It wasnt long after that George Guy appeared on TV holding in his hand a little bottle  59  CLIP  Now let me show you a bottle   Plugging along  CLIP  In which we have grown massive quantities of cancer cells   So did you want to look at the photos and--   You cant really get a sense of how aggressive this tumor was until you go to the Hopkins archives and look at George Guys pictures and videos.   OK this is the film can here that cell film  Then it hits you  CLIP  These are enlarged ten thousand times   Oh my god  Swirling hurricanes of cells   Just like thousands of little pods  CLIP  Some small and some very large  31   Clumped together  Kept transferring them making more tubes  CLIP  See them under the microscope   It looks like something has just exploded  Plugging along  CLIP  Theyre going to make--   Thats amazing  They just kept plugging along   They just keep getting bigger and bigger   Stronger   Its indestructible its indescribable nothing can stop it   Why hers just sort of took off and grew and the other ones that they had tried before didnt is just a little bit of a mystery. Nobody really knows.   Four  00   Nonetheless George Guy knew what he had. This new cell line was what theyd all been waiting for. So early on right after this woman died George Guy sent Mary back down to get more cancer cells from the corpse   Oh he sent me down to the morgue yeah  Really  Oh yeah. SO I went down there and the coroner I dont know who he was. Dr. Guy was there too and they were standing down at her feet sort of.  Meanwhile shes like what?  Shes lying out there shes already open  30   I got some samples. The coroner would take them out and give them to me  Whatd she look like?  I couldnt look at her face. I couldnt look at her. The only thing I looked at were her toes and they had chipped nail polish on them and that was really like Oh this is a real person.  What was it about the nail polish that hit you?   Because it was chipped. Because you know she hadnt been able to take care of her nails for a long time if they got chipped like that.  00   And it showed that she was proud of herself. Not everyone wears nail polish on their     Yeah. Yeah   Over the next several months while this womans body lay decomposing in the ground George Guy and Mary produced hundreds of thousands of her cells her tumor cells. And he named them the HeLa strain   HeLa?   Like HeLa. H-E-L-A.   Uh huh   No one would actually know why he had named them that for about two decades.   Hm   But what he did with these cells you know would be unusual nowadays  32  Like if somebody now found a cell that was special theyd run off to the patent office and then sell is to MERC for a billion bucks      But George Guy?   He just passed them out freely  Didnt try to make any money off     Because it was this nice new thing that could help science  Mary says that George Guy began to send HeLa all over the world.   Yep  And pretty soon she was in hundred of labs   And you know this was in the midst of the polio epidemic   This is the season when polio is at its worst   WEre talking early 50s right?   Yeah. So this is 1951 52 you know  02   Schools are being closed kids are being kept inside   To this cruel disease medical science still has no complete answer   There was this enormous effort to develop a polio vaccine   Problem was in order to develop a vaccine you had to have enough poliovirus you know enough quantity to be able to study in a lab. And they had no way of making enough   So whatd they do?   Well one of the guys the Guy--one of the guys that Guy had sent the cells to   This collaborator friend of Guys   Discovered something kind of amazing  30   Which was that polio loved the HeLa cell. Put polio inside a HeLa cell HeLa would copy and in the process would make more polio   So its the super xerox cell no matter what you wanna do--make a copy make a copy make a copy.   yeah. So now they had a way of making polio   HeLa could just be a polio factory   And so the government made a factory   But the Tuskegee Institute   A real one  Rs Literally a factory so they had these big you know stainless steel vats of culture medium that were sort of rotated constantly  00   Autoclaves for sterilizing other equipment a row with you know four or five microscopes crazy Frankenstein-ish gizmos. They had this machine that was like an automatic cell dispenser and it had this sort of long mechanical arm that would squirt a certain amount of this culture medium with HeLa cells into a tube   Wow this is ike the beauty of industry right here   Yeah it is absolutely   The cells that were produced at this factory she says were used to test the polio vaccine   The potent vaccine to prevent the dreaded disease  30   The tests they were doing were enormous. It was the largest field trial ever done. At its peak the Tuskegee HeLa production center was producing about six trillion cells a week   Wow   Which is kind of inconceivable   But that was actually only the beginning says Rebecca because this factory led to an even bigger one that was for profit   Right.   and that second factory   Was the first time any human biological material was commercialized   So this was the first biotech company   Yeah basically  00   OK but when the first started mass producing HeLa what sorts of things were done to these cells? What sorts of problems were investigated?   Like anything you can imagine. So they infected HeLa cells with every kind of virus. Hepatitis ecoin encephalitis virus. Yellow fever. Herpes. Measles mumps rabies whatever. Like you just any vaccine. And this was just an--this was a revolution for scientists. There was research on chemotherapy drugs HeLa cells went up in some of the first space missions   Realyl?  30   Yeah so they were--   HeLa went into space?   HeLa went into space which everytime I think about it I hear HeLa in space.    Why? Just because?   the premise was to see what happens to human cells in zero gravity you know if were gonna be sending people up into space whats going to happen to them up there?   Oh   So HeLa went up before any humans did. And then she eventually went up--she. The cells--   that was an interesting little slip up there.   yeah I know   58   OK so lets actually skip forward in the story to the point where that that slip up you just heard that pronoun confusion gets personal you know.   Well what happens?   OK its the late 60s   Mhm   and HeLa has led to a revolution in science and now there are hundreds of cell lines not just HeLa but hundreds. And somewhere along the way scientists discover that HeLa is so aggressive that shes actually be contaminating and taking over all of these other cell lines   You just she. But I get your point  31    and she doesnt know--it does it in the strangest way   HeLa cells can you know they can float on dust particles. They can ride on--   They can what?   Um--   They can float on dust particles?   Yeah so they can--   you mean they can hop out of a dish and just get on a particle and jsut floar?   Mhm.   Out the door   up the stairs   Down the hall   One HeLa cell   Into a lab   Drops into   Into a dish   a cell culture where theres other cells growing  00   and because HeLa cells are sort of powerful cells they take over.   So on the heels of this catastrophe someone at Hopkins decides to make a test. Lets make a test that will allow us to genetically determine if a cell is HeLa or if it isnt. And to make a long story short this desire for a genetic test led scientists and then journalists to ask a questions which amazingly for 25 years had not been asked  31   Who was this woman? And thats when we found out her name. Henrietta Lacks.      This is the sound of Rebecca reading Henrietta's medical records for the first time    This is a 30 year old colored woman  Shes sitting with Henriettas youngest daughter Deborah   This is the second of November so this is again when she was pregnant with you  Mhm  01  Henrietta had five kids when she died at the age of 31. Most have no memory of her because they were too young. And thats especially true of Deborah.   I was only 15 months old and I dont remember anything about my mother.   Yeah so she--you know she had spent her entire life just sort of longing to know who her mother was and did she like dancing   you know I always wanted to know what she liked to do where she went what she liked to eat   Did she breastfeed Deborah? She was really sort of almost fixated on that idea. She wanted to know if she was breastfed  32   Oh I dont--I dont know what I would give up just to just to have her here Ill tell you. Just to see her and hold her   So in 1973 when a scientist calls the Lacks family and Deborah hears that little bits of the mother that she never knew are still alive. And oh by the way can we take a blood test from you and your family because were having some contamination problem. We need to use genetic markers blah blah blah. Wella s you could imagine  00   Took my by surprise it really did.  It was really confusing   I mean how much is that--how much of her cells is out there? You know  Eventually she went online did some searches and found   Thousands and thousands of hits.   Like for instance on HeLa clones.   and Deborah had heard various journalists in the past had come to her and mentioned Dolly the cloned sheep and said you know your mom--they did this with your mom too. Meaning thats actually where the technology started. The first cells that were cloned her HeLa cells but that was just cloning a cell. Not cloning an entire being  31   But that distinction is very complicated particularly for somebody who doesnt know what a cell is   yeah   So Deborah between what journalists had told her and googling Henrietta Lacks and clone thought there were thousands of clones of her mother around.   Really. You mean like a bunch of Henriettas?   thousands   Walking the streets?   walking around.   And Rebecca says that one of Deborahs biggest fears was bumping into one of these clones   She said you know she would say I would have to go talk to her and she wouldnt know I was her daughter and I dont know if I could handle that.  00   wow   it sounds so fantastical. Like how could someone believe that there were copies of her mother walking around? But at one point 25 years after their mother died someone called and said Hey part of her is still alive and weve grown enough of her so that it could wrap around the Earth several times.   At that point all bets are off   Yeah right. Exactly.   Not to mention that its actually not that crazy. Because your DNA is in your cells so if your cells are taken out of you and they still grow well isnt that still you?  30   Alive?   Its of you but its clearly not you and its going on and on and thats--its a funny middle space thats for sure.   yeah. So heres what happened. As Rebecca went off in search of Henrietta Lacks every so often Deborah would come along and sit with her as they interviewed you know anyone they could find. Friends family and eventually o ver many many years a picute does emerge.  00   Of who this woman was   She was born in Roanoke   1920 Virginia   and I think she was the tenth of the eleven children.   But apparently she was the one that stood out   Everybody talked about her as just being you know she was the catch   Oh my goodness I dont think I could top her   This is Sadie Stertivan Henriettas cousin   She was a beautiful girl. I was beautiful myself but Henny was very pretty.   Brown eyes long hair   and this is Henriettas sister Gladys  31   Nice tan complexion   Everyone they spoke with zeroed in on the same few points. Like first   she was really meticulous about her nails   Always painted them red   this very deep red   And second Henrietta just had this   She was very--   Strength   Forthright very sassy   Like her cells      Now the unfortunate thing is when it comes to her life you know how she lived. Theres not a ton of detail.   October. So this is when she first ran into cancer  01   But in that hotel room when the two of them were flipping through the medical records they did start to get some detail   OK. Now heres her autopsy  Right  About how she died   These are the things Im gonna take notes about   Was she in a lot of pain when she died?   Yeah. Her--this was the hardest thing. She was eventually in a--in  apretty unbelievable amount of pain   She complained of pain in her right lower quadrant   Wailing and crying and you know moaning for the Lord to help her and   According to the records doctors tried everything  29   Morphine they injected a hundred percent alcohol straight into her spine   Wow   In spite of the pain in spite of the alcohol injection last week   And she would have these fits of pain. Sort of spasm where these waves of pain would hit her and she would rise up out of the bed and thrash around. So they strapped her to the bed and her sister along with one of her friends you know one of them would tighten the straps and the other would put a pillow in her mouth so that she wouldnt bit her tongue  00   The--if I only just had the chance to take care of her   Now dealing with how her mother died was one thing. But the cells made it more complicated   For Deborah her mother was alive in these cells somehow. So if thats true that left very big question. And the first of them for Deborah was how can Henrietta rest in peace when part of her part of her soul is being shot up to the moon  30   And injected with all these chemicals and radiated and bombarded   It was just so painful knowing you know they had her cells on the back of a donkey going to Turkey you know in airplanes. Just going all over the world uh. I just dont know   You know she worried about them--she worried that it hurt her mother when you infect the cells with ebola does somehow her mother feel  the pain that comes with ebola?   And had a scientist ever like sat down with her--   No  00   No. I mean just explain to her this is--   No. No. Never. Nothing   Because it just strikes me that it wouldnt be that hard to explain like when you take cells out of a body its kinda like when you cut your fingernail off. It just doesnt--   But your fingernail doesnt keep growing and living after you cut it off. Its a its really hard. There is no other example of some way you can take something from someones body and have it keep living and not have a person feel it.   And all these worries sasy Rebecca  30   Began to build in Deborahs mind. And build and build   There came this point--so we were   Ah   At her cousins house   This is her cousin Gary   She was broken out in hives and she was telling him all the stuff that she recently learned   You can almost hear it on the tape she says to him      She cant carry the burden of these cells anymore. She cant do it   I cant  I dont want to  anymore   And I had been sort of trying to talk her down and he was trying to talk her down  00      And then just out of nowhere he just started um singing      And he started preaching. He--   Theres some things that doctors cannot do  31   He held her head in his hands   And we come to you tonight the author and the finisher of our faith. And we thank you for being a wing maker you make a path in the mighty woods you called the mountains and skip like rams and the  we thank you.   Thank you Lord  Thank you  Thank you Lord  Thank you  Thank you Lord  Thank you  01   Thank you Jesus. Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Hallelujah! Amen thank you. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Thank you amen thank you   And she just relaxed   Shell like that man I feel lighter    She didnt realize ti then but that night Deborah was on the verge of a stroke.   Want to walk up and see the building?  31   Wanna walk? You mean--  He said its just up this hill   One of the most striking moments of this story is when the two of them visit Hopkins   How do you feel?  Fine  Yeah?  So far so good   And Deborah meets her mothers cells for the first time  Ill show you that room and then Ill show you the cells  OK   Because a scientist had finally contacted her.   Christoph Lengauer the scientist who invited us into his lab to see the cells he had projected them onto a screen   Dont be confused they look green here OK   Theyre sort of neon green in this particular case because of the way they were stained and projected  05   So theyre very ethereal looking. Theyre very sort of--they glow you know. I mean when you think about angels right you think about something glowing. Christoph turned on this screen and she just you know I mean Deborah just gasped. She just--    Oh my god.  This is about 200 times bigger than what they really are  30   A swirling hurricane of cells.   Did you say all thats my mother?  Yeah.  Pretty   Its hard to believe  Yeah  Oh my god  Yeah   Christoph gave--he gave her a vial of these cells that she could hold in her hand. Adn they came out of a freezer so they were very cold and she sort of rubbed her hands together with the vial in her hard to sort of warm them up  00   And sort of blew on them to keep them warm. And they she just sort of whispered to the cells it was sort of incredible. She just raised them up to her lips and said youre famous but nobody knows it.   Just a week before Rebecca and I spoke in the studio she got a call that Deborah had died  30   She had a heart attack and died in her sleep.   OK so um. As you may know at this point that segment was based on Rebecca Skloots book the Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks. Its an amazing book. It came out right when we released that piece  00   Its been a couple years now and recently we met up with Rebecca in Chicago. Just to get an update   Its like the book came out and then it just--   Because since the publication of that book   The whole story just sort of exploded   It just took off. Scholarships were named after Henrietta   Henrietta was given an honorary doctorate   Monuments   Highway placards and historical landmarks and buildings named after her. Theres a high school called Henrietta Lacks High HeLa High for short   Meanwhile the book is exploding she went on this like insane book tour  30   Members of the Lacks family began to join her   It started off with just Sunny Lacks would go and do a sort of on stage Q and A and people started cheering. And scientists standing up saying I want to tell you what I did with these cells and I want to tell you why this is important for me and Im sorry it was hard for you. And people reaching out im alive today because of this--a drug that your mothers cells helped develop or you know I do this in my lab. I mean they just--it never stopped. It was just a flood   Which is in a way what Deborah always wanted   She wanted to go to every event  00   She wanted to be on every television show. She had her dress picked out for Oprah like you know eight years before the book came out. You know she was Deborah wanted this. This was exactly what she always dreamed of   But then just last year something interesting happens interesting and troubling   So yeah so March 2013 this group of scientists from Germany sequenced the HeLa genome and published it online where anyone can download it. You just click a button. I downloaded it. It was just there. And they did not ask the family.  29   And my initial reaction when I saw this press coverage was they did what? Because within the HeLa genome theres also Henriettas genome and some of that was--50 percent of that was passed down to her kids and 25 percent potentially to her grandkids. But one of the things--so they put out a press release when this genome was sequenced. And on it it had a little you know frequently asked questions the press might wonder about. And one of them was can you learn anything about Henrietta or her children from this genome. And the answer was no. Cant learn anything about them  59   and I do--and I believe that they believe this. But this is a misconception. You can in fact learn about people and in fact you cannot even hide people's private information if you try. And so one researcher took the genome and created essentially a report on Henriettas genes. You have X percent chance of bipolar disorder alcoholism obesity--you--it just has this huge range of things and some of it is yes. Theres some real potential privacy violation  32   Like with the alzheimers genes and things like that bits of information about her family but--   did Henrietta have um.  I will not tell you.   Well this report that this dude made did he list all of these things youre describing?  Yes. So and he sent it to me. So I called the Lacks and said did you know did you know anything about this? And--   Rebecca had called   And you know they did not   And it kinda bothered us because were saying OK why wasnt the family involved with this decision making?  00   That was Jerry Lacks   Jerry Lacks Wie   Henrietta LAcks granddaughter   Back in the 50s you had Henrietta Lacks her cells were removed without her familys knowledge then you go in the 70s my dad and his siblings they took blood samples used it for research. They didnt give consent. Then you come 2013 and you have Henriettas--I felt as though it was her medical records being published publicly  31   You know their first question was can you get them to take it down? And so we can figure out what it is what it means. So I reach out to the scientist and said the Lacks family you know has asked that you take this down. And they replied immediately they took it offline immediately and then I contacted Francis Collins whos you know the head of the NIH. I also reached out to Cathy Hudson who used to run the Genetics and Public Policy Center at Hopkins and is now over at the NIH dealing with a lot of these issues  01   so I reached out to them and said somebody needs to try to help the Lacks family and get consent. Somebody needs to go back pretend like this si starting now and doing probably what shouldve happened in the the first place   And Id say like a couple of weeks after that several weeks after that that we had a meeting with NIH. It was my mom myself my sister my dad my uncle my brother David my sister Kim my cousin Ron Rebecca Skloot. She was actually on the conference call.  29   all the NIH folks drove up to Baltimore.  We googled their names Dr. Collins and Cathy Hudson and it was like ooh we were kinda--we was excited. We were like yeah were sitting in a room with the director   They all met   Just to listen to everybody listen to our concerns listen to our questions. What can be done what cant be done?   the Lacks family asked about everything you could possibly imagine   Went over you know the information about you know gene mapping sequencing   Just the basic science of genomes   To get a clear understanding of what the genome meant to science  03   We dont want to stop science but yet we dont want certain formation to just be broadly available publicly   So they laid out three options. One was we dont release any of them at all. And then there was a second option which was release it with no restrictions just put it out there like the germans did. And then there was a third option which was release it with restrictions. So the NIH would house it on their own servers and that in order to get access to it you would have to send in an application that said  32   This is the research were gonna do. There would be a committee forum that was a group of scientists and then some members of the Lacks family   The HeLa Genome Committee   One grandchild and one great grandchild   My brother David and my cousin Veronica   And obviously this is the option they picked. So yeah theres this committee and they just a few weeks ago saw their first batch of applications. And then the news hit and it was the first time that they were part of the news. So--   They the third generation?  59   Yeah--the Lacks family. Like Jerry Lacks was on MSNBC live doing an interview about this and she--you know shed never done this before and you know they were in every newspaper. I mean it was everywhere   Yeah. Its pretty exciting yeah. We are stepping into the spotlight. Its the grandchildren   The third and fourth generation of Lacks   Its the great grandchildren   This is their story now. And thats--the other thing that is an undercurrent through all this is Deborah is gone   She was the one who was just so forceful  30   And so dedicated with getting the information out there about her mom   And you know when I look at the four years since the book came out you know there are a few moments that stand out as incredibly emotional ones for me having to do with Deborah. But this--the first meeting sitting on the speakerphone listening to this meeting.   These high officials sitting at the table and have sincere concern about our questions  59   If she could have said what do I dream might someday happen? That would be what she wouldve described   I can just imagine her just sitting  there and she just laughing rocking back and forth twiddling her fingers saying yay. Just absorbing all of this this excitement.  33   Before we close I want to thank Rebecca Skloot for giving us her raw tapes her book The Immortal Life of Henrietta Lacks is truly spell binding. You can get more information at Radiolab.org sign up for our podcast there Radiolab.org    hello this is Rebecca Skloot Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad our staff includes Ellen Horn Michael Rafel Soren Wheeler Lulu Miller Tim Howard and Pat Walters. With help Adi Narahin Aaron Sand and Sharon Shaddock. Special thanks to Tim Clark and Timothy Wizinsky. With a name like Skloot Im allowed to stumble on peoples last names. 