Jad Abumrad Hey this is Jad. Before we get started on the podcast just two things. First the Mailchimp challenge we did a little while back. We did it. You guys did it. The deal was if a certain number of you became sustaining members Mailchimp would pitch in with some money. It happened and we are super grateful. So thank you. We freaking did it.  Jad Abumrad Okay. Number two I want to let you know that toward the end of this podcast it is about to happen.  JessicaWilliams Hey Jad.  Phoebe Robinson Hi Jad.  Jad Abumrad Wait wait. I have not even said it yet. Wait wait wait. Hold on.  JessicaWilliams I know but we are excited.  Phoebe Robinson Yeah we are happy to be here.  Jad Abumrad Okay. But you guys will have to hang out until the end. Is that cool?  JessicaWilliams Why do we have to be at the end?  Phoebe Robinson Yeah.  Jad Abumrad That was-  Phoebe Robinson Can we just be up top?  Jad Abumrad But that was the deal. We talked about-  Phoebe Robinson This is my Rosa Parks moment. I am at the front of this episode.  JessicaWilliams Yeah. You know why we can say that? It is because we are black.  Phoebe Robinson Yeah.  Jad Abumrad You are putting me in a box here. Okay. So what I was going to say is at the end of this podcast we are going to come back and I am going to introduce you guys. Listening to two very funny people who you just heard Phoebe Robinson Jessica Williams. They are starting a podcast here at WNYC Studios. It is called Two Dope Queens. It is awesome. We will talk about it. All right so you guys will hang out.  JessicaWilliams Yeah yeah. I got nothing to do.  Phoebe Robinson Yeah of course. Yeah.  Jad Abumrad All right cool.  Robert Krulwich Wait. You are-  Phoebe Robinson Okay.  Jad Abumrad All right.   You are listening-   Listening-   ... to Radiolab.   Radiolab-   From-   WNY-   C.   C.   Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Jad.  Robert Krulwich Robert.  Jad Abumrad Radiolab.  Robert Krulwich So just very briefly I am going to tell you the story of three enormous mysteries two of which you know very well and one of which I bet you have never heard of ever.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  Robert Krulwich Mystery number one.  Jad Abumrad This is the one I know or the one I do not?  Robert Krulwich This is the one you know.  Jad Abumrad All right.  Robert Krulwich So about 4 billion years ago the earth is one huge mostly ocean of lifeless chemicals. Then for some reason which we have never really been able to understand lifeless chemicals suddenly produce a pulse and you get life.  Nick Lane Hello? Yes I have just arrived now.  Robert Krulwich Nick okay. Wonderful. Like Nick for example.  Nick Lane Nick Lane. I am a professor of evolutionary biochemistry at University College in London.  Robert Krulwich Nick is the main guy in the story I am about to tell you but just to continue this setup that was mystery number one. Where does life come from? Next mystery number three to make it more interesting.  Jad Abumrad What about the two? You skipped over two.  Robert Krulwich Two is going to be the subject of the stories and more important the middle one is the deep surprise because you have never heard of it. So I thought I would skip over two to remind you how familiar you are with one and three.  Jad Abumrad All right fine. Go to three and then come back to two. It is fine.  Robert Krulwich Okay. Three. Consciousness. For some reason one animal on the planet and only one that we can notice seems to spring into this very elaborate sense of self-awareness. We do not know why it happened. We do not know how it happened. It just did.  Jad Abumrad Right. I am familiar with one and three.  Robert Krulwich You are. Now here's number two. That is the one that keeps Nick up at night.  Nick Lane Yeah because there is a gap a black hole where everything important in biology happened and we have very little insight into what it was.  Jad Abumrad Black hole and biology. I like that.  Robert Krulwich So you want to know what it is? This black hole? Yes you do. You do. You know you do.  Jad Abumrad Okay. Yes.  Robert Krulwich Okay. Mystery number two. Hey we are a little bit past one but way before three. So 4 billion years ago we got life. It is just floating around. Little specks in the ocean.  Nick Lane Very simple cells. Probably pretty much like a bacterium as we know them today. This is very small for a start.  Robert Krulwich If you are looking at the period at the end of a sentence say is it about that size or smaller than that?  Nick Lane Much smaller. Much smaller than that.   Hello.  Nick Lane A couple of thousandths of a millimeter long. So tiny tiny things. They all look the same in this size and shape and they do not seem to be doing anything very interesting.  Robert Krulwich Well they were having babies or they were using energy and they were feeling a lot of things out.   Ta-da!  Robert Krulwich But if you look inside one of these little things not much going on.  Nick Lane Yes. Basically it is often described as a bag of chemicals.  Jad Abumrad They are not complex.  Robert Krulwich They are not complex.  Jad Abumrad Simple.  Robert Krulwich Simple as can be. It goes on like this for millions of years and then tens of millions of years and then hundreds of millions of years.  Nick Lane Well really 2 billion years or so.  Robert Krulwich 2 billion years.  Nick Lane If not longer.  Robert Krulwich You just have tiny tiny simple tiny simple bopping bopping sitting drifting in the water bopping bopping bopping bopping nothing nothing nothing nothing.  Jad Abumrad Come on. Get on with it.  Robert Krulwich No. Look I am telling you this for a good reason. You should know there is no rule which says life has to get bigger. We could have stayed infinitely small for 100 billion years. Forever really.  Jad Abumrad Really?  Robert Krulwich Yes really. But then Jad something happened.  Jad Abumrad As they say.  Robert Krulwich About 2 billion years ago. All of a sudden practically overnight a new kind of life shows up. A new sound. It is huge.  Jad Abumrad How huge?  Robert Krulwich A lot bigger than what was before.  Nick Lane These first ones the actual volume went out around about 10000 times bigger.  Jad Abumrad Whoa.  Nick Lane Massive increase in size.  Robert Krulwich It is like we just jumped from specs to battle ships. Inside these things-  Nick Lane Is massive pieces of complex machinery.  Robert Krulwich It becomes bigger and bigger and more complex. It ultimately leads to jellyfish giant redwood trees beluga whales beluga caviar which is baby whales.  Jad Abumrad It is not baby whales.  Robert Krulwich Well nevermind. Cherry trees turtles  tarantulas orangutans elephants pterodactyls. There is your second mystery. How did life for such an enormously long time stay so simple so dull and so tiny and then boom you get these big life forms? What happened? Why did it not happen for such a long time?  Jad Abumrad Well are you going to enlighten me with some attempts at answers?  Robert Krulwich Yes but I want to remind you this is a theory we have got here. We are making a hypothesis.  Ed Yong Who knows really exactly what happened? We are never going to find... found footage of that moment right? We can only imagine and we can only use the evidence that we have got now.  Robert Krulwich That is Ed Yong.  Ed Yong I am a science writer at the Atlantic.  Robert Krulwich It is the guy who introduced me to Nick over to Nick's work and this theory. He says Here's the important thing to know.  Ed Yong I mean I think-  Robert Krulwich During those 2 billion years when nothing much happened it was not that life did not get complicated. It is that life could not get complicated.  Ed Yong There is a barrier. There is an energetic canyon that simple cells find themselves trapped in.  Jad Abumrad What?  Robert Krulwich It means that it is a huge deal to try to get big. Think about what it takes to get bigger. It takes bigger cell walls. It takes more surface more openings to let things in push things out more power more moving parts and then to make the whole thing fit and work together. You got to have a bigger design plan. That is your DNA. So you are going to need more DNA.  Ed Yong All that DNA needs to be copied.  Robert Krulwich You are going to need some DNA copiers.  Ed Yong You then need to read the information that is encoded within it.  Robert Krulwich Some DNA readers.  Ed Yong You need to use that information to build proteins.  Robert Krulwich And some builders.  Ed Yong That last bit is especially costly.  Robert Krulwich In other words you do not get bigger for free. Every new step takes extra energy.  Ed Yong Just like if you are going to increase the size of your company by 1000 times. If you are going to have 1000 times more employees you are going to need to pay them all.  Robert Krulwich Where are you going to get the money? You and I we might be able to go to a bank. But if you are a teeny little thing you do not have any place to go. So how do you get bigger?  Jad Abumrad Cannot you just eat more food than you normally eat so that you get more energy so that slowly over time you get bigger? No?  Robert Krulwich No. Well you could do that but suppose you do not have the stomach to absorb the food.  Jad Abumrad You make a stomach somehow? I do not know.  Robert Krulwich In order to make the stomach you have got to eat more food to build a stomach. But in order to eat more food you got to have the stomach. But you cannot really have the stomach unless you eat the food and you cannot eat the food unless you have the stomach. You are stuck in a hole kind of. It is like a Catch 22 kind of a thing. You are stuck in what Ed calls an energetic canyon.  Ed Yong To climb over the walls of that canyon and to start experimenting with complexity you need something improbable to happen. You need something very special.  Robert Krulwich So special and so improbable that according to this theory-  Ed Yong Over the course of all of our planet's history that has only happened successfully once.  Jad Abumrad What? What happened?  Robert Krulwich Well here's the theory. There is life bopping along in its boring boring boring way. Everything is very tiny very simple. Then one day two single celled creatures start to drift towards one another.  Ed Yong One of them is an archaeon.  Robert Krulwich Little blob.  Ed Yong One of them is a bacterium.  Robert Krulwich Another little blob but smaller.  Ed Yong They belonged to the two great houses of simple things The Montagues and Capulets of 2 billion BC.  Robert Krulwich In any case these two little cells start to get near each other.  Nick Lane lowly. What each cell wants is what the other one has to offer.  Robert Krulwich Nick imagines that I do not know maybe the little one was expelling some kind of chemical.  Nick Lane Let us say it is something like hydrogen gas just for the sake of an argument.  Robert Krulwich Let us say the big one likes hydrogen.  Nick Lane That is what it wants.  Robert Krulwich Maybe the big one spits out nitrogen which is what the little one wants. So they come together.  Nick Lane They snuggle up.  Robert Krulwich Totally ordinary thing. It happens all the time with cells he said but in this case-  Nick Lane That snuggling gets closer and closer until-  Ed Yong Somehow those two cells meet and they merge.  Jad Abumrad They just squished together? How did they merge?  Nick Lane Membranes fuse cell walls do not always form.  Robert Krulwich Maybe the big one had a hole in its wall and the little one just fell through the hole?  Nick Lane I do not really know what the mechanism is but we do know it is possible.  Robert Krulwich The point is somehow this little guy-  Nick Lane Gets in.  Ed Yong The bacterium finds itself inside the archaeon.  Robert Krulwich So that is the first thing that happens. One little guy gets inside another little guy.  Ed Yong Okay.  Robert Krulwich I got to tell you this is extremely rare.  Nick Lane For the most part cells do not get inside other cells. When they do get inside of the cells for the most part it does not work out.  Robert Krulwich Because if you are this little guy on the inside now you are trapped. You cannot get to the things you want to eat.  Nick Lane It is cut off from the outside world and chances are it will die.  Robert Krulwich Which is what happens 99.999 of the time but not this time.  Nick Lane If the swallower is capable of bringing in that outside world and spoon feeding it to a swallowee if you like then it will work.  Robert Krulwich Maybe that is what happened here says Nick. Maybe the big cell had some kind of mutation that allowed it to keep feeding the little cell in its belly so the little cell survives and thrives because the second thing that happens here is the little cell on the inside starts to divide.  Nick Lane So now you have a cell with two cells inside it and maybe then four cells inside it.  Robert Krulwich Which if you are a big cell is normally not a great situation.  Nick Lane You find yourself with guests inside you. Imagine having a house party and the guests will not go away. They are having intercourse among themselves if you like and producing more guests. There is going to be a riot. There is going to be a murder or something.  Robert Krulwich The point is says Nick when you get to this point it really should not work but somehow it did. Not only did one cell get in another which is rare and then that cell survived even rarer and then divided without creating a riot even rarer. But then somehow this big cell finds ways over and over of taking care of all the little new house guests.  Nick Lane There are all stages of their life cycle. You have got some old folk in there and you have got some babies in there. How are you going to do it? Well you probably need to... let us put it in a maternity ward first of all to look after the babies. Let us put in some clinic for end of life for the geriatrics.  Robert Krulwich Somehow this big cell is able to construct all this new machinery inside itself to keep this extraordinarily various group of house guests happy.  Jad Abumrad Wait! Why would it bother? What does the cell get in return? You said that it did not have enough energy to build itself bigger. So how is it even doing this?  Robert Krulwich Well now you are getting to the real nub of the story. The key here says Nick is those little house guests that are living now in the big cell?  Jad Abumrad Yeah?  Robert Krulwich They are not ordinary house guests. They are a very specific kind of bacteria that we now call-  Nick Lane Mitochondria.  Robert Krulwich If you look at the descendants of those little guys who live in us right now-  Nick Lane They have an amazingly strong electrical charge.  Robert Krulwich That radiates across the membrane on their outside.  Nick Lane That electrical charge is tiny. It is 150 millivolts. But if you shrink yourself down to the size of a molecule and feel the strength of the electric field right next to that membrane it is actually 30 million volts per meter which is equivalent to a bolt of lightning.  Jad Abumrad Whoa.  Robert Krulwich This is what the big cell gets back. This is its returned gift. Lightning. It is this new electricity that gets it... it helps it fund all these new adventures and construction projects.  Nick Lane Now they can support enormously larger genome. So you can have bacteria may have one or two copies of a gene-  Robert Krulwich You can now have 10 more genes or 20 or 30 or maybe 50.  Nick Lane There is no penalty for doing so. What that gives you is a kind of a redundancy that allows different genes to do slightly different jobs or to diverge. You have got the scope to experiment to try things out. So you have one group going off to become algae and plants and another group becoming animals and another group becoming the fungi and so on. The descendants did so well. They have taken over the world.  Jad Abumrad They all came from that one single coming together? That one union?  Ed Yong Yes. It comes down to one merger between two cells that made one cell and then everything comes from that. You me the redwood tree or the hummingbird or fungus a piece of algae growing in a pond every type form of life that we can see with our naked eyes and many that we cannot come from that single cell.  Robert Krulwich What this spawns says Nick is this is how we get the great tree of life that we see all around us. After eons and eons of sameness suddenly we get this many splendored thing that is nature. It starts right here. What we are looking at is truly the second Genesis.  Jad Abumrad Okay hold on a second. Hold on. Hold on. How do we know any of this actually happened? That all of the life that we can see comes from one cell? How would we possibly know that?  Robert Krulwich Well starting with us-  Nick Lane That through the same ones in archae-  Robert Krulwich ... if you go in and look at the genetic material inside our cells-  Nick Lane About half of our genes a little bit less than half we find them in bacteria or archae.  Robert Krulwich Nick says you can see very clearly that the original DNA of those two cells those two cells that merged into one they are inside us.  Nick Lane So their sequence and their structure has remained almost intact for 2 billion years.  Ed Yong Just the structure of your cells alone provides an important clue. If you look at the cells of all of those things if I take one of your cells and one cell from that fungus or from the spruce or from the whale unless you were an expert unless you have been trained in this stuff it would be very hard to tell the difference between those.  Robert Krulwich In other words all of our cells and this is across animals plants fungi. They all look something like those original cells.  Ed Yong Very very similar. They will have that nucleus that internal skeleton. They would have mitochondria.  Robert Krulwich Those are the lightning bolts the descendants of that first little guy that got swallowed.  Nick Lane We have 40 trillion cells and each of those has got let us say on average 1000 mitochondria. So that is a tremendous number of mitochondria in one human being. The giant redwood tree has a lot more than that and so does the worm. So from that point of view just biomass we are about 40 mitochondria. So just from biomass they are possibly the single most prolific life form that ever existed.  Jad Abumrad Okay. You got me. I do like this idea of trillions of little lightning bolts in your belly.  Soren Wheeler It is a little bit like-  Jad Abumrad It is our producer Soren Wheeler who chimed in as we were working on this.  Soren Wheeler Remember our guy what was his name from the floppy ears? The smart-  Jad Abumrad Richard Wrangham? Is that ?  Soren Wheeler Richard Wrangham. Yeah.  RichardWrangham Life consists of finding energy.  Jad Abumrad That is him.  Soren Wheeler He had that thing about... he wrote a book a long time ago but it was all about... I actually talked to him at the time. Human ancestors are going along doing their thing and they are eating raw leaves in the forest same way that chimps do now but then once they learned to cook-  RichardWrangham Once you start cooking there is a terrific advantage.  Soren Wheeler Cooking would break things down and then you do not have to break things down inside you which means that you are putting less energy into your food but getting more out of it.  RichardWrangham Maybe it increases the amount of energy that you can get from your food by 25 30 40 50 maybe more.  Soren Wheeler His theory is that that is when we got smart because we were in again an energy canyon where there was just given what was around you and how much work it took to break it down to the parts you need. You could not do much until you light a fire underneath it like a lightning bolt and you break it down so that you do not have to do that work because now the fire is doing that work then you put it in your tummy and you get all the goods with half the work and now you have time and energy to make a brain that can think about itself.  RichardWrangham That is when the genus homo humans in the first full flowering of the sense of that word emerged.  Jad Abumrad Wow that is interesting. So the energy canyon leaping theory might actually touch on mystery number three too. The consciousness one.  Robert Krulwich Yeah. Do not you think that cooking is an act that is intentional? When you decide to light the fire and cook the meat then you are doing something that you intend to do. What really gets to me is when you go back to the original pairing. That was just pure accident. That so much would flow from something completely cosmically accidental. That is what would really really freaks me out actually.  Ed Yong That merger and the harmonious continuance of that merger was so breathtakingly improbable that only once did it take.  Robert Krulwich Nick says it only happened once 2 billion years ago and there is no evidence to suggest that it has happened since.  Nick Lane So there is no trajectory towards necessary complex life. The universe is not pregnant with the idea of us. There is nothing about the way that evolution has worked on earth to suggest that complex life is an inevitable outcome.  Robert Krulwich If this had not happened would the earth just be still rich with little I do not know life forms that are smaller than a grain of rice? That is all we would ever get?  Ed Yong I think that is the idea.  Robert Krulwich Does that mean that you have to have this incident on Planet Zantar and Planet Zantar 36 and Planet Zantar-  Ed Yong Right. So that is really interesting. So I think when we think about the prospect of finding alien life we think the universe is so vast that we cannot be alone that there must be life on other worlds. But I think what this tells us is that we will probably find life elsewhere but it will probably be microbial. The odds of finding something like the aliens that you would expect right. So the odds of finding your  are significantly reduced. The odds of finding a bacterium somewhere are probably reasonable. You might find life but maybe it is going to be boring.  Robert Krulwich We could leave it right there.  Ed Yong But you probably will not get killed by them either. So that is a good thing.  Robert Krulwich That is true. That is true.  Ed Yong Yep.  Robert Krulwich Nick Lane's book on this theory is called The Vital Question. Special thanks to Eric Steinberg for his work on this podcast and to Richard Wrangham whose book is Catching Fire Ed Yong whose forthcoming book is I Contain Multitudes. You can find all these references on our website.  Jad Abumrad Radiolab.org. Speaking of mates-  Robert Krulwich Yes. We call this podcast-  Jad Abumrad Cellmates.  Robert Krulwich ... Cellmates.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. As promised I want to introduce you to two comedy mates after the break. I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad Stick around.  Shereen Hi this is Shereen from Sunrise Florida. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Phoebe Robinson Just a heads up I speak in abbrevs a lot. So I will just say things like totes and early  and you just have to roll with it.  Jad Abumrad I will just go with it. I will nod like I know what you are saying.  Phoebe Robinson Okay great.  Jad Abumrad Jad here. As promised at the top of the show I want to introduce you to a new project that comes from two very funny people.  Phoebe Robinson My name is Phoebe Robinson and I am Michael Fassbender's future baby mama.  JessicaWilliams My name is Jessica Williams and I plan to be the maid of honor in Phoebe and Michael Fassbender's wedding.  Phoebe Robinson Oh yay!  JessicaWilliams You are okay with it?  Phoebe Robinson Yeah.  JessicaWilliams I have literally just put myself in your fake wedding.  Phoebe Robinson No. Obviously you are in the wedding.  Jad Abumrad So Jessica Williams and Phoebe Robinson are two people who were obsessed with Michael Fassbender.  JessicaWilliams I do not even think he is that hot.  Phoebe Robinson No that is so controversial.  Jad Abumrad They are both comedians and writers. Phoebe has worked for MTV and Comedy Central. Jessica Williams you might know from The Daily Show where she is a correspondent. The two of them have teamed up to make a podcast called... It is debuting today. It is called Two Dope Queens. My bet is that if you like Radiolab you will also like this podcast. All right. Can I be old and white for a second?  JessicaWilliams There is nothing else for you to be.  Phoebe Robinson Yeah.  Jad Abumrad True. True. So dope. People still use the word dope.  Phoebe Robinson Yeah.  JessicaWilliams Yeah I think so. But even if they do not all it takes is two black people to make something cool. That is the rule. If we came and we walked down the street tomorrow and we had our shoes on the wrong foot as long as it is two black people doing it-  Phoebe Robinson I mean hello. Crisscross. When they did the jeans it was just two of them.  JessicaWilliams It was their phenoms.  Phoebe Robinson Yeah. There was-  JessicaWilliams   Jad Abumrad How did you guys meet?  Phoebe Robinson We met almost two years ago. I was doing a background on a black hair in the military piece that she was doing for The Daily Show.  Jad Abumrad The story is Jessica was doing the segment. Phoebe was part of the segment. One thing leads to another. Phoebe invites Jessica to cohost this comedy thing she was doing like a live thing. She says the moment they got up there on stage-  JessicaWilliams We murdered the stage.  Phoebe Robinson Yeah. Homicide. First degree murder.  JessicaWilliams Law  Order baby.  Jad Abumrad This is all good things right?  Phoebe Robinson Yes yes yes yes.  JessicaWilliams Yes all the best.  Phoebe Robinson On stage I was like This feels really good. She is like Yeah. I was like We should do this more often. So we are like when we start dating like Oh yeah we will go to a movie or like Yeah we will go to the MET. We will just keep seeing how things go at the end of the day. Then after a while it morphed into something that is our baby.  JessicaWilliams We made a baby.  Phoebe Robinson Yeah we made a baby.  JessicaWilliams My favorite white lady customer service thing is never in my life.  Jad Abumrad 2 Dope Queens is a live comedy show that happens at Union Hall here in Brooklyn. Generally what happens is Phoebe and Jessica they get up on stage and they just riff for a few minutes.  JessicaWilliams I think if you are in the audience we really want it to feel like you are hanging out with us.  Jad Abumrad So they get up there. They go back and forth for a while.  JessicaWilliams Then we have some of our favorite friends who are standups come and do sets in between us talking and hanging out.  Gary Gulman I wanted to share this thing that my girlfriend and I have been doing.  Phoebe Robinson Like this comedian that Phoebe and I both love named Gary Gulman.  Gary Gulman We role play. The other night we were playing secretary of Housing and Urban Development. But here's the twist. She was secretary of Housing and Urban Development. I was deputy secretary of Housing and Urban Development. So there was that status thing. She was my boss and I did not feel she was pushing her agenda hard enough. I was like Did we come to Washington to make friends? We came to make changes.  Phoebe Robinson Then we have people like Michelle Buteau-  JessicaWilliams Amazing.  Phoebe Robinson ... who is really funny. She does stuff for Comedy Central and a lot of places.  Jad Abumrad So here's a clip of comedian Michelle Buteau telling the story about how she met this guy.  Michelle Buteau I was like Oh my God this is the one. We are going to move in together. We are going to live by the mall. He came to visit me in New York one time. Both the cell phones were on the bed and they were exactly alike and it rang and I picked it up. This girl was on the other end. She goes Is Eric there? I go Who it is? She go Who it is? I go Who this? This went on for a really long time because we knew who the fuck this was.  Jad Abumrad Okay. So the next clip the Naomi clip.  JessicaWilliams Yes.  Phoebe Robinson Yes.  Jad Abumrad Who is Naomi?  JessicaWilliams Who is Naomi Ekperigin? She is a younger woman but she is practically an old lady. All she wants to do is she says in her standup is sit at home with a blanket and play with her cats.  Naomi Ekperigin As you can imagine I love to watch procedurals. I love it okay? Criminal Minds is my number one. I do like classic Law  Order but I do prefer Special Victim. Yes. I just love it. I love it. I love it. It is amazing how every episode involves a white woman in peril. It is like a white woman's in peril. That is how we get people to care. It is just nonsense. If there is one thing that I feel like we should be taking away it is white ladies okay Megans Sarahs Beckys. You guys have got to stop with the jogging at dawn and dusk. You got to stop. You got to stop. Honeys I hate to go Jesse Jackson but if the light is low you should not go. Are you following me? Are you following me? If you are jogging at those hours you got two options. Okay. You are either going to find a dead body or become a dead body. Stop it with the jogging.  JessicaWilliams We always like to have women represented doing standup or storytelling on our show. We make sure that that is in every episode and people of different orientations-  Phoebe Robinson People of color.  JessicaWilliams ... people of color. It is really really fun. I hope that if you come to see the show or even if you start listening to our podcast that you will see that we really love doing it.  Phoebe Robinson We just want a hilarious show. That is it.  JessicaWilliams Yep. I think we really do deliver on that.  Phoebe Robinson Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Phoebe Robinson and Jessica Williams from the brand-new WNYC Studios podcast 2 Dope Queens. Definitely check it out. Go to iTunes or wherever you get your podcasts from and check them out. 2 Dope Queens. Thank you guys.  JessicaWilliams All right. Thank you.  Phoebe Robinson Thank you.  Jad Abumrad I am Jad Abumrad. Thanks for listening.  Ed Yong Hi. It is Ed Yong.  Nick Lane Hi this is Nick Lane. Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad.  Ed Yong Dylan Keefe is director of sound design. Soren Wheeler is-  Nick Lane ... senior editor. Jamie York is our senior producer.  Ed Yong Our staff includes Simon Adler Brenna Farrell-  Nick Lane ... David Gebel Matt Kielty-  Ed Yong ... Robert Krulwich-  Nick Lane ... Andy Mills Latif Nasser-  Ed Yong ... Melissa O'Donnell Kelsey Padgett Arianne Wack-  Nick Lane ... and Molly Webster with help from Alexander Lee Hunt-  Ed Yong ... Alexandra Lee Young Tracy Hump-  Nick Lane ... Stephanie Tam and Michael Lowinger. Our fact checkers are Eber Dasher and Michelle Harris. Thank you.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.