Jad Abumrad               Before we get started wondering if we could ask your help on a little something. So WNYC studios which is our home wants to get a clear sense of how you listen how you engage the shows that we make here. Shows like Radiolab. So if you have a second there is a survey at wnyc.orgparticipate. It would really help us out if you answered a couple questions. That is wnyc.orgparticipate and that link is also in the show notes for this episode. Thanks. Introduction               Wait. Wait. You are listen- Introduction               Okay. Introduction               All right. Introduction               Okay. Introduction               All right. Introduction               You are listen- Introduction               Listening- Introduction               To Radiolab. Introduction               Radiolab. Introduction               From- Introduction               WNY- Introduction               C! Introduction               C? Introduction               Yep. Jad Abumrad               Okay so then if... What? How are we going to introduce this? How would you convince the many people listening to- Robert Krulwich          Would not it work- Jad Abumrad               stay listening? Latif Nasser                  Because it is a great story! It does not matter that it is figure skating. It is like a really good story. It is a good story that pops off of it is like- Jad Abumrad               Okay I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich          I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad               This is Radiolab. And look I have never been a huge fan of figure skating but this story I think asks a really interesting question. Robert Krulwich          The question would be What if you with all your heart wanted to be the best at something? But the persons who judge what is the best at this something you want to do do not share their bestness with your sense of bestness so you do your best and their best and your best are different and now you cannot best it out. Jad Abumrad               What do you do? Robert Krulwich          What do you do? Jad Abumrad               Story comes from our producer Latin Nasser and also producer Tracie Hunte. Tracie Hunte               Okay. Latif Nasser                  Okay okay. Tracie Hunte               Okay. Latif Nasser                  All right. Okay so let us start then... So okay so we are starting in 1998. We are at the Olympics in Nagano. Robert Krulwich          In Japan. Latif Nasser                  Japan. And- TV Announcers            On the ice- TV Announcers            So we have seen the girl- Latif Nasser                  Warming up on the ice you have this woman this figure skater Surya Bonaly. Robert Krulwich          How do you spell Surya? Tracie Hunte               S-U-R-Y-A. She is French 24 years old she is black. TV Announcers            Five times European champion but all sorts of problem... Particularly injury problems. Tracie Hunte               She is got an Achilles tendon that is been stitched together. Latif Nasser                  She pulled a muscle. Tracie Hunte               She is on pain killers. And- TV Announcers            She competed for France in 1994 and just missed the podium. Latif Nasser                  She is never medalled at the Olympics before. This is probably her last go in front of the world. TV Announcers            For France here is Surya Bonaly. Latif Nasser                  And it was during this performance that Surya Bonaly did something that had never been done by anyone- Tracie Hunte               Anyone. Ever. Latif Nasser                  And you could either of see it as a kind of- Tracie Hunte               Middle finger to the establishment like this huge F U. Latif Nasser                  Or- TV Announcers            Oh my gosh! TV Announcers            Oh! TV Announcers            Hello! Tracie Hunte               Just this beautiful moment of self-affirmation. Jad Abumrad               What did she do? Latif Nasser                  We will get there. Surya Bonaly                Hello? Latif Nasser                  Hello! Surya Bonaly                Hi. Latif Nasser                  How are you doing? Surya Bonaly                Pretty good thanks. Latif Nasser                  I laughed out loud when I heard you say that you would call me on your Zamboni break. Surya Bonaly                I know I was like It is the only time and I guess- Latif Nasser                  Okay so to really understand just the context of all this and the stakes of that moment we gotta go all the way back. So how did you first get into skating? Surya Bonaly                Well I did start skating because of my mom actually. Tracie Hunte               So Surya was actually adopted as a baby by this white couple in the south of France. She grew up in Nice. Surya Bonaly                My mom was a sport coach and she was about to be like a volunteer for a gymnastic club and skating club. So even though you know I was small tiny tiny she just put me on the ice and say Hey just hang around and chill on the ice. And you know I spent lots of hours there just waiting for my mom. And one day I find out that I had you know some skating boots who fit me and- Latif Nasser                  She started skating. Surya Bonaly                Yeah. Fortunately I was good at it. Tracie Hunte               Pretty soon she had a coach. Surya Bonaly                From the local ring I guess a coach kind of call and have a meeting with your parents say Hey you know it will be nice if you could come like two times a week. Or maybe now will be nice if we will do maybe four times a week. Well how about every day? I was like Oh okay. Here we go. Latif Nasser                  And so by the age of ten she decides she wants to spend her life figure skating. Surya Bonaly                It was my dream to you know to do it and I know I can. Latif Nasser                  So she would go to these ice shows- Surya Bonaly                Like Holiday on Ice. When I saw the show I love the bling bling. I love those show time and just you know those fantastic costumes. Tracie Hunte               She would see all these famous skaters. Surya Bonaly                I have my eyes glue on those skaters. Tracie Hunte               They would just be flying through the air. Surya Bonaly                I thought it was like amazing. Latif Nasser                  And she would go to practice and she would practice all of the things she saw all the double axels and the triple toe loops- Surya Bonaly                And split jumps- Latif Nasser                  And the salchows and the double salchows and the you know quadruple double triple axels. Jad Abumrad               Do you have any idea what you are saying right now? Latif Nasser                  No no no. These are all just words to me. Surya Bonaly                It was very fast. I improved like every week every month you can see a difference. Tracie Hunte               And speaking of difference you know if we fast forward a little bit... TV Announcers            And here she is on the world stage Surya Bonaly. Tracie Hunte               In 1989 when she appears at the World Championships- Latif Nasser                  The thing that becomes really apparent is that she is different! Surya Bonaly                Yeah because I was black so I was like people was like What? French? Black? Tracie Hunte               So I am black and... I definitely remember when she was about to skate my mom would be like The black girl is skating! So we all had to like pay attention. Surya Bonaly                And so people start to be kind of curious. TV Announcers            This girl is very different. Johnette Howard        Well it was it was arresting. Tracie Hunte               That is Johnette Howard- Johnette Howard        Senior writer for espn.com. TV Announcers            Surya Bonaly is a striking and exotic figure on the ice- Johnette Howard        She just arrested your eyes when she skated. The contrast of her skin on the ice was beautiful. And then there were these fanciful stories that sprung up about where she came from- TV Announcers            We are now taking you about as far away from the skating world as possible- Latif Nasser                  Pretty much as soon as she hit the scene you started hearing these rumors that she had adopted been adopted from a coconut-strewn beach in Reunion Island off the coast of Madagascar. TV Announcers            An unlikely place to find a world-class figure skater. Latif Nasser                  And that she had that she what was it? TV Announcers            Notice her hair- Tracie Hunte               That she never cut her hair. TV Announcers            Surya has not cut her hair since her birth. Johnette Howard        That she existed on a diet of bird seed and you know all these things. Tracie Hunte               Yeah. Robert Krulwich          I mean the idea that she is some kind of black forest princess or something? Latif Nasser                  Exactly. Tracie Hunte               Exactly yes. Surya says you know at that age she really did not know too much about what was going on. Surya Bonaly                No I was a kid I was like whatever my coach Gailhaguet he is the one who speak English- Tracie Hunte               She could barely speak English she was barely 16. Didier Gailhagu           Yeah she was still a young baby- Tracie Hunte               I did talk to the guy who was coaching her at the time this guy named Didier Gailhaguet. And he told me he planted these stories! Didier Gailhagu           We used the press very well. Jad Abumrad               Wait what? Tracie Hunte               He said that he made up the beach thing he made up the hair thing because he was trying to she was the star- Didier Gailhagu           And what do you want to hear? Stories right? So we made some stories. Some good ones do you know what I mean?  I am just saying that we making up stories because you want to hear them. Jad Abumrad               That is just creeped out honestly that is just weird. Tracie Hunte               Yeah you are absolutely right. It is shady as . But I can kind of see where he was going because what he was trying to do was that he was trying to present her to the world as this radically new kind of skater. Didier Gailhagu           Because female skating at that moment... were nice cute girls. Surya Bonaly                Especially for ladies they like to keep the girls pretty. TV Announcers            Flowers for Katarina! Surya Bonaly                Those famous skater like Katarina Witt- TV Announcers            The ravishing Katarina Witt- Surya Bonaly                Or- Little Girl                    Look there is Sonja Henie! Surya Bonaly                Sonja Henie. They were totally like woman you know pretty graceful who make those men crazy when they were watching it you know. Tracie Hunte               They were also- Didier Gailhagu           White. How will I say? They had a certain conception of female skating. We did not have the same one. Latif Nasser                  And it was not just that she looked different she also skated differently. It was a totally different approach. Surya was always very like- Elvis Stojko                  Explosive. Latif Nasser                  Ladies and gentlemen Elvis Stojko is in the building. Three-time World Figure Skating Champion. Met Surya at Juniors 1990. Elvis Stojko                  For me it was sort of a new face on the scene like the fresh stick of gum. TV Announcers            And here's the tiny 15 year old French girl who is captured everyone's imagination here. Elvis Stojko                  Like say a Tonya Harding-style skating. Tonya Harding             She was just so exciting and there was just no boundaries for her. Latif Nasser                  This is Tonya Harding and she and Surya were friends. Tonya Harding             The strength and the power- Latif Nasser                  She would step on the ice and people would go crazy. TV Announcers            Surya Bonaly! Tracie Hunte               She would strike a pose and then just take off. Elvis Stojko                  Surya would go from one end to the other- Didier Gailhagu           Would speed across the ice- Tracie Hunte               Flying across the rink- Didier Gailhagu           With powerful stroking- TV Announcers            Her opening a triple lutz and a triple toe. Tracie Hunte               She would come hurling into these jumps. TV Announcers            Triple lutz- Tracie Hunte               Soaring through the air. TV Announcers            Triple toe loop. Elvis Stojko                  With powerful spin. TV Announcers            Wow. TV Announcers            Bonaly. Tracie Hunte               And she would do jump after jump- TV Announcers            That really was a corker. TV Announcers            She really is amazing. Tracie Hunte               Combination after combination. TV Announcers            Another triple. Surya Bonaly                I prefer to hit a triple triple jump then . Latif Nasser                  And she would attack everything. TV Announcers            That is a really fast step sequence. Tonya Harding             She had the stepping the gliding the running. She had it all. TV Announcers            What a talent. TV Announcers            And the crowd here appreciate it. There is such jumping ability. And there is no end to what she might achieve. Tracie Hunte               Outside of competition she would do these ice shows and exhibitions and that is when you would see what she can really do. Latif Nasser                  She would do all kinds of other jumps that were not even allowed in competition. Tracie Hunte               She would do back flips hands- Jad Abumrad               Back flips? Tracie Hunte               Yes! Back flips! Tonya Harding             The very first time that I ever saw her do a back flip I mean my mouth just dropped open. Tracie Hunte               That is Tonya Harding again. Tonya Harding             I was like How did you do that? Latif Nasser                  Cause it is really dangerous. Elvis Stojko told us that one time he tried it and it did not go well. Elvis Stojko                  I came down right on my face. And I split my eye open and almost broke my neck and I was just like you know what I do not think this is going to be a good thing. Jad Abumrad               Oh no. Latif Nasser                  But this little teenage girl Surya Bonaly no problem. Just doing it like it was nothing. Tracie Hunte               Yeah she was just absolutely fearless. And the crowd loved it. Surya Bonaly                People when they stand up and start making noise and tap their feet into the ground I can feel the whole building. I swear it is like an earthquake. Latif Nasser                  But here's what happened. And this is where things kind of get confusing. As Surya blows up and all these people who never liked figure skating fall in love with her over and over- TV Announcers            The judges do not. Artistic impression. TV Announcers            When you can see disparity from the judges a 5.7- TV Announcers            Oh and the crowd do not like the marks. TV Announcers            Upset no doubt. Robert Krulwich          So she does not get high scores? Latif Nasser                  No. TV Announcers            Tears begin to flow. Surya Bonaly                It happened all the time. I skate good but somehow it is not for me. TV Announcers            And it is second place for Surya. Tracie Hunte               So the judging system in figure skating goes from zero to six. And on Surya's artistic marks she would get scores like- TV Announcers            5.0 Tracie Hunte               5.0 5.1s. Latif Nasser                  Yeah you get your low fives which sounds like it is a good mark but that is not a good mark. TV Interviewers           What did you think of those marks? Surya Bonaly                Well never mind. It is okay. TV Interviewers           Very disappointed? You were really terrific. Surya Bonaly                Never mind that is life I am used to it. Jad Abumrad               What did she say there? Latif Nasser                  She said Never mind that is life I am used to it. Surya Bonaly                I thought it is still sport sports mean challenge. Every day I tried to do the best that I could do. You do your best it is fine. Latif Nasser                  But clearly there were some times where it got to her. There was this one time we found on YouTube where she boos the judges- Jad Abumrad               What? Latif Nasser                  After she gets her scores. Tracie Hunte               The whole crowd is booing. Jad Abumrad               So why was she getting bad marks to begin with? What was the problem? Tracie Hunte               Well that is the question and it is kind of complicated. Latif Nasser                  Yeah. Johnette Howard        Yeah I think there is several things. Tracie Hunte               Johnette Howard that ESPN writer- Latif Nasser                  Yeah. Tracie Hunte               She says that the first thing you have got to know and this will take a quick little dive into the weirdo world of figure skating- Latif Nasser                  Let us dive. Tracie Hunte               Is that there is this fundamental tension in the sport of figure skating between artistry on one side and athleticism on the other. Latif Nasser                  Powerfulness versus prettiness. Johnette Howard        They want these people to look like little ballerinas but leap into these jumps like predators. And at the time skating was sort of locked into this loud and fractious debate about What do we want to be. And Surya was sort of the epitome of almost the endpoint. What could happen if somebody with unrivaled athleticism and no aversion to risk was willing to go after it? And I think there were a lot of people in skating that did not want it. Tonya Harding             I went through it I know all about it. Latif Nasser                  Now Tonya Harding she said that she had this issue. Elvis Stojko                  I did not want to skate like what they wanted skating to look like. Latif Nasser                  Elvis Stojko too. But In Surya's case. TV Announcers            There is a lot work to be done on the choreography yet there is a lot of work to be done on the grace. Tracie Hunte               All those words used to criticize her skating- TV Announcers            There is a lot there to be fixed. TV Announcers            I would like to see her stop jumping for six months and learn to skate. Tracie Hunte               Were just a little bit more loaded. Latif Nasser                  They would say things like oh- TV Announcers            Raw talent there. Latif Nasser                  There is just a lot of raw talent but it is not fully - has not been refined. And for us non-skaters that is one of the challenges of the story trying to see is that a legit criticism? Tracie Hunte               Or is this just a way of saying that she is black? Marie-Renie Le            It was my season. I had the courage to say because she was black. Latif Nasser                  So this is Marie-Reine Le Gougne and she is a former French figure skating official. And she was part of a team whose job it was to decide which girls to send to the Junior World Championships. Marie-Renie Le            And we had to choose only two girls. And we had three possibilities. Latif Nasser                  She said that she backed Surya. Marie-Renie Le            And the majority of the people did not want a black skater as- Tracie Hunte               Were they saying out loud? We do not want her because she is black? Marie-Renie Le            No. It was very subtle. In fact- Tracie Hunte               According to her they would say the kind of things like she was too muscular or she was not elegant enough. Marie-Renie Le            Oh yes. I have to say that word elegant. Many times I have heard that word. She is not elegant. Latif Nasser                  Marie-Reine is an outsider in the figure skating world these days because of an unrelated scandal and so we were not totally sure what to think about that but- Jad Abumrad               How did Surya feel about all this? Latif Nasser                  Well I asked her. Did you feel that any of the difficulty was because you are black? Surya Bonaly                No no. Latif Nasser                  Did you feel like any of it was about race? No? Surya Bonaly                No no no. Latif Nasser                  But then moments later she said- Surya Bonaly                Well you know. When you are black you know. Everybody knows that you have to do better than anybody else who is white. Sandra Bezic                Well I think the idea that was held back in her marks for any other reason other than the quality of her skating I think is incorrect. Tracie Hunte               That is Sandra Bezic. Sandra Bezic                I have bene involved in the skating world my whole life as a competitor as an olympian a commentator. Tracie Hunte               And actually as a commentator- Sandra Bezic                I would like to see her stop jumping for six months and learn to skate. Tracie Hunte               She was kind of hard on Surya. Sandra Bezic                Yes. Tracie Hunte               And when we asked her why this is what she said. Sandra Bezic                Everything about skating is built on circles. The radius could be huge but it is still a circle. Everything is about edges and leaning into those edges and leaning into the turns and carving massive circles on the ice. And that is our sport which leads to Surya. Sandra Bezic                If you watch her jumps they were on straight lines and if a jump is on a straight line then it cannot land with flow because the idea is to land your jump with as much speed and flow as you had going into it. And that is something that she could not do because she was jumping on straight lines. Sandra Bezic                And the other thing about skating that you do not necessarily get on camera is the sound of the edge. The sound of a beautiful skater going from edge to edge from lean to lean. Latif Nasser                  What does that sound like? Sandra Bezic                It is a beautiful sound. It is a sound that we all love. It is a gentle carving. It is a clean sound. Latif Nasser                  The sound I have in my head is like a hockey stop. But that is probably not the sound you are - Sandra Bezic                No no no no. Because there are no scratches. It is a glide. It is just a hum. Gosh I wish I had a good word to describe it. There are different sounds. There is the sound of Brian Boitano's back crossovers that used to excite me when I was in the rink with him. But then there is also the gentle almost soundless quality of say a Yuka Sato or a Katia Gordeeva where they are like a whisper across the ice and yet they are flipping from one edge to another edge and forward to backward and it is just this glide. I have not got a good word for it. Damn. Latif Nasser                  So when Surya was skating would she have that sound? Sandra Bezic                No. She would be scratchy. Latif Nasser                  Now we should say that was not the sound of Surya skating or any of those other people. We just mic'ed up a bunch of really good figure skaters. Jad Abumrad               Were they professional skaters? Latif Nasser                  Yeah these are legit skaters. Tracie Hunte               They are professional figure skaters. And we sent the clip to Sandra and she was like Yes! Jad Abumrad               So she gave you the thumbs up that we got it right. Latif Nasser                  Yep. Jad Abumrad               But I do not necessarily hear whatever it is that she is hearing and think Yes!. They sound different but not even that different really? Latif Nasser                  So that is exactly the problem. Ice skating is largely about aesthetics. So as far as sports go it is kind of in its own category. If you are talking about Serena Williams whose facing a lot of these same kinds of criticisms it does not matter. There is a line on a court and it is either inside or it is outside. There are rules whereas there are not these rules when it comes to beauty. It is super slushy. And that makes someone like Surya much more vulnerable. Jad Abumrad               So what ended up happening? Tracie Hunte               Well after a couple years of getting these kinds of marks she does some soul searching. Surya Bonaly                I was a bit more mature. Tracie Hunte               In 1992 at the age of 18- Surya Bonaly                I had new choreography changed my whole skating roles changed my coaches. Tracie Hunte               And she decides to take the note. She actually travels to California and worked with Frank Carroll who is this legendary American coach. And she is trying to be more graceful more beautiful more elegant. Jad Abumrad               More circly. Tracie Hunte               More circly yeah. And after that you kind of see a difference. Latif Nasser                  Yeah you can watch the YouTube videos from that period and it is like she is a different skater. Jad Abumrad               Huh. Tracie Hunte               Yeah. Jad Abumrad               Does it work? Tracie Hunte               Yeah in 1993 in the World Championships she comes in second. Jad Abumrad               Oh. Latif Nasser                  And by the time 1994 rolls around she is a favorite. She is probably going to win. Jad Abumrad               And? What happens? Latif Nasser                  Things take a really strange turn. Jad Abumrad               We will be back right after this Zamboni break. Kirsten                        Hi there this is Kirsten recording from Orlando Florida. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloane Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloane at www.sloane.org. Jad Abumrad               This is Radiolab. Let us get back to our story about Surya Bonaly or Bonaly as it is said in French from producers Tracie Hunt and Latin Nasser. Latif Nasser                  I am really curious about what happened at the medal ceremony in 1994. Surya Bonaly                Oh the World Championships? Latif Nasser                  That was the World Championships not the Olympics. Surya Bonaly                No not the Olympics. Well we had the World Championships in Japan. TV Announcers            Seven Olympic titles seventeen World Championships. Latif Nasser                  Just to set this up the World Championships are the second most important event in figure skating after the Olympics. Tracie Hunte               And at the Olympics which were just a month before the top three ladies- TV Announcers            Sixteen year old Oksana Bayul. Tracie Hunte               Oksana Bayul got gold- TV Announcers            Nancy Kerrigan is physically- Tracie Hunte               Nancy Kerrigan got silver Chen Lu got the bronze and fourth place was Surya. Those top three ladies Oksana Nancy Lu- Latif Nasser                  Out of the picture. Tracie Hunte               Out of the picture. Jad Abumrad               Why? Tracie Hunte               For various reasons. Latif Nasser                  Injuries and some turned pro and stuff but whatever. Jad Abumrad               Okay. Tracie Hunte               The point is at these World Championships the highway had been cleared for Surya. She was going to take it. It was hers for the taking. TV Announcers            This is her winning season. Will it be gold? Latif Nasser                  So jumping forward to the final day of the Championship Surya is in second place. She takes the ice- TV Announcers            -years old from Nice in the south of France. Latif Nasser                  Starts her program- Tracie Hunte               Immediately starts with this double axel. TV Announcers            That is very incredible. Tracie Hunte               After that it is just triple triple triple triple triple. It was just one of the best skates of her life. Surya Bonaly                I know I did my best I did everything. It was not perfect because nobody is perfect but pretty good competition overall. Latif Nasser                  Eventually after about four and a half minutes she finishes her skate- TV Announcers            Surya Bonaly to Vivaldi's Four Seasons. Loads and loads of technical difficulty. The question is How will they see her artistic effort? Latif Nasser                  And she goes over off to the side to a bench with her coach to await her results. TV Announcers            The marks for Surya Bonaly. For the technical merit it is the 5.9s that please her. Those are as high as any we have seen. Latif Nasser                  When she gets her marks she jumps into first place and there is only one skater left. It is a skater who usually finishes below Surya in competitions. Sandra Bezic                Yuka Sato. Latif Nasser                  Again that is Sandra Bezic. Sandra Bezic                We all know Yuka's skating. She is the kind of skater that puts a smile on your face. Elvis Stojko                  Yuka was one of those really lyrical skaters. Latif Nasser                  Making his return Elvis Stojko. Elvis Stojko                  And Yuka had this very- TV Announcers            Gorgeous. Elvis Stojko                  Beautiful TV Announcers            Style and grace. Elvis Stojko                  To her skating. Sandra Bezic                This gentle almost soundless quality like a whisper across the ice. Latif Nasser                  Basically her skating style was the exact opposite end of the spectrum from Surya's. TV Announcers            Now Yuka Sato the 21 year old from Tokyo- Latif Nasser                  So she gets up does her final skate in front of the home crowd. TV Announcers            Yuka's one of my favorite skaters but she does not have the combination jump like Bonaly did so she is going to need all her jumps. Opening up with her triple lutz. Tracie Hunte               And she hits her first jump crowd loves it. Surya Bonaly                She did good she did good. She had maybe less triples than me but she was maybe more prettier. Tracie Hunte               In her routine there were these moments where it just looks like she was sort of skipping across the ice just very balletic moves. Surya Bonaly                Yeah no. She was good you know. TV Announcers            They stand as one here at Makuhari Event Center for the local favorite Yuka Sato. Now it is down to the judges as to whether the gold medal belongs to Sato of Japan or Bonaly of France. Tracie Hunte               So Yuka gets off the ice she goes to wait for her marks. TV Announcers            The first marks of course the technical merit Bonaly's strength although Sato skated and jumped so well and every one of those marks except the Finnish judge go to Bonaly. She wins 8 out of 9 technical merits. Tracie Hunte               But when it came down to the artistic marks- TV Announcers            It is just the opposite from the technical marks 8 of the 9 judges all but the French judge giving her higher marks. Tracie Hunte               Those go to Yuka Sato. TV Announcers            Boy this is going to be close. Tracie Hunte               It actually ends up being a tie. Latif Nasser                  So it goes to being a tiebreaker. Tracie Hunte               And that is when the judges basically pick first second and third. And in a 5-4 decision- TV Announcers            There it is she is got it! Five to four Sato is the new World Champion. Surya Bonaly                Unfortunately they chose her. TV Announcers            Off to the dressing room for the new champion. She will be back and so will we for the medal ceremony. Tracie Hunte               What happens next is one of these moments that really defines Surya's story for a lot of people. Latif Nasser                  So what happened was that right after all the results were out they set up the medal ceremony they called out the skaters. They first called out Yuka she comes out from this tunnel backstage onto the ice waves smiles at everybody. And then after about a minute TV Announcers            Surya Bonaly TV Announcers            And now the silver medalist. Latif Nasser                  They called out Surya. TV Announcers            Surya Bonaly. Latif Nasser                  But- TV Announcers            And where is the European Champion? All the cameras crowding around and- Latif Nasser                  She did not come out. Tracie Hunte               Not immediately. TV Announcers            A late arrival and here she comes. Tracie Hunte               She skates out onto the ice she waves but her face is not smiling. Latif Nasser                  No. Tracie Hunte               And when she gets to the podium she congratulates Yuka Sato but then- TV Announcers            Bonaly has chosen not to stand on the podium. Latif Nasser                  She just stopped before getting on the podium. She just stood right next to the podium. TV Announcers            I think this is a form of protest. TV Announcers            I really hope she does not go through with this. Elvis Stojko                  She would not stand on it. She was crying. Tracie Hunte               Elvis was actually in the crowd watching. Elvis Stojko                  I felt bad for her because I know what she was going through where you know you outskated your competitor and they just would not give it to you. And I was like Surya just get on the podium take the medal. TV Announcers            International Skating Union President Olaf Poulsen- Latif Nasser                  The figure skating official who was giving out the medals he gives Yuka the gold puts it around her neck but then when he turns to Surya he just sort of stands there looks at her. He says something but you cannot hear what it is. She shakes her head. Tracie Hunte               He puts the medal around Surya's neck shakes her hand and then he holds onto her hand and just kind of pulls her onto the podium. TV Announcers            Oh this is a first for me that is for sure. TV Announcers            She is heartbroken. Oh and she takes off the medal. Latif Nasser                  She takes the medal off of her head- Elvis Stojko                  Like oh my go holy  she is actually doing this? It was huge. It was a huge deal. Latif Nasser                  The camera zooms in on her face and she is just weeping. TV Announcers            Oh what is going on inside that young woman? Latif Nasser                  So after the medal ceremony's over she just gets mobbed by reporters. TV Interviewers           Surya why? TV Interviewers           Why did you not accept the medal? What was the problem? Surya Bonaly                Because it is not my place and I am just disappointed. TV Interviewers           Are they unfair to you Surya? Surya Bonaly                What? TV Interviewers           Are the judges unfair to you? Surya Bonaly                It is  TV Interviewers           Do you feel you were robbed tonight? Is that what you are saying? TV Interviewers           Did you deserve the gold medal Surya? Tracie Hunte               And eventually what she says is- Surya Bonaly                I do not know I am just not lucky. Tracie Hunte               I am just not lucky. Latif Nasser                  What was going on? What happened? Surya Bonaly                I think it was more like a point of saying this is it. Stop now. You put your fists on a table and say Enough is enough that is it. And say I am not dumb and I am getting sick now I am sick of it. I keep my eyes open. That is not fair. That has to stop. And it was just so depressing and it was not fair. Mostly it was not fair. Latif Nasser                  What about it felt unfair? Surya Bonaly                Just that I would over and over it so many times that every time it is never me because whatever I can do how many triples I can be pretty I can have the best choreographer so everything was made to be on the top. And still what do you need more of me to do at this point? How many triple triple you want me? If I do not do you kill me? And if I do you do not care. And anyway you chose somebody else. Robert Krulwich          Do not you think that that is a little unsportsmanlike? Jad Abumrad               Yeah. Tracie Hunte               Yeah totally. Absolutely. Latif Nasser                  Yeah but if she- Robert Krulwich          I mean all these other girls have worked just as hard as she has one presumes. Latif Nasser                  Sure but picture yourself if you are in that position and you find yourself getting second second you feel like you are not- Robert Krulwich          She came in second that is not bad. Latif Nasser                  The margin was so close. It was so close. Robert Krulwich          It is always close. Latif Nasser                  Yeah. Tracie Hunte               I just felt empathy for her. I cannot imagine what it must be like well I can imagine what it must be like. But on that scale to be the only one. A friend of mine told me once that racism can make black people crazy which is a very broad way of looking at it in the sense that you almost never know why people are reacting to you the way that they do. And you are always second guessing. That guy just came in he said hi to everybody in the room but he did not say it to me. What is that about? So there is no obvious thing about it but it can make you feel a little paranoid a little crazy. Tracie Hunte               Now I cannot imagine how Surya felt in that moment but I did not necessarily think that these prejudiced people had denied her this. If anything I felt more like man it really must suck to be the only black woman skating at that kind of level and not really understand why things are happening. It must be a very confusing situation to be in. And it is more like empathy. I do not know if there was racism. Quite frankly Yuka Sato is an amazing skater. Robert Krulwich          And I think it is very legitimate to feel like you cannot out your finger on this feeling that never goes away and never absolves and is always there and always makes you feel weird. Matt Kielty                  What happens after the- Jad Abumrad               That is our producer Matt Kielty. Matt Kielty                  After the ceremony? Tracie Hunte               I think the rep that she got after this was that she was a sore loser. And that she was defiant. That she had a bad attitude. Jad Abumrad               And does she quit at this point? Latif Nasser                  No she keeps going. Jad Abumrad               She competed in the World Championships in 1995 the very next year and she came in second. Again. Latif Nasser                  Again. So three years in a row. Robert Krulwich          In a similar pattern? Was there just the one sort of- Latif Nasser                  That one was not as close but she was second again for the third year. Matt Kielty                  Did she skate in a lot of other competitions after 95? Latif Nasser                  I think she did. Tracie Hunte               Yeah at the various European Championships Skate America. Latif Nasser                  Yeah she was doing a lot. Matt Kielty                  But she never wins? Latif Nasser                  Not at Olympics not at the World Championships no. Jad Abumrad               So she never gets first? Latif Nasser                  I guess it depends on how you define first. Jad Abumrad               What do you mean? Latif Nasser                  Oh you will see. So that actually takes us right back to the beginning. TV Announcers            We are here live at 10 a.m. on Saturday morning in Japan. Tracie Hunte               So it is a jump forward but rewind we are in Nagano Japan 1998 Winter Olympics. Surya Bonaly                I knew it was my last Olympics last major big competition. And everything was fine until the day before the short program. I pulled a muscle. Latif Nasser                  Her left leg. Surya Bonaly                And I could not lift. I could not do anything. Latif Nasser                  And to make matters worse Surya at that moment was already recovering from a ruptured achilles tendon. Surya Bonaly                People had to carry me to walk stairs because I could not get stairs so they had to lift me to get to my room because it is Olympic Village and I could not walk. I am broken I am damaged I am like a used car that is good for the trash. Really I was so messed up. Between my legs and my achilles I was a disaster. And the doctors said Maybe we should withdraw. And I am like No I am already here I do not want to just maybe retire. It is probably my last competition I do not want to just retire like that. Just give me anything you can. I have to keep going. Latif Nasser                  And so on the final day- Tracie Hunte               She says that between- Surya Bonaly                Medicine massage acupuncture pills- Latif Nasser                  She goes back out on the ice. TV Announcers            And is now getting ready to skate for her country. Latif Nasser                  She is in this gold and blue sequin outfit and she starts her routine. You can tell she is favoring one leg but she manages to land a few jumps then she falls. Tracie Hunte               She gets back up keeps going through her routine. TV Announcers            There is the triple salchow. Tracie Hunte               And then she got to this point where she just knew she could not do it. Surya Bonaly                It was so much pain. And towards the end of the program I was supposed to go for two more triples and I said You know what I do not feel it. I know I am going to crash I cannot do it my leg is not with me any more. Latif Nasser                  And then what comes to her is that there is this move that she has in her repertoire that she can do but it is illegal. Surya Bonaly                I had a special thing in my backpack and said Hey I can do it. It is my last competition. Latif Nasser                  Was this all going through your mind as you were skating? Surya Bonaly                Yeah oh yeah totally. It is like a computer if I would have missed something a jump I say Okay here I can fit a triple here obviously I can do a combo triple triple. I know I need to fit something. Latif Nasser                  You are like the GPS lady. You are like recalculating. Surya Bonaly                Yeah totally. Rerouting okay we have to go right now! Latif Nasser                  So in her rerouting she turns around from skating forwards to skating backwards picks up speed just like she is about to do a triple but instead- Tracie Hunte               She does a back flip. Jad Abumrad                Latif Nasser                  But not any old back flip. Jad Abumrad               She swings one leg over- Latif Nasser                  Does the splits in the air. Jad Abumrad               Upside down? Latif Nasser                  Yeah. Tracie Hunte               And then she lands on one foot. Robert Krulwich          Whoa. TV Announcers            Oh! TV Announcers            Oh my god! TV Announcers            Oh my goodness! Robert Krulwich          Wait a minute. When you do the back flip do your skates go up towards the ceiling and then come back down underneath you again? Tracie Hunte               Yes! Matt Kielty                  It is a back flip! Robert Krulwich          I just- Tracie Hunte               I do not know how else to- Jad Abumrad               Why was it illegal? Latif Nasser                  It is illegal because it is so dangerous. Also she says you are supposed to land all your jumps on one foot. But she did that here. Surya Bonaly                They are like Oh well you did it on one foot. Just hold hold at this point just hold. And it could not be totally illegal because as long as land on one foot Maybe we will think about it. TV Announcers            And she finishes her program with her back to the judges. Surya Bonaly                And usually you skate you perform you smile in front of the camera boom they give you the marks. Next skater. Latif Nasser                  Okay. Surya Bonaly                For me it took like 10 minutes. Seriously. 10 minutes people thinking about What should we do? They did not know what to do with me. And I said Whatever just put a zero so we can move on. TV Announcers            Here are the marks. Did she get nailed? TV Announcers            Absolutely. 4.8 5.2. She knew. How do you get noticed  competition? Do a back flip. Jad Abumrad               So they did not change their mind about the back flip in the end. Tracie Hunte               Nope. Latif Nasser                  So she ends up finishing 10th. Surya Bonaly                Yeah I finished ten. That is okay. Latif Nasser                  Afterwards a lot of people interpreted that back flip as a big fat middle finger up to the entire skating world. I know you do not want me to but I am going to do this anyway. But when I asked Surya if that is what was happening she said- Surya Bonaly                No. I do not know why people keep saying that. I was just trying to be happy. Latif Nasser                  She said she just wanted something that was hers. Surya Bonaly                Yes yes yeah. Latif Nasser                  Had anyone ever done this back flip onto one blade before? Surya Bonaly                No. I am the one that created this one. That is why it is called the Bonaly. Latif Nasser                  Oh that is called the Bonaly? Surya Bonaly                Yeah. I am the only one who did it. Latif Nasser                  Wow. You are the first person in the history of the human race who has done that. Surya Bonaly                Yeah. So knock on wood I hope I will be able to die in peace. Do not steal my back flip. It is mine. Latif Nasser                  I will do my best. Surya Bonaly                Yeah it is mine. Robert Krulwich          So I am just curious. What has happened since this story ended? Tracie Hunte               Well she retired from figure skating after the 98 Olympics. She continues to do ice shows occasionally but right now I think the main thing that she is doing she is coaching. She lives in Minnesota and she is coaching young skaters. Latif Nasser                  But when we ask people Did she change the sport? Did she change figure skating? The answer they giving to us was No no she did not. Tracie Hunte               A lot of them were like Eh. It is not like all of a sudden figure skating rinks across the world were flooded with little black girls learning their salchows and their lutzes and things like that. I will say from what I can tell for the first time that there is more than one black skater competing at the same time internationally at least. Robert Krulwich          What about back flips? Are there back flips everywhere? Latif Nasser                  No no back flips sadly. Tracie Hunte               No back flips. Robert Krulwich          Are they still illegal? Latif Nasser                  They are still illegal yeah. Robert Krulwich          Oh wow. Tracie Hunte               Yes. So she was just this sort of blip on the skating scene where no one was like her before and there has not really been anyone like her since. Latif Nasser                  But there is this kind of ironic thing I guess which is that if you took her and you put her in competition today if she was competing on the world stage today she would would probably do better than she did back then. They have changed the scoring system. So now you get points for doing the kinds of power moves that she was doing way back when. And even if you spill if you fail at those moves you still get points. Tracie Hunte               You get points for trying. Latif Nasser                  Yeah just for daring. And Surya was daring. She was a darer. Jad Abumrad               Producers Latin Nasser and Tracie Hunt. Tracie spent the last few months with us producing that story as part of the WNYC Fellow Program. Tracie we will miss you. A lot. Jad Abumrad               The piece was produced by Matt Kielty. Original music from Matt and also from Dylan Keefe. Jad Abumrad               Special thanks to Vanessa Riley Moira North skaters Elisa Angeli and Christian Erwin from The Ice Theater of New York and to Ed Haber for recording it all and a very heartfelt thanks to Marilyn Wiggins. Jad Abumrad               I am Jab Abu mrad. Robert Krulwich          I am Robert Kruller. Jad Abumrad               Thanks for listening. Closing Credits            Start of message. Tonya Harding             Hi Latin. This is Tonya calling. Sandra Bezic                Hi. This is Sandra Bezic. Marie-Renie Le            Marie-Reine Le Gougne speaking. Radiolab is produced by Jab Abumrad. Tonya Harding             Dylan Keefe is our Director of Sound Design. Sandra Bezic                Soren Wheeler is Senior Editor. Marie-Renie Le            Jamie York is our Senior Producer. Tonya Harding             Our staff includes- Sandra Bezic                Simon Adler Brenna Farrell David Gebel Marie-Renie Le            Matt Kielty Robert Kruller Tonya Harding             Latin Nasser. Melissa O'donnell Kelsey Padgett Sandra Bezic                Arianne Wack and Molly Webster with help from Alexandra Lee Young Tonya Harding             Tracie Hunt Stephanie Tam and Micah Loewinger Sandra Bezic                Our fact checkers are Eva Dasher and Michelle Harris. I wonder if you can hear the truck outside. Tonya Harding             Hope that is okay. Sandra Bezic                And on behalf of everyone at Radiolab- Tonya Harding             Thank you. Marie-Renie Le            Thank you. Sandra Bezic                Thank you for listening. Bye bye. Closing Credits            End of message. 