 Our next guest is a comedian a nerd and she actually taught charm school at MIT. Please put your hands together for Ms. Dhaya Lakshminarayanan.   I get a phone call while I am away at college. It is my mother my perfectly round mother. She describes herself as a jolly optimist. Once she convinced a family friend of ours not to take her own life by saying  suicide? No you will not do this...    ...Because you are too lazy.    You will get the stool and the rope and think I will do it just tomorrow.   It worked. That lady is still alive now. I pick up the phone.  Baby it is me. No need to worry. Everything will be OK. You do not have to come home.   I freak out and book a ticket home. I fly home to find my dad checked out. He is reclining on the La-Z-Boy watching bad TV reruns. Hey Dad how are you doing?  Shh  Matlock is real. My dad had just been laid off. And to add humiliation to trauma he became one of the millions of Americans denied health insurance because of a previously existing condition - diabetes. My brother could feel the middle-class American dream slipping through our hands.  Dhaya do I have to make fast-food burgers? Because that is what the kids at school say that poor people have to do. This was a double insult because this meant he would not make that much money and we were Hindu vegetarians.   My family's future was riding on my mom overcoming her past. My mom immigrated from Chennai India when she was 21 years old. She was the oldest of five children. Her dad died when she was 9 years old. And her mother my grandmother was a widow in south Indian society an outcast. She had to give up her children to be raised by others. When my mother married my dad she weighed 85 pounds because of malnutrition and she is my height - 5 feet. In the wedding pictures she looks beautiful - and damn hungry. It was this time that my mom decided that she wanted to go back to school.  Baby I think at this age 40 I want to go back to school. Mom you are 45.    We do not have to tell everybody the truth all the time. She asked me to help out. She has to take a basic math exam to get into school and she is getting stuck on the transitive property transitive property - two definitions - first of or characterized by transition. My family knew this all too well. My mom only admitted to me a few years ago we were on food stamps for the first 3 years of my life. Definition number two from math - if A is equal to B and B is equal to C therefore A is equal to C.  I do not understand this. Explain it to me again. Explain it to me again. Well it just means if A is equal to B   ...And B is equal to C therefore A is equal to C.  You just said the same thing slower and louder. That does not help me.   Well I do not know what to do. So then I decide to explain it in Tamil which is my mom's first language. But the thing is I do not know how to say equals in Tamil. And A - there is five characters associated with A. So it ends up just sounding like A B  B C  A C equal.  You just said the same thing with useless Tamil words thrown in for my benefit.   Mom I do not know how else to explain this to you. This is basic math. It is very easy. Did not you learn this at school or anything? And at this moment my mother speaks to me directly in Tamil. And when she speaks in Tamil it is like speaking in italics because she is about to say something honest and truthful that is not masked by humor and jokes. So translated it was something like  in my childhood nobody cared if I had eaten that day. If I was at school it meant I was out of the way. It did not matter if I learned anything. This is why I am not smart not like you and your brother. Mom you are smart. You are really smart. You had to learn English when you came to the United States. How did you do that?  Lucy Carol Burnett TV shows. That is American Mom OK. What is your favorite show now?  The one with the Jew. Can you be more specific?    Seinfeld Seinfeld. Seinfeld OK. Jerry Seinfeld Jerry Seinfeld. So like if Jerry Seinfeld tells Elaine a secret that is like A is equal to B. And if Elaine tells that secret to Kramer - B equals C - that is just as if Jerry had told Kramer in the first place A is equal to C.  Oh it is very simple.   My dad is retired and he has health insurance. His diabetes is under control. He does not watch Matlock. He prefers Monk. My brother he does not make as much money as he would have if he stayed flipping burgers - because he is a graduate student at Yale.   My mom passed that exam. She got into school. And now she works as a software engineer. She has finished watching all the Seinfeld episodes so now she tries to explain Friends to me.  A and B went out. B and C broke up. D and E got back together. So that is just like A and E dating right?   That is my mom.   You are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT LIVE! the Encore episode. And do not forget May 8 in New York City SNAP is taping a brand-new live show the likes of which have never been seen. Get your tickets now at snapjudgment.org. When SNAP returns - discover how to channel your inner Madonna and what happens when you and your family do not speak the same language. SNAP JUDGMENT LIVE! the Encore episode. Stay tuned. 