  Listener-supported WNYC Studios.  Wait. You are - .   OK.  All right.  OK.  All right.  You are...  Listening.  To RADIOLAB.  RADIOLAB.  From...  WNYC.  See?  Yeah.  .  Hey. Jad here. So this spring many of us - some of us are starting to emerge from a year of being stuck at home or apart from our friends and family. And we are not alone - we humans that is because there is something else emerging in the coming weeks from the ground to sing and dance and make babies and try not to get eaten. And that something is cicadas. There is another brood about to awaken after 17 years of slumber and about to swarm many places across the country. So in their honor I thought we might replay this old piece of ours which we made the last time there was a big cicada awakening around here. It was - this is from 2013. It is pretty fun. Very Robert Krulwich. I will just say that. And here it is.   All right. Here we go.  Hey. I am Jad Abumrad.  I am Robert Krulwich.  This is dcast. And today...   What is so interesting about the cicada sounds is when you just hear it for the first time you just hear white noise. You just hear shhh...   ...Just noise. But when you learn what is going on you can hear the different parts of the orchestra.   That is David Rothenberg composer and professor and writer. And what he is going to do is he is going to take that huge wall of insect sounds...  Soon to be upon us.  ...Soon to be upon us and get really into it really start to dissect it.  Whoa.  But what he really loves to do really is he likes to play music with animals. So he goes around and finds individual animals or groups of animals to duet with. And if you do not mind Jad I would like to just go - just introduce you to a few of his strange escapades.  OK.  One of the first times he tried this was with a...  Well that was a white-crested laughingthrush.  A white-crested laughingthrush.  Because you know before I met the white-crested laughingthrush...  I love the way you are able to bring that up...  Right.  ...Because if you ask an ordinary person like myself to say white-crested laughingthrush it is hard.  It should be much more well-known because the white-crested laughingthrush is one of the best birds.  You mean the white-crested laughing...  Thrush yeah.  Thrush.  Washington has them. Bronx Zoo has them. They thrive very well in zoos. What they do is they sing duets the males and females together.   So that is animals singing with animals. But here's what he did. He went to the National Aviary which is in Pittsburgh.  First I stepped into the big tropical aviary where you wander and the birds are flying freely. It is a big warm kind of moist space.  He got there...  Before the aviary opened like 6 a.m.  And there were - when he walked into the cage there were dozens of different kinds of birds flying around.  And I was walking with my clarinet.   Playing you know up to the trees.  Why is he doing this?  Well he just wanted to see what would...   That is him by the way. And he wanted to see what would happen.  All right.  And as it turns out nothing happened.  .  The birds just more or less ignored him.   By then I was kind of - lost interest. Like nobody's paying attention to this. This is a bad idea. And then all of a sudden...   Ooh hello.  The laughingthrush was interested.   That is the thrush.   One little guy brown feathers dark beak.   And at that moment.   Anyone would say hm...  Oh they are like doing call and response.  Yeah.  This is interesting. Something's happening here. This bird and this clarinetist are doing something together.   So as you are playing what is going on in your mind at this point?  I was just imagining I was sitting down with a musician who I maybe could not talk to spoke another language besides English. And I could not talk to this musician.    but I could make music together with him.   OK so that was his encounter with a thrush. Let me take you on another little adventure just before we get to our big thing. This is a - can I just do this? Are you paying attention?  Are you asking me for permission?  I am.  Then no. No you cannot.  Well I am not going to ask you then. I am just doing it.  Good.  After a variety of bird duets in which I am sure he frustrated many a thrush...  .  ...He then did a duet with an entirely different animal.   What the?  Yeah well humpback whales the best thing about that story is nobody knew they sang until the 1960s. So you can trace...  Well I am - do not whales spend most of their time except for the tops of them underwater?  They do.  So where would you be?  Good point. I was broadcasting my clarinet through an underwater speaker...   ...Listening with headphones to what is coming out of an underwater microphone.   And you hear...   ...This duet from down there - live clarinet and whale.    This is so bizarre.  .  What does the whale make of this?  I - we do not - I do not speak whale.  The thing about humpback whales is unlike most animals they change their songs from year to year. They are interested in new sounds. So all the humpback whales in any one ocean are singing one song and then they change it altogether. No one knows why. Why do they want to change their song if they all want to sound the same?   Well when you sang your song with the whale did the whale react like the thrush?  I think it is different but I would say the whale seemed to change what he was doing.  Now it can be a little hard to hear exactly what David's talking about - it took me a few listens to pick out the distinguishing moment - but here's what the whale was doing when David showed up.   It was doing this thing where it would go whoop and then down and whoop and then down...   ...Over and over. And here's what it started doing a few minutes after he would been playing the clarinet.   The whale kind of extends the note.  Whales tend to go  and clarinets tend to go . They play a steady tone you know?   And so the whale was trying to play a more steady note.   Maybe? I do not know.  You cannot hear that? Just a little bit of an extended line? It is  instead of . It is .  I mean it is awesome. You know do not - I love listening to this but I do not - I mean I do not - it just sounds like the whale's still doing whale.  Well David says that when he played the recording to some of the - to whale scientists...  They all are shocked.  All?  Every scientist I played that to was - did not believe that what I played them was actually a live recording. They thought I would done something to it which I did not.  I mean they would never heard a whale make a sound like that I am assuming.  Which implies that the whale was reacting to his clarinet?  Well...  Because maybe the whale was just saying shut up.  .  Shut up up there .   Well however you want to resolve it like we should move on to the real purpose of our gathering here this afternoon...  OK.  ...Or whatever time you are listening to this...  00 AM.  ...Which is that he then turned to this sound right here.   The plague. Kidding of course. It is just a bunch of cicadas. But when we come back from break we will dig into that sound and find out that it is much more than at least I ever thought it could be.  Hey this is Becca . I am calling from Dallas Texas to let you know that RADIOLAB is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.   Jad - RADIOLAB. We are back. And Robert Krulwich is leading us through a dissection of the dreaded sound - the sound of millions of cicadas freshly awoken from their 17-year slumber.   And when you and I hear it I mean it just sounds like an enormous block of monotonal noise.  Yes sir.  Just screech you know? An elaborate screech.  Annoying.  But David says actually if you know what is going on in here if you learn to dissect it well...  Pretty soon you can pick out up to nine separate sounds made by the three related species of cicada that are there at the same time.  Can you walk us through the nine different sounds?  Yeah.  Oh at least some of them.  By the way that was our producer Lynn Levy.  OK. We have three basic species that come out. Whenever there is an emergence they are all there.  So I did not you know realize that this - when you are walking through the woods and you hear this enormous white noise what you are actually hearing are three different kinds of cicadas three different species singing three very different songs that are all mixed together so you cannot tell them apart. And then each one of those songs each of those three has three parts which is how you get to the number nine. In any case here are the three species. This is number one.  Magicicada cassinii makes the white noise sound - .   .   And they swell together. They synchronize so they will all go .   .   And then they fly around a bit - do that now. Jump up from your seat. And you get back in and you do it again - .   There you go.  OK so that is species number one. Now here is species number two.  Magicicada septendecula is making like .   It is kind of irregular.   So that is the bebop guy.  Kind of yeah. And there is fewer of those and they are quieter so less is known about them.  Can I hear that one again?  .   So we got the white noise one the bebop one. Now here's number three.  Magicicada septendecim the most popular or known sound. And that is going - the pharaoh sound - pharaoh.   Wow.  .   And the thing is when you actually hear millions of them all you hear is .   If you take one and multiply it hundreds and then thousands of times its tail disappears. You just hear this tone.   I mean this is what we hear but what would the cicada hear in all this?  Ah well this is the whole story.   Well see the thing about cicadas is that the cicadas who sing here are the males just the guys. And they sing for - it is a mating song really. You know there are lots of songs you sing. This is a...  .  It is one of those kind. And the idea being...  The females hear all this sound and they find the males.   Like the grand mess of music like a disco or it is called the lek by biologists which pretty much means disco anyway.  .  And then...  If you were a guy looking for a date you might not join with lots of other guys but these animals join together for what purpose?  So the females can find them.  But if you have got like a billion cicadas crowded into a disco then how do you - how does a single male and a single female notice each other?  They do not have to. They just bump into each other and then it is on.  No.  Seventeen years ago John Cooley and David Marshall discovered things were more complicated than that. They discovered the females make a sound after the male finishes his sound.  So say you are one of these males...  Going pharaoh...   ...Pharaoh...   And the female has to make a wing flick - . This tiny little flick -  - exactly one-third of a second after the male stops.  Really? So it is like pharaoh...   .  And    nobody imagined such a thing was going on. They did not imagine insects were doing anything this complicated.  Well for one thing it sounds like that would be a male to female bit of business one to one. When you listen to all these animals you do not think they ever have a one of them. There are like so many of them.  Millions of males are making the pharaoh sound. But when you are close to one you know the female hears pharaoh. If there is one close enough she makes the wing flick and the male knows to approach her a little bit. And he goes on with the second sound. It is called by John Cooley court two. Court two is like...   Pharaoh pharaoh pharaoh pharaoh. And then she makes the wing flick again.  Same one?  As far as we know.  OK. Now where does that tell Mr. I love you guy?  It is time to start mating and make the third sound.   It is more like dut dut dut dut dut dut dut dut dut dut .  Let us do that again. So your hello is pharaoh.  Yeah.  I am getting closer is pharaoh pharaoh pharaoh. And now we are kissing et cetera et cetera is dut dut dut dut dut dut dut dut dut.   So now you know. When the cicadas come and you hear this massive roar what you are really hearing is an orchestra of sex. Just think of all these little animals getting ready to do what they were born to do what they have been waiting 17 long years in the ground to do. And all the while it is the songs that matter.  They are like following these little rules simple rules that - together it shows how very simple organisms can create things of great complexity and beauty. Each individual does not have to know that much about the whole and still interesting things happen which gives you a different view of human life. You are one little part in this giant thing. You do not have to really know what is happening but you are doing your little bit for the whole of creation or evolution or life or music. And you do your own little thing and you are not sure where it leads.  But for the individual cicada for Tommy Cicada or Betty Cicada it is all pretty simple. They have their sex. They lay eggs on twigs of trees. The eggs hatch. And then tiny little larvae cicadas will fall to the ground and then they will burrow into the warm earth.  And attach themselves to the roots of trees.  And then start sucking the fluid from tree roots. And they will do this for years and years and years.  'ecause they are slowly growing.  And then for some reason that nobody can quite fathom at the exact same moment it is body time.  There are different broods of them. So different years you can go somewhere in the country and maybe there is some coming out.  And why is it that the one that is about to come out here in the Northeast - why does that happen only every 17 years? Why 17?  The honest answer is we really do not know. We do have some evidence of how they keep track of the years which is that the cicada monitors the temperature. We do not know how but that is what they pay attention to.  So in the ground they are not just eating tree juice. They are also - they got a little thermometer.  Somehow they are paying - they have a little counting thermometer. They count the number of years and then they know when to come out. A few years ago in my parent's house I did see one in the wrong year. You know every year a few of them wake up. Where is the party?  Oh really? You have Rip Van Winkle ones.  Yeah. Not - they do not always count correctly you know?  Oh really? That must be...  Yeah.  ...A lonely experience.  Yeah the lonely cicada looking for its kind - the wrong year the wrong place.  Can they go back down and go back to bed? Or is it...  I do not think so.  The jig is up.  They have changed. They have come from their larval stage and the wings have come out. They cannot crawl back and lose the wings.  Oh.  Did it sing that lone cicada?  Oh yeah. It was singing.   To no one.  To no one to me.   You can kind of imagine David picking up his clarinet...   ...And joining in.   Thanks to John Cooley and to David Marshall. And now Jad wants to say something...  What do I want to say?  ...About Lynn Levy's favorite song.  Oh and if you go to - yes. And if you go to radiolab.org you can download a song from David Rothenberg's album chosen by our producer Lynn Levy. It is her favorite song. You can download it for free. Also David Rothenberg has a new book out called Bug Music.  And if you happen to be on the East Coast we have a - well you can do this from any coast you like. But we have a map where you can track where these little critters are popping up.  Which they are doing right now...  Yeah.  ...Just barely.  In Georgia and in the Carolinas and...  Not in Brooklyn yet but soon. I will be frying them up making some tempura.  No you will not. No you will not...  I will be making tempura.  ...Because the little guy will come up to you and go  on your leg.   He will drop to the ground and burrow into the earth and we will not see you for - I do not know. It will be like either 13 or 17 years.  Thanks for listening. I am Jad Abumrad.  I am Robert Krulwich.  See you in two weeks.  Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.