So say your name. Say who you are. Sure. Seth Moulton a congressman from the sixth district of Massachusetts. I should say Seth Moulton the congressman from the sixth district of Massachusetts. You added the the. That is the difference between--  Because there is only one of me so. And before you were a congressman you served for how many tours in Iraq? I did four tours in Iraq as a Marine infantry officer. Back in 2003 Seth Moulton was in the first company of Marines to enter Baghdad during the invasion. And once they liberated the country one of his weirder assignments was to show the Iraqis how to start a free press and help them get uncensored news operations up and running. Up till then the news media was just propaganda for Saddam Hussein. And although my primary job was just to teach the Iraqis how to produce their own TV shows we started doing some announcements some messages ourselves. And this little thing that Mohamed and I put together-- he was my translator-- proved remarkably popular. Kind of a news commentary show sort of like 60 Minutes. Wait wait. Sort of like 60 Minutes? You mean like you would investigate stories and run after people in the parking lot? Right. Exactly. Exactly. So we would go out and we would hear people complaining about the electricity situation and so we would go to the power plant and say what is going on here? And they would say oh well we have got a problem with the transmission lines. So then we would go out and follow the transmission lines and see what was being done to fix them. And Iraqis had never seen this before. I mean trust me. I did not know how to put together a TV show. I mean this was very low-quality stuff but it was the best the Iraqis had ever seen. And it was far better than just getting these tapes from the Ministry of Information in Baghdad. Before long we were signing autographs in the street. We were getting fan mail. Everywhere we went we had to pose for pictures. I mean it was extraordinary. I am a congressman now and no one does that back home. But the success of that show led to a problem for his interpreter Mohammed. As the years passed an opposition to the Americans and the new Iraqi government increased. It became incredibly dangerous for any Iraqis who were working with US forces. People were getting killed. Their families were sometimes killed. Mohammed came to the United States on a Fulbright scholarship. And his family said it is a death sentence for you to come home. They were receiving threats. They had to pick up and move their family to a new city because of the threats they received due to Mohammed's work with me. Due to him being on television with you. That is right. They all knew Mohammed. They knew who he was. He was sort of like the local poster child for quote unquote collaborators with the Americans. While Mohammad waited to get asylum in the United States he moved in with Seth Moulton's parents. Seth was actually back in Iraq on his fourth tour. Was he in your room? I think he was technically in my brother's room but-- Your brother's room? OK. Across the hall. I was wondering if your stuff from high school was still on the walls when he was there waiting for you. I think it still is so yeah. It was. I mean my parents had an Iraqi son while their son was deployed to Iraq. Wow. And he is really become like a son to them and like a brother to me. He comes to all our holidays to Thanksgiving and Christmas. Mohammed was allowed to stay in the United States. But he is one of the lucky ones. Congressman Moulton hears about and personally knows other interpreters who have not been allowed here. And in fact thousands of interpreters and others who work with the United States in the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq are still back there. Many of them their lives are in danger. And that is true even though in 2008 a law was passed to expedite their entrance to the United States. It is frustrating the congressman says. I have been back and forth over email over the past few weeks with a very close interpreter from 2007 2008 who is trying to come over with his family. We are still fighting. Still fighting to get him here. And you know I would not be here today Ira without my translators. They risked their lives to keep me and my Marines safe. And do you understand what is the holdup? Like if these people are in the pipeline how come so few of the slots that have been allocated for them are actually getting filled? Well I think there are some problems. I hear from a lot of veterans who have their own translators and say hey can you help my guy? Can you help my guy get in? And a lot of times they will say you know I have statements from every Marine or soldier that he worked with saying that this is one of the most trustworthy guys I know and yet because they do not check some box for the State Department they cannot get through. The day I spoke with the congressman-- just a few weeks ago-- was the day the House was supposed to decide whether to renew the law that issues special visas to help these people who worked with the United States move to our country. He is on the House Armed Services Committee and he just heard the news. Yeah we have actually just found out that the final bill includes 1500 additional visas which is a step in the right direction. But the backlog is more than 13000 people right now. So 1500 visas was disappointing to him. He was hoping for a lot more. There was a lot more in the past. He says vets in Congress from both parties understand how important this is. He has Republican allies like John McCain. But he gets a lot of pushback from other people in Congress. And can you explain what is the argument on the other side for making the number of slots so low? When people argue with you and say no no. Let us make the number slots low what do they say? You know it is just this anti-immigrant sentiment in the Republican Party. And unfortunately it is from a lot of Republicans who have not served overseas who do not understand how important this is. They say oh we cannot trust these people or we know of Iraqis and Afghans who want to kill Americans. Well right of course but not the ones who put their lives on the line to work for us. I mean these people took tremendous risks. They have taken greater risks for our country than these folks in Congress who are opposed to their immigration and have never served in our military. Do you say that to them? Well I try to be a little bit more diplomatic about it but. Yeah. There is a lot of fear out there among my colleagues right now that Trump has been so successful with his crusade against immigration. People are afraid that if they stand up for a program like this it will be used against them in some future election. President-elect of course campaigned against allowing people from Muslim countries to come into our country. Of course my fear is that the Trump administration will not be willing to work with us at all. I mean I do not think someone who-- I mean what did Trump have five deferments or something so he would not have to go to Vietnam? I do not think that he is going to understand this at all. Yeah. Wait are you calling him like a draft dodger? No I am not calling him like a draft dodger. I am calling him a draft dodger. What is going to happen? Over the years on our program we have covered the stories of several different people who worked with US forces and tried to get relocated to America when they put their lives in danger. In the first half of today's show we return to one of those people to somebody who started trying to come here eight years ago. Yes they have been at this for eight years. We wanted to understand what is going to happen to her now with this new administration arriving. In the second half of the show we have the amazing and disturbing story of how we got to this point as a country. Like why Congress authorized these special visas in the first place to solve this problem and why they have not worked so well. A warning before we start that if you are listening with small American children this is not a story that is going to make you feel good to be an American. But of course it is always good to understand the facts to see clearly what has happened and why. And we will do that now. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Good Things Come to Those Who Wait But Not Always. So the interpreter that this story's about is named Sarah. She worked with US forces in Iraq. But we know her because she worked with us interpreting for our producer Nancy Updike in Iraq for about a month back in 2010 as we were putting together an episode about US forces pulling out of that country. Back in 2011 Nancy did a story about Sarah's attempts to get a visa to move to the United States. And that story resulted in a flood of emails from listeners who wanted to help in some way. Not that there was a lot they could do. Nancy's been in touch with Sarah on and off over the years. And she is checked back in with her this fall. Sarah spent most of December-- this December just a few weeks ago-- working with a reporter going in and out of Mosul. That is the city Iraqi forces have been fighting to take back from ISIS. That is one of Sarah's skills keeping her nerve in a dangerous place. But the reason people open up to Sarah-- the reason they remember her-- is because no matter what is going on around her who she was before the war still comes through. This warm chatty housewife who for most of her life was raising her two boys getting up every morning and putting on clothes that will be familiar to anyone who is ever spent the whole day at home. Normally I was wearing in my house like you know a tracksuit and pajamas. And then a uniform. The uniform was an American military uniform. And Sarah is laughing because she can still barely believe the arc of her adult life. She worked alongside US soldiers during one of the most violent stretches of the Iraq war. And she went straight into that having never worked outside her home in her life. So Sarah's story-- the story you are about to hear-- is about an ordinary woman with no heroic ambitions who took on a role for which she was the unlikeliest of candidates and thrived. Sarah started working as an interpreter as a last resort. The war had been going on for a few years already and interpreters were being targeted and killed because they were working for the United States. But Sarah was desperate. She and her family had been bombed out of their house and her husband's business had been taken over by militias. Even before the war Sarah's marriage had not been happy. Her husband never let her work outside the home. Did not even let her finish college. Now the family was broke and sometimes going hungry including her kids Mustafa 16 and Baqir who just turned 10. Sarah's husband refused to go out and look for work out of fear that he would be killed. And people were being killed in the streets. But someone had to do something. Sarah took an English test at a US military base. She would always been good at languages. She passed the test and was offered a contract with a starting salary of 1150 a month. That was the good part of the contract. The contract said 27 days in the camp and then four days vacation. So it is a very long time for me to leave my kids alone in the house. So you would be living on the base with the Americans for 27 days and then get four days at home? You could not commute back and forth and see them at night even? No no no. So I really worried about this item in the contract. But yes I start to work with them and I found myself in a room smaller than this one alone. And I spend only one night and then I want to quit the next morning. Yeah. I wanted to take my bag and run away to my house because each time I hear the American soldiers in the back laughing and talking I said what am I doing here? This is not my place. My place is with my boys in the house. How can I just bear 27 days without seeing my kids? And then one of the Iraqi interpreters he saw me so confused and I told him this is the first day for me. I want to quit. I want to leave. So he says this is normal thing. We all felt the same way you feel now. So just relax and give yourself time. Picture a woman in her late 30s with a wide face. 5 foot 3 but solid not fragile. Huge smile. Now wearing fatigues bulletproof vest medic bag wraparound shrapnel-resistant glasses and a helmet. 40-plus pounds of gear. Sarah is her nickname. All Iraqi interpreters pick nicknames. The fewer people who know their real names the better. She picked Sarah. It is easy to pronounce in English and in Arabic. Sarah was an interpreter for Alpha Company 177. But she did more than just interpret. She gathered key information that became intel for the unit. This was back during the surge. Baghdad was on the edge of all-out civil war and the surge plan was to send US military outfits like Alpha Company out into the middle of dangerous areas with constant IED and sniper attacks to try and stabilize them. Alpha Company landed in southwest Rashid in Baghdad. At the time it was a confusing churn of different militias including the powerful Mahdi Army the Jaish al-Mahdi who were trying to control the area. Kidnapping and killing were common. And the only way for the Americans to fight was to get tips from informants ordinary local people who were frightened all the time of the militias of the Americans. Sarah's job was to try to convince these frightened people to talk. Her new boss Captain Bill Higgins-- he is actually now a lieutenant colonel-- gave her an assignment. Call up this guy. He does not want to talk but just try. Try to talk with him. Try to ask him about the neighborhood. And I called him and I talked with him. I am Sarah. I am working with Americans these things. And I asked him about the neighborhood his neighborhood and he started to give me his real name his job all the information about the bad guys in his neighborhood. So when I told the captain after I finished my call he was really surprised. And he said Sarah we tried with him since six months. Tried to get even his name and he refused to give it to us. This is something unbelievable. It was the first time for me to recognize and realized that there is other things I can do in addition to be a housewife-- a good housewife. I start to feel all this energy inside me all these good things inside me. So yes there is something else. I can do it within the right way. Lieutenant Colonel Higgins told me it really was unbelievable how good Sarah was at getting people to open up to her. They trusted her. They liked talking to her. Lieutenant Colonel Higgins felt that way. Sarah was approachable sympathetic funny and unexpected like running into your favorite sister or aunt in a war zone. Even though she was dressed in fatigues as soon as she started talking it was clear to people that she knew their world and she knew them. She used to be them. Nancy I spent 17 years in the kitchen making food for the family and guests all the time. So this is like a big step for me to get out from all this thing to a new world. Sarah's world flipped. Everything that had seemed overwhelming in the beginning became normal-- militias informants raids IEDs gunfire dead bodies and working around the clock. 27 days in a row of this. And then a mini vacation. Four days off-- and not even fully off. She gave trusted informants or sources her personal cell phone number. She found herself struggling to get back into the quiet rhythm that used to be her whole life-- making meals cleaning the house being a mom. You know vacation. The problem for me was even when I was in my vacation people keep calling me. And this did not let me switch off all these things and be a mom instead of being interpreter. One of the times when I was in a vacation Baqir asked me to do his favorite food-- chicken in the oven with rice of course-- and at the same time I got a call from a source. She start to tell me something so important about weapon caches in the area and I am just holding the phone in one hand and try to put the tray in the oven. Maybe you can see where this ends. She burns herself. She is still got the scar. But listen to her voice. She is thrilled. She was not just good at her job. She loved her job. On that phone call the information she got while getting burned was so important she left her vacation early. It was really a big day for us. We captured about 18 leaders in the same night. Sarah became indispensable. Out of the four or five interpreters the unit worked with regularly she was the top. She was the one that Lieutenant Colonel Higgins and his operations officer wanted at their meetings with local sheikhs and other leaders. They sought her opinion as well as her interpreting skills. And her work with informants was crucial. Lieutenant Colonel Higgins says he is certain that some of the people who called especially women would never have talked to a male interpreter. Sarah got letters of praise from military officers that were a effusive and consistent. They wrote her work has directly led to identifying many criminal actors and capturing them. We have learned that Sarah is feared by local criminals. Sarah unhesitatingly faced the same dangers as our soldiers. She is earned the trust and confidence of everyone in the unit. The letters also talked about how hard Sarah worked. Lieutenant Colonel Higgins sometimes let her kids come to the compound and stay with her for a few days when the long separations got too difficult. Her husband came a couple of times too. Sarah later overheard him talking to the kids about it. He said I really shocked when I saw your mother do all this work all the time day and night. So God help her and protect her. The word empowerment has a quaintness about it now in the US as though it is forever rendered in a '70s-era font. But there is no other word for what happened to Sarah. She became empowered. She used to be embarrassed to talk to strangers. Now she could talk to anyone. And when she did everyone listened. Her world had become huge. For Sarah it was a change that would come at a staggering personal cost. And she saw others pay a price for their courage also. Sarah called up a woman in the area one day at the captain's request. He said Sarah this woman really has good information about a very bad area in the sector. We need her. I told her I am a mom too and I have two boys and I accept to do this work and it was very dangerous because someone needs to be serious with this area with this country. It has to be me or you or anyone to bring the secure and the safe to the area. The woman agreed to talk in spite of being frightened. She lived in a neighborhood where militia members often hid. From the back of her house she could see what was happening on the main street-- people planting IEDs to catch US military vehicles. And from the front she could see who and what was coming into the area. She was a great source calling Sarah at home to tell her about weapons and militias. They became friends. And she told Sarah that the militias had a nickname for Sarah-- the Lion. One day the woman's husband called Sarah and said they came and took her. Militia leaders took her. I know the militias. They are savage. And they torture everyone. They do not care about a woman or a kid or anything. And I feel guilt. I thought maybe I am the reason for what she will suffer from. I just wanted to take her back to her kids and-- so I was like a crazy talking crying and talking with the captain begging him to find any way to go and try to find her. I called one of the double agents who work with the Americans and work with me. Someone in the Jaish al-Mahdi who was working with you working with the Americans? Yes. And I begged him just tell me where they will take her. Tell me about the places where you keep the kidnapped people. So we move from house to house and all the houses were empty. We spent maybe two days searching for her. And then her husband called me and said hey Sarah they called us and they said we killed her. Really it was-- every time I remembered her I really said she was the Lion not me. I am not. I was not the Lion. She was the Lion. Yeah. In the beginning of 2008 after Lieutenant Colonel Higgins and his group had rotated out and a new group had come in Sarah's husband joined the Sons of Iraq. These were groups of Iraqis the Americans paid to fight alongside them especially against al Qaeda. Her husband was killed after less than a month. He was driving his car in one of the streets where they put their checkpoints and two cars drive beside his car with three men inside it and they start to shoot on him and kill him in his car. I shocked really. I start to cry. My boys jumped in my mind and I called Mustafa immediately and I asked him about Baqir and he told me he is in the house with me. And I said do not go anywhere because I will come to you. And I was crying and he was confused and asked me what is going on? Mom tell me what is going on. Sarah was horrified to learn from one of her informants that her husband was killed at least in part because of her work. The informant told her he saw militia members the day her husband died. He saw them celebrate after his killing and distribute candies and laughing and call each other and congratulate each other. Hey we killed Sarah's husband. Sarah started trying to get herself and her sons out of Iraq to emigrate to the US for safety. With the help of Lieutenant Colonel Higgins and others from his unit as well as people from the new group she applied for a special visa-- one of the visas created by Congress specifically for people like Sarah who were working with the United States. But in the fall of 2008 as she was waiting to do her first interview to get the visa something totally unexpected happened. She was taken into custody put in an American jail at the Baghdad airport. No idea why. She was questioned for days before she could figure out what was going on. Sarah had been accused anonymously by another Iraqi of betraying the Americans she was working with. The accusation was that she had taken money from militias had snuck militia members into the Sons of Iraq to spy on the Americans and had interpreted inaccurately on purpose to help militia members get released. To Sarah these accusations seemed absurd. These militias she had supposedly helped were the same militias that had killed her husband and bombed her home. But it did not matter if the accusations made sense. She sat in prison for two months before she got to defend herself in front of a judge. The Iraqi judge threw the case out for insufficient evidence but it took another month for the paperwork to go through. And incredibly in that month her situation got worse. She was transferred from the American jail into Iraqi custody. And really it was a terrible experience for me there in the Iraqi jail. I do not want to remember anything. That jail makes my hair grey really. Those three months undid her. Not only the jails. Sarah had been keeping all her savings in a bag in her room at the camp where she would worked with the Americans. Banks had not felt safe. Iraq was still unstable. And she had not wanted to leave it at her house. When her son Mustafa went to go pick up her things from the camp while Sarah was sitting in jail the money was gone. I said no way. There was all my saving money in the bag. He says no Mom. The bag was empty. About 20000 disappeared she says. The family had lived frugally the entire time Sarah was working so she could save most of her paycheck. It was money she would planned to use for them to emigrate if necessary. Now they did not even have it to live on. There was a final blow. Even though the case against her had been dismissed and Sarah had an exemplary work record she had been blacklisted. The anonymous accusations that a judge had thrown out for lack of evidence and that she herself has never seen to this day became part of her US Defense Department file. The technical term is derogatory information and apparently the anonymous derogatory information in Sarah's file outweighed all the letters of praise and support signed by US military people who had worked and lived with Sarah for months. So even though her case was thrown out of court for lack of evidence she was no longer allowed to work for the US and her visa to America was denied. Derogatory information is not uncommon in these cases. And it could be anything-- a genuine threat a misunderstanding a grudge. I talked to Richard Welch a US Army colonel who is now retired. He was in Iraq for almost seven years during the war and he spent a lot of time assessing the validity of accusations against Iraqis who worked for the US. He also had detailed knowledge of Sarah's case. He saw her security file and the derogatory information in it. He called her case quote a shameful situation and a gross miscarriage of justice. He does not think she is a threat. I remember every unit she worked with vouched for her credibility and her trustworthiness and her ability. I just think it is outrageous. I mean honestly it is just not American to frankly do that to these folks. I first met Sarah in 2010 about a year before the US declared the war officially over. Another reporter Larry Kaplow and I were working together and Sarah was our interpreter. There was a moment in the This American Life episode that Larry and I put together when Sarah was on the air as herself not just interpreting for someone else. It was less than a minute long but she was the person everyone remembered at the end of the show. The moment happened when Sarah was interpreting for us during an interview with a former Sons of Iraq fighter. He pulled a tissue from a box next to him to make a point.  I am sorry. He says the American forces use us like a tissue. I feel the same thing. I am sorry. When Sarah worked for the United States she did not cover her face with a mask the way some interpreters did because she knew that people talked more if they could see her face if they could see who they were talking to. And we the United States needed people to talk. So Sarah's face is known to the militia leaders she helped the US question and put in prison. Some of those militia leaders were released from prison after the US left. Five years ago Sarah re-applied to come to the United States for herself and her sons. And in that time her interview with US immigration officials has been scheduled and then canceled three times. And a whole group of people-- military personnel who worked with Sarah lawyers who took on her case reporters she worked with and Sarah herself-- all tried to figure out what the hell was going on. We asked USCIS the United States Citizen and Immigration Services to explain why Sarah's case has dragged on so long so extraordinarily long. More typical is two years. All the spokesman would say is that USCIS cannot discuss the details of individual immigration cases. Two years ago Sarah and her kids moved to another country Jordan because it was safer for them and because immigration officials told Sarah the visa process might go faster if she was outside Iraq. She moved even though Jordan is expensive and she could not work there legally and she had no family nearby. Finally in November 2016 two months ago-- eight years since her husband was killed and she very first started applying to come to the United States-- Sarah got a phone call from a US immigration official who she says told her her interview would happen in one hour. It was not enough time for Sarah to bring the lawyer she is entitled to but she managed to get there in time with her kids and they did the interview. I called Sarah up in Jordan the day after the interview. How are you doing?   Look Nancy I really told the boys you have to expect the worst. Maybe they will deny us. Yeah. Because I lost hope. To be honest Nancy I lost all the hope. I just felt that I am stuck in Jordan. But really I am not complaining from the way of my life. All of my complaining is for my boys and their future growing up without any degree or any good education. I can say they are lost. A month later she got her answer. A few days before Christmas I got an email from Sarah saying her application had been denied. The form letter from USCIS said her case was quote denied as a matter of discretion for security-related reasons. No specifics on the security-related reasons. She has 90 days to appeal but the appeal has virtually no chance. I am not going to pretend I do not have an opinion here. Based on all the conversations I have had with US military personnel who worked with Sarah and know her based on the time I spent working with her and the years I have known her I think we failed Sarah. We I mean the United States. I think we failed her by letting this process drag on for so many years some of them with Sarah and her kids living in limbo in Jordan. And I think after letting her case languish we made the wrong call. My understanding is in cases like Sarah's anything that looks the slightest bit off outweighs everything else even if it is from an anonymous tipster even if American soldiers who worked with her never believed the accusations and in fact spent years trying to help her get to the United States. Americans want to be safe. I want to be safe. But in my opinion we are not safer for keeping Sarah out and we are abandoning a friend and an ally. Nancy Updike is one of the producers of our show. Coming up in the second half of the program Nancy returns with the saga of how this special visa program for interpreters came to exist in the first place and why it is never worked that great. That is in a minute. It is from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program Did not We Solve This Problem? A new administration is arriving in Washington DC. What is going to happen to all the interpreters and other people we worked with in Iraq and Afghanistan people whose lives are threatened-- some of them because they helped us. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two He is Making a List. In this half of our show we return to somebody else who we have put on the program before a guy named Kirk Johnson. Kirk Johnson was in his mid-20s when he got involved in trying to help these people who worked with the United States in these recent wars get to safety in our country. He would worked for USAID in Iraq the Agency for International Development. He spoke and read Arabic. And he inadvertently-- like without intending it-- became the point person and catalyst for eventually what became US policy on this subject. And then he watched his efforts succeed and fail kind of at the same time. Nancy Updike tells what happened. On Kirk's first vacation out of Iraq after a year of working in Fallujah and Baghdad he had a fluke accident. He fell out of a window. That is actually not part of this story except to say that Kirk was so badly injured that he could not go back to Iraq. He wanted to. He thought about it all the time. And he had a lot of time to think about it since he was spending months and months recovering from a series of painful surgeries fighting with his health insurance company and draining his bank account. Kirk had to start his adult life completely over. He began applying to law schools. I really did feel at that point that I was moving on that I was thinking about Iraq less. I stopped reading the news from Iraq. But one day one of my good Iraqi friends sent an email. I mean he was one of the highest-ranked Iraqis that worked for USAID. I think it was a 130 million program that he was working on. And he opened up his front door and found the severed head of a dog and a death threat note that said that we are going to cut off your heads. I mean a very clear death threat sort of lobbed into their front yard. When Kirk got this email it was the fall of 2006 and he was practically broke and living in his aunt's basement on a futon. So with the email he felt like that is terrible but there is nothing I can do. It took him a few weeks to realize that maybe there was something he could do. He started writing an op-ed saying I think our government should help my friend and people like him. I felt that of course there is some office to give out visas to these people. Of course the government has some program. It is just that my friends have not heard about it yet and so-- And neither have I but I will do this op-ed and then I am going to conn