In these dark and confusing and combative times where in just one month-- and it is a month that does not feel that atypical-- we have impeachment hearings and Australia on fire and a near war with Iran and a deadly virus spreading around the world. We thought here at our show we would try the most radical counter-programming possible. So today we bring you our show about delight. And our story starts with my co-worker Bim Adewunmi growing up in East London in Nigeria learning about America from afar. I just remember the feeling of swimming in a lot of American culture. I watched a lot of sitcoms. I would been watching Roseanne I Dream of Jeannie Family Matters. It was a hodgepodge of Americana. A deep dive on Marilyn Monroe but also the books of Maya Angelou and also the Cosby spin-off show A Different World. And I remember thinking there are so many different types of black people doing their own version of black people things and that was really interesting to me. Bim knew there were problematic things about America of course. Who did not know that? But at the time I was like yay! American pop culture. This is great. And I had such a fixed idea of America. There were a million high school movies and TV shows. I was like oh yeah. If I was to land in an American school today I would know exactly what to do. I know the crowd I would fit in with. It was going to be proms. It was going to be malls. I know where the cafeteria is. I understand that gym is a place of hell. I understood everything around the idea of American school. I had a whole vision of myself and where I would fit in the hierarchy. Seriously? Absolutely. I would be the semi-jock because I used to run track at school. So I was like semi-jock but sensitive theater child but also everybody's friend. Yeah. And I would be approachable by people who were not as cool as me. I had a whole strategy planned out.  I love that you totally pictured your American high school. I was going to be the everyman who was also very cool incredibly bright very beautiful very popular but was not conceited. It seemed a shame to waste all this knowledge that I had about how American society functions by me being in England. It was like well what good is all this knowledge here? If you have the knowledge then you want to be tested. I wanted to be tested. And the only real test is to actually live in America. To live that life. And so when she was 19 after high school and before college-- they do not call it high school and they do not call it college where she is from-- she decided I am going to do it. I am going to take the test. Live the dream. Go live in America. In fact not just any old part of America but a quintessentially American corner of America. And that is summer camp. Summer camp's an institution they did not really have in either of the countries where she would spent her childhood-- Nigeria and England. She was hired by a company that brings in teenagers from overseas to work as counselors and she was assigned to a camp in a very un-British location-- just outside Santa Cruz California. We were amongst redwoods some of the most ancient most majestic things ever on the Earth. They have seen  dinosaurs. So we were between the redwoods and the ocean. And I was like man! You just do not get vistas like this in East London. It felt so American to be in nature like this. And we were sleeping in cabins and I was like yeah this is a camp all right. In fact over and over she found herself seeing and doing things that she would only encountered in American pop culture. For instance she ate at an old-fashioned diner with round stools at a long table and a waitress in a striped blouse who called her honey. Or there was the day that a guy in a grocery store aisle a total stranger hit on her which she would only seen on television which apparently is not a thing British men do very much. And each time these things happened it was exhilarating and surprising. So one of the other counselors at camp Laurel invited us all to her parents place on Lake Tahoe. So we drove down in her car which was a white El Camino truck and she told us his name was Chester. And I thought that is perfect. Chester. Chester the El Camino truck. Yes. At that point I did not know how to drive. I still do not know how to drive because I lived in London and there is a fantastic tube and buses and whatever and I walked everywhere-- Whatever. I do not want to hear your British chauvinism of our American way of life. It was great. Oh my god. Mm-hmm. Anyway we drove down to Tahoe. And on the way we had the windows down we were playing loud music we are wearing jeans cutoffs and I remember thinking yet again this moment of stark clarity I was like oh my god! This is America! I am in a truck! We are on the road! The wind is in our hair! This is perfect! We are a bunch of girls laughing about whatever and it is great. Like it was a performance but I knew all the words. So you guys are playing the radio. Are you singing along with the radio? Yes classic road trip-style. And do you remember what songs? Oh I do remember one song. Super girly. That was the year that Norah Jones' album Come Away With Me came out. Mm-hmm. I do not care what anyone says. That album is a banger. I love it still. Norah Jones' is just perfect. And I remember the lead song I Do not Know Why was on the radio every single day. And I remember us singing it the final bit where she sings SINGING my heart's in something something whatever. And then she says this great line-- SINGING and you will be on my mind. And I remember we would sing that and we would put our hands to our chests and we would extend our arms and be like SINGING you will be-- and we would all sing it.  And it was just this very romantic very windswept-- it felt to me again like the perfect soundtrack to my American summer. America is real. America is real! I was like oh my god! American things are happening to me. OK so like I said at the beginning our show today is about delight. And it was during that summer Bim says because it was so full of moments of delight she started to really take notice of that feeling and think of it as a thing a thing that you liked. It was not just enjoyable she thought. That feeling seemed important somehow. And I thought OK this feeling is something worth repeating. And the idea that you can go and look for delight and you might find it was I think fully planted that summer. In you? In me yeah. Like if I actively sought out delight I might be able to find it and replicate it forever. So I thought OK we will just keep doing that. That was a way of organizing my life. By the way a very un-British way to organize her life Bim says to embrace delight wholeheartedly and un-self-consciously. Fundamentally I am fighting against every urge in me which is like do not. Do not do that. Because I am still British. I cannot help that. So I am always just thinking to myself just going like oh is that too much? I feel very much like somebody's disapproving nanny. Stop that. That is too much emotion. You know there is a reason why our national sound is a tut.  Stop it.  It is an admonishment. It is like stop it you know? There used to be a talk show and the theme song was a little child singing in this very sing-songy voice-- SINGING it will never work. It will never work. And that is how I feel about most things. That would never be a show here.  But this kid just sang in a sole voice and then a chorus of voices join and say SINGING it will never work!  Every time I see it I am like a-ha! That is the spirit of Britain. So there is this poet that I discovered a couple of years ago. He is called Ross Gay and he is written a book where he basically keeps track of the things that delight him. And that is things that is people that is moments whatever. And the word he used was negligence. He said it is a negligence if people do not take the time to honor the things that they take delight in but more importantly that they share the things that they take delight in. And if you do not do that there is a loss there. You have to do it to achieve humanity. You have to share delight. And that is what we are going to be doing today right? Yes that is exactly what we are going to be doing today. We are going to think about what delights us why it delights us why it is important to cultivate delight. And with that let me just hand over the show to you. You will host the show from here. OK you want to do the part where you say from WBEZ Chicago? I really do. OK hit it. Do I say W-B-E-zed? Sure. OK. From W-B-E-zed Chicago it is This American Life. I am Bim Adewunmi. Stay with us. Act One-- The Job of Delight. It is one thing to be attuned to delight but it is quite another to scrape off a sample stick it on a slide and place it under a microscope. Enter Ross Gay the poet I was talking about a moment ago. Ross is an English professor at Indiana University and a couple of years ago he embarked on a specific mission-- to think about delight. He made it a practice in fact. For one calendar year Ross would ask himself what delights me? And then he would write it down. He set rules. He would do it every day he would draft them quickly and every single delight would be written by hand. He called them essayettes. Some of these essayettes eventually became a book-- The Book of Delights. Here's Ross reading an excerpt of Delight number 80 from the book Tomato Onboard in his living room in Bloomington. What you do not know until you carry a tomato seedling through the airport and onto a plane is that carrying a tomato seedling through the airport and onto a plane will make people smile at you almost like you are carrying a baby. I did not know this until today carrying my little tomato about three or four inches high in its four-inch plastic starter pot which my friend Michael gave to me smirking about how I was going to get it home. Something about this at first felt naughty-- not comparing a tomato to a baby but carrying the tomato under the plane. And so I slid the thing into my bag while going through security which made them pull the bag for inspection. When the security guy saw it was a tomato he smiled and said I do not know how to check that. Have a good day. But I quickly realized one of its stems which I almost wrote as arms was broken from the jostling and it only had four of them. So I decided I would better just carry it out in the open. And the shower of love began. Before boarding the final leg of my flight one of the workers said Nice tomato! which I do not think was a come on. And the flight attendant asked about the tomato at least five times-- not an exaggeration-- every time calling it my tomato. Where is my tomato? How is my tomato? You did not lose my tomato did you? She even directed me to an open seat in the exit row. Why do not you guys go sit there and stretch out? I gathered my things and set the little guy in the window seat so she could look out. When I got my water I poured some into the little guy's soil. When we got bumpy I put my hand on the little guy's container careful not to snap another arm off. And when we landed and the pilot put the brakes on hard my arm reflexively went across the seat holding the little guy in place the way my dad's arm would when he had to break in that car without belts to speak of and one of my very favorite gestures in the encyclopedia of human gestures. The Book of Delights is a series of daily snapshots into one man's habits and pleasures. If you ever wanted an essay about the specific sensation of applying coconut oil to a shower damp body that would be delight number 101. Airports and the people Ross encounters in them come up a fair bit. His garden where we spent a very delightful afternoon talking about bumblebees and potatoes is the location of many a delight. Some of the delights in the book were things that surprised him while others were looking back in time memories of people no longer here. A lot of them featured familiar faces in familiar places. Ross was getting to reassess his environment and consider it through a new lens-- a delightful lens. I was learning as I was going. And frankly I was learning how much some of these things delighted me. The question is always why does that delight me? What does it do to a person to study delight? Or as it emerges to study joy every single day for a year? What do you discover? One of the things he discovered is the mechanics of how to find delight every day as a discipline. Because delight does not just arrive you need to actively go looking for it. Being in a state of trying to train your curiosity and trying to train this sense of not knowing. Delight and curiosity are really tied up. You have to be OK with not knowing things. You have to be actually invested and happy about not knowing things. The Book of Delights is a peculiar thing an undertaking of serious academic rigor that also makes you feel good. Those things are not meant to go together. The book offers up many thoughts on what delight is or what it could be but it never defines it explicitly. The takeaway is that delight while important is hard to pin down. Reading the book and talking to Ross about this made me feel like I was floating on a chemically-enhanced-- but perfectly legal in 11 states-- cloud. I began to think of him as a sort of personal delight guru and so my questions for him began to take on the strong whiff of a patchouli joss stick. Did you end up with a grand unifying theory on what delight is?  No. No but I did end up with what feels like a kind of beginning theory of what joy is.  I just had an image. Delight is like the butterflies flying around and landing on the thing that is joy. Right. See? Patchouli. To Ross an important part of delight is that it is an invitation. By loving something we allow other people an opportunity to love it too-- sharing tapping someone on the shoulder to say hey look! So often I feel like I have had the experience of walking through the world and not seeing anything. And then someone's like did you see how that-- You do not see it until you see it. And then when you see it you are like whoa! We just had a bunch of people over here the other night and this couple had this little kid. And so he starts yelling rainbow! Rainbow!  And what did we do? We are all in here talking being adults. Boom! We ran outside and started looking at the rainbow. Thank you. Thank you. It is like come gasp with me. Come gasp with me. This is unbelievable. Which brings us to Act Two-- The Squeals on the Bus. It is not surprising that it is a child that runs in to tell everyone to come look at a rainbow. There is a feeling that delight is the preserve of children and any adult who finds delight easily might be a simpleton or a Pollyanna. Perhaps you have noticed this whole hour is an argument against that. But for Act 2 let us spend a little time with a five-year-old-- my colleague Robyn Semien's son Cole. He recently had an experience around a mundane thing most adults loathe-- commuting. He was going to ride the school bus for the very first time. Robyn has the story. Cole has been looking forward to this exact moment for years more than kindergarten or his first day at school. Taking the bus to Cole is epic. So one morning this past September with his new sneakers and Batman backpack on Cole and I walked down our driveway. I just cannot wait! I am a bus rider now! What happened to old Cole? Yeah old Cole is dead now. Oh wow! Yeah when we get old really old we start to die. Well these are very deep thoughts for the bus. Riding the bus to Cole was not about riding the bus. It meant he was gaining on his big sister Josie. She is 10 getting a hair closer to that mysterious frustratingly out-of-reach thing that she has-- autonomy. No let us wait for the bus here. We are going to walk down to the bus stop together. Come on. Why? Because that where the bus comes to get her down on the corner. Did you know that? No. For a kid obsessed with this trip he is surprisingly vague on some of the details. See the tree? What tree? That tree right down there on the corner. Yeah. That is our tree. That is our tree? Mm-hmm. Then we have to wait there? Mm-hmm. Is that how Josie does it every day? That is how she does it every single day. That is how she is been doing it for three years. What? I know! And now it is your turn. Yeah and now it is not her turn. We get to the corner and wait. Hey good morning. Our neighbor Ian pulls up sees us and gets out of his car. Guess what? What is that? I am waiting for my bus. Oh! Your first day? Yeah first time on the bus. All right!  Thank you! Cole beams. And pretty soon-- I think I hear a bus. You do? Oh it was just that car. Cole wills the bus to come sooner like everyone at every bus stop ever has done. I think I heard my bus. It sounded different. I think I heard it. I do not think so yet bud. We practiced greeting the bus driver. I am going to say hi busdriver. I am a little bit shy to say how are you doing? We do this a couple more times till Cole tells me to stop because it is boring. A little bit boring. And then more waiting. Cole's mood dips. He has doubts. But what if there is not a spot for me in the bus? Oh there'ill be a spot for you. They know you are coming. We told them you are coming. OK? OK. What is taking up that bus? It is taking too long for me. We have been here for over an hour. It is been 10 minutes. And it is taking too long. It is taking crappy long! Crappy long? Yes. That is not something that you say?  Crappy! No no. We do not say that. Fine. I am a little worried that maybe Cole has overimagined the bus ride and it will not live up. That years of anticipation will only disappoint him in the end. And then rounding the corner--  Oh man! That is my bus! It is really happening!  Stand to the side. OK let us go. Let us go. Cole tears past me and up the bus steps like it is nothing. He is daring I think to myself. Love you bye! Bye mom! Love you! Good morning. Cole stood for a second longer facing the rows of seats and kids taking it all in completely lit up. I cannot believe it! I am on the bus! Yes! Yes! It is my first time. He is fine. Better than fine. Now this is what I am talking about. That was New Cole with his producer Robyn Semien. Act Three-- Mrs. Meek shall inherit the Earth. I think delight might actually be more profound when you have experienced more including real loss and tragedy. Ross Gay's book of delights is edged in despair. In it Ross writes about his dearly departed friends his uncle Earl his father. He calls them his deceased beloveds. But that is the way of delight. When I think of joy grown up joy is made up of our sorrow just like it is made up of what is pleasing to us. Often it felt like I was not going to be able to talk about delight without talking about these other things. Delight often implies its absence. Noriko Meek knows all about that. After 72 years on Earth she is made some changes lately. Her daughter Miki talked to her about it. My mom is 72 years old and in this new phase of her life where she is all about doing whatever she wants. I am glad for her but sometimes it is kind of annoying. Recently I was her chauffeur on a road trip through Texas and New Mexico. She woke me up at 530 in the morning so we could drive an hour to watch the sunrise from some sand dunes in the middle of nowhere. She insisted on hanging out in a cold crappy parking lot to take pictures of a rainbow. Then when I asked if I could interview her she told me maybe. But first she needed to take a bath. Her second one for the day. Oh! When she finally got out she sat next to me on the queen bed we were sharing-- one two three-- and then pulled out some floss. I should clean my teeth. You are going to clean your teeth while we are talking? Yeah.  So gross. No worry! I can do whatever. Except that I am sleeping right next to you.  I felt that. The first time I notice she would changed was over the summer standing outside of my brother's house. We would been talking about where to go grocery shopping when she suddenly switched subjects. She asked me with this smiling but also totally serious face if I could tell that she was glowing. I was not totally sure what she was talking about so I told her um yeah I guess you look nice. And then I just as quickly changed the subject back to the cheap produce section at Trader Joe's. So why did you ask me that then? Well because to me it was so obvious you have probably seen it. Because inside I mean I think I was glowing inside just radiating joy. Just delight you know? I do not think I have ever used the word delight in a conversation with you ever. I do not think I start using this word-- yeah just recently I think. Because I tell my friends my life is just delightful you know? You say that? Yeah I do. I have never heard you say that. To my friends. This is not the mom I grew up with. She was practical frugal and not a big fan of hugs kisses or elaborating on her feelings. My mom was married to my dad for 43 years. They met in college in their early 20s and then went on to have six kids. My mom stayed at home with us full-time and she was kind of a hard-ass. OK so what does the word delight mean to you? How would you even define that? Delight is just like light your heart out like ignite something you know? At the moment you just feel lightness. So if you were to list what delights you what is on that list? OK go first thing in the morning I wake up and I go to the bathroom and my Toto toilet is warm. We have a Japanese toilet with a warm toilet seat. Yeah and I just sit on it. It is just so warm. And I just feel I am so happy. I really feel it. I am so happy! And it happens every morning.  Yeah it is a consistent delight. Mm-hmm. Consistent Delight. Other things on her list of delights? Eating discounted donuts for breakfast-- she keeps her freezer stocked with them-- going to a ballet class for seniors and reading biographies in bed for two hours every night. She also started traveling for fun for the very first time in her life. Right now she is on a big nature streak. She is hiked through Joshua Tree the Badlands Death Valley the Pyrenees and on and on and on. She exhausts me. So have you ever felt this way before? No. Never? Never. Not even when we were kids or when you had us? No.  You said no! Yeah I do not think I felt delighted.  What did you feel? I was glad you guys are born and safe but I do not think-- raising kids taking care of your dad-- yeah I do not think I ever used the word delight. Because I mean I placed myself always like my needs or whatever last. Money or whatever time. But then after kids all gone and your dad's gone finally I have my life and I can do what I want whenever whatever. Just no stress. No responsibility. That is why I say light I feel so light. And I think delight-- delightful is just the exact adjective for my life at this point. My life is really amazing. And then I see movies. Three movies a week sometimes at 830 in the morning and that is just wonderful. How many other people in the movie theater? Nobody. Just me. Just great. After my dad died four years ago from cancer my mom completely fell apart in a way I would never seen her before. She suddenly became needy she openly cried. Before then all her energy had gone into keeping my dad alive. She would spent a decade caring for him constantly driving him to the ER in the middle of the night and checking his oxygen levels while he slept. We never really talked about what it was like for her watching him deteriorate so much that sometimes he felt like a stranger. But then when he was suddenly gone all the feelings she would pushed down came out in this big devastating wave. For a while she could barely function. Four years. It took four years. I really took a very small step forward after your dad died just to make sure I am alive. So each morning I get up and I have this terrible pain in my chest. But then I just say OK I think I can make myself live to the end of this day. And that is all I thought about. Do you feel surprised sometimes that you feel this good? I mean when dad died and I was just so sad I did not think this would ever happen. Hmm. I really thought my life was over. My mom grieved intensely like this for about six months and then I asked her to come live with me in my tiny apartment for a while. She said yes and I did not expect her to. I thought she would worry too much about being a burden. But this time she agreed with me that staying with me might actually make her feel better. I would not let her sleep on the couch so we got into this whole nighttime routine where we would put on our pajamas and read in my bed like some old married couple. My brother came to visit us once. At 1000 PM my mom tapped me on the knee and said time to hit the hay Mik. We sat up together and he was like what is happening? My mom's choice to stay with me marked the beginning of her opening herself up and putting herself first. Right now her travel calendar for 2020 is already all booked up-- Alabama Alaska Italy Japan Chicago and Spain. Maybe because my life is getting shorter that pushes me to be more courageous. Yeah. So every day I wake up with some expectation anticipation. Yeah on my calendar there is nothing I do not want to do. If dad had stayed alive and been healthy do you think you could still feel the way that you do now? Probably not. Is not that terrible? Because with him my life I will have more responsibilities. He will be number one in my life. And then my needs will come after his. Yeah so it is just almost sometimes sounds like oh I am glad he is gone. I am not saying that. But because he is gone this is the life I have and I just want it to be delightful you know? I think it is OK. It is OK. Yeah. These questions kind of dumb. That is my mom telling me she thinks my questions are kind of dumb.  Why is it dumb? Delightful? Just too annoying. People will think you are really annoying? Yeah I think so. That is why I do not know why you want to do this because the people like oh my gosh! I am so sick of listening to her. So self-absorbed you know? And so what would you say to that? I am sorry. I do feel that way genuinely. And sometimes I feel like I earned it. Miki Meek a constant delight. Also a producer on our show. Coming up would you call yourself a dealer of delight? Hmm? You the Feds? I amma deal with now? I know it was a setup!  I knew it! Yes. I am full of delight I am slanging delight. You know what I am saying? I am on the internet corners. What you need? What you need? I got it! That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Bim Adewunmi taking over the show from Ira for the day. Yes we are coming over here stealing your jobs. Today's show-- The Show of Delights. Stories about how we go about making and feeling and actively seeking out delight which is all around us by the way. The poet Ross Gay ambassador for delight writes about a time he was in New York and saw a man feeding a pigeon perched on his shoulder. He looks closer and sees-- -- the bird dipping its head into the hand the man must have been holding very near to his own face so that the feeding was not only kind of romantic but alluded to that original feeding the bird experienced-- a mother dropping masticated vittles into the tiny chippers gaped mouth which is after all the first romance. It sounds like something out of a children's picture book does not it? Feeding caring being companions to our animals. And with that we have arrived at Act Four-- The Elephant in the Bedroom. Disa Skaff has a job that is out of a children's book. She is a night zookeeper at the Denver Zoo. So while most people are asleep she is doling out snacks checking the animals are warm and cozy turning out their lights and saying goodnight. Dana Chivvis recently spent a night with Disa at the zoo. Being at the zoo at night is like being backstage hours after a play has ended. The public is long gone. The vendors have packed up their Dippin' Dots and zoo swag. The paths that wind around the animal exhibits are empty and dark and a little creepy. I follow Disa's flashlight as we walk around. Disa your job is very dark. Yeah but you can see where you are walking. Usually it is just her the security guards another night zookeeper and 3000 wild animals. Disa has the best job in the whole world. It is the best job in the whole world. See? We walk into a building through a back door-- the special zookeeper entrance. Disa turns the lights on and I see something I have never seen before-- an elephant on the ground on his side WHISPERS sleeping. Describe it. So Chuck is sleeping. Oh he is waking up. He just stretched his back leg out. He is got to push up with his front feet doing some Upward Facing Dog stretch. And now he is ready for some food. Each of the 450 different species at the zoo has its own nighttime routine and Disa's put them to bed so many times by now she knows their individual sleep preferences. Where they like to sleep how they like to sleep with whom they like to sleep. There is a lady lizard who uses a male lizard as a mattress and lemurs who cuddle in branches. The gorillas are the touchiest about their sleep. Disa avoids them after 500. Do any animals spoon? Oh a lot of animals spoon. Our Red River hogs spoon. The Red River hogs? Yeah we will see them. They sleep like a pack of sausages. Sorry hogs. I am sure she means chicken sausages. There are one-year-old Komodo dragon siblings who sleep crammed together inside a log. A quick aside because I find it delightful-- those little Komodo guys do not have a father because their mother impregnated herself. I am not kidding. Female Komodo dragons can impregnate themselves. Disa knows all the animals many on a first-name basis. She checks on Daphne the crocodile and Coco the porcupine Murray the moray and fern the bongo. Fern? Hey fern?  Fern's trying to eat my microphone. She wants a treat. We are just saying night-night. These animals know Disa. They have relationship. They are not alarmed to see us. In fact a lot of them seem expectant like they have been waiting for her to come by and tuck them in. In the kangaroo section everyone is crouching in a group. Goodnight roos! Bakari the zebra is still standing up. Zebras can rest on their feet. Good night sir. Bugsy and Boo otter literally cannot wait one more second for their dinner.  I was going to play you a bunch more cute animal sounds here but my editor said move it along. So here's some music instead.  What is so charming about animals going to sleep? Is it that we are seeing creatures that are so different from us doing something so familiar reminding us of a commonality that we all have to do this one thing to survive? You know what? Who cares? Here's a baby flamingo who wants us to leave him alone so he can get some shut eye.  Sorry! Disa has the easygoing and gentle demeanor of someone who legitimately loves her job a job we all said we wanted as kids along with firefighter and astronaut. And unlike the rest of us civilians at the zoo she gets to have direct contact with the animals take care of them which she loves. When I am there the zookeepers are hand-feeding Eleanor a four-month-old kudu which is a kind of antelope. Eleanor stands on spindly legs and chugs the entire bottle in one go.  Good girl Eleanor. Eleanor's dad Joe comes over looking for some treats which Disa gives him. This is Joe the dad. And then she does something else. Did you just eat one of Joe's treats? I did. How was it? Not at tasty as I thought they would be. I just ate a little. Like that bit. I take a bite. It is kind of grassy. Disa says primate biscuits are not bad. Then we both confess to trying dog food when we were kids. There is one animal who is having a rough go of it. We walk around to the back of the great ape house and Disa points her flashlight at a tree. At the top tangled up in some branches is a sheet blowing gently in the wind. One of the reasons we came down here is we have Jaya the orangutan. Oh my gosh! He is newer to the zoo. Is that-- So he is currently sleeping in a tree. Wait that is-- no. Yeah. That is an orang-- Yeah. Wait is he wearing a blanket? Yeah. He is wrapped in a sheet. Jaya should be inside where it is warm. Orangutans are from the rainforest of Sumatra and Borneo. And I sound this baffled because I really thought I was just looking at a wayward sheet caught in a tree. But then the sheet moved. Jaya was under it clutching it tightly around his little body. It really 