OK. I listen to a lot of podcasts. I host a radio show that is distributed as a podcast. So I had a special interest in some interviews that one of my colleagues Zoe Chace did recently. She is one of the reporters for Planet Money which itself is a podcast. Zoe was interviewing these two guys Jim Logan and Richard Baker who say that their company Personal Audio holds the patent on podcasts. And basically anybody who makes a podcast owes them money. Zoe pointed out to them that their interview was going to be used on a podcast that has not paid them. So are we doing something illegal right now though? I would not comment on that. I would not comment on it. We do not-- I do not comment on the legalities. Jim Logan says that he is one of the inventors of podcasting even though he has never made a podcast himself. Here's how he figures. His company Personal Audio back at the dawn of the internet age in 1996-- this is before the iPod existed-- it is before most homes were on the internet-- they decided to manufacture an MP3 player that would do all kinds of stuff that nobody seemed to be doing just yet like downloading sound from the internet. And Jim says they filed for a patent. We did not use these words back then. But buried within that patent description were ideas such as playlist and podcasting. They tried to design and manufacture their newfangled MP3 player for about a year he says. And they failed. They gave up. So they never actually succeeded in making a device that could download audio off the internet and play it. They never made a podcast. Instead they switched to a different technology-- an earlier technology. They decided to distribute magazine articles on cassette tapes. --which was kind of a crude form of podcasting you might say. In this version of the history of podcasting this right here would be one of the very first podcasts. And there is nothing digital about it at all. This is one of those old cassette tapes. These guys brought a stack of them to the interview. Welcome to Amazing-- the Best of Popular Science brought to you by Magazines on Tape. Coming up answers to some questions you have probably wondered about. What happens in your head when you have a headache? How does quicksand work? Why does your car-- This business also failed. But the way our patent system works even though these guys never successfully created a system that took podcasts from the internet and put them into a portable audio player they patented the idea that such a thing could happen. And now that other people have figured out how to do it they want to get paid. It is only fair Jim Logan told Zoe. I put my dollars and my time and my energy on the line. I took the market risk. And I went to market 10 years before people say that podcasting was invented in 2005. We were out there in-- well not 10 years. We were out there in 1998 probably with an offering. But I mean these are cassette tapes. Like this is not the iPhone. Well remember the patent talks to having it very similar to an iPhone-- a computerized device that would do this. What was happening there is they could not get the product done. These guys say that for now they are not asking nonprofit podcasters like our program to pay them licensing fees-- just for-profit podcast businesses like Adam Carolla and The Stuff You Should Know podcast which is owned by Discovery Communications and Marc Maron's comedy podcast WTF which Maron produces literally in his garage. There is no way I can afford to fight a court battle. And they know that. --which means he probably has to pay though the letter he got does not specify a price. Why would not they have a number? Why do not they have a percentage in mind or a number that they think is justified? Why do not they have that? Why are not they willing to say that? Like yeah you all owe us 10. Why are they being cagey about that? Because it is a shakedown. We have a price. We just do not want to make it public. I found Richard Baker of Personal Audio to ask the price myself. He would not tell me either. The reason why I am asking this is because this podcaster said if this is a fair price-- if you have a fair claim to make-- why would not you name the price publicly if it is a fair price? For one most of our licensees do not want people to know how much they have paid or how many times they are downloading. If we were to give a public price of what it is-- say we settled with someone and say they paid us 200000-- someone could easily do the math and figure out exactly what their downloads are. Can you see why I am asking this? One of the podcasters said you are not naming a price because it is a shakedown. It is the secrecy that this podcaster found alarming. Honestly we believe this is a very very fair price. Our goal is to make sure these podcasters succeed so that everybody makes money. Settlements that Personal Audio has made in the past with Apple Computer and with some cellphone companies are also not public information. And the fact is most patent settlements are not public. And you might think OK well so what? But these patent lawsuits are huge. And they are on the rise. The number of patent lawsuits climbed 50 in one year from 2011 to 2012. Entrepreneurs and engineers say these suits hurt and sometimes destroy young companies. They have an effect on the economy on what we can and cannot do. But it is very hard to find out exactly what is going on. A good example-- two years ago we devoted an episode of our program to the patent system. And we tried to explain what was going on by focusing on the company that some people say is the biggest patent troll out there. A patent troll is a company that uses patents mostly to sue other companies and ask for licensing fees. And in that show we investigated this one patent that the company was involved with. The inventor whose name was on that patent was Chris Crawford. And we learned all kinds of things in that investigation. But the world of these lawsuits is so secretive there were basic questions we could not answer like how much money was involved. What did Chris Crawford think of what was being done with his patent? There were 18 companies being sued for infringement on the patent. What was their opinion? How were they handling it? Well two years have passed since then. And I am pleased to say that today-- today-- we can bring you a show where we actually answer the questions that usually in these kinds of cases go unanswered. It is a rare look inside this world. That litigation from two years ago has finished. The silence has been broken. Many many facts have emerged that frankly kind of stunned us. And so today on our show what we are going to do-- in the first half of the program we are going to return to that old episode from 2011 explaining the patent and the lawsuit. And then in the second half we are going to have the answers to many of the mysteries that were still unsolved two years ago. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stick around. And with that I am going to turn things over to This American Life producer and Planet Money co-host Alex Blumberg and NPR Digital Culture Correspondent Laura Sydell who report the story. Intellectual Ventures that firm that people in Silicon Valley point to as a quintessential patent troll was founded by a guy named Nathan Myhrvold. Nathan Myhrvold used to be the chief technology officer at Microsoft where he made a lot of money-- hundreds of millions of dollars. Even if you have not heard of Intellectual Ventures you might have heard of Nathan Myhrvold. My guest tonight has written a six-volume book on cutting-edge food made with modern science. Please welcome Nathan Myhrvold. This is Myhrvold on the television show The Colbert Report talking about another one of his ventures-- an opus on the science of cooking which teaches you how to do things like make ice cream with liquid nitrogen. Myhrvold is the kind of guy the press loves to profile. You are a world barbecue champion now? Yep. You have discovered T. rex fossils. You have studied quantum physics with Stephen Hawking. And you have a new six-volume 40-pound 625 book-- Yep. --called-- But this image of Nathan Myhrvold who gives TED Talks and generally plays the role of an avuncular elder statesman for the tech industry is at odds with the image of his company Intellectual Ventures. --because Intellectual Ventures has amassed one of the largest patent portfolios in existence. There is an influential blog in Silicon Valley called Techdirt which regularly refers to Intellectual Ventures as a patent troll. Another blog IPWatchdog called Intellectual Ventures patent troll public enemy number one. And The Wall Street Journal's Law Blog had an article about Intellectual Ventures titled Innovative Invention Company or Giant Patent Troll? I put the question to Nathan Myhrvold. Are you a patent troll?  Well that is a term that has been used by people to mean someone they do not like who has patents. I think you would find almost anyone who stands up for their patent rights has been called a patent troll. Intellectual Ventures says Myhrvold is anything but a patent troll. They are on the side of inventors. They pay inventors for patents. They gather these patents together into this huge warehouse of invention that companies can use if they want. Sort of like a department store for patents. Whatever technology you are looking for Intellectual Ventures has it. And when reporters come to visit Myhrvold to underline this idea that IV is all about invention he takes them to see this.  GEOFF DEANE So out here we are standing  the brink of our machine shop. I am on a tour with Geoff Deane who runs the Intellectual Ventures Invention Lab. About 100 people work here. The lab is massive. There are people walking around in white lab coats mixing chemicals in beakers and looking at stuff under microscopes. There is a machine shop a nanotechnology section. It is like a playground for scientists and engineers. And if you ask them what they have invented so far there is a couple things they point to. A nuclear technology they say is safer and greener than existing technologies a cooler that can keep vaccines cold for months without electricity and the world's most high-tech mosquito zapper which senses mosquitoes hundreds of feet away by detecting the speed of their wings. But the fact is this lab is a tiny fraction of what the company does. Intellectual Ventures has received a little over 1000 patents on stuff they have come up with here which pales in comparison to the more than 30000 patents they have bought from other people. In fact nothing that is come out of this lab-- not the mosquito zapper not the nuclear technology-- nothing has made it into commercial use. That does not matter executives here say. That is not the biggest part of our business anyway. The main thing we do is help inventors-- make sure inventors are probably paid for their work. They say there are inventors out there doing brilliant work holding patents but not making money off of those patents. Companies are stealing their ideas. And these inventors do not have the legal savvy or deep pockets to stop them. And that is where Intellectual Ventures steps in to protect the little guy. A lot of people I met at IV told me some version of this story. I heard it over and over. And so finally I asked for an example. If Intellectual Ventures is not just a patent troll give me an example-- someone with a breakthrough who was not being paid for it-- who Intellectual Ventures helped out and got paid. Two separate people pointed me to the same guy. JOE CHERNESKY There is one story I can think of-- a gentleman named Chris Crawford. This is one of the people who mentioned Chris Crawford-- Joe Chernesky a vice president at Intellectual Ventures. JOE CHERNESKY The neat thing about Chris is he had no idea how to get money for his patents. He had this great idea. These patents were immensely valuable because every technology company was adopting the technology. Yet he did not know how to get paid. He eventually found Intellectual Ventures. So we bought those patents. So I figured I want to talk to this guy-- not so simple. It turned out trying to talk to Chris Crawford took us on a five-month odyssey where things did not exactly fit the story that Intellectual Ventures was telling us. It started when I called Intellectual Ventures to get Chris Crawford's contact info. I got a strange email back in response. I was told they no longer own Chris Crawford's patent. And I was told he probably would not want to talk to me right now because he was in the middle of litigation. So we started digging around. We found Chris Crawford in Clearwater Florida. But as predicted he never responded to our many emails and phone calls. We were able though to locate his patents. There were four of them all pretty similar. And we focused on one. --patent number 5771354. He got it in 1998 back in the relatively early days of the internet. And the way IV explained the patent to us Chris Crawford invented something that we all do all the time now. He figured out a way to upgrade the software on your home computer over the internet. So in other words when you turn on your computer and a little box pops up and says click here to upgrade to the newest version of iTunes that was Chris Crawford's idea. But when we looked at the patent it seemed to claim a lot more than that. The patent says this invention makes it possible to connect to an online service provider to do a bunch of stuff-- software purchases online rentals data backups information storage. The patent makes it seem like this one guy Chris Crawford invented a lot of what we do on the internet every day. We were not sure what to make of this. So we turned to an expert. --Laura is you are going to start by looking at the left and right-hand screen. This is David Martin who runs a company called M-CAM. They are hired by governments banks businesses to assess patent quality which they do with this fancy software program. The patent's on the left. We asked him to assess Chris Crawford's patent. Now if you would please just click on the patent number itself Laura. And that-- The software program actually scans through millions of patents and analyzes them to see if any of them overlap. That is a bad number. An idea being patented is supposed to be non-obvious to a person of ordinary skill in the art. What that means is that you should not be able to get a patent for just a common-sense good idea. It has to be a breakthrough. That is correct. And what we are seeing on David Martin's computer screen does not look like a breakthrough. 5303 patents that were issued while his was being prosecuted which covered the same material-- 5303. And so that means that at the same time that Chris Crawford's patent was getting issued-- Only 5303 other people were pursuing the same thing. And when you say the same thing-- I mean the same thing. David Martin may be exaggerating a little here for effect. But as we look through some of the patents that are on the screen the resemblances are pretty clear. Remember Chris Crawford's patent is for quote an online backup system. We asked a second patent expert to evaluate Chris Crawford's patent. And he told us that everything in it was already being done on computers in the 1980s long before Chris Crawford even filed the patent. He thought the patent never should have been granted in the first place. Patents are so fundamental to the American way of life that they are in the Constitution. Their purpose is quote to promote the useful arts and sciences. If there were no such thing as a patent Eli Whitney the inventor of the cotton gin would have had to keep his invention hidden in a dark room with no windows so nobody would steal the idea. But with a patent he could publish the blueprints. People would have to pay him if they wanted to manufacture their own cotton gins. And we would have thousands of cotton gins everywhere. Patents make it safe to share and to innovate. But people in Silicon Valley will tell you the problem with software patents today is that all kinds of things are getting patented that are not breakthroughs and do not deserve a patent. They are too broad or too obvious. And a lot of the people that tell you that are the people that software patents are supposed to protect-- software engineers. I have to say I actually worked on a whole bunch of patents in my career over the years. And I have to say that every single patent is nothing but crap. This is Stephan Brunner a programmer. He said something we heard from a lot of software engineers. His software patents do not even make sense to him. I cannot tell you for the hell of it what they are actually supposed to do. Because I did not-- the company said we have to do a patent on this. And then they send in a lawyer. And you basically say yeah that is probably right. That is probably wrong. And they just write something. And it makes no sense. And personally when I look at them I am not proud at all. Because most of them again it is just like mumbo jungo which nobody understands and which makes no sense from an engineering standpoint whatsoever. Stephan Brunner patent 7650296-- quote a configurator using structure and rules to provide a user interface. One sample section interests me. The whole thing is like this. According to one embodiment of the invention a customizable product class is created. A component product class is added to the customizable product class where the component product class is a subclass of the customizable product. The patent system the way it works now can actually hinder innovation because patents can be used as weapons against new businesses. Engineers say patents do not help them create new products. Often they get in the way. We are at a point in the state of intellectual property where existing patents probably cover every single behavior that is happening on the internet and our mobile phones today. This is Chris Sacca a Silicon Valley venture capitalist who is helped lots of companies including Twitter and Uber get off the ground. So I have no doubt that the average Silicon Valley startup or even medium-sized company-- no matter how truly innovative they are I have no doubt that aspects of whatever they are doing violate patents that are out there right now. And that is what is fundamentally broken about the system right now. Which brings us back to that patent that Intellectual Ventures pointed us to as an example of the system fundamentally working well-- not being broken-- patent 5771354 Chris Crawford's patent. As we have said this patent seems to cover a remarkable chunk of what is happening on the internet-- upgrading software buying stuff online cloud storage storing data on the internet. If you have a patent on all that you could sue a lot of people make a lot of money. And in fact that is what is happening with Chris Crawford's patent. Intellectual Ventures sold it to another company a company called Oasis Research in June of 2010. Less than a month later Oasis Research used the patent to sue 16 different tech companies-- companies like Rackspace GoDaddy and ATT-- companies that do cloud storage. You have reached Oasis Research. At the tone please leave your name-- I called the number on Oasis's website numerous times. But an actual human being never picked up. For a while the message directed all questions to a lawyer in New York named John Desmarais. He also did not return our phone calls. There is hardly any public information about Oasis Research-- minimal corporate filings no way to know who owned it how many employees it had if it even had employees at all. One of the few details that was available-- an address in Marshall Texas-- 104 East Houston Street Suite 190. What are you opening the door to? Right now we are going into the first floor of the Baxter Building which is 104 East Houston. This is Michael Smith. He is an attorney in Marshall Texas who does mostly patent cases. He agreed to show us the offices of Oasis Research. They are in a nondescript two-story building on the town's main square two doors down from the federal courthouse. He led us into a narrow corridor lined with doors with gold and black office name plates. And here we go Suite 190 Oasis Research LLC. It was late morning on a weekday not a holiday. But the door was locked. Through the crack underneath you could see there were no lights on inside. Marshall is a very small town-- 24000 people. Michael was born and raised here. So we started quizzing him about Oasis. Does it have any employees that you know about? Not that I know of. Have you ever seen any people coming in and out of that office? No I have not. If you do not mind I am going to knock on the door and just see if there is anyone here today.  I know this is kind of a cliche at this point-- knocking on the door of the suspected fake office. Nothing. But we would flown a long way. But I will say standing in that corridor was eerie. All the other doors looked exactly the same-- locked name plates over the door no light coming out. It was a corridor of silent empty offices. Right next door to Software Rights Archive Bullet Proof Technology of Texas Jellyfish Technology of Texas and a couple others that I recognize as plaintiffs in cases that we are involved in here. Are there are a lot of companies like this here in East Texas? Yes. And we are standing in a whole corridor of them it seems like. Yes. This would be ground zero yes. So what is going on here? It turns out a lot of those companies in that corridor-- maybe every single one of them-- are doing exactly what Oasis Research is doing. They appear to have no employees. They are not making new inventions here. They are filing lawsuits for patent infringement. Patent lawsuits says Michael Smith are big business in Marshall part of the Eastern District of Texas. Smith told us there are about 2000 patent cases in the courthouse in Marshall. And we got lots of explanations for why-- why all these New York and San Francisco-based companies come to tiny Marshall. One theory-- the juries are friendly to people doing the suing. Another-- medical malpractice attorneys switched careers after Texas passed malpractice tort reform. My favorite theory though-- all these patent cases are in Marshall because of the drug war. The flood of drug cases made it impossible for patent suits to get in front of a judge in big cities like Dallas or Houston. So the patent cases moved to sleepy little Marshall. We would come to Marshall to figure out which story about Intellectual Ventures was true. Are they a patent troll? Or are they out there protecting the rights of struggling inventors everywhere? So we went back to Intellectual Ventures for answers and talked to the company's vice chairman a guy named Peter Detkin. One interesting footnote about Peter Detkin-- he is actually the person who coined the phrase patent troll. This was years ago. He was one of the top lawyers at the computer chip maker Intel. They got sued by a company claiming patent infringement. And Detkin called the lawyer who filed the claim a quote patent extortionist. The lawyer turned around and sued Peter Detkin for libel. So Detkin says he held a contest at Intel to come up with a better name. And we got a lot of suggestions. But none really fit. But at the time my daughter was I think four or five. And she liked playing with those little troll dolls. The original one in fact is still in my office. And so I turned to her. And I said oh well the story of a troll kind of fits because of the whole Billy Goats Gruff thing. It is someone lying under a bridge they did not build demanding payment from anybody who passed. I said how about a patent troll? Of course the name stuck. After leaving Intel Detkin teamed up with Nathan Myhrvold to start Intellectual Ventures the company that many people call the biggest patent troll out there. Peter Detkin obviously disagrees with this characterization. So anyway we went to Peter Detkin to ask our questions. But even the most basic question about the story Intellectual Ventures had told us he could not answer. Like for example when did they buy Chris Crawford's patent? There is a document that is publicly available on the US Patent Office website. It traces a patent's ownership history. In the case of Chris Crawford's patent though the ownership history was really hard to understand. The first owner is clear. It is Chris Crawford who was granted the patent in 1998. And then it is clear that a company named Intellectual Ventures Computing Platforce Assets LLC-- no one can actually tell us what a platforce is-- bought the patent in July of 2010. But in between those two dates there are two other owners a company called Kwon Holdings and another one named Enhanced Software LLC. And what was odd-- Kwon Holdings Enhanced Software and Intellectual Ventures all have the same address. We showed this document to Peter Detkin for explanation. But this simple question-- when did you buy the patent-- completely threw him off and led the PR woman who was in the room with us to jump in and try to shut down the interview. You will hear her voice in the background. This is just the patent history of Chris's patent. And honestly we just do not understand this. So if you could explain what we are looking at here. So he invented it in 1998.  my reading glasses on. So I am struggling a little bit here. So it says-- OK so here-- So he invented this first-- I do not know that getting into the history of this patent is necessary. Well I know where you are going with this. Well-- We do not under-- What is the question? What are you trying to find out? We would like-- if you could explain. The story you are telling is that you bought this patent from this inventor Chris Crawford. And then you sold it a little bit later. But then if you actually look at the history it is a very different story. It seems very different. So I am trying to figure out-- if you could explain it to us. That is what I am trying-- I will not be able to tell you by looking at this. I mean I am not an expert in-- I do not even know what-- you are on the USPTO website? I have not looked at this particular website in a while. I do not know how it is organized. I am trying to be helpful. But the fact is I know we bought it from some entity of his. And apparently we then sold it. And again I have some vague recollection of us doing that deal. But are you telling me that you run a patent company and you were the head counsel for Intel in the patent department. You do not know what the patent office website-- you do not know how to read this? Look I mean I could look at this if you want. But I have not looked at this particular website. And I do not know how it is organized. And I am not exactly sure what it is you are trying to get at. So I am happy to answer questions. But if you are going to cross-examine me on the record about a patent website I do not think that is quite fair. So for example one question is when was it sold to Intellectual Ventures. Because it is sold a number of times. But it is sold a number of times to different companies with the same address as Intellectual Ventures. Does that mean that it was sold to Intellectual Ventures but not-- It is a little different. And we are not going to talk about this-- Yeah I have no idea. There is no way without knowing the details of this particular deal I could ever possibly answer that question. We were honestly surprised at this response. It was not like this was a secret document or something. What was the big deal about answering the seemingly simple question? Part of it certainly was that we took him a little bit by surprise. I take him at his word that they do a lot of deals. And he does not know the details of every one. But part of it is that Intellectual Ventures does a lot of its patent deals through shell companies-- hundreds of them-- shell companies owned by Intellectual Ventures but registered under different names where it is very difficult to tell that Intellectual Ventures is the actual owner. So what was their relationship with Oasis and Chris Crawford? Well we uncovered a document. It is called a Certification of Interested Parties. The court in Texas required that Oasis list all the entities who have a financial stake in the outcome of the case. This is a standard form that pretty much all parties in civil cases have to file. Oasis listed the parties that most people list-- the plaintiff the defendants the attorneys involved. But it added one other name-- Intellectual Ventures. So we went back to Intellectual Ventures one more time to talk to Peter Detkin. We picked up where we left off the last time. When did Intellectual Ventures actually buy Chris Crawford's patent? And this time he had no hesitation about explaining it. This is when we bought it-- October of 2007 from CMC Software to Kwon Holdings. And Kwon is a company that we created to purchase these assets. Then when we actually struck a deal and prepared to sell it in the name of transparency we changed it to the Intellectual Ventures Computing Platforce Assets. Please do not ask me what a platforce is. I do not know what it is. And then in August of 2010 we sold it to Oasis research. We showed Detkin that court document from the Oasis case listing Intellectual Ventures as an interested party. OK. And it does list the Intellectual Ventures Computing Platforce Assets as an interested party. I see that. And you do not know why in this instance you are listed? I believe it is because we likely have a back end arrangement here. What does a back end deal mean? We sell for some amount of money up front. And we get some percentage of the royalty stream down the road that is generated from the monetization of these assets. So just to spell this out Peter Detkin is saying it is likely that Intellectual Ventures is taking a cut of whatever money Oasis gets from its lawsuits. Oasis a company with no operations no products and as far as we can tell no employees whose only activity seems to be taking a very broad patent from 1998 and using it to sue over a dozen internet companies today. And so we asked him how does it feel making money from an entity which is behaving a lot like the patent trolls that he once condemned? These are patents we used to hold. We no longer hold. And we ensure that we have no control over the actions of these third parties. They are independent actors. They are not Intellectual Ventures. They may be monetizing in ways that we disagree with. But it is not our call. It is theirs. But you are also still getting paid. Yeah. I mean I sort of feel like yeah well but what do you expect? You must have some knowledge that it is highly likely these people are going to go and bring lawsuits especially since they are companies that only have these largely run by attorneys. Sure. No I understand. And I am not just disputing any of that. What I am trying to say and I apologize if I am not being clear is that we do believe-- we believe in our heart that litigation is a highly inefficient way to do licensing. But let us not lose sight that litigation is just licensing by other means. In other words we try to license these patents in a friendly way. But sometimes you have to sue. Peter Detkin then repeated the company line that we would heard from a lot of people at IV-- that the mission of Intellectual Ventures is to help inventors bring great ideas into the world that lots of inventors they are like great artists-- brilliant but not brilliant at business. So their patents languish. IV gets their ideas into the hands of companies who will actually build what they have invented. Coming up Chris Crawford speaks and more secrets of Oasis Research revealed. That is in a minute from WBEZ Chicago and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program When Patents Attack Part Two-- the sequel-- the squeekquel. Today we return to a story we first reported on two years ago about our patent system-- how it sometimes seems to be discouraging rather than encouraging innovation. A quick review of where we are so far-- OK there is this company called Intellectual Ventures. Its executives told our reporters that if they wanted to understand what the company was all about-- if they wanted proof that their company is not a patent troll but out there helping the little guy inventor just get fair payment then they should talk to this inv