In Janah Boccio's Health and Human Relations class they are studying puberty now and for the entire period the sixth-grade boys are a squirming moving fidgeting chatty mess. And can I say as they get deeper into the material they do not seem to see much of an upside to puberty at all anywhere. When they notice one of the books uses the word enjoyable to describe sex one boy declares-- I do not think so. That is disgusting. Why are you saying that? Because it is disgusting. And when Miss Boccio asked the boys if they are looking forward to any part of puberty-- Growing in height. Not anything else. OK. A lot of things are growing. So is there anything that you are not looking forward to? I am not looking forward to pubic hair. Why? Because it might be weird. What else are you not looking forward to? Chest hair. Sweating more like a lot more. Like getting really smelly. Chest hair? Sweating like a moose. You are going to smell more bad. You are going to sweat. Your shirt's going to get all sweaty. It is gonna get worse. Yeah because when I was younger it did not smell like this. I know you smelled better and now you smell bad. They said that shaving seems like it is going to be a drag which by the way good call kids. Several boys squealed that the illustration of pubic hair in the book looked like burnt macaroni and cheese. Near the end of class one of the kids Jack told me that part of what is so freaky is that you just do not know when puberty is going to strike you. It is scary because it is not like a set date and time. It can happen when you are eight or happen when you are 16 so you are not like 100 prepared. It is like a mysterious monster. You know it is going to get you. It is going to get you at one point. So it is like you know that there is this thing that is coming to get you. You do not know when it is going to be and you are going to be totally different on the other side of it. Yeah. On the opposite end of the country in northern California 10-year-old Paris was at a similar class a class about puberty for moms and girls. And she described the approaching monster in different terms that got across pretty much the same idea. It is a little scary almost. I guess it is a little like on the edge of a cliff like there is a really good movie coming out and you are just about to see it but people say that it can be either bad or good and you are not really sure which. Paris told the reporter that she talked to Marianne McCune that she was one of the first ones in her class to hit puberty which of course is not fun. Like most kids I think she did not like looking different from everybody else. It is like you do not want it to happen. You want your body to stay the same. You do not want your body to look gross. And so it is kind of gross being different. I really did not want to. Did you think there might be a way out? No. I did not think there was going to be a way out. I mean I was hoping that there would be some type of medicine or something that I could take and it would go away but no. It did not really work that way. A lot of kids feel this way. In these classes they ask the teachers why does this have to happen? And is there any way I can stay a kid? It is crazy to be told you cannot do anything about this. It is coming and when it happens everything will be different. How many things in our lives are like that? Well today on our show we have stories of people dealing with the inevitable trying to do their best trying to stay themselves through these things that could be so confusing and potentially soul crushing. And we are not going to mess around today with little inevitable things in life with traffic and relatives you do not like and what happens if you never brush your teeth. No no no. We are going to go with the big ones. We are going to go with two inescapable things that are absolutely certain. Act One of our show is about death. Act Two is about taxes. These are two things that are unavoidable that actually I think most of us do not know that much about. And today we turn to people who know more than us. Prepare to be surprised at what they say. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One-- Death. So we can only guess at what happens to us after we die but we do not have to guess what happens right before. Though most of us remain ignorant until we arrive at that moment ourselves Nancy Updike found a spot where she could understand all this better. If you are listening to this story over the internet or on the podcast note that we have unbeeped two words that were beeped in the radio broadcast of the show. If you prefer a beeped version of the program you can get that on our website thisamericanlife.org. Otherwise here's Nancy. Before I tell you where I went let me tell you why I wanted to go. Four years ago my mother's husband Asa was dying. She was taking care of him at home with help from a hospice and I went to be with her and him for the last 10 days of his life. He was this tall very funny man with beautiful manners who adored my mother. I felt clumsy and helpless all the time in those last days-- with Asa with my mom. I did not know what to say to someone who is dying. I did not know how to be. I am sure that is true for lots of people. I remember checking in on Asa one afternoon and asking him if he needed anything. He looked at me and said I need everything. We both laughed. That was the closest I ever got to talking with him about what was happening There were people around who did know what to do though-- the nurses. I watched them from my stupor of awkwardness. They never brought any false cheer into the room with Asa which is hard not to do with a dying person. They were direct. When Jackie the weekend day nurse left the Sunday before Asa died she said to him is it OK if I kiss your hand? And then she said God willing I will see you next week. The nurses knew how to deal with us the rest of the family too. One of the nurses Jenny got me cleaning out the fridge one morning. We did it together for an hour and a half just talking passing the time. It was not until later that I realized oh she did that for me to give me something to do. It was a strange feeling to know I was that transparent to her. For the last hour of Asa's life the people in the room were my mother one of Asa's sons Jenny and me. We held Asa's hands. Jenny was standing and she sometimes touched Asa's head gently. She told him it is all right. It is OK. Your family is OK. Everyone is all right. Asa's eyes were open. They would been that way all day. He was staring up and to the right over our heads. He did not see us. He moaned every once in a while and we spoke to him when he moaned. The four of us watched his breathing slow down and get shallower until he was taking just sips of air. When he was very close to the end Jenny brought over a glass of water and a little dropper that we would been using to moisten Asa's mouth and she told us each to take the dropper and give him some water and say our names close to his ear so that he would know who was giving him each bit of water. As a ritual it felt comforting and sad and vaguely religious and Asa's son and I were both crying. I had no idea how badly we would needed a ritual at that moment until Jenny gave us one. I had never seen the kind of expertise these nurses had. They knew death. They seemed to understand it. Whereas I even though I had just watched someone fade away and die right in front of me all I could think was what just happened? But I did not realize how much of a hold all of this had on me still until I heard a stranger talking a few months ago about how his mother is a nurse who works in a hospice facility seeing people die almost every day. And then he went on to say that after his mother had worked there for a few months she forgot the president's name. And when she mentioned that to her boss her boss said yeah that happens. That is normal here. Your brain is blocking out a lot of what you are seeing and some other stuff is getting blocked too. My first thought was my god of course. They are experts not robots. My second thought was I need to go to this place and talk to these people. This guy wants to pass me. Usually nobody ever passes me. I am on my best behavior with you in the car. So this is Pattie Burnham. She is the one who forgot the president's name. That was five years ago though. She is on top of it now. It is Barack Obama by the way. Pattie's a registered nurse and the place she works is an inpatient hospice about 30 minutes north of Boston called the Kaplan Family Hospice House. We are driving there now. Pattie's got a double shift today. I told her my whole backstory so she knows why I am here. Pattie is 5'8 blonde full of energy even though it is 600 AM. She is lived in this part of Massachusetts her whole life worked at a hospital then as a nurse at her kids' school. And then when they graduated she was looking for another job and she went to the Kaplan House. I pulled into the parking lot and thought wow this place is beautiful. And then I noticed off to the left there is sort of a back entrance a garage entrance. And there were two funeral home cars pulled up there waiting. And I just sat in the parking lot sort of staring at the house and staring at the cars and wondering what could possibly be going on in that building. Hospice can mean a building like Kaplan or home care like Asa had. They both mean the same thing. The patient is not looking to be cured. It is palliative care for people at the end of their life. The Kaplan House actually is beautiful. All the rooms have big windows. The lobby and main common area have vaulted ceilings and skylights. Nothing is covered in plastic. I overheard one family member of a patient say the thing I like about this place is there is not a phony plant in here. All the flowers are real. There is a big kitchen for any patients who can still eat. Pattie speed-walks by. I need a fruit cup for Room Four please and thank you. This is not just a place for rich people with private insurance. Lots of patients are on Medicare or Medicaid. Kaplan House is run by a nonprofit called Care Dimensions and the bulk of what they do is home care. Kaplan House has rooms for just 20 patients. And it is not full today but Pattie's busy. She rushes between rooms and then slows down as soon as she steps inside one. Does she look comfortable to you? Yeah. Pattie's talking to Crystal the daughter of a 51-year-old woman named Lori who came to Kaplan House a few hours ago. She has lung cancer. It is metastasized to her brain. Lori's delirious making sounds but not speaking much anymore. Her family's been taking care of her at home. They tell Pattie that Lori always liked to look good. She has a perfect red manicure and pedicure. Yeah you have been taking beautiful care of her. She looks beautiful. If you want to chat about anything if you have any questions about the medications or what is going on we can step outside. And you might not have any questions now but they might come up. Right. Thank you. Right? Yeah. OK. The questions do come up. Crystal comes and finds Pattie and she does something I remember doing. Crystal starts out asking about one small specific thing to try and get a handle on what is happening. She wants to know what is the tube that is on her mother's face right under her nose. She asks so quietly it is hard to hear but she says what is that thing on her nose? She smells like bleach. What is that thing on her nose? She smells like bleach. Oxygen. That is just oxygen. Yeah. This question-- basically what is that thing on my mother's face that is making her look and smell like she is not my mother-- that is just the first in a giant unsorted pile of questions about what is happening and why and what am I supposed to be doing and feeling. Crystal says some of the family and friends in the room have been saying that no one should touch Lori. Not to touch her? Yeah. You can touch her. From there she tells Pattie in one long crying sentence that people in the room have been telling her mother that it is OK to let go. And one of the times someone said it her mother all of a sudden said no. And what does that mean since she is delirious? And should I be saying it is OK for her to let go? In some ways I wish she would let go so she would not suffer anymore. But I feel weird even thinking that and my mom's gotten close to the end like this a few times before and then she is come back. And maybe that is what is happening. And some people in the room are saying you guys are drugging her so that she will die faster and I do not know about any of this. I do not know. Pattie listens to the whole thing and then jumps in. So a lot of people Crystal ask these questions. We are not drugging her to put her to sleep. I would not do this job if that was the case. Your mom I am sorry to say is dying. You know she has started her dying process. This is what-- everything you are seeing is part of the dying process. Because I know they keep saying she is going to die. And she is done this like three or four times and got through it. And I am just wondering what-- So the things I am seeing that makes me think that it is this time this is the time is her heart is beating really really fast and just sort of fluttering. Like you cannot feel a good strong pulse out here. Her legs and her hands are cold. Her feet are showing a telltale sign that we see called mottling where the feet get-- and the knees get-- sort of dappled like little purplish marks. And it just means her body is conserving all her blood to be around here. Right. I would bet my nursing license that your mother is not going to turn around from this. But if her body is meant to turn around I am not giving her anything that will not allow her to turn around. Does that make sense to you? I remember standing with my mother and one of Asa's nurses in the kitchen and having this conversation the this is it conversation. There are so many stages to a long decline-- dips and resurgences and good days. And you know you know it is all the same thing. It is all dying. But there is a huge difference between dying and the very last part of dying what Pattie and the other nurses call actively dying a process that can take hours or even days. But it is different from what comes before. And being familiar with one does not mean you will recognize the other. I talked to Pattie later and I asked her how she knows when someone is actively dying. How does she know it so well that she would say I would bet my nursing license that this is what is happening? I do not always feel that way. Yeah. It is a weird thing because when I came to work at the Kaplan House-- and I was a registered nurse and had worked as a nurse for a while-- I followed another nurse Jeanette for a month. And I was floored by the whole dying process because it was nothing that I had learned. And I saw Jeannette say to a family-- she woke them up and said he is dying. He is dying right now. And the man had been there-- the patient had been there-- for a week. And I did not know what was different. I did not know what she saw that was different. And when I asked her to explain it to me and to teach it to me she said you will know. You just need about a month here and you will now. I talked to a palliative care doctor who told me that the most important thing she got better at with experience was looking for openings that allow you to be helpful-- little windows little moments. With hospice part of that is trying to help people take in bit by bit the realness of what is happening. Some dying people no surprise are not at all OK with the fact that they are dying and they do not often get a chance to just say so. I saw a home care nurse talking to a man a former math teacher in his 60s. She was talking about antidepressants asking him whether he was depressed. He thought about it and he said well I am not jump out the window depressed more like what the fuck happened? Asa was a courtly man. I never heard him swear or even speak harshly in my life. But I could tell how frustrated he was sometimes by the sheer logistics of being a dying person the imposition of it. Sometimes just the question do you want this seemed overwhelming. Dying is a constant series of judgment calls and decisions based on options that are very far from what anyone would want and one thing the nurses are experienced at is trying to make the best of those narrow options. Joanne it is no bother first of all. And Christiana and I were going to do it together. I would love to give you a shower before you head home. Pattie's crouching next to a woman named Joanne who is going home later today. She has lung cancer and she is been getting hospice care at home. But her pain got worse so she came to the Kaplan House for a few days of round the clock supervision while the doctors adjusted her pain medications. People sometimes come in and out of Kaplan House like this. They are dying but they still have time left in their lives and the staff tries to get their symptoms under control-- pain or vomiting or whatever it is-- so they can do more with that time than just be sick. This room smells bad. It is strong. Joanne has not been able to shower in a little while. She said she has a hard time doing it at home. She is tiny in the bed barely looking up talking almost inaudibly. But her strength of will is intact. She knows the ambulance cannot pick her up and take her home until later but she wants to be home now already. And anything that is not going home is something she does not want to do even though a couple of hours ago she was glad when Pattie suggested a shower because it is much easier to do here when two people can get on either side of her and steady her. I just feel like this is such a great opportunity because it is so hard to do at home and there is two of us here. Why cannot I take a shower in my own shower? Do you do that regularly at home? Or is it hard because you need two people? Because you were telling me you do not feel that safe with the left side. Yeah but I do have a-- what do you call it? I have that-- The bar that you hold onto and stuff. Yeah. Want a back rub or-- Yeah maybe a neck rub. OK. OK. Yeah it helps with your pain. We could put some lotion. Can we wash your back? Yeah. Want to head into the bathroom and you can sort of sit on this in the bathroom? OK let us do that. Maybe you can tell where Pattie's going with this. I would seen her taking care of Joanne and others all day people clearly in the midst of some of the worst days of their lives-- afraid in pain sick of being sick. And it takes serious skills to be able to nudge somebody in that situation toward a thing that they do not think they want but are very glad when they get it. Can we take your pants down so she can get your backside? All right. Is that a comfortable position for you? Joanne you do know we are getting pretty close to a shower. Yeah. You sure you do not-- look at how-- Go ahead. Go ahead. Woohoo! Woohoo! Joanne's husband Larry had been sitting quietly in the room this whole time. He had agreed that a shower was a good idea but he did not want to push Joanne on it and then he seemed happy when she decided to do it. Once she was in both he and Joanne relaxed a bit. Joanne joked around with Pattie in the shower and Larry got up to leave and go home to get the house ready for when Joanne got back. They have been married 27 years. Do you want to give him a grocery list or anything Joanne? A little honey-do list before you get there? I love you hon. I love you too. See you soon. Is your tailbone sore? All right. We will make sure to get that. There is a note on the Medicare website about hospice saying hospice is not just for cancer. I saw people at Kaplan House with other conditions-- end-stage dementia congestive heart failure. But mostly I saw cancer. Asa had cancer. At the Kaplan House I realized I had questions about the physical part of what had happened with him. I saw other people who had that extreme cancer thinness. I learned the medical term-- cachectic. It is from Greek words that mean bad condition. In a few rooms I saw the same swabs these little green sponges on the end of a stick that we used to keep Asa's mouth clean and moist. The swabs stayed with me because I remember being grateful that they gave us a way-- a small way-- we could care for Asa even after he would stopped being able to tell us what he wanted. That was the hardest time for me at least-- to hear him groaning and not know what to do or not do. We grilled the nurses about what they thought was going on and what we should do. And at the Kaplan House I saw that a significant part of the nurses' jobs is trying to figure out what a person might need when they cannot communicate anymore. Are you having pain? Does something hurt? Pattie's back in Lori's room Crystal's mother. It is nighttime. We are into the double part of Pattie's double shift. And Lori is moving around a lot in the bed. It sounds terrible to say but I felt comforted to see it and to see others at Kaplan House do it too because I would seen it with Asa. Apparently it is common toward the end. It is called terminal agitation. Lori's family has not slept in 24 hours because Lori was up all night last night delirious moving sometimes trying to get out of bed even though she is too weak to stand and could easily break a bone if she falls. It is exhausting to deal with and hard to watch. The problem with agitation as a palliative care doctor told me is that it is not a diagnosis. It is something you see but the person can be doing it for lots of reasons each of which calls for a different approach. They could be constipated anxious in pain some combination. A dying person is like a baby that way except we know even less about a dying person's brain than we do about a baby's. Some of the guesses we make are based on what we know from coma patients but a dying brain is not a comatose brain. It is different. And in terms of what a dying person perceives someone who is non-responsive the science of it we know almost nothing. The nurses told me they assume that people can hear us right to the end but no one knows for sure. Lori's eyes are open but it is that distant stare like Asa had. She is not seeing what is in front of her. Her mouth is open and she is squirming in the bed. She was a sign language interpreter and sometimes she seems to be signing. But no one in the room knows what she is saying if anything. You want to tell us something. Pattie is right up close talking to Lori watching her face. It is something I saw the nurses do with Asa too-- get right up close and talk to him and watch his face even after he seemed to have stopped responding. Because sometimes suddenly he would respond especially to direct questions like are you in pain? Are you having pain? Lori gives a small shake of her head and says no. No. Oh good! Oh I am glad to hear that. Yeah. Do you have to pee? I am thinking of putting a catheter in to help you pee. Yeah. I think it is probably bothering her. She has not peed. And yeah I am going to do that. OK? Pattie and Christiana one of the hospice aides put in a catheter and the bag immediately starts filling up. Lori relaxes. The whole family relaxes or at least they are able to give in to their exhaustion. Lori's girlfriend Karen finds Pattie in the hall. The cancer doctor said that she might-- chances are she might fall asleep and die in her sleep. That is what I think. Because the cancer doctor knew her well too. He knew she was a toughie you know? She is a toughie. I think the catheter is really helping her to settle down. Good. OK? I think I am going to go home take a shower relax as much as I can and then-- If I see a major change I will call you. But as I said sometimes they just sneak away. Yep. I know. I am not surprised. You know my number. You feel useless. This is the sister of another patient. She came straight from work to be with him and has been here day and night for two days. I have been talking to her a lot. I know the strain of this waiting where nothing is happening and your brain keeps flitting between the giant existential thing that is going on and the tedious nuts and bolts of just getting through every hour. Every moment seems full of meaning and yet not meaningful at all. It is surreal and it is crazy-making. How are you doing? I am exhausted. Yeah. I am exhausted. I am just-- it is like what am I doing? I am just watching him. Like last night all's he does is like-- I will tell you what he does. He makes this noise. It is like  but nonstop. So I try to do it with him. You know not as loud. I cannot hold it as long as-- he kept going. I am like this kid's not even going to stop to take a breath. Me I am like . It is exhausting and he can do it. And you must really think I am nuts. There is nothing else to do is all. I do not know what I want to do. I mean it is not like you can-- I am so sorry. Oh no. Do not be sorry. You know what? I am just sitting here for like-- just sitting. You cannot do anything. I am tired of praying to God really. I am tired. But I told him I would stay with him. And I do not want to-- I mean even if he does not know I am here or not I know I am here. I never knew what anyone was going to say at the Kaplan House. Listening to family members in rooms and in the halls I got the feeling that their brains were full to the brim with what was happening and asking them any question tipped all their thoughts out in a rush. Some people told me the whole story of their family member's diagnosis and treatment up to five minutes ago. I heard one of the doctors say to an 84-year-old woman who was sitting with her dying husband you know him better than we do. Does he look comfortable to you? The woman responded by telling the entire story of their relationship starting with we met when I was 13. The staff has a name for that kind of answer. It is called life review. They say it happens a lot and I heard life reviews that were a lot darker than that one. Not every death is the end of a well-lived life. But all the stories seemed to be trying to tackle the same huge question-- how did we get here? Grief is one thing but watching somebody die is a whole other thing. Pattie again. You know not everybody can sit beside a dying person and hold their hand. And I think sometimes it is too much. Nobody wants their loved ones to be alone. I get that. But you could wait here for days and days and when you go to take that one shower is when the person might die. And sometimes people I have talked to say it is common that the person will die-- Alone. Well it is almost like they are waiting for everyone to kind of go away. Right. Right. Is that what you have found? We see that over and over and over again. When I first started working there I am like this a bit of mumbo jumbo. And it just seemed like come on. Now I am repeating the same stuff that I heard people say when I first got there because I have seen it. You mean that people die when either everyone leaves a room or their spouse or their child or whoever's been there for a long time. Yeah. They die after that person leaves the room. Yep. Or they are comatose and the loved ones keep saying he is waiting for his brother to get here on Saturday. They are coming from Florida on Saturday. And I am inside rolling my eyes thinking it is Tuesday. He is going to die on Wednesday or Thursday. He is not going to be here on Saturday for when his brother arrives from Florida. And then the brother arrives at Logan shows up at the Kaplan House at 1230 and the patient dies at 100. And they say to me I told you. He just needed Billy to come from Florida. And it is like what? Talking to people about whoever they were visiting at the Kaplan House always brought up other earlier losses. Always. One woman who was sitting with her mother told me about how her husband had died suddenly eight years earlier making her a widow at age 51. A woman whose younger sister was dying said she lost both parents before age 13. A woman visiting her brother told me about how his daughter had died years ago at only two years old. The woman said her brother was so angry about his daughter's death that he said to her his sister why could not it have been one of your effing daughters? You have got two. It was like a map-- this death related to that death over there linked to this living person here a hidden geography shaping all of our lives. After I would been at the Kaplan House for several days I ran into Larry the husband of Joanne the woman Pattie coaxed into getting a shower before going home. Larry was sitting alone in the main common area. I knew it could not be good that Joanne was back so soon. Well the doctor was in earlier. Were you there when the doctor said she thought she had like a week or so left? I was not there. Yeah. And I figured she was closing in on it because of the way I have watched her deteriorate. But when you hear somebody who is used to dealing with this for a living tell you that they think that is what is left it hits home. I am so sorry Larry. It is a bitter pill to swallow but that is life. It goes on no matter what. One of the many ways I have been a smug idiot in my life was by disparaging the use of euphemisms for death and dying. I thought it was weak. Who would do that? By the time Asa was at the end I had barely been able to utter the words death or dying for several months. I felt like the thing itself was only manageable if I did not invoke it. Pattie told me that one of her strategies for protecting herself at work is never to imagine herself in the place of the dying person or their family members. She tries not to picture her husband or her kids. I remember trying and failing at that. I think part of my clumsiness around Asa and my mother was my barely suppressed terror at the thought of my own husband dying. I pictured myself in my mother's place all the time. Every morning before going to her apartment I pulled out a piece of paper and I had to read the words on it out loud in order to make it out the door. Your husband is not dying. This is not about you. Your mother needs you. Go to her apartment now. It was my own little serenity prayer. God grant me the wisdom to know the difference between my fear and her reality. When I heard a woman at the Kaplan House say to her husband who was dying of colon cancer something like we had a really good run until the last few months did not we baby I had to turn away to go look at a lamp in the corner. But I think death makes narcissists of us all at one point or another even the pros. I was walking with a nurse named Kim. She worked in critical care for two plus decades before changing over to hospice. We had just left one woman's room and were heading down the hall when Kim said shaking her head She is 51. I am 52. Kim and everyone else said these are the cases it can be hardest to defend against-- the ones where you cannot not picture yourself when you look at them. She had another just last week. There was one woman I had my age. And she had two boys that were my age-- Your sons' ages. My sons' ages. And the boys were very attentive. They stayed with her and just lay beside her. And it was just really-- it hit me on the way home. You think oh my gosh this could be me. It was the same age as me I remember. This is Juliet one of the CNAs Certified Nursing Assistants. She is studying to be a nurse and she remembered the first time she had a patient her own age. At the time I had just turned 39. And I am like oh my god. Actually I said oh my god. That is my age. Oh my god. That is me. That is me. That is me. Sometimes they see patients their children's ages. This is Jackie another nurse. We had a nine-year-old boy that was here. And my daughter Sarah was 9 years old at the time. And I remember climbing in her bed when I went home. And I just like fell asleep in her bed. And she was so mad at me because I am like breathing on her and stealing her covers. And she was so mad. And I remember just waking up and thinking that was the funniest thing in the world that she was mad. But I needed to do that when I came home that night. I needed to know my nine-year-old's OK. Jackie also told me while I was following her around throwing out questions-- Last year I had my kidney removed because I had a big tumor in it so-- Oh my god! All I could think of was oh shit. I am going to end up at work. But if I am to be anywhe