HOST IRA GLASS From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. SUBJECT WOMAN Good morning. SUBJECT AUDIENCE Morning. SUBJECT WOMAN We want to thank everyone for coming out this morning. We are excited because it is an election time. SUBJECT AUDIENCE Yeah! HOST IRA GLASS This rally was just last month-- black elected officials from Chicago's West Side two days before the primary election there. And what the rally was about and what they were asking God to bless was kind of unusual. SUBJECT REVEREND RANDALL We pray now Master with this election time that you bring clarity and understanding and you bring victory back home to the ones that stand-- HOST IRA GLASS Here's the victory that Reverend Randall is asking God to step in and help with. He wants God to help reelect Derrick Smith to the Illinois State House for the 10th district. Smith had been arrested just five days before this for accepting a 7000 bribe. He would originally asked for 5000 and then he upped it to 7 and specified that it had to be in cash according to an FBI informant. Allegedly Smith was getting the money as payment for writing a letter of support for a daycare center to get a government grant. And this is the kind of case that when you hear the evidence it does not seem to leave a lot of room for doubt. The exchange of money was recorded by the FBI. I read the 23-page FBI account of the case. Here's how it went down. The informant counts out the money-- One two three four five-- damn stuck together-- six seven. Talk to you later. Smith says You do not want me to give you yours now? I am going to get you your two man. He had promised the informant 2000-- that is on tape also-- for bringing in the bribe. And you may ask how do certain Democratic officials view all of that evidence? SUBJECT ROBERT STEELE Derrick Smith has not been proven guilty. He is continuing to run for office. He is continuing-- HOST IRA GLASS This is Cook County Commissioner Robert Steele. SUBJECT ROBERT STEELE So let us support Derrick until any time he is taken into the court system and found with anything that happened at that time. Derrick is an innocent candidate that is running for office. We are supporting an innocent candidate who is running for office. Let us support Derrick Smith! Let us support Derrick Smith! HOST IRA GLASS This is the official line of the day from the Democrats and they came out in force-- five state reps two state senators four aldermen various commissioners the Illinois Secretary of State-- 20 of them are listed on the press release announcing this rally headlined by somebody who is generally seen as a stand-up guy well-liked long-serving-- US Congressman Danny Davis. SUBJECT DANNY DAVIS We know that our colleague is charged with criminal activity. But we also know that a charge is not a conviction. SUBJECT AUDIENCE That is right. SUBJECT DANNY DAVIS But we also know that there are circumstances that concerns us. HOST IRA GLASS And right here is where you get to the reason for the show of force by Democrats that day. The other candidate in this Democratic primary was Tom Swiss the former director of the Cook County Republican Party. He entered the Democratic Party in the primary according to an email that became public because he thought it was going to be easy to win calling the residents of the district quote low-information voters. Danny Davis said that running a Republican in a Democratic primary was just subterfuge. SUBJECT DANNY DAVIS And we want to make sure that we do not elect a wolf in sheep's clothing. SUBJECT AUDIENCE That is right that is right that is right! SUBJECT DANNY DAVIS That we do not elect a wolf in sheep's clothing. Should ultimately the judicial process determine that Representative Smith cannot serve then there would be the opportunity to make sure that a Democrat-- That is right. SUBJECT DANNY DAVIS That a Democrat-- SUBJECT AUDIENCE Right! Say that again! SUBJECT DANNY DAVIS Is elected to that position. And that is why we are here this morning to support Derrick Smith State Representative. SUBJECT AUDIENCE Yeah! Derrick! Derrick! Derrick! No defeat! No defeat! Hold the seat! No defeat! Hold the seat! No defeat! HOST IRA GLASS I bring all this up because this week on our radio show we have a bunch of stories in which people did something bad. Like you know endorsing somebody who just accepted a bribe on tape just days before. And they knew it was bad. But it was not clear just how bad. After all like Danny Davis they had their reasons. And in putting together today's show we got talking amongst ourselves about how bad actually counts as bad. Basically we were talking about levels of sin and how to rate the different levels of sin. And you know once you get into that game you really need to turn to a professional. SUBJECT FATHER AUGUSTINO TORRES I am a Franciscan priest. Like a missionary priest. Father Augustino Torres. HOST IRA GLASS Father Torres works with low-income people especially young people in Paterson New Jersey and very generously agreed to run us through the Catholic notions of serious and less serious sins or-- the old Catholic terms for it-- mortal versus venial sins. SUBJECT FATHER AUGUSTINO TORRES A venial sin-- venial comes from the Latin word venia which means basically to pardon. Pardonable. Something small. A mortal sin is something serious. The word mortal means something that kills. The three criteria for a mortal sin is it is serious I know it is serious and with all my faculties I do it anyway. It is serious I know it is serious and I do it anyway. HOST IRA GLASS Mortal sins unrepented for send you to hell when you die. Getting right with God again to avoid that could take a long time and real personal change. Venial sins are so small that they are forgiven simply if you show up for mass. So under this scheme a white lie-- obviously a venial sin. Murder or adultery mortal sins. The Ten Commandments-- often but not necessarily mortal sins. Like for example the commandment on taking the Lord's name in vain. SUBJECT FATHER AUGUSTINO TORRES So John Doe is commuting back to New Jersey. He crosses two bridges the Triborough and the George Washington Bridge is in two hours of traffic and then he gets home finally after driving home and his son runs over him with his bike on his foot and he uses the Lord's name in vain. Is that a mortal sin? It is grave matter. It is serious. But if you were to bring me that situation I would say probably not. INTERVIEWER IRA GLASS What you are saying is that context counts. SUBJECT FATHER AUGUSTINO TORRES It does it does count. But it does not necessarily change what you did. HOST IRA GLASS That is also true of intention. Your intentions count. So when Father Torres hears confession which he does for eight hours a week or more he asks people what happened what their intentions were what the circumstances were and figures out from that the seriousness of the sin. SUBJECT FATHER AUGUSTINO TORRES We sometimes claim ignorance and that is a place where people say well I did not know. Like well you did. If you had an inkling that it was wrong then you knew. And we have something called a conscience and a principle that we use-- you never go against an uncertain conscience. So like if you have a doubt if this may not be totally right well that is your conscience saying do not do it. INTERVIEWER IRA GLASS Hm. That is interesting. I have never heard that. SUBJECT FATHER AUGUSTINO TORRES That is the bread and butter right there. INTERVIEWER IRA GLASS That is how you make your living? SUBJECT FATHER AUGUSTINO TORRES No no. But that is a concept that I use often. And this conversation that we are having I have had 1000 times. HOST IRA GLASS So rule of thumb. If you find yourself wondering if something you did was right or wrong-- probably wrong. Well today on our program we have stories of three people who pretty much know what they are choosing is wrong. They do not even wonder. They know it. But they do not think it is that wrong. They make excuses. They dig themselves in deeper. In short they act like you and me and everyone who has ever lived witnessed-- 77 of Illinois' 10th district who voted Derrick Smith another term. Stay with us. HOST IRA GLASS Act One. The Postcard Always Rings Twice. So a venial sin a small sin just is not that big of a deal right? But it turns out if you keep committing the same venial sin over and over if you pile it on if you escalate if you become-- in the words of one priest who we talked to this week callous of the heart-- a venial sin can turn into a mortal sin through sheer volume. That is a not terribly serious event can become a very serious one. Which is more or less what happens in this next story from Alex Blumberg. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG Let us start things off by introducing our sinner. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH My name is Jeff Smith. I am from Saint Louis Missouri. I was an educator there. I worked in the St. Louis City schools. And then I ran for Congress. I lost narrowly. Then I served on the Missouri State Senate for three years and then I spent last year in federal prison. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG Now Jeff Smith will be the first to tell you-- the sin that landed him in federal prison was hardly the worst sin of his life. In fact among the myriad sins you will hear about in this story-- sins involving drug dealing lying to federal agents attempted murder-- that original sin the one that landed him in prison might not even deserve the title of sin at all. But I am getting ahead of myself. The story begins in 2003 and starts with of all people former Congressman Dick Gephardt from Missouri's 3rd District. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH Dick Gephardt who'd represented the 3rd District for 28 years had run for president twice unsuccessfully but was the leader of the House Democrats decided to retire. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG And Jeff Smith decided to run for his seat. Now let me just list the ways this was an utterly foolish decision. Jeff Smith was a part-time Political Science professor who'd never held any elected office-- not councilman not dog catcher nothing. His opponent in the Democratic primary on the other hand Russ Carnahan came from one of the most prominent political families in the state. As the Bushes are to Texas the Kennedys are to Massachusetts the Carnahans are to Missouri. Russ' dad Mel was the governor of Missouri. He died in a plane crash in 2000 as he was running for Senate. Russ' grandfather also served in politics a seven-term congressman from Missouri. Russ' mom Jean served briefly as a US senator from Missouri and his sister Robin was Missouri's Secretary of State. Add to this that Jeff Smith was 29 years old 5'6 120 pounds with a funny voice and a penchant for baggy hand-me-down suits. He came across less like a candidate for Congress and more like a well-spoken teenager running for class president. In fact his own family thought his candidacy was ridiculous. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH Well actually I went to dinner at my family's house and I told my parents and my brother that I planned to run for Congress. And they laughed at me. My brother was imitating Beavis and Butthead. Uh if you win would you like get Secret Service and stuff? You know stuff-- just moronic things like that. My mom said What are you running away from? Why do not you just settle down and have a normal life? This is the most absurd thing I have ever heard. My Grandma-- she was 95 at the time-- one of her bridge partners received my first solicitation letter. And her bridge partner came to the bridge game and said Hey can I write your grandson a check you know? Where do I send it? And my Grandma said If I were you I would save your money. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG Still there was a method to Jeff's madness. There were 10 candidates competing in the primary and Jeff figured as one of the most outspoken and liberal candidates in the pack he would be able to stand out generate just enough votes to eke out a win over the man everyone considered the frontrunner Russ Carnahan. Jeff had been a very popular part-time professor and a lot of his former students began to volunteer for his campaign. This volunteer force of 20-somethings grew steadily into one of the biggest and most well-organized ground games in the primary. And Jeff Smith had another valuable asset-- his best friend Steve Brown. SUBJECT STEVE BROWN I guess you would say I was Chairman of the Kitchen Cabinet so to speak. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG Steve Brown and Jeff Smith had first met during Steve's failed bid for the state legislature in 2001. Jeff had been Steve's campaign manager. During that campaign they discovered they were each other's political soulmates. They had the same principles the same beliefs the same obsessive interest in the details of political strategy. They would spend hours a night discussing the nuances of messaging how best to implement a get-out-the-vote campaign whose political fortunes were rising and whose were falling. And when Jeff told Steve he was running for Gephardt's seat Steve-- unlike Jeff's own family-- was immediately behind him. Steve was not an official member of Jeff's campaign and he had no formal role. But his unofficial role was big because Steve unlike Jeff came from a wealthy and politically connected family. SUBJECT STEVE BROWN My specific goal was attempting to help introduce him to people that would help him raise money. My family had spent a lot of time in Democratic politics in the state and doing other charitable work as well and I had access to people that could write him checks and my job was to put him in front of those people. And that is-- if I had a specific role that is what I would try to do. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG One other thing that must be said-- Jeff Smith was a very gifted campaigner. On the trail he was funny sincere great in front of a crowd whether that crowd was a bunch of liberal college kids at a coffee shop in St. Louis or a group of wealthy donors in the suburbs. And over the course of the race Jeff's campaign steadily gained momentum attracted more volunteers more money. And professional campaign consultants. One sure sign that your campaign is doing better? More and more professional political types come forward to try and sell you their services. And was an encounter with one of these types that sent Jeff down his windy improbable path to prison. Here's Jeff. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH We were approached by a man named Skip Ohlsen who sort of billed himself as a practitioner of political dark arts. He also claimed to be very close to the governor. Apparently he had spent the night in the governor's mansion had raised money for the governor and lieutenant governor. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG Skip presented himself as a seasoned media consultant who was not afraid to get his hands dirty and Jeff said no thanks. But as the campaign heated up and entered its final months it became clear it was not going to be enough for Jeff just to plant more yard signs than his opponent. He needed to attack Carnahan and Jeff had just the issue he wanted to hit him with. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH When Carnahan had served in the state legislature his attendance record was dismal. He had missed more votes and more days of work than almost any of the state legislators and had passed no meaningful legislation. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG So when Ohlsen came back to Jeff's campaign to offer his services again the campaign took him up on it. Two of Jeff's staff members met with Ohlsen and shared Carnahan's attendance data with him. Ohlsen was going to send out direct mailers to voters in the district highlighting his attendance record. The problem was Ohlsen was going to do this as an independent expenditure. For those not schooled in the intricacies of election law an independent expenditure is money that could be spent on ads mailers whatever that is not subject to campaign finance limits. The Swift Boat ads from 2004 targeting John Kerry-- those were independent expenditures. The catch is there is supposed to be no coordination between the group putting together the independent expenditure and the campaign. So for members of Jeff's staff to be coordinating with Skip Ohlsen on these mailers was illegal-- even if the coordination involved nothing more than supplying him with publicly available data on Carnahan's attendance and voting record. Now Jeff knew all this but he gave it go-ahead anyway. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH My two staff people came back to me at headquarters. They said this guy wants to do this independent expenditure. And instead of saying-- I do not want you to meet with him I said hey I do not want to know any of the details. Which was essentially giving tacit permission for them to go and give him that information. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG This was Jeff's first sin. The minute he knew that his staff were coordinating to produce an independent expenditure he was complicit in this illegal act and he knew that. But as sins go especially political sins it did not seem that bad-- the political equivalent of jaywalking. Jeff figured this is the sort of thing that happens all the time. The campaign put Ohlsen in touch with Steve Brown who found some money to pay him. And that part was legal by the way. Remember Steve Brown was not an official member of Jeff's campaign. And then everyone went back about their business. Here's Jeff Smith. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH Over the course of the whole campaign I did not think about it for more than 15 minutes probably. INTERVIEWER ALEX BLUMBERG It was just one more decision in a long string of decisions you make every day. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH Yeah you make thousands of decisions. And my focus was 600 volunteers making sure that I had 20 full-time interns who were all college kids or high school kids and I had a great field director-- I wanted to make sure they were all knocking on doors. I needed to raise the money to make sure that we could get up on black radio that we could do TV ads that we could fill out our direct mail program. I mean really I doubted that it would ever happen because I did not view Skip Ohlsen as being a credible person and I doubted that he would ever follow through with it. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG For weeks and weeks it seemed Jeff was right to doubt. But then in the final days of the campaign Skip sent out the mailers-- postcards to addresses all over the district highlighting Carnahan's attendance record. Jeff did not even know the mailers had gone out until Jeff's press secretary got ahold of one. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH He shows it to me and it was this amateurish thing. I mean it looked like a seventh grader did it at the last minute after procrastinating for three weeks on his end of the semester project. It was not well-done. And we immediately noticed that it lacked a disclaimer. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG That is that little thing at the end of all political ads-- Paid For By Citizens for Fairness or Taxpayers for Justice. So the way an independent expenditure is supposed to work-- a separate entity is formed and registered with the Federal Elections Committee the body in charge of federal election law. And the name of that entity is supposed to be present on all the political materials it sends out. Here's Steve Brown. SUBJECT STEVE BROWN And for whatever reason I certainly did not know that he was going to do it. He put on there sort of a bogus disclaimer saying Paid For by RustyCarnahan.org. OK? I do not know why he did it. If he had put the regular thing on there and they had found out that I was involved it would not have bothered me in the slightest. We did not want him to do that. He did that. INTERVIEWER ALEX BLUMBERG And what was he supposed to say? Paid for by--? What was it supposed to say? SUBJECT STEVE BROWN Voters for Truth which was just a entity that he had created to conduct business. INTERVIEWER ALEX BLUMBERG But that was the entity that has all the T's crossed and the I's dotted and all that sort of stuff. It was legal basically. SUBJECT STEVE BROWN Yes. It was a committee or it was an independent expenditure set up properly. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG Putting a disclaimer on a political mailing is a pretty basic thing. To this day it is unclear why Skip Ohlsen did not do it. But since he had not there were now 25000 disclaimerless postcards out there and the amount of damage that that one omission opened the door to was truly staggering. What happened in this case is that Russ Carnahan also noticed that the mailer lacked a disclaimer. He noticed Jeff Smith holding press conferences raising the same exact point about his attendance record as the mailer did and he probably noticed as well that when you clicked on RustyCarnahan.org you came to a page with an illustration of a barefooted person on a beach napping in a hammock. And so with roughly a week before the election he filed a formal complaint with the FEC saying essentially here's this illegal mailer. I think Jeff Smith is behind it. Investigate please. And then about a week later election night came. The race was much closer than anyone thought it would be. At several points during the night it looked like Jeff might actually win. But in the end he was edged out by Russ Carnahan. Final margin of victory less than 2000 votes. A day or two later Jeff met with Russ Carnahan in the obligatory water-under-the-bridge post-primary fence-mending session. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH I said hey congratulations you won. I am happy to help you now in the general election. I want to make sure a Democrat holds this seat. I will endorse you. I can do it publicly I can do a press release whatever you want. I will raise money for you I will knock on doors for you I will ask my volunteers to knock on doors for you. He said great. I said I do have one request. I would love it if you dropped that FEC complaint. And my support will not hinge on your decision. I will still be happy to do those things. But as a gesture of goodwill I would appreciate it if you dropped the complaint. And he looked at his brother and his brother said I am sorry but I am afraid the missile's already left the silo. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG Sometime later Jeff received a copy of the FEC complaint in the mail. He showed it to his lawyer and she prepared an affidavit for him to sign-- an affidavit claiming Jeff Smith had no knowledge of who was behind the postcard. This of course was not true but Jeff signed it anyway. Now this was a big step making a false statement on an affidavit in response to a federal investigation. That took him out of wrist slap territory and into potential prison territory. But Jeff did not really appreciate the magnitude of this much larger crime because it was still linked in his mind too that smaller original one-- that technically illegal coordination over a postcard. And plus the campaign was over. He would lost. He knew he would never do anything like this again if it left a bad taste in his mouth the first time. He was worried about implicating his staff people who'd met with Skip Ohlsen and he was already in debt from his race and worried about paying a potential fine himself. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH And so for a variety of reasons none of which I say to excuse my terrible mistake I just went ahead and signed it. I just figured-- I did an instant calculation in my head. I know there is hundreds if not thousands of these situations across the country every election cycle. There is always accusations of coordination. Most of the time they are probably right but it is probably not provable. And I assume this complaint will just fall into that huge stack that they will look into not be able to figure anything out definitively and-- you know that will be that. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG And in fact for two years basically nothing happened with the FEC case. During that time Jeff made another bid for elected office this one successful and got himself elected to the Missouri State Senate. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH And then about right after I got elected to the Missouri Senate things heated up again. And Skip called my friend Steve Brown and said they want to talk to me. And Steve called me and told me that. And he said they are going to talk to Skip but do not worry. I will take care of Skip. SUBJECT STEVE BROWN I talked to him and had a long conversation with him. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG Again Steve Brown. He says he tried to convince Ohlsen not to say anything to the FEC. SUBJECT STEVE BROWN And I hung the carrot out there of working on future campaigns with me and Jeff and making some money if he were to sort of fall on his sword and have this investigation end with him. INTERVIEWER ALEX BLUMBERG And did you think that he was going to do that? SUBJECT STEVE BROWN I was not 100 confident that he was going to do that. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG Now at this point Steve Brown was an Assistant Attorney General for the state of Missouri so he of all people knew that it was illegal to do what he was doing-- to try to get Ohlsen to lie to the FEC. But he says he was thinking about it not like a lawyer but a politician-- the same way Jeff was. That original infraction was so minor and technical-- about a postcard. And there was a lot at stake now. He and Jeff both had exceeded everyone's expectations with that campaign. Their political fortunes were on the rise. Steve was worried that an FEC violation would damage all that. And he figured who would ever find out about a private conversation like this anyway? Plus it is not like the FEC has a reputation for aggressively pursuing campaign finance violations. Many people consider it a bit of a joke as an enforcement agency. And for about a year after Ohlsen talked to the FEC nothing happened. During that time Steve Brown left his job in the Attorney General's office and also got himself elected to the state legislature on the House side so now he and Jeff were going to be serving together. Things were going great. And then in the winter of 2007 the FEC came out with its report saying they were dropping the case. Skip Ohlsen was just too unreliable a witness. Steve Brown recalls getting the news. SUBJECT STEVE BROWN Jeff called me up and said I have got a present for you. I have got to come by and show it to you. And he becomes by and gives me a copy of the final report that closes the matter and I say to him boy I think we really dodged a bullet on this one. And at that particular point in time I did think this was over. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG In fact reading the report it only reinforced the notion that the FEC was not much of an investigative body. They never even talked to Steve Brown although he did see his name mentioned. SUBJECT STEVE BROWN A footnote in the investigation said Skip Ohlsen says Steve Brown helped provide the money for this effort. Something along the lines of We doubt that this person even exists. We have been unable to locate him and doubt that he even exists. And at that particular time when the FEC wrote that my name was on the ballot in Missouri. But be that as it may they closed their investigation at that point. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG And that is the point where the matter would have died-- if not for one of the strangest and most random twists you could imagine. Late afternoon on a Wednesday in October 2008 a 69-year-old attorney found a wicker basket next to his car an Acura in the parking garage of his office. When he picked up the basket it exploded severely burning his hands and face. The police could find no motive. This man did not seem like the type of guy who would provoke an attempt on his life. Who is trying to kill him? They did not find any suspects but they did discover that there was another Acura often parked in that same garage just a floor away. And this Acura belonged to a divorce attorney-- a divorce attorney who happened to represent the estranged ex-wife of one Skip Ohlsen the practitioner of the political dark arts. Steve called Jeff with the news. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH He called me one day right after session and told me that Skip Ohlsen was being investigated for a car bombing of Skip's ex-wife's divorce attorney. And we were just like oh my god. And then Steve told me that Skip was also being investigated for illegal weapons possession and mortgage fraud and bank fraud and had also been convicted before of cocaine distribution and domestic violence domestic abuse. Just a whole litany of things. And we had thought had a hunch that Skip was a little bit shady but we of course had no idea of all of that. INTERVIEWER ALEX BLUMBERG You did not think that he was capable of murder? SUBJECT JEFF SMITH No. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG Jeff worried what if Skip tries to cut a plea deal by saying I have damaging information about two state lawmakers? So he and Steve met to talk it over. SUBJECT JEFF SMITH Well Steve comes to my house and one of my former staffers from 2004 comes over and we discuss how we are going to handle the situation. I say hey I am already out there. I signed an affidavit OK saying I did not know anything about this. So I am just going to stick to that. And Nick Adams my first staff person in 2004-- Nick said Hey this is the word of one cocaine-distributing wife-beating convicted felon against the word of a state representative and lawyer-- Steve Brown-- and political science professor and state senator. Who are they going to believe? And I agreed with that. And I said I think we should just stick to the story. So Steve he called me several times over the course of a couple months and we met in person and discussed all of this frequently. And little did I know that that entire time he was wearing a wire. INTERVIEWER ALEX BLUMBERG So when you were meeting at your house he was wearing a wire. He had you on tape saying-- SUBJECT JEFF SMITH He had me on tape saying the following. I said something to the effect of Did I know that Skip was going to do that postcard? No I did not know. But I guess you could say that I had a pretty good hunch. So I say something to that effect something pretty close to that on tape. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG So why you might be wondering was Steve Brown taping this conversation? Well it turns out that three years earlier when Steve had had that conversation with Skip Ohlsen-- the one where he tried to keep him from testifying to the FEC-- the conversation in which he would promised material rewards if Ohlsen lied to federal investigators-- during that conversation Skip Ohlsen had been wearing a wire on Steve. When the Feds went to investigate Ohlsen for his various illegal activities they found this recording along with a stack of other ones. It appeared surreptitiously recording people with whom he was conducting business was a bit of a habit of Skip Ohlsen's. Sometime after discovering these recordings FBI agents approached Steve as he was leaving his house. Steve contacted his lawyer. His lawyer found out about the recordings and came back with some very bad news for Steve. SUBJECT STEVE BROWN He said you are in very big trouble. There is going to be a felony conviction. You are going to lose your law license. You are going to lose your political career. The job now is to try to keep you out of jail. So that came down instantaneously. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG Steve says that right at that moment his attorney laid out the strategy for keeping Steve out of jail. SUBJECT STEVE BROWN And of course that includes assisting the federal government in building their case against Jeff. You know here I was. I mean-- Jeff and I over the years would talk four hours-- OK-- into the middle of the night on the phone constantly. And here I was going to have one of those conversations with Jeff knowing that the purpose was to get him to say things to incriminate himself that would ultimately get him prosecuted. INTERVIEWER ALEX BLUMBERG And what are your thoughts? I mean what were you thinking at that time? SUBJECT STEVE BROWN Uh-- it is really very hard to put into words. These were-- it was a dark dark day. I mean this is a crappy situation. And if Jeff were sitting across from me right now I would apologize to him for doing it. But it was clearly what was going to happen. I had lost my life for Jeff. OK? I lost my political career. I lost my law license. I lost reputation. And I lost all that in an attempt to help Jeff. And that was as far as I was prepared to go. To be honest-- sorry Jeff. Ah-- you are a good guy. I had hoped and planned to do great things with you. But I am not-- I am not risking I am not taking away from my two children and my wife for you or anybody else. And so thinking about them is what really got me thinking what I needed to do to keep myself out of jail. HOST ALEX BLUMBERG It turns out being a great cooperating witness and someone's closest