From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Chana Joffe-Walt sitting in for Ira Glass this week. In today's show we have got stories of people at a moment of understanding something they could not have grasped before when they were younger-- stories from childhood 10 years old all the way up through old age 79. So let us start at the beginning. I should say that the entire premise of this show the idea that there are certain things that do not make sense when you are young it is flat out offensive to the people at the beginning of our story. Have you guys ever heard the phrase you will understand this when you are older? Or this will make sense-- Oh my gosh. Yes. A bunch of times. I am sitting with a half dozen sixth graders at a table in their middle school. And a small guy with glasses and a comic book name Bernard Arthur keeps shaking his head. I am at the point where I am used to it now you know? Because they say it lots of times. And it is not only from my mom. It is from her friends from adults and from everybody. So I am just really sick of it. To be honest to be completely honest-- Be completely honest. I know-- we all know mostly everything about life. Wait so you do not believe that phrase at all? It is not like we know everything but we know mostly what adults think we do not know. Bernard just feels like that stuff you think I am not ready for? I am. Let us talk. At least three kids at the table raise a finger and politely say um I would like to add to that. They have all got examples of questions they asked recently that were met with some version of you will understand later. A brief selection why do you smoke? Why did she commit suicide? Why do I have to go to school? What does it mean to hit puberty? Who is puberty? And why would you hit her? How do you say butt hole in Spanish? It is a pretty broad range right? A girl named Samantha Boome says sometimes you do not even have to ask a question to be shut down with the you will understand later even if it is not those exact words. Like the other night she came into the kitchen. And her mom and grandpa were talking in loud voices maybe they were fighting. And I was like hey can I get the cookie jar to get some cookies? And they are like no. You cannot. You will learn when you get older. She is saying you will learn when you get older. I am like but I was just asking for a cookie. She is like I am not in the mood right now. I am talking to your grandfather. I am like oh my god. But Mom chill out. And then I had to walk out of the room. I am like sheesh. Now I cannot get a cookie. I think to kids this phrase can feel both dismissive and like we the adults are abdicating our responsibility giving up on even trying. Like Jasper Pena says when he asks what seems like a pretty simple question sometimes grown-ups say-- Probably only God knows the answer. I do not know the answer but I know that God knows it. And I get frustrated when they say that. Why? Because you are like I know that they know the answers. And something's telling me they know the answers. You cannot have a conv-- you can but you cannot like physically have a conversation with him and ask him the question. That is like-- With God? Yeah. It is better if you ask an actual person because they will actually give you an answer because they know the people instead of God. She wants an actual person. These kids want answers. Well today on our show we have answers. Or rather we have people arriving at the answers themselves with or without the help of others. People looking ahead in time for clues of what is to come and looking back at the remarkable facts that they somehow missed. We are going to travel from childhood on up stopping at all the points where people do understand finally. We have got Sasheer Zamata from Saturday Night Live. Stay with us. Act One Adolescence. When the biggest thing that does not make sense is often just the immediate future and how you are going to get through it. Here's Hillary Frank. There is this kid in my town. We will call him Ben. A few years ago Ben was starting high school and he turned 15. He asked his parents if he could throw a party. They said yes but if we see any alcohol we are shutting it down. Ben's like fine. The day of the party he takes a walk with his five closest guy friends. They are sort of his planning committee. They tell him they are going to text invites to like 30 people. Mostly they are other geeky guy friends. Also their friends tell him we are going to invite some popular girls. They were basically like you will be the man for a week if you do this. They all go back to Ben's house. And the popular girls they are actually the first to show up. And then half an hour in I make the biggest mistake of my life up to this point when one of the girls one of the popular quote unquote girls asked me what my address was. And in my mind-- in my freshman mind-- they were getting picked up. They were already getting picked up like they were telling their parents to come get them. Because that is what asking for an address meant to me at this time like completely innocent thing. Four or five more girls asked for Ben's address. Of course these kids are not calling their rides. They are texting his address to all their friends. So the party slowly starts growing. And then a bunch of older kids show up. Then Ben hears banging outside on his garage door. Suddenly there is a bunch of upperclassman everywhere. They were coming up from behind in the flanks and the front. And people were looking in the bushes and crawling to all the different windows looking in seeing who is in there. I would say about half of them are people I know. But it is the people I know that I would never want them to come. And it is kids that bullied me in middle school and elementary school. And they are calling people inside trying to get in through the back. This thing that was happening to Ben it is straight out of every memorable teen party movie. His little birthday celebration was crashed. But what was happening here is different from those movies in one key way a way that seems to be specific to my town and towns nearby. Upperclassman conspire to target freshman parties freshman like Ben. And at these parties the parents are home. The older kids though they are not deterred by parents. Parents can be yelling at them to get off their lawn and the kids will pretend to go but really they are sneaking in around back. And once they get in they tell the younger kids this is our party now. This is so common in my town that parents are calling it parasiting. They try to deal with it themselves. They try not to call the cops. They do not want their kids to be humiliated but it can get overwhelming. One mom I talked to got a call from a friend while this was going on at her house. The friend warned her they will find a way around you. You cannot stop them. It is like a military raid. It is like D-Day. It is like any sort of multifaceted attack where the base is just completely up for grabs and anything goes. And all morals are just thrown out the window completely. The party has more than doubled in size. There are now 70 kids at Ben's house. His mom's on the lawn calling out kids by name and threatening to tell their parents that they were here. His dad is getting into it with some kid who is trying to push his way inside the house. Ben looks around. He is surrounded by strangers-- older strangers. They are chugging beer. They are on their phones explaining to their friends the best method of breaking into the house. Ben's standing right next to them as they are doing this. Someone turns up the music and a corner of the basement suddenly becomes a dance floor. The toilet is full of beer cans. There is this girl who is chugging something. I do not remember. I told her can you please not do this? And she looked at me and in the most rude sarcastic voice said to me like thanks for the hospitality and turned around and just trudged back in a different direction. After about an hour kids started calling their friends telling them to not bother coming in. This party was lame. And as quickly as they came they left. I was freaking out the entire time. I am still freaking out about it just thinking about it. It was horrible. It was pretty scarring. For the rest of Ben's freshman year he was terrified of older kids. He would go to parties but he hated when they would get blown up. He hated when the older kids would take their control away. But Ben grew up. He is a senior now. And he says-- Somewhere between softball and junior year I just decided I was completely comfortable with showing up with my friends to random people's houses and treating them with the same lack of respect that I was treated with when I was in ninth grade because that is what you do. He started getting those texts saying there is a party happening at so-and-so as and house. Let us blow it up. He started getting invited more and more till eventually the text would just be an address nothing else. But he would know what it meant.   This sound comes from a video that Ben sent me that one of his friends shot at a party. All the PRETENDING TO YELL yo's and look at that-- it is all just like you are kind of in awe where you have ended up in that moment. That is that kid from my biology class. Like oh my god. Come over here. That is one of the things Ben told me he loves about crashing freshman parties. You never know who is going to show up. It is like nobody's invited so everybody's invited. Also it is super convenient. There is always a party because you do not have to wait for your friend's parents to go out of town. And Ben says it is thrilling what it takes to get into the house -- the Black Ops -- getting intel from your friends inside about which entryways are guarded and which are clear. But yes it is like a stealth mission a lot of the times seeking out which route is the most efficient form of entry. Next time maybe I will bring a notepad and sketch out my ideas or draw a blueprint of the house because that is basically what we are doing. And it feels OK to you even though that happened to you when you were a freshman? Well let me put it this way. And this is kind of not the best mentality. But if I do not show up nothing is going to change. So I am going to show up like everyone else because me not going is not going to stop anything from happening. Well in reality I never pictured myself as one of those kids. We would always be like wow those kids are such jerks. We will never be like them. But once you are older you just-- your mindset turns into I am one of the older kids. I have power over the younger kids. And that is a new form of intimidation. Ben spent two hours at my house sitting on my couch answering my questions. It all seemed to be getting a little too real for him. He was struggling to make sense of the boy he would been and the man he would become. By the end he was lying down rubbing his head. Wow I am really just-- I am really just conflicting myself everywhere. Ben started philosophizing talking about all the ways you change so quickly during those years in high school. He told me there are three phases when it comes to blowing up parties. Phase one is when you get blown up. You are an innocent naive little freshman. Phase two you are doing the blowing up. And it is deliciously sadistic. Phase three you are kind of over it. And I realized that that is just like the circle of life in high school. It is like at a certain point you reach a sort of wise old sage status because I guess we are getting more mature now. But there is a gap between your immaturity and your maturity where you are still immature but you think you are not. So you take the authority and you say I have the right to show up at this person's house because I am old. And I am 16 years old. And I am going to be applying to college soon. And I grew a mustache a few days ago. What would you say now to your freshman self? I would say do not let other people decide who is going to come to your house. Or I would say do not have a party ever. Ben's got a few months left in his senior year. He is more choosy about parties these days but he says he will still go because he is got to do this while he still can. In the fall he will start college. And he is pretty sure the parties there will be more sophisticated. And by that I mean he will not have to break and enter. He will walk through the front door like a real grown-up. Hillary Frank is host of the wonderful parenting podcast The Longest Shortest Time. It is on the Earwolf network. longestshortesttime.com. Act Two Grown. Sasheer Zamata is a comedian. She is on Saturday Night Live. She does a lot of her own stand-up. And like a lot of comics Sasheer uses the stage to rehash real things that happened to her and try to make sense of them. But recently Sasheer felt like there was more to figure out about the stuff she was saying on stage. A warning-- the thing that kicked this off for her involves a nasty word a racial slur. And there is no way for her to tell what happened without saying it a bunch of times. Sasheer's story about this starts with her on stage. I got called the n-word once in my life thankfully. And it happened in such a stereotypical way you will not believe it. I was walking down the street in Cocoa Beach Florida. Of course it happened in Florida.  And I was walking with another friend who is also a black woman. And this dirty pickup truck comes barreling down the road towards us. And it had a Confederate flag vanity plate. And this very red-faced man-- that is the politically correct way to say it.  A very red-faced man leans his face out the window. And he has these reflector sunglasses that strap to your head. And he yells at us. And he goes you all niggas need to take yo' black asses back to Africa. And keeps going. And I was like were we punked? He had all the things.   He had all the racist trappings. Like he did it on purpose. Like he went into a store and was like I need to look at as racist as I feel.  I have been telling a joke for a couple of years now. And it always gets a laugh. But when it happened it was really scary. And it must have really shook me up because I did something I rarely do when I am upset. I called my mom. And she actually found it funny.  You laughed at me. I was crying. And I called you from the car. And I was like they called me a nigger. That is never happened to me. And you were like please.  Every day of the eighth grade I was a different flavor of nigger. Nigger all day long. Nigger on the bus. Nigger in the bathroom. From kids? From the kids yeah. I was like 20 or 21. That was the first I ever heard that or like it is ever been used to me. It is at least nice that-- It took that long. --it took that long But yeah it still does not feel good. No it does not feel good. Up until that point I had not really thought about the fact that my mom got called the n-word all the time when she was younger. But my mom would often drop little tidbits of information like that. And like most kids I ignored them because she is my mom. And her life before being my mom did not really concern me. But I did notice some of her patterns when I was a kid. There are little things that I remember from my childhood. Like I remember she does not love white people. I mean I am sure she would like you guys if she met you.   You guys are fine. But it would come out in little ways. It would not be crazy overt but I remember little instances happening when I was younger. Like there was one time we were in the car. She was driving and I was in the passenger seat. And she stopped to let this old white couple to pass in front of her. And she lets out this deep sigh like ehh white people. And I was like uhh. They are not even talking to us right now. What is the issue? And she goes memories. And that is where the conversation stopped. The conversation stopped there because she never went into those memories. And I also never asked about them. I just assumed that my mom said things like that because she was old-school or close-minded. But I am getting older. And I am thinking about race more. I am talking about it more in my act. And I thought I should talk to my mom about this stuff. Why does she hate white people? Until a few months ago I knew very little about what she went through. I knew that in the '60s my mom became one of the first black students to integrate a white junior high school in Forrest City Arkansas. It was a big deal. She was part of history. And that is something I figured she would be proud of. No I did not feel like it was a good thing. We never had a choice in the matter. When she says we she means her and her siblings. It was her mom who had the choice. I did not know it was an option for families that they got to choose whether they would desegregate schools. I just thought some law was passed and everyone agreed to go for it. But my grandmother basically forced my mom and several of her siblings to join the civil rights movement as pre-teens and go to a school where they were not wanted. She had said that the reason that she wanted her kids to go to the white school was that she did not want her children to be afraid of white people. But I am thinking that is your problem. You are afraid of white people. We did not get the opportunity to develop how we thought about it. Did you ever talk to your mom about stuff she went through? Do you know what she went through as a black woman in the South growing up? She was very close-mouthed. So no she would not talk about it. Did you ever ask? Yes. And you get told it as not your business. It as not your business? It as not your business. I quote it as not your business. Seems like not talking about this particular subject is a tradition in our family. When I asked my mom why she never talked to me about this she said she did not want me to inherit her feelings about white people and she wanted me to come to my own conclusions. But the more questions I asked especially about school the more I felt like she did not want to talk about it because it is still really painful to her. So then you were just thrust into this all-white environment? Yes. What was your first day like? Do you remember? We get lots of instructions. Do not argue with them. Do not antagonize them. Hold your tongue. There was a lot of cussing at us while we were sitting on the bus. And Mama had told us sit in the front of the bus so in case something happens the bus driver is a witness. Well he was just a witness to us getting cussed out every day. He did nothing. When we get off the bus we stood outside the window of the office so if anything happened then they could witness something happening to us. The person I remember standing in the window was Coach Collier who later became the principal. So he witnessed the kids throwing rocks at us. I remember I had on a white blouse a houndstooth vest and a black skirt and had my cute little white bobby socks. And I remember looking down at my legs and how the rocks had pelted them. And one had broke blood. And some kid I guess he pulled out a banana. He threw a banana. And it landed on my houndstooth vest. And I never got that stain out. Being in junior high no matter who you are it is hard. It just sucks. People are mean. And so I started asking her questions about this. Like what was it like? And my mom said think of it like Mean Girls but they are racist. And I was like no.  Like that is the analogy where I fully understood. I was like oh my god.  That is too mean.  Did you make any friends? When I was in eighth grade we sat in alphabetical order. And so the girl in front of me her last name started with S also. So she was new to the school too. So we were both new. And so-- This was a white girl? She was a white girl. I was the only black in the class. She became my friend. And she was real smart. And I was real smart. But I guess we were too friendly. There was a class for kids that were extremely smart. But I did not think she was any smarter than I was. But they pulled her out and put her in that class. And I will always believe they did that because we were too close. You could just see their face change if another white person came into the room or down the hall. It is like they turned their head like who is watching me talk to this black person? When I learned about the civil rights movement in school I got a pretty truncated version of it. I remember learning about the Little Rock Nine. And I saw that famous picture of them entering Central High School surrounded by US soldiers. And then desegregation happened. And now we get to use the same bathrooms. That is pretty much all I got. I did not know about what those kids went through on a day-to-day basis. But my mother on the other hand did. The school she eventually went to was just a little over an hour away from Little Rock. And she was paying very close attention to what was going on there. In Little Rock the Little Rock Nine when they integrated Central High School nine black kids. And they had a lady named Daisy somebody. That is Daisy Bates the head of the Arkansas chapter of the NAACP at the time. She would walk these kids to school every day. She would listen to them. And I mean this is stuff I read in the newspaper how she was sympathetic to what they were going through. And all day long people were calling them the nigger. Or the teacher calling the nigger. Or the kids calling them niggers. In Ebony magazine we would read this how sympathetic she was to them. And they had somebody to talk to. We did not get that. To be clear the Little Rock Nine were as viciously persecuted as any black students at the time. They were spat on verbally and physically abused attacked with fire and acid. But my mom still envied them because in her mind those kids had access to the one thing that would have made her own situation more bearable. They had the ear of a caring adult. What was your relationship with your mom like? She had lots of kids. She had seven kids. She always made me feel like I was the runt of the litter. I was dark. I had really tight kinky hair. I was not high-yellow like a couple of my sisters. I did not have long hair like a couple of my sisters. So I was black. I was chunky dunky dusty. She favored the lighter kids or wanted you guys to have-- She treated them differently. What her mother was teaching her was the same thing her country was teaching her that her blackness was less valuable. If she is buying cute little dresses for all of her daughters I should not be the one that did not get the dress and have to wait till my fat sister outgrew it and then I get it. I should not be the one that when it is time to comb hair make their hair look cute. And then when she gets to me and she is tired she just throws a few plaits on my head and they are going every which a'way. I started combing my own hair when I was like sixth grade because I knew she was not go put herself out to make me look good. So I had to figure it out myself. Of all the stuff we talked about this is the part that made me the most sad. She feels the way she does about white people because white people were so terrible to her. And I get that. But there is something else going on. She is mad at her mom for putting her in that situation forcing her to go to a place where white people could treat her that way. Where I went to school where I live the job I have-- all those things are a direct result of desegregation. My life would have been totally different otherwise. And listening back to the recording of our conversation I could not believe how many times I asked her if she was proud of her contribution. Do you look at that time and think about how you have helped change things in America? Do you see it as a-- No. No. Do you feel like you affected future generations? No. It was going to happen anyway. It is just that we get tortured in the process. So you just would have rather not have been a part of it. Correct. It was all very unfortunate. Well-- I do not know. I mean I am-- it is not all very unfortunate. It is actually very fortunate like a lot has changed. I-- Yeah a lot has changed. But for that small group of people who went through this process we got caught in the crossfire. So if you could go back in time you would not even do it? No. It would be so easy for my mom to just say yes even one time. People who were not even in the civil rights movement claim that they were a part of the civil rights movement. I get that this was a hard period in her life. But I figured she could at least see how it benefited me. I went to school with all sorts of kids. And kids did give me trouble. But it was not the white kids. There was like a field day or something outside. And I was in the circle of white girls. And then I went over to the circle of black girls. And this one girl turned around boxed me out of the circle and was like why do not you go back and play with your little white friends? And I cried instantly. I went to the curb by myself just cried. And my white girlfriends came over. And they were like what is wrong? And I was like get away from me.  This is your fault. And then my black girlfriends came over. And they are like what is wrong? And I was like Star made me cry. And I explained the whole thing. And then they were like she has no right to say that. You can hang out with whoever you want. That was the first time I encountered a thing where someone was like you cannot hang out with a certain group of people even if it is your own group of people. But yeah there was always that separation but not the way my mom had experienced. My mom even asked me one day. She was like are you afraid of black people because I primarily had a lot of white friends. Which really screwed me up because my mom's black. And I was definitely afraid of her.  One time you asked me if I was scared of black people. Do you remember that? Uh-uh. I do not know when it was or why. I mean I am assuming I was in middle school or elementary school or something. But yeah you said-- you asked are you afraid of black people? And I-- What did you say? I said no. But I think-- I assumed that question came because I mostly had white friends. And I was like does she think I do not want to hang around black people? Kind of gave me a little complex.  I felt a little paranoid that I had so many white friends like it was a bad thing. Not just because of you. You were not the only person to do that. But I was not expecting someone in my household to also do what the bullies at my school were doing. It is not like I was-- did I say it more than once? No but once is really all you need to do it. I know you did not mean to hurt me or make me feel bad but that is what happened. Mhm. There is a lot of stuff that parents say that-- Yeah it is-- --they do not realize is going to affect their kids like that. Tell me about it. I get-- mm. Do you have an example? You do not have to get into it i you do not want to. No. How do you feel about me asking you these questions? I am glad you open to it because I did not get this with my mother. And I am glad you are curious about me. But my mother would not let me be curious about her. My mom and I have never had the closest relationship. She and my dad split up when I was nine. And at some point I started to focus a lot of my anger over their divorce onto her. She was always very strict with me. So we fought a lot. Eventually I went away to college and the tension eased up a bit. But that is mostly because we talked less. Now that I have gotten older and sat through my fair share of therapy I have been trying to let some of that resentment go. And I am trying to think of my mother more as a whole person.  I am a person. I know. But for a long time I did not think so.   Oh. How do you feel about our relationship? I do not know. We do not really get to spend very much time. Since you have moved to New York we do not have any deep conversations anymore. So I am not sure how I feel about it because I cannot get my hands on you. I do not remember us having too many deep conversations. Well teenagers they do not. Well they can. You know like most single parents I had a lot on my table trying to maintain a job trying to raise kids dealing with legal drama with my ex. My plate was full. And you are doing all this stuff at school. And you are getting your good grades. And you had your own thing going. Yeah I did. Mhm. But I do feel like I like I guess felt a separation or felt like I guess resentment for you having your own thing and me having my own thing. Oh that is a teenager thing. I do not know if it is. Well I remember when I was a teenager and I was most of the time mad at my mother. But you stayed mad at your mother for the rest of her life. Do you see any parallels between your relationship with your mom and our relationship? Not at all. Even though we still do not agree on most things at least we are talking. That is new. I like it. Did I ever tell you I dated a white guy? No you did not.  What? When was this? After I got out of college I was living in Little Rock. And I was dating this white guy. What'd he look like? Was he tall? No he was not. Really? He was just-- just a good Jewish boy. Jewish?  Yeah. Whoa. You dated a short Jew? Yes I did.  Wow. That-- I did not expect that at all. I just assumed-- because Papa's 6'5 so I was like I just assumed you liked tall guys. That is cool. I have a lot of short Jewish friends. She told me that they dated for three months and then she dumped him because of her mom. Her uncle saw her out one night with him. And he said you dating a white man? I am going to call your mama and tell her what you doing up here. So when we got home that night I was done with him. Wow. I was just not that into him to think that this was worthy of a conversation I wanted to have with my mother. I get that. It is never easy to figure out what conversations to have with your mother. Sasheer Zamata you can see her on television on Saturday Night Live. Coming up I use my platform as a radio show host to ask a question I have been wanting to ask for years-- from WBEZ Chicago when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Chana Joffe-Walt sitting in for Ira Glass. Our show today is about things that make more sense when you are older. We have arrived at middle age when a person begins to wonder will this make sense when I am older? Any of it? The choices I am making the work I am doing the place I live how I am spending my time and how I am not spending my time. That is one I think about a lot. There is a letter in my desk at work. It is a little over the top but it gets its point across. My four-year-old wrote it with the assistance of his babysitter. It reads Dear mommy I do not want you to go away again. Love Jacob. So am I doing this right making the right choices? And I am going to regret these choices in 20 years in my 50s? I think a sort of classic way people try to answer this question is to find someone in their 50s who is living it and ask them. I have got one right nearby same line of work. How does it feel to be on that side of the mic? Awful. Does it really? Feels fine. Ira agreed to talk to me before he got on a plane last week. So here we are. Act Three Middle Age. And we are talking about the choices Ira's made. Ira describes his 30s this way. Every moment I was either working or asleep. Like those were the two things I did and did not have a problem with it. I have noticed recently that you do do some things that are not just working. Yes that is definitely true. I remember you told me when you were hanging out with someone-- or you were going out to dinner and you said something like yeah I have started to try this new thing called friends recently. LAUGHING Yeah. It is really-- it is cool. It is amazing. Yeah it is fun. Yeah it is really fun. But that was two years ago Ira. What happened before then? I had friends who I would not see that often people I liked but we would not see each other you know? Yeah. Yeah. I mean the fact is I definitely do schedule all kinds of things now that I never would have five years ago or 10 years ago like during the week at night at 7 oclock or 8 oclock. And then I go do them. And-- Why did you start doing that? For fun. Why? My own amusement. I am normal in that way. I wanted to see people. There is people I like. I wanted to see them. Is that a thing that you wish you had done earlier? Yeah. It is? Yeah. Like I wish I would created more space for myself and I was not working all the time for