In October 2003 a guy was brought into the psychiatric emergency room at Bellevue Hospital in New York City. Dr. Joel Gold was the chief attending psychiatrist that day and saw him. He felt that his life was essentially a reality show that he is been recorded for years that everyone in his life was an actor reading from a script. And he came to New York essentially to test this hypothesis. He thought that maybe 911 was faked just to get a reaction out of him on reality TV. And if he came to New York and if the World Trade Centers were still standing he would know that that was in fact the case. If in fact they had been destroyed then he would admit that perhaps he was delusional. But once he got to New York instead of visiting the Twin Towers he walked into the United Nations and asked for asylum-- asylum from a TV show that was filming him without his consent 24 hours a day which you know is how he ended up in Bellevue. Dr. Gold did not think much of this. People show up at Bellevue with lots of weird delusions all the time. And then a few months later another guy walks in with the same idea-- that he was being filmed 247 and broadcast around the world. And the second guy like the first one mentioned a film-- the 1998 movie The Truman Show. Both of them named The Truman Show by name. They said my life is like The Truman Show. Truman is played by Jim Carrey. He is filmed all day every day on a program that is broadcast to billions of people around the globe. His wife his best friend-- everybody around him is an actor. Everybody knows this is a TV show but him until one day he starts to seek clues that make him suspicious. And just to be clear you are not saying that The Truman Show necessarily triggered this. Like people watch The Truman Show and suddenly something in their brain snaps. Yeah exactly. On the contrary I think it is just-- when people are becoming psychotic things feel a little bit unusual a bit odd. But what would explain all of this weirdness? And perhaps if you have seen the movie and that is kicking around in your head you might say yes this is it. This is what is happening to me. If your psychosis includes both paranoia and a sense that you are very very important-- what psychiatrists call grandiosity-- 30 years ago you might think that the CIA or the KGB is watching you all the time. These days you have another possible explanation-- reality TV. A few months later a third patient showed up with the same delusion and a few months after that a fourth. Dr. Gold started calling it The Truman Show Delusion. He is just written a book about it with his brother Ian called Suspicious Minds. In one case in the book a patient-- super-smart guy an academic very altruistic-- believed that he was part of an elaborate game show and the world was watching him and betting on everything that he did. And this was a really fun thing that everyone would be doing online. And the monies collected would go to charities all over the world. And then every single human being on Earth would be given some amount of money and the world would be bettered for it. One of the things that he included in his delusion you write in your book is that he has the thought that he actually was the mastermind who created this game show that he was on and that he controlled it and he knew the rules when he had originally created the show. But somehow he had forgotten that and all the rules-- which is so interesting because of course it is true. Like he did invent the game show and the only fact that he is missing is that it is not real. It is all in his own head. That is an interesting way of putting it. It is kind of fantastical. And heartbreaking. It is. Like part of him knows he made it up. Absolutely. But he cannot grasp the whole reality-- He does not remember-- like at one point he suggests that he told his best friends this is what I am going to do. You are going to run the show but you will now hypnotize me and I will forget what we are talking about now so we can do this really good deed for humanity. Some of these patients respond to treatment some do not-- same as with other delusions and psychoses. But Dr. Gold says that if they do come back to reality-- Some feel great relief if they have been persecuted. It is quite embarrassing if you think about it. Every moment of your life-- I mean when you are in the shower literally everything is filmed. So they feel quite good about it. At the same time there is a certain sadness that they are not particularly important. Do they miss being the most famous person in the world? No question there are some who feel that that is a huge loss. At the same time I think they return to the notion that they are mentally ill which in and of itself is an unfortunate and sad thing. Psychosis aside I think this illustrates so clearly there is a downside and an upside to being onstage for the whole world to see a human spectacle against your will. And today on our program we have people who became just that. They have an experience so few of us have that we all get to see from afar. They are on display for everybody and not because they chose it. What that feels like the positive parts and the negative side and the real life reality of the whole thing-- from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One I Am the Eggplant Goo Goo Goo Joob . In the TV genre that is devoted to pure human spectacle reality TV you know people fight drunkenly in hot tubs they eat live spiders for money. But none of that can hold a candle to this show-- a show that aired in Japan all the way back in 1998. It was called Susunu! Denpa Shonen. And one of its segments in particular got the attention of one of our producers Stephanie Foo. The segment is called Sweepstakes Life. It starts the way a lot of these shows do-- with a bunch of people at an audition. One guy beats out everyone else. He is 22 years old a comedian just starting out in his career. His name is Nasubi. Nasubi! Nasubi means eggplant in Japanese-- a nickname he got because he has a long face. The producers tell him they have a unique idea for a show something they have never tried before. It may or may not air but if it does he will be the star. He will be famous.  The producers blindfold him put him in a car and take him to a small apartment. Then they tell him to take his clothes off.  That wipes the grin off his face.  It was not just my personal sort of shame or sort of issues about nudity per se. My dad is a cop. And when I first announced that for my career choice it was going to be comedy he was not thrilled. And we had to go through some things to get him around to the idea. And he said the one thing that I must never do in public is strip. Oh no. So there I was. And then this guilt towards-- I was breaking the promise to my father as publicly as possible. But he strips. He grabs a pillow holds it over his groin and looks around the room. There is no chair in the room no bed-- just a coffee table and magazines tons of magazines. The producers tell him that from now on if he wants food clothes he will have to win them by entering sweepstakes in those magazines. They give him postcards to send in for prize drawings. He will be freed from the apartment after he wins 1 million yen or 10000 worth of prizes. Until then he is not allowed any outside contact with the world. He cannot call his family. He cannot talk to friends. And oh they tell him do not forget to put tapes in this little camera here every two hours and record yourself. We will come pick up the tapes once a day. Then they say all right later. Nasubi screams are you for real?   Nasubi says he would signed no contract. But he did not have anything better to do so he sat down and wrote and soon was entering 200 to 300 contests a day. And while he waited for prizes to arrive he had no food. Nasubi got frighteningly thin very quickly. You could see the sharp angles of his collarbones.  Well starvation is a good word for it. The staff got together and would give me basically a very simple little bread each day so I had bread and water essentially for the first two weeks. But then as soon as the results started to come in then that stopped and everything shifted over entirely to things that I could win through sweepstakes. After two weeks he finally won some sugary drinks. A few days after that he won a bag of rice. When the postman dropped it off it was like Christmas. Nasubi danced like a madman.   Were you trying to be a good performer and be funny when you were doing that? Or was it just really genuine joy?  Well initially of course I was there as a performer and I wanted to be a comedian. But somewhere in the middle the whole business of staying alive became my full-time occupation. So I think what you saw if you saw me dancing it was really just a human being expressing great joy. So he danced for this package of rice. But then he stopped short. He realized he did not own a pot to cook the rice in. But after a couple days of failed attempts he figured out that if he put some race in an empty drink container and left it near his single gas burner it eventually turned into a kind of porridge.  And I could eat delicious rice every day. I remember how good that felt. And then there was this slow trepidation as it started to vanish. And then it ran out. And the only food substitute that I had been able to win in a sweepstakes was dog food. After let us say six weeks of eating dog food when I was able to get more rice and it arrived I really felt a special kind of joy at being able to sort of return to humanity in a sense and taste delicious rice again every day. Back then there was a kind of sweepstakes mania in Japan. The country was in the middle of a terrible recession and some wondered whether one could subsist entirely on their winnings. And so when Sweepstakes Life debuted almost immediately after Nasubi was first shut in the room it was an instant hit. Nasubi had no idea. He did not even know he was on TV. He believed what the producers had told them that he would record some videotapes and maybe someday it would end up on the air. On television Nasubi's groin was hidden by a purple cartoon eggplant that floated around as he moved. Everything he did was accentuated with ridiculous boing-boing sound effects and puffy rainbow letters floated above his head.   But these effects popped up just as often when Nasubi was despondent. The show took every chance to poke fun at him whether he was muttering to himself dancing around or doing terrible headstands-- you know the dumb stuff you do when you think no one's watching. Except people were. For context in the US Game of Thrones usually has around 9 million viewers. Nasubi had 16 million in a country less than half the size of ours. People thought Nasubi was the funniest comedy act they would ever seen. And I have to admit as a viewer once in a while when Nasubi got something really awesome in the mail I could not help it I laughed too. Even though I knew how much he was suffering I could not help it. His unfiltered joy is contagious. Though as a foreigner watching Sweepstakes Life most of the time when the studio audience cracked up I felt sick. I thought what could possibly be funny about this?  I mean that was maybe a time when Japan was going through some things and they need to sort of do that. Roughly 50 years of prosperity has finally come to a close and people were really uncertain about their futures. I think people just tended to watch the show and say I got it bad but look at poor Nasubi. He is got it worse. Now there is a lot more awareness of the weak and of people who need extra support. And I do not think the average Japanese they would think it was funny that there was a guy naked in a room somewhere. Nasubi won hundreds of prizes but many of them were useless to him-- Spice Girls tickets for example or a TV with no cable or a bicycle. He sent away for clothes but never won anything he could wear. He was naked the entire time he was in that room for the entire show. And as the weeks went by then months Nasubi started to look less and less sane. He grew a beard. His hair was wild. And he started talking differently slower.  He would make really creepy faces into the camera. At one point he won some toys and he started talking to them. He took a stuffed seal for a walk around the apartment. An action figure became his sensei and he got life advice from it. And if right now you are sitting there thinking how in God's good name is this possible? Why was this allowed-- imprisonment solitary confinement starvation. Watching I thought this is not a reality TV show. It is a psychological experiment made public. Plus boing-boings of course.  Was there anything preventing you from backing out at that point? Like was the door locked?  No there was no lock on the door. And producers later asked me so why did not you escape? And I was naked so I would have had to go outside naked and seek help. But I do not think that that is what kept me in there. The only thing I really have to say is that I said I would do it and I do what I say. That was it? The only reason? I kept asking him but wait really why?  There is a phrase  the Japanese spirit which is just that you sort of stick through. You endure things. When you are given something whether it is easier or whether it is hard you just really do-- you are obliged to follow it through. Nasubi did finally win 10000 worth of prizes. It took him almost an entire year but at last he completed the challenge. When he reached his goal producers did not tell him anything about it. Instead they snuck into his apartment in the middle of the night put a blindfold on him took him out to a car gave him clothes. Nasubi seemed to think this was a good thing. He was laughing giggling.  But when he took the blindfold off he found out he would been taken to Korea.  When I got off on the other side in Korea I took off the mask. And they said congratulations. You have achieved your 10000. This is your reward. You get to have a trip in Korea. So I got to do a little sightseeing that day. And I thought wow that was a long thing boy what I have been through. But then at the end of the day they took me back to my room and there was the exact same room set up in the exact same way. They had recreated his little apartment complete with the magazines the stuffed seal the postcards exactly how he would left it except in Korea. And they told him great now all you have to do is start over and win your airfare back home.  This was just like somebody just had pulled the floor out from under me and I just fell. I did not know that humans could be that cruel. Did you feel like you were going insane?  If anything the opposite of insane. I lost all energy. It is like somebody had just sucked the life out of me. I did not want to talk. I did not want to breathe. I did not want to move a muscle. I had reached the end. I was just-- I was finished. I told the producer that I would not do it. I refused. And we went back and forth for quite a while actually. But in the end-- kudos to his skill as a negotiator-- I did give in and do the last section of it. Why did you do it? What did he say that actually convinced you to do it?  Well it was just I got exhausted if anything. I mean he was not leaving. I could not just sort of get up and storm out. I had made no preparations for being in Korea. And so at the end I just said yeah whatever. And so I continued. After all he was naked with no money in another country. If you watch the clip the producers just tell him he is trapped show him looking shocked and cut away. The studio audience laughs.   Nasubi continued his writing routine for four more months. And then the final episode aired. Picture it-- the producers sneak into Nasubi's room and blindfold him again dress him drive him to another location. They release him in yet another bare room. And he sighs and instinctively takes off all his clothes. Then suddenly all four of the walls around him fall down.    That is him screaming. Turns out he is onstage in a huge studio in Japan in front of an enormous audience.  Nasubi congratulations on your goal.   Nasubi looks horrified. Two television hosts cautiously approach him and talk to him like a baby telling him congratulations.    Nasubi says frightened my house fell down and there is all these people here.   It is finally over presses the host. You are finished. Nasubi should be happy but he looks thoroughly weirded out. Remember Nasubi did not even know he was being broadcast. The producers told him that it was an experiment that they did not know if he would ever make it on air. So he is blown away when they tell him about the TV show that a secret camera in his apartment once even broadcast at 24-hour live stream of his actions. They tell him his diaries were published and are best sellers. Clips from him enjoying a specific brand of ramen turned into commercial and endorsement deals. He was on the cover of magazines. Then they play a bunch of clips from the show. Nasubi blinks. He says did I do that? That was me?  And so I sat there realizing that this new sort of life was-- you know I was no longer just a nobody. The entire nation had been watching me for 15 months. And you know to be honest I thought well what the hell's-- what is my country coming to? And I was you know very happy that my journey was not for nothing. But it is still weird. Unsurprisingly Nasubi left the show with some scars. He had a lot of trouble holding a conversation for six months. And he felt sweaty and uncomfortable in clothes for a year. And his role did not help his comedy career like he would hoped. He was mostly offered roles that required him to be goofy and naked. He is a D-list celebrity now and has the dwindling bank account to match. In talking to him it felt like he is really worked hard to turn that traumatic experience into a positive story he tells himself. He even says he is thankful for the experience.  It was-- I do not want to overstate it but it was kind of meditative in a way. I had a lot of time to think about my life and a lot of time to think about a lot of stuff. That certainly is a very zen way to look at it. Well I mean it is 10-some years since I finished since I did that project. And after that everything has been much easier and much better. I mean obviously I am able to deal with things. I see things happening or I see situations around myself. And I think that is nothing like what I went through in that room. And people still remember him. That is more than one could say for most of the other Denpa Shonen characters. None of them lasted as long as Nasubi or became as famous. The show ended in 2002 after its ratings began to drop.  I came out of the whole thing in a sense with the very best of possible results. A lot of people were not so fortunate. There were terrible things that happened related to the show. One contestant on Denpa Shonen almost died of dehydration while trying to hitchhike across Africa. Some people were starved until they completed various challenges. Another man was forced to go into a gay club in Australia and offer condoms to men until he was assaulted. The video cuts out but you can hear him scream. And the mastermind behind all this the producer of the show the guy who convinced Nasubi to keep going in Korea-- his name was Toshio Tsuchiya. Back in the '90s he was considered the king of Japanese reality TV. Last year 14 years after Sweepstakes Life ended Tsuchiya called Nasubi who was not thrilled to hear from him at first.  I had some let us say mixed feelings about him a little resentment maybe. Yeah. I kept my distance for a very long time. And then actually just last year he got in touch with me. And apparently it sort of came to his attention that maybe he had put people through maybe more than they deserved. And so he invited me to dinner. And he spent the evening sort of explaining why he did what he did and apologizing. I think we-- yeah I think we pretty much came to terms and I welcome the opportunity to work with him again certainly. Wow. You would work with him again? That is really-- that is shocking. And what was his reason for putting you through what he did? He wanted something that would move people and you do not get that out of just sort of somebody playing around. He wanted to see something real. He wanted to pull miracles out of people. And he wanted to-- it was done for the purpose of getting a miracle on film. And that seemed to me like-- well I will be honest it sounds like something an evil puppet master would say. So I had to. I talked to Toshio Tsuchiya on the phone. He is a round middle-aged guy bleached platinum blond hair. He confirmed that he reached out to Nasubi and that when they met Nasubi told him very honestly how painful his experience on the show was. Tsuchiya says he listened and was moved. But he says he was not sorry-- about Nasubi about any of the segments he produced for Denpa Shonen about any of the contestants. Not in the slightest. I use the same interpreter for our interview that I use for Nasubi's. Here's Tsuchiya.  I was enthralled by their struggle. I was thrilled by their personal struggle. So I was watching them succeed. I have no regrets about anything I did on that show. Nasubi said that you apologized to him when you guys talked. Is that correct or no?  Well I put him through a lot. I am not-- if you say that you have a sports team and you have a coach who runs his players through very difficult maneuvers at the end of the day he may pat him on the back and say sorry for putting you through such a rough struggle. It was not me expressing that I should not have done the project. Tsuchiya has a lot of lofty ideas of what the show was trying to accomplish. And when he talks about them you do get the sense that it was in fact intended to be a sort of psychological experiment.  The whole project was trying to reach at some very elemental simple humanity. You see Nasubi had been sort of brought to a state where he was in such an elemental part of his existence that he danced without realizing he had ever danced. And he danced on a regular basis. The modern individual is sort of shackled by convention and expectation and all these other things that we wear from day to day. And I wanted to see them drop some of that to see this simple humanity and then to see actual gratefulness. It is weird to think about. But the fact that the matter is what Tsuchiya's saying is true. Denpa Shonen did really capture humanity in a rare way a way you do not ever really see even on the craziest of American reality TV shows. Hungry starving alone unaware that he was being watched Nasubi was totally innocent and totally animal. Of course it is cruel to bring a human being to that point and it takes a special kind of cruelty to take someone at their most vulnerable and add wacky sound effects to their suffering. A couple weeks into Nasubi's challenge before he won any solid food when he was hungriest a delivery men came to the door bearing ramen and stir fry vegetables. It is 1700 yen altogether the man said. I do not have any money Nasubi replied. Sorry my mistake the delivery man said and left. Nasubi sat there his head hung a contestant in a real-life hunger game the smell of ramen lingering in the air. Stephanie Foo is one of the producers of our program. Coming up we go to a land where highway  are sunk in a vast meadow where one man tries to document how things really are. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show human spectacle. We have stories of people who go on display in front of others-- lots and lots of others-- even though they are not so crazy about doing that. We have arrived at act two of our program. Act Two I Always Feel Like Somebody's Watching Me. We have talked a lot in today's program so far about reality TV. And of course what makes reality TV entertaining is very very simple. And that is editing. Editing-- if they just set up cameras and showed you all 24 hours in anybody's day how interesting could that possibly be? Well here is a story of somebody trying just that a story of everyday people being treated as human spectacle and being treated that way precisely because of their everyday-ness. Ariel Sabar explains. Here's how it worked. On a Tuesday morning in the spring of 1949 a seven-year-old boy named Raymond Birch was fast asleep in his bed. His mother walked into his bedroom and said Raymond time to get up for school. When the boy opened his eyes he saw a scientist with a clipboard and timer standing in the corner of his room. The scientist a stranger to the boy just stared-- did not say a word. The boy squirmed out of bed and reached for his clothes. The scientist wrote 701 AM Raymond picked up a sock. In the late 1940s and early '50s scientists followed kids in houses schoolyards and streets across the town of Oskaloosa Kansas taking pages of notes on the littlest things they did or said. 633 PM Bradley walked deliberately to where his sister sat playing with a puppy and hit her on the head twice just as hard as he could hit. The sister looked very surprised and annoyed. 1106 AM Fred skidded on the floor so that he fell with his body partially under the swing. He yelled whoops and then lay still since he saw the swing coming back over him. 1137 AM Margaret's mother asked why cannot you play with your dolls and let that go? Margaret kept on painting the pillars before neither looking at her mother nor answering her. All of this was happening under the watch of a University of Kansas psychologist named Roger Barker who was bent on taking his field in a radically new direction. Because psychology was still struggling in those days to be taken seriously as a science most of Barker's colleagues imitated other kinds of scientists doing lots of experiments in labs. But none of this made sense to Barker. Humans did not live in laboratories. They live in the real world. And that is where Barker wanted to study them-- in the wild the way a botanist looked at flowers in the field or a primatologist tracked apes through a forest. So when the University of Kansas called in 1947 and asked Barker if he wanted to chair its psychology department Barker said I will take the job but on one condition. You find me a small town. A dean at the school said he knew just the place Oskaloosa population 725. When Roger Barker first drove up into the hills of Northeastern Kansas to see Oskaloosa he must have been beside himself. The place was a Norman Rockwell painting-- not too rich not too poor sturdy families in modest houses. It was the picture of Middle America. Barker wanted to study what he called the naturally occurring behavior of free-ranging persons. And to do that he told his field workers to become part of the scenery-- visible and friendly but not obtrusive. The last thing we want to do he said is give people the Guinea pig feeling. Barker took his own advice and moved his entire family to Oskaloosa. They settled in a beat-up house near the town square joined the Presbyterian church and became active in the town's social and civic organizations. And that left Barker just as exposed as the Oskaloosans he planned to put under his microscope. You will be watching us a local mother told the researchers one day. But do not forget we will be watching you. One of the first things Barker wanted to do in Oskaloosa was to document a day in the life of an ordinary boy. Barker did not have a hypothesis about the boy or about seven-year-olds. He was not testing for anything in particular. He wanted only to show the world that following a kid for a day could produce a ton of interesting data. Scientists could later break down that data in an infinite number of ways depending on their interests and the goals of their research which was how little Raymond Birch work up that morning to find a scientist standing over him. On that Tuesday April 26 1949 eight researchers taking turns like runners in a relay race followed Raymond for 13 hours straight. The book that came out of it One Boy's Day was 435 pages long. It had an entry for nearly every minute of Raymond's day. The researchers tried to record not just Raymond's words and movements but also his perceptions motives and feelings. They noted that Raymond mumbled with a mouthful of toast at breakfast. They followed him as he walked with his mom to her job at the county clerk's office and looked on as he drew a picture of a cowboy with a long beard. They watched Raymond find a baseball bat in the grass and pick it up. Oh boy he said according to their notes. He tossed a stone in the air and swung but accidentally clipped a flagpole 824 AM. This made a wonderful hollow ringing noise. So he proceeded to hit the flagpole again. 825 AM he went around and around and around the pole hitting it with the bat as he did so until he became so busy that he fell down bat and all. Even before the book about Raymond's day was published Barker felt it was destined for greatness. It would find its way onto campuses as a staple of psychology courses he thought and into the hands of artists novelists and laymen interested in the cultural scene. We believe it will become a sort of classic and be in demand for a long time he wrote in a January 1951 letter. But One Boy's Day never took off. And by April 1959 Barker crestfallen asked Harper and Row to ship him the 70 remainders languishing in its warehouse. Part of the trouble was simply the book's premise. In its defiant first sentence Barker calls the book a scientific document. But other scientists had a hard time seeing that. The book was just a tick-tock chronology of Raymond's day. There was not any theory or analysis. And this annoyed many of the reviewers in serious academic journals. One reviewer wrote The reader is struck by the fact that he is encountering only raw data. How can one evaluate such materials without a theoretical framework? In other words what does it mean? Barker lived in Oskaloosa the rest of his life but he abandoned his day-in-the-life studies after just a few years. There were more revealing and less labor intensive ways he discovered to study human beings in their natural habitats. Today field studies of naturally occurring behavior are no more common in psychology than they were in Barker's time. The cost and logistics are just too staggering. One rare but recent Barker-like effort was conducted by UCLA's Center on the Everyday Life of Families. Researchers there embedded in the homes of 32 middle-class families in Los Angeles for a week and videotaped nearly every waking minute. But the ratio of cost and effort to interesting results remains as lopsided today as it was in Barker's time. The New York Times reported that quote After more than 9 million and untold thousands of hours of video watching the researchers found that well life in these trenches is exactly what it looks like-- a fireshower of stress multitasking and mutual nitpicking. One guy in particular who is not a big fan of these studies-- Raymond Birch the boy. I tracked him down a few years ago. His real name is Gary Morgan and he is now a retired utility worker in his early 70s living in Pennsylvania. Roger Barker autographed Gary's copy of One Boy's Day and personally inscribed calling Gary its quote real author. But Gary has yet to get past its first pages. I have to say why is this interesting he told me. There is nothing happening in this book as far as I can tell. What is it going to tell them that I was standing there chewing on my fingernails? Ariel Sabar is the author of The Outsider a biography of Roger Barker. It is available as an Amazon Kindle single.  Act Three I Am Iraq I Am an Island. These last few awful weeks in Iraq-- as The New York Times put it Jjihadists are entrenching positions in the north and west the National Army seems incapable of challenging them. Lots of fighting lots of death-- the website Iraq Body Count says that over 1700 people have died this month the highest number of deaths of any month since 2007. With all that happening the people of Iraq have become a reluctant spectacle for the rest of us around the world. There is been excellent coverage of the breaking news here on public radio and elsewhere too but we wondered how it is looking to people i