This Christmas Luke was in Iraq with a sniper unit in the Marines on a little forward operating base in Ramadi maybe 200 guys-- bunk beds dirt floors pretty basic. They would go out for two days at a time set up a covert position in a house or a building with a long range rifle monitor what was going on in the street shoot at guys who were setting up bombs in the road. The people we encountered mostly I do not think they were really well-trained. And if we are doing our job right they do not necessarily know where they are getting shot at from. So that makes it harder for them to turn around and return fire. Spending hour after hour on watch his is like the military cliche-- lots of extended boredom broken up by moments of great intensity. And then you are constantly trying to then stay sharp and pay-- you know. It might be boring. There might not be anything going on but you sort of have to stay-- try and keep focused and stay vigilant and sort of think your way into it not being boring and having your brain turned on. Men these tough guys Marine snipers will come off duty go back to their base. There was not much entertainment not the greatest internet back then. This is 2005. So they watched DVDs specifically this. Well I believe three minutes is plenty of time for some coffee. Yes coffee please! Hey we are dying. Load us up. It is not ready yet. What? Mommy. What do you mean it is not ready? It is 600 in the morning. Nothing says coffee like 600 in the morning. And what is this? That is the Gilmore Girls. Yeah the Gilmore Girls the story of single mom Lorelai Gilmore her teenage daughter Rory her mom Emily and the small town they live in fictional Stars Hollow Connecticut beloved by a generation of tween girls and their mothers-- and other people too. It is a very girly show. It is a girly show. The girl is right there in the title sure.   I mean there are a lot of scenes of like you know a mom and her daughter talking about how they are obsessed with coffee. Yeah. I mean I am of two minds on how girly it is. I mean I think that is part of what we liked about it too. Because there were zero women around where we were and also because I think my platoon my friends we sort of liked doing things that were different and weirding people out a little bit.  You know and it would sort of bother the crusty old first sergeant who was always yelling at us about things and making our lives miserable. It would sort of bother him if we were watching a girly show or if you wore a pink t-shirt to a company event things like that. But he could not yell at you like you were doing something incorrectly like he could everything else. So it was almost like a little bit of a rebellion that the sniper platoon was all holed up watching Gilmore Girls. Here's a typical scene. It is about being a mom and being a daughter. Lorelai who is the single mom on the show is being criticized by her mother about the way that she is raising her daughter Rory. Lorelai Gilmore I have watched you do a lot of stupid things in your life and I have held my tongue. Ha you have what? But I will not stand by and let you allow that girl to ruin her life. Mom back off. She spent the night out with that boy the one you let her run off to that dance with. Mom so help me god I will not get into this with you. She is doing the same thing you did. No she is not. She is going to get pregnant. No she is not. She is going to ruin everything just like you ruined everything. No she is not! No she is not! No she is not! Rory is a good kid Mom. She is not me. What kind of mother are you? So yeah Marine what do you see? Yeah I mean it is girly. And there is a lot of women talking. And I know there is the whole scale. Like two women cannot talk on screen like men will not watch the show. There has to be a man or they are talking about a man. Yeah it is girly but it is also a funny show. It is a smart show. It is a well-written show. I think first it is good. And I do not think we would have watched it if it was not good the same reason everyone else watched it. But I think it struck a particular chord with us as sort of escapism a different world from where we were. Yeah yeah. It is hard to imagine like a world further away from a war zone in Ramadi. Right. Yeah. It is a really idyllic kind of world but it is not super sappy. It still has sarcasm and weirdness that makes the idyllic part of it-- the really nice warm part of it-- it sort of makes it even more palatable and real maybe. Luke says they all learned about the Gilmore Girls from their corpsman Jess whose sister watched the show and got hooked himself after he noticed a Tom Waits reference in one episode. He is into Tom Waits. A few of the guys started watching. Other guys who complained that it was on and then they reluctantly get pulled in themselves until they had a core group-- Jess Erik John Greg seven or eight guys in all-- who watched everything. Hey where were you and your friends on the show is big controversies? Like Rory had three guys over the course of the different seasons. There was Jess. There was Logan. And there was Dean. And for people who have not seen the show it is sort of like Jess was the rebel. Logan was the rich kid. And Dean was the townie maybe a little boring. Right. Who did you guys side with? So Erik was a big Dean supporter. There was a lot of-- like sort of a running gag of Erik coming to Dean's defense and us making fun of him for it. Well Dean was married. I mean Dean was married. I think Erik would say that they were always true love and the marriage does not count. Mhm. OK. And you who were you with? I am anti-Dean and I am kind of OK with Jess and Logan. I am with you. I never had a problem with Logan. I think Logan was really-- he was so into her. Yeah he was good to her. And I think he was really-- she sort of needed-- OK we do not need to play any more of this part of the interview on the radio. You get the idea. They were real actual fans. And probably this is a good time to out myself if you have not picked this up already. I have seen all the old episodes myself though not the new recent Gilmore Girls reboot reunion shows. I have lots of opinions about the show I should say that Luke did not share. For instance there is a whole host of cartoonishly wacky B plot townspeople characters I was not into. You hate Kirk? I hated Kirk. Oh Ira. I also believe the Gilmore Girls has the worst music cues of any series in the last three decades of television. Case in point.   I think the cues that you are talking about like the la la la stuff I mean I think we sang that you know walking around. Well like SINGING La la la la la la la. But that is not what we are here to talk about. I am telling you this story because of course it is Christmas and this is a Christmas story. Back in 2005 when they were in Ramadi as Christmas approached they were far from home missing family and life there. Luke decided to go online. I was going to try and buy-- and I thought it would be a fun and funny gift to try and buy guys Gilmore Girls t-shirts or something as a Christmas present. And the Gilmore Girls website store at the time all the clothing was either like a spaghetti strap tank top or a baby doll tee.  There was not any unisex or male anything on there. And you guys were bad asses. But you were not going to go that far. Yeah well I mean it is not flattering. Yeah.   And so he wrote a letter to the creator of Gilmore Girls Amy Sherman-Palladino. Here's a bit of it. I have to tell you my guys and I absolutely love your show. I know you must hear that all the time. I even read a recent endorsement of the show in Esquire magazine. Still I would venture to say that we are even further outside the Gilmore Girls target audience. I live in a strict macho sometimes violent world that very often does not make sense. Stars Hollow the small town where the Gilmore Girls takes place-- Wait wait you explained to Amy Sherman-Palladino what Stars Hollow was in your letter?  Being reunited with the reality of this letter 10 years later has really disabused me of a lot of my illusions. Because I remembered the really good parts and I thought I must of wrote a great letter. And then reading it again I see like oh man. This was not all good. The rest of the letter actually is pretty good a really nice summary of what he and his guys like so much about the TV show. And then at the bottom there is a PS. PS he writes-- I checked the website and the shirts appear to be cut for girls. What gives? I was going to buy the guys Christmas presents. Which I have to say was handled perfectly just enough of a hint. A few weeks later sure enough packages arrive-- five big boxes. And we opened them up and they were full of these like navy blue wool jackets that had very subtle teal embroidering on the breast that said Gilmore Girls in the typeface and a really nice letter from Amy Sherman-Palladino. These were crew jackets made as gifts for the show is camera people and gaffers in men's sizes. It was a big morale boost for everybody. I remember taking them back and giving them out and sort of reading the letter. And even guys that did not watch the show were excited. Obviously the show meant a lot to my friends and I. I think I tried to tell her that she let us feel like it was ours a little bit. Are you choking up? Yeah. Yeah. I just think it was really generous of her. It really felt like Christmas morning he told me. The jackets were just what he wanted even though he did not even know that jackets like this existed. I wonder if it felt that way to Amy Sherman-Palladino also. You know? The letter Luke wrote to her like a present she did not even know she wanted did not even know she could want till it arrived. And then she was really happy about it. She is told people that she is kept Luke's letter in her desk all these years. It is been over a decade now. Well today on our program with the holidays happening we have stories of people wanting stuff daring to want stuff-- really really feeling it. But getting the thing that you want can feel so much different than what you imagined. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Our show today in two acts-- Zoe Chace coming up in the second. Stay with us. Act One Lopsided Tannenbaum. Let us begin today with this Christmas story. It is a piece fiction read by the author Maile Meloy. Everett thought it was a good tree. His four-year-old daughter agreed. His wife said it was lopsided and looked like a bush. It was a tall Douglas fir bare on one side where it had crowded out its neighbor. The branchless side could go against the living room wall. The bushy side was for decorations. Everett dragged it through the snow by the trunk and his daughter Anne Marie clung to the upper branches and rode on her stomach. Pam his wife followed with an armload of pine boughs and juniper branches. She seemed to have decided not to say anything more about the tree which was fine with Everett. The Jimmy was parked where the trail split off in the logging road and Everett opened the back to throw the tools and boughs in then rope the tree to the roof with nylon cords. Pam brushed off Anne Marie's snowsuit and buckled her in the front so she would not get carsick. The smell of pine and juniper filled the car as they drove down the mountain. Everett sang chestnut's roasting on an open fire in his best lounge singer croon. With Jack Frost nipping at your nose he reached over and nipped at Anne Marie's and she squealed. He stopped forgetting the words. Pam prompted-- Yuletide carols half singing shy about her voice. Everett picked it up again with being sung by a choir. That was when they saw the couple at the side of the road-- folks dressed up like Eskimos. Everett thought for a second that he had conjured them up with his song. The man wore a blue parka and held up a broken crosscountry ski. The woman wore red gaiters over wool trousers a man's peacoat and a fur hat. They waved. Everett slowed to a stop and roll down the window. Nice day for a ski he said. It was the man said. He was about Everett's height and age not yet pushing 40 with a day or two of bristle on his chin. I broke a ski and we are lost the woman began. We are not lost the man said. We are completely lost the woman said. She was younger than the man with high pink cheekbones in the cold. Everett felt friendly and warm from the tree and the singing. Your car must be close he said you are on the road. The car is on a different road the woman said. Well we will find it Everett said. In the rear view mirror he saw Pam's eyes widen at him from the backseat. Pam was slight and dark-haired and accused him of favoring the kind of blonde who held sorority car washes. It was a joke but it was partly true. With a bucket and sponge this hitchhiker would fit right in. Everett got out of the car and untied a nylon cord to open the back hatch. His wife had sleds and jackets in the back seat with her and he thought she would want some separation of family and hitchhikers. She would not look at him now. You will have to sit with the juniper boughs he told the couple. Better than freezing in a snowbank the blonde said climbing into the way back. Even in the wool pants she had a sweet figure of the car soaping type. We really appreciate this the man said. Everett shut them all in lashed on the skis and tied the tree down. It made no sense for Pam to be angry. This was not country where you left people in the snow. The man looked strong but not too strong. Everett could take him if he needed to. Back in the driver's seat he pulled onto the road as snow fell in clumps off the big pine the couple had stood under. His daughter turned around in her seat as well as she could with her seat belt on and announced to the new passengers We have a CB radio. A CB? the man in the parka said what is your handle? Anne Marie looked confused. Your name Everett explained on the radio. Batgirl Anne Marie told the strangers her cheeks flushing. You have got a handle? Everett asked the hitchhikers in back. I am Clyde the man said. Bonnie the woman said. Everyone was silent for a moment. That is really funny Everett finally said. Though between his shoulder blades he felt a prick of worry. You must have a CB too. No those are our names the man said. The CB crackled on. What is this Continental Divide? a man's voice asked. Everett picked up the handset still thinking about Bonnie and Clyde. You mean what is it? Yeah the voice said. So Everett explained that the snow and rain on the west side of the mountains ran to the Pacific. And the water on the east side ran to the Gulf of Mexico. I never heard of such a thing the voice said. That is what it is Everett said. He thought of something the recruiting of a witness. We just picked up some hitchhikers named Bonnie and Clyde he said. How about that? A wheezing laugh came over the radio. No kidding? the voice asked. You watch your back then. So long. Everett hung up the handset. So he said to his passengers as if he had not just acted out of fear of them whereas your stolen jalopy? We parked by Fire Creek Clyde said. Everett could tell he was not from Montana. If he would been from Montana he would have said crick. You did not get far he said. No Bonnie said. How did you break the ski? Bonnie and Clyde both fell silent. Everett drove. The windows were iced from everyone's breathing and he turned up the defroster. The fans seemed very loud. He took the road Fire Creek. This is it he said stopping the Jimmy. There was a place at the trail had to park cars but there were no cars just snow and trees and the creek running under the ice. Everett did not look back at his life. He scanned the empty turn out and hoped this was not one of those times you looked back on and wished he had done one thing different though it seem perfectly natural to do what you did at the time. Where is the car? Bonnie asked. This is where we parked Clyde said. They were genuinely surprised and Everett almost laughed with relief. There was no con no ambush. He untied the rope and the couple climbed out and walked to where their car had been. Bonnie's arm brushed against Everett's when she passed but he did not think she meant it. She was thinking about the missing car. He got in the Jimmy to let them discuss it. Pam reached into the way back to pull the saw and the axe from under the boughs Clyde and Bonnie had been sitting on and she tucked the tools under her feet. What are we doing with these people in our car? she asked. Cannot leave people in the snow he said. We have a child Everett. And he said with the confidence he had just now recovered we are showing her that you do not leave people in the snow. Right Anne Marie? Right Anne Marie said but she watched them both. Pam gave Everett a dark unforgiving stare. Outside in the snow Bonnie and Clyde's voices rose a notch. You said we could leave the keys in it Bonnie said. You said this was Montana and that is what people do. That is what they do Clyde said. Then who stole our car? Snow off the trees drifted around them and the two stood staring at each other for a minute. Then Bonnie started to laugh. She had a throaty movie star laugh that rose into a series of uncontrolled giggles. Her husband shook his head at her in exasperation. Everett felt the opposite. He liked her even more-- a woman who could laugh at her own stolen car and who looked like that when she did it. She was still laughing when they started back to the car. You ask for a ride she told her husband her voice not lowered enough. Ever looked to Pam in the backseat. Pam frowned then nodded. He got out of the Jimmy and this time Bonnie did brush his arm on purpose. He was sure of it. When she and Clyde were bundled in the way back again with the tree tied down Everett called in the theft of the car on the CB. Do you think we should wait for the cops Clyde asked. I am not waiting in the cold anymore Bonnie said. Jesus who steels a car at Christmas? Clyde said People do all kinds of things at Christmas. No one had any response to that. The road was empty and the sky was clear. Barbed-wire fences ran evenly beside the road. And the wooden posts ticked past as they drove. In the snowy fields beyond yellow winter grass showed through in patches. Everett peered up at the tip of the tree which seemed stable roped to the roof. After a while Bonnie asked What do you do with the boughs? Make wreaths Pam said. I hope we are not crushing them. No. The two women settled back into a silence just hostile enough that Everett could feel it. The white-capped mountains in the east beyond the low yellow hills were lit up by the late sun through the clouds and he was about to point them out to Anne Marie. I broke the ski Bonnie said out of the blue. I was cold she said so we tried to take a shortcut through some fallen trees with snow on them. Clyde took his skis off but the snow was deep. And I tried to go over the logs. And the ski snapped right in half. The sunlight had faded on the mountains and Everett watched the road. He came up here to find himself Bonnie said from Arizona where we live. And he met this woman. She reminds me of you actually. Pam glanced at Bonnie in surprise. You are totally his type Bonnie said. Bonnie Clyde said. There is a long pause and Everett wondered what his wife was thinking if she was at all stirred by that. Anyway Bonnie went on this woman she skis and dives into glacial lakes and canoes through rapids. And what does not she do? And he writes me and says that the air is so high and clear up here that he understands everything. And he has met his soulmate. Bonnie shut up Clyde said. But we are married Bonnie said. And we have a child so I have this crazy feeling that I am supposed to be his soulmate. So I leave our son with my parents and come up here too. And we go to a party where people get naked in a hot tub and roll around in the snow. And I meet the woman his perfect woman. And the first thing she does is proposition me. Everett glanced at his daughter to see what she understood. He could not tell. She was looking straight out the windshield. He looked back at the road. So I told Clyde about it Bonnie said thinking he would defend my honor. And he said it was a good idea. He thought we might just move into his soulmate's cabin and get along. She seemed to think about this for a second about the right way to sum it up. So we tried to go for a mind-clearing ski she said finally and the karma gods stole our car. She started to laugh again the throaty start and then the giggle. No one answered her. The only sound was her trying to stop laughing. Everett pulled quickly to the center of the road to miss a strip of black rubber truck tire. The CB crackled on. Continental Divide? a voice asked. Everett answered that he was there. You have been shot full of bullet holes? the man asked. Nope Everett said. That you reporting a stolen car? Have you seen it? Yeah the voice said I just seen Baby Face Nelson driving it down the road. Ha. No I as not seen it. I will keep an eye out. Everett thanked him and replaced the receiver. Why did he say Baby Face? Anne Marie asked. There was a Bonnie and Clyde Everett told her not these ones who were bank robbers. And Baby Face Nelson was a bank robber. But he did not like to be called Baby Face. In the back Bonnie said My first mistake was marrying someone named Clyde. I do not recall you being real reluctant Clyde said. Do you have to talk about this here? Pam burst out and Everett was surprised. It was not like her to burst out especially in front of strangers. We have to talk about it some time Bonnie said. We were supposed to be talking up here. Then we got lost and I broke the ski. And Clyde goes crazy. I did not go crazy. You did Bonnie said. Pam glared out the window with her arms crossed over her chest. Everett looked at the road. They were nearing the outskirts of town the first houses. A few had decorations out-- Santas and snowmen. Windows were already lit with red and green outlines in the dim afternoon. Should I take you to the police station? Everett asked. That would be great Clyde said. I am sorry Bonnie said. This has been a hard time. There was a long silence. What is the little girl's name? Bonnie asked. His daughter turned in her seat belt. Anne Marie. Do you have ornaments for the tree? Bonnie asked her. Yes Anne Marie said. What kind? Angels and two mice sleeping in a nutshell she said and some fish. Those sound nice Bonnie said. We have never had a tree. Clyde thinks you should not cut down trees to put in your house. Bonnie Clyde said. Anne Marie said Our tree was crowding up another tree so we made the other tree have room. Would that meet your standards Clyde? Bonnie asked. Clyde said nothing. Anne Marie looked out the windshield again trained in the prevention of carsickness. They could help decorate our tree she said. I think they want to find their car Everett said. Anne Marie turned back in her seat. Do you want to help with our tree? Honey they are busy Pam said. I would love that more than anything in the world Bonnie said. No her husband said. Baby please Bonnie said. We have never had a tree. Leave these people alone Clyde said. Everett stopped at the police station. He untied the rope and opened the back of the Jimmy for his passengers. Clyde did not get out right away. He said in a low voice to Pam Look I am really sorry about this. Thank you for the ride. Then he climbed out past Everett and walked with what seemed like dignity into the station. Bonnie sat on the boughs with her legs straight out and gave Everett a forlorn look. In her fur hat she looked like a Russian doll. Pam had leaned forward and was talking quietly to Anne Marie in the front seat. Why do not you go make your report Everett told Bonnie. See what they can do. I will go home and unload and then come back and get you both. Two things happened at once as in a movie-- one close up and one in deep focus. Bonnie broke into a brilliant tear-sparkled smile and Pam's leaning form stiffened and she half turned her head. Then she looked away and occupied herself more fiercely with Anne Marie. Bonnie clambered out of the back and kissed the side of Everett's mouth her wool-bundled breasts pressing against him for a long second. Thank you she said. Embarrassed Everett stepped back and unlashed the skis and poles from the roof. He gave them to Bonnie and she stood with the spiky bundle in her arms as Everett pulled away. Pam said nothing as they drove. Their daughter must have felt the tension in the air. Everett whistled chestnuts roasting on an open fire for lack of anything more sensible to do. At the house he park the Jimmy and started untied the tree. Pam pulled the boughs out of the back dumped them on the front deck and took Anne Marie inside. Everett carried the tree around to the sliding glass door and tugged on the handle. The door did not open. He thought it might be frozen. He tugged again. They never locked the doors. He went around the corner of the deck and pulled on the other sliding glass door the one to the kitchen. It was locked too. He rapped on the glass and Pam came to it. The door's locked he said pointing to the handle. Say you are not going back for them. The tree was heavy on his shoulder and he stood it up on the deck holding the slender trunk through the branches. He studied it. It was a fine tree. He turned back to his wife. It is Christmas he said. I do not want them here she said through the glass. Say you will not go. Did you lock all the doors? Say it she said. He sighed. The temperature dropped and it was cold. I will not go back for them he said. I will leave them stranded and unhappy without a tree at Christmas time. Are you happy? They are crazy she said. Of course they are. Now let me in. She unlocked the door. He carried the tree through the kitchen set it up in the corner of the living room and turned it until the bare side faced the wall. Pam was right. It looked like a lopsided bush. Anne Marie clapped her hands in approval. He showed her how to fill the reservoir in the stand with water. Then he crumpled the newspaper in the fireplace built the hut of kindling and set it alight. Pam called the police station to renege on the hospitality asking them to deliver the message to the people whose car was stolen. Everett strung lights on the tree and lifted Anne Marie to put the angel on top. There was not really a single top to the tree but he helped her pick one. Pam moved around the kitchen making dinner. Anne Marie gamely kept up an almost professional patter like a hostess who knows her party has gone wrong and her guests are miserable. Everett sat in a big chair between the fireplace and the kitchen feeling the soreness from chopping and hauling set in. He was not 25 anymore. Leaving a pot of soup on the stove Pam made a juniper swag for the mantelpiece her slimness in jeans set off by the firelight. She nestled three white candles among the branches evenly spaced and lit them. Everett watch her thinking about the fact that she was Clyde's type and wondering why he still wanted to go get the outlaws and put himself in the way of temptation. Pam turned from the mantel. There was sometimes a funny ironic smile that came over her face when she caught him looking at her a grownup smile at once confident and self-deprecating. But now she looked defiant and young. Pam put a hand on her hip. Look if you want to go get them just go. They will have gone by now he said with a catch in his voice. Pam threw the burnt matches into the fire. In the kitchen she put the matchbook in the kitchen drawer then she dialed the phone watching Everett as if waiting for him to stop her. I called earlier about the couple with the stolen car she said in her business-like phone voice. Are they still there? She waited looking out the dark glass door she had locked against him. Hi Bonnie she said into the phone. It is Pam from the car. We picked you up. Hi. Her laugh sounded social but Everett could hear the nervousness in it. No I do not think I introduced myself. Do you still want to help with the tree? Everett could run down and get you. She paused listening. Put Clyde on she said and she turned away from Everett. He watched the curve of his wife's ass as she leaned on the kitchen counter lifting her right foot and nervously tapping the toe on the floor. Clyde she said please come up for dinner. Anne Marie would love to show off the tree. Really we would love it. Good he will be right down. She hung up the phone and turned to Everett. Merry Christmas she said. He was not sure how to behave. Anne Marie was still decorating the lower branches of the tree. So Pam said. She stirred the pot on the stove with a wooden spoon Do you want to go get them? Everett pushed himself out of the chair. Want to come along Anne Marie? he asked. His daughter looked up at him. Are you going to get those people? Yes he said to help with the tree. Anne Marie nodded untangling the loop of string on a tiny ukulele. I will stay here she said. He kissed his wife goodbye on the top of her head. Was she attracted to Clyde? He wanted to take off her clothes right now and see. He was conscious of his own breathing and he could tell she was unsteady. It is Christmastime he said. I will be right back. He went out into the cold air. The Jimmy started up easily and he had it in low gear down the hill toward town. He wanted to decide as he drove what they were doing. He wanted to separate his impulse to be a good Samaritan from the kiss on the corner of his mouth. Bonnie did not he was fairly sure just want to hang angels on a tree. Clyde's asking her to move in with his mistress had put her in a giddy reckless mood and Everett was the beneficiary. He was not going to think about Clyde's low sincere apology to Pam or about Pam turning away on the phone to ask Clyde to come to the house. Although he found he wanted very much to think about that. He thought instead about Anne Marie and how the evening might work out for her. The lesson about not abandoning people was a good one. The silent submerged unhappiness of the evening could not be good for a kid. And now it was gone dissolved by Pam's call into the buzz of unsettled excitement. The streets were dark and empty the houses warm with light. He wanted to keep thinking but he was at the station before he would sorted things out. And Bonnie was waiting on the curb. She climbed into the front seat and kicked the snow off her boots. Hi she said and she clutched her hands in her lap. She shuddered once from nervousness or cold. Clyde'ill be here in a second she said he is signing something about the car. OK he said. She looked at Everett and seemed about to say something and then she was in his arms. He gathered her up as well as he could given her thick coat and the awkward position and kissed her sweet face. Her cheeks were cold but her lips were warm and she was trembling. The peacoat was unbuttoned and he reached inside to feel the curve of her breast through her sweater. A second later they pulled apart and Bonnie smoothed her hair. The lighted glass door of the police station opened and Clyde walked with his long stride toward them and got in the backseat. Everett thought there must be a smell in the car from the kiss an electricity. But the husband said nothing and Everett drove the outlaws back to his house. They talked about the stolen car and the cold and the tree. All the while Everett felt both the threat of disorder and the steady thrumming promise of having everything he wanted all at once. Maile Meloy. This story appears in her book Both Ways is the Only Way I Want It.   Coming up why some Republican leaders in North Carolina are feeling weird about Santa Claus this year. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Our program today Just What I Wanted. We have arrived at Act Two of our program Act Two. He is making a list checking it nice. Gonna find out who voted twice. So this fall what certain Republicans thought they would discover under the tree was proof of voter fraud. This of course is one of the big divisive issues that separate the Right and the Left in our country. Democrats in the mainstream media point out that there is no evidence of significant voter fraud happening in our elections. Republicans say that it easily could be happening given the way our elections are run and we do not have the tools to track it. And this year the place where the search has been the most intense for v