OK this just in. Sometimes things are not what they seem. Big news I know. Here's an interesting example of it. When Damien Cave moved to Mexico and started reporting there for The New York Times a few months in he noticed that when he would get onto an airplane and flip through the in-flight magazine there would be these ads for tourists-- you know those glossy beautiful pictures of mountains and river rafting and nature and come visit kinds of ads-- for places that he knew were centers of drug violence and gang violence. I mean it basically became the standard operating procedure for state after state. As the violence moved the ads popped up in new places. And at some point it occurred to him maybe these ads could be a useful reporting tool. You know Mexico is a place that there is just no transparency. And the government never gave us reliable statistics on deaths and murders. And over time I started to just realize OK if there is a state or a location that is spending a lot of money in a magazine to tell me how beautiful it is it must be pretty messed up. And so I remember getting on a flight and there was a spread for Vera Cruz which was a state that was a beach state. It seemed fine at least as far as we knew at that time. Mm hm. Then I started to sort of dig in a little deeper. And it turns out it was about to explode with all these killings of local journalists with this whole sort of drug war episode that turned it into this complete just hotbed of violence. And the ad actually sent you reporting on Vera Cruz? It did and Michoacan too. Like Michoacan is this state that produces most of the limes we get in the United States all kinds of avocados. It is this agricultural beautiful place. And the ad that I saw was emphasizing that. It was green. It was lush. It was this place that you know it looked gorgeous. It looked like the best parts of California that you would want to go visit. And I knew that it was a state that was a little bit troubled. But that ad sort of said to me OK it must be even more troubled than you think. And sure enough when I got there this was a state that became this meth capital and this hotbed of vigilantism. But when I saw the ads that is when I knew OK now it is time to go. That is like the least effective propaganda imaginable. You are getting exactly the opposite message from the ads than the thing they are trying to get across. True. I mean it became a joke among some of us-- other reporters in the office too-- of well this is clearly a place where we should start looking. Damien never investigated why state after state would take out these ads. But he suspects they were not really even targeted at tourists these expensive photo spreads. He assumes the ads were made by government officials who were trying to reassure business people and local people -- OK everything is fine. We got it under control. Nothing to see here. The ads were for them. And a little bit for their own government. I think it is a way for the politicians to signal to their bosses hey look I am working on this. I am making sure that people are saying what they should be saying about my state. And it will not hurt you Mr. President or it will not hurt you head of the party because we are doing this for all of us together. Damien has spent a lot of time also in Cuba. And he says in Cuba like in Mexico there are subtle meanings contained inside government messages but only if you understand the nuances. In some ways propaganda is like poetry. You need to know how to read it. And some people read it and see it only on one level. And then lots of other people see it and read it at a secondary level that is deeper and that may speak to the exact opposite of what it says on that first reading. The Cubans will read Granma the main state organ for all kinds of little things that they will see in there that I will not see. And so the slightest mention of President Obama and the degree to which the negativity is calibrated they can see oh this is a sign that the government is warming up to the United States. Even if it is negative by the degree of negativity they know how to interpret that. It is complicated. It may seem really simple. But I think that people inside these countries are the best interpreters of their own propaganda. And the great irony it seems to me is the government in an effort to tell its people what they think they need to hear they often underestimate the people's ability to deconstruct it and understand it. Propaganda is like poetry. It is complexity in the form of simplicity if you know how to read it. And today on our program we have three stories that illustrate that principle-- one from China one from South America and one from right here in our own United States of America. Two of these stories are about propaganda that was so ingenious and worked so well it is kind of incredible actually. It is This American Life from WBEZ Chicago. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us comrades. Act One Guerrilla Marketing. Well the nation of Colombia has been at war for more than 50 years. And if you have followed this even a little bit you know that the main rebel group fighting the government is called the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia. The Spanish acronym for that is FARC spelled F-A-R-C. The FARC are a leftist guerrilla contingent sometimes funding their operations through ransoms from kidnappings or through drug running. Though it should be said that there have been rightist paramilitary forces aligned with the government who have been involved in similar activities. One byproduct of the war-- and I say this. I do not want to sound glib or insensitive. But really the war has yielded a brand of propaganda that is so ambitious and ornate-- well you will hear. Producer Sean Cole explains. And this particular propaganda campaign began about 10 years ago when an advertising executive in Colombia named Jose Miguel Sokoloff was offered what had to be the most demanding account of his career. The client was the government of Colombia. The assignment convince as many FARC guerrilla fighters as possible to demobilize to quit the FARC. In short please help us end this war. A word about Jose-- he is deeply principled and earnest. And if you Google image him you will see a lot of v-neck sweaters. His ad agency-- Lowe SSP3 it is called-- has been around since the mid '90s. His clients are not usually the defense ministries of South American countries. We just finished a beautiful project for Lifebuoy which is an antibacterial soap in India. They have done ads for dog food bug repellent. But at the same time he says the fundamental mission whether he is selling that stuff or trying to demobilize guerrillas is still the same. I think about change about how to change a behavior how to change a perception. That is the business we are in. We are in the business of changing minds. A word about the FARC guerrillas-- they are a heavily-armed fighting force of at this moment more than 7000 rebel soldiers. They wear fatigues live mainly in jungle encampments. They are what you think of when you think organized revolutionary militia. I should say Jose and his company had done a little bit of political work before this. And Jose himself almost takes the conflict personally. It is been going on as long as he is been alive. He always says he has not lived one day of peace in his country. Still getting guerrillas to demobilize is not exactly selling beer to soccer fans. They are either true believers in the cause or more frequently captives themselves. If you try to escape the FARC and they catch you they will kill you which is why the government has set up a reentry program to support and protect former guerrillas-- and of course to get information out of them. Jose and company figured their first step was to gather some intell themselves. And so they interviewed a bunch of guerrillas who had just demobilized to find out what makes someone quit the FARC. We heard a story of a man who left the guerrilla because he was ordered to kill a couple that had been accused of something. And he thought they were innocent. And they were very very young. And he remembered hearing the girl saying kill me first so that I do not have to see my boyfriend die. It is important to note the government forces have been just as brutal. A lot of women get out of the guerrilla because they want to have a family. And in the guerrilla you are not allowed to have a family. So you have to abort any pregnancy. And that is a forced thing. So we heard stories of women who had been through the procedure two or three times. And they said that is it. Oh my god. Yeah these are not beautiful stories. I could go on. And your reaction would be oh my god oh my god oh my god. And after gathering all of those stories they picked three of them and made each one into a 30-second TV ad. Apparently a lot of guerrilla camps are outfitted with satellite dishes so they can watch the football matches. The ads were professional and polished just like the work the company's always done.  He is is saying One day I was ordered to execute a couple that was unjustly accused of treason. It was hard. They were just children. She asked to die first to not see her boyfriend dead. But we made a mistake. We did not actually use the guerrillas' voices. We used actors. And they immediately saw through that. And they said this is not real. This is not how we speak. They are not dumb. Right. It is somebody else telling this stupid story. Right. So when we heard that we went back to the archives of all the stories we had recorded. And we asked permission of the guerrillas who had told us these stories to use their voices and put them on the air slightly modified. And then that started being much more effective.  She says They were going to force me to get an abortion but I did not let them. So they punished me by making me clear paths with a machete for six months.  They made about 100 of these radio ads in the first year just former guerrillas talking to current guerrillas about why they should quit. The ads were mainly targeting the foot soldiers the foundation of the FARC. And Jose says it is safe to estimate 2000 of those lower ranking guerrillas have demobilized since his company started with the radio spots. But it was not enough he says in part because the FARC leaders were telling their soldiers that the government was forcing the ex-guerrillas to say those things in the ads. The reason these people are sending you these messages is because they have a gun to their head. And if they do not send these messages they are going to get killed. So do not believe these messages. These messages are worthless. So they are working a kind of anti-propaganda on the guerrillas on that side. As they should. As they should. Because I think it is their obligation to do so. And this is one of the interesting things about Jose as a propagandist. He is clear-eyed about the fact that this is a war and that both sides are supposed to try and win it. He does have his own personal beliefs. He told me he thinks leftist experiments in Latin America have not worked. But he says all he wants is for Colombia to be the kind of country where people on the left and people on the right just argue all the time without killing each other. And then in 2010 Jose's team learned something that would totally radicalize the way they did this work. One of his young colleagues noticed it first. Looking at the data demobilization numbers always went up around Christmas. They peaked actually. Guerrillas wanted to be home for Christmas. In war terminology December was a window of vulnerability for the FARC. Now Jose and his team could have whipped up a Christmas campaign and put it on TV or on the radio. But they did not do that. We decided to try something completely lateral and different. This recording is from a TED Talk Jose gave last year. Christmas lights. So Christmas lights. And you are saying what the hell is this guy going to talk about? OK I am going to talk about gigantic trees that we put in nine strategic pathways in the jungle covered with Christmas lights. These trees were lit up at night. And they had a sign beside them. A sign that only lit up when the guerrillas happened to walk by and trigger a motion sensor. It said-- If Christmas can come to the jungle you can come home. Demobilize. It is Christmas. Everything is possible. By gigantic trees Jose means maybe 75 feet high all wrapped in whitish blue lights from top to bottom. It was really impressive. They called it Operation Christmas which might make it sound like Linus and Lucy and Charlie Brown marching into the jungles of Colombia to decorate a spruce. And it kind of was like that except replace Linus and Lucy and Charlie Brown with the army of Colombia descending in Black Hawk helicopters. But as spectacular as the trees were they were just meant to be a tease. Jose says it was just a little taste of Christmas. But that is it. There is no friends. There is no party. There is no aguardiente which is a drink that we have here. Mm hm. There is nothing. There is no fun. You are just walking by and hoping that the army does not see you and does not shoot you. And that was incredibly powerful. That effort alone demobilized 331 guerrillas. Really? Which at the time was roughly 5 of the whole guerrilla army. And that was not even necessarily the result of seeing the trees Jose says. Sometimes the guerrillas just heard about them and decided to demobilize. His company sent us a few quotes they would transcribed from guerrillas who demobilized during Operation Christmas. We knew all of the strategies the government had done one of them said. But we never expected something like this. Another said that surprisingly his commander was not even angry about the Christmas trees. Quote It was different to the other propaganda we had seen. He was touched. So Jose and his crew knew they were on to something. And after winning that first Christmas they were able to perfect and hone the formula even more sharply because now they had these newly demobilized guerrillas to talk to. Eventually when we talked to the guerrillas that had left at the time they said the trees are all good. They were amazing. We love them. Thank you very much. And they were very effective but the thing is that we are not walking as much as you think. We move in the rivers. The rivers are the highways of the jungle in Colombia. And Jose's company could have done what you do on a highway and put up billboards. But why do that when you can do something far more insane? The 2011 Christmas demobilization campaign was called Operation Rivers of Light. Jose and company went to towns and villages and gathered little toys and trinkets notes. They mostly had people write notes to the guerrilla fighters. And they put all of those things into plastic glowing purple balls a little bit bigger than a softball. They floated almost 7000 of those balls onto the rivers of Colombia and all of which lit up at night like a terrestrial galaxy. The tops of the balls were transparent so the FARC soldiers would see what was inside of them when they pulled them out the water. And the Christmas after that they decided they were not just going to bring lights to the jungle. They were going to use lights to try to lead guerrillas out of the jungle. They shone huge spotlights up into the sky the way they did in Manhattan after 911 to symbolize the missing towers. Except in this case the message was Guerrilla this Christmas follow the light that will guide you to your family and your freedom. They called it Operation Bethlehem. God there is a huge amount of staging and production involved in all of this. Yes there is. There is because I frankly believe that everything you do needs to be beautiful. The only element that cannot lack is beauty making sure you like what you are seeing. You cannot do ugly stuff. When you see all these lights floating down the river slowly floating down towards you you cannot escape the thought of this is a beautiful thing. Regardless of what it is how beautiful is it? Because had it been a thing that is not beautiful I probably would not have looked at it. I would have said this is trash floating down the river. But if it is a beautiful thing that is coming down it is coming down in numbers then I am drawn to it. I am interested. But along with beauty Jose says one of the other key ingredients is surprise and has to be something they have never done before. So after three Christmases in a row he and his fellow guerrilla marketers all looked at each other and said-- Enough of the lights. We are not going to keep throwing lights at the jungle. Let us think of something different. And it came across because the circumstances changed. That is in 2012 the two sides began peace talks in Cuba. There had been peace negotiations between the revolutionaries and the government before. But this time they seemed more promising. So to Jose's thinking the concerns of the FARC were different now. It was not so much is this a winnable war anymore or is this life worth living. It was more this war's probably going to end anyway. We are all going to end up disbanding. And will they take me in again back home? Will my family still accept me? And that is when they dropped probably their biggest emotional bomb to date a campaign they called simply Mothers' Voices. They found 37 mothers of guerrilla fighters who were willing to give them pictures of those fighters as children. And it was important that they gave us pictures of the kids when they were small because in order to protect them we needed to make sure that only the person in the picture would be able to recognize himself. And the message was Before you were a guerrilla you were my child. That is what it said on the poster. That is what it said on the poster. Before you were a guerrilla you were my child. Come back this Christmas. I am waiting for you. They printed up thousands of these posters and hung them in towns that the guerrillas moved through and nailed them to trees as well. The mothers campaign was really moving-- simple no lights attached-- proving you do not have to do something huge and carnivalistic to win someone over to change their behavior. I mean the goal of propaganda is usually to appeal to emotions. But this was on another level. It was so personal-- in a couple of cases so specific to the person receiving the message. There is this one story Jose always tells as he goes around talking about this work and it is my favorite one. It does not have to do with the Christmas trees or the floating balls or the mothers campaign. And it takes place way back when all they were doing were the radio ads. There was a guerrilla guy whose combat name was Giovanni Andres. And a few years into his service they recruited a girl into the guerrilla. Into his unit. I have been meaning to say-- women make up 30 of the FARC forces. And they fight right alongside the men dressed in fatigues brandishing rifles. Anyway this boy and this girl-- They fell in love. And they had this beautiful relationship. And they spent most of their time when they were alone talking about what their life would be like and what their family would be like and the kind of things young lovers talk about. Except for they are in the jungle and they are-- Carrying guns. And they are patrolling. And they are going into combat right. I remember him telling me that they always tried to go out when there was fighting when there was a combat that they always tried to go out together so that they could protect each other. They could watch each other's back. But love is forbidden in the lower ranks of the guerrilla. So the couple was separated. One of them was sent to a camp far away. And so now without her boyfriend life in the FARC completely lost its hold on the girl. So she escaped demobilized to the military reentry program where she was interviewed by Jose's company. And she said I got out of the guerrilla because I had found the love of my life. And the love of my life could not be with me. And if I am not going to be able to have the family and the love I want I am going to get out. And so I did. And the thing is that by chance her boyfriend heard her voice. And he said oh my god. She got out. And I am still here. What am I doing here? So he got out. And his obsession was trying to find her which eventually he did. He did. A reporter for the British paper The Independent wrote that he met the guy Giovanni Andres in 2010 and confirmed the story. I asked Jose if there was any way we could talk to him or his girlfriend. But so many years after leaving the reentry program which is kind of like a witness protection program former guerrillas get harder and harder to find. They fade back into society which is what is supposed to happen. Anyway it is very possible that they are still together making good on all those plans they hatched in the jungle. Just beautiful. It is very poetic if you think about it. It is beautiful. It is really moving. I have also just never heard of propaganda playing such an integral role in a love story like that. Yeah well war is a human endeavor. And it is fought by human beings. And when humanity is removed from the equation by one side or the other I think the reinsertion of the human aspect gives you an edge. Jose says this work has been unusual in a lot of ways. The client of course is an anomaly. And the audience he is trying to appeal to is unlike any he is had before. And normally in advertising he says you want the same clients to come back year after year and do more business with you. And this is the only advertising campaign I have ever worked on where if I am successful I will never need to do advertising like this again. I want my client to disappear. To disappear. Yeah. This year Jose's already getting a small taste of what that would be like. As part of the peace negotiations the FARC has asked the government not to launch any big demobilizing campaigns this Christmas. For the first time in years Jose and his team have Christmas off. Sean Cole is one of the producers of our program. Act Two Not Our Town. Well we just heard how jarring an experience it can be to happen upon a piece of propaganda-- a full blown all out no holds barred piece propaganda-- when you are not expecting anything like that at all. That happened to a writer named Jon Mooallem recently in a very different setting than a South American jungle. This past spring we went to see the end of the year musical for my daughter's after school program at a public school in San Francisco. It was an original work. And she had a tiny part her first play. I do not know what I expected. But it was not this. Act one scene one opened on a sinister tech executive meeting with a corrupt mayor and San Francisco's board of supervisors. He is pitching them a new branding campaign for the city. It is meant to distract citizens from San Francisco's widening socioeconomic inequality and simmering strife. My daughter was finishing kindergarten. She was six. One elected official played by a fifth grader explains that everyone knows the city is struggling. A wave of tech money is driving up real estate prices and pushing people out. She describes it as a kind of civic identity crisis. A town that was once known as bastion of freedom inclusion individuality is now known as a sterile playground for the rich. People are frustrated. They do not want to live in this sterile playground for the rich. That is why the city's called in this branding guy a tech marketing guru named Ron Scraper a master of his craft who could sell water to an ocean one kid says. Scraper cannot fix the city's gentrification problem. But he has cooked up a creative way to reframe it. Sure he says pitching his idea to the city government. No one can afford San Francisco's rental market anymore or the 100 Uber rides. But-- and here's his new slogan-- San Francisco where you can afford to dream. The question is can we afford this ad campaign? What is the damage?  I am sure we can afford it right Ron? That is the mayor a chuckling feathery kid in an oversized suit. He loves the idea and suggests paying Ron Scraper's consulting fee by redirecting funds from city public schools and affordable housing. Suddenly music starts. Lines of dancing third graders flood the stage. They are holding iPads made out of cardboard and glitter. And they sing about looking down on the less fortunate people from expensive homes they just bought in a formerly working class neighborhood.  I bought a sleek condo for about 5 mil right on top of Potrero Hill.  At one point the band slows down. And this angelically round faced child steps into a spotlight for his solo. You can see his face straining to find his note.  We need a ray of light to clear the foggy sky. This place was perfect with sunny weather. They are taking our city from behind our back.  They are taking the souls of the wild and free. They are taking over but they cannot take me. Me! Me! Me! Me! It is a San Francisco dream! So there they were these blameless children up there performing a kind of kiddie grotesque of the same exasperated conversation that all us parents were constantly having behind their backs the conversation that more and more seemed to hang over every conversation in San Francisco then inevitably spiraled into panicked Zillow searches for homes in Oakland or Petaluma or Portland. The after school program that staged the play is a nonprofit called CASA Children's After School Arts. It was staffed in part by young artsy people many of whom only worked there part time and seemed to be scraping by in the city tossed around by the same turbulence. I would gotten to know a few of them during the year. They were cool kind-hearted people. And my daughter loved them. But now it felt like they were indoctrinating my little girl. I was kind of angry at them even if I was basically sympathetic to their cause. The cost of living in San Francisco had become the greatest source of anxiety for my family in the last couple of years. We constantly wrestled with whether it was worth trying to live here anymore. But my instinct had been to shield my kids from all that stress and instability not conscript them. I mean the only school play I could remember being in as a kid was called Care Bears Class Show. I played a green one. The play went on. There was a scene about Google buses a song about FOMO and a time travel sequence with the ghosts of San Francisco past present and future through the gold rush and the Summer of Love. My daughter's kindergarten class twirled with flowers in their hair. And there was an impressive cameo by a miniature Allen Ginsberg. I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by madness dragging themselves to the streets at dawn angel-headed hipsters boning for the ancient heavenly connection the starry dynamo and the machinery of night. Here's the plot though-- spoiler alert I guess. Ron Scraper's real client turns out to be a shadowy tech corporation plotting to build something called the Dock. Ostensibly the Dock is a big cool cafe with what the kids on stage keep calling top notch organic hand-picked single-sourced locally-roasted individually-dripped coffee. But actually it is a trap. In a later scene the executives meet to discuss their real plot in private. When San Franciscans come to the Dock and plug in their laptops or phones the company will install malware on their devices and steal their personal data. Soon this beautiful city will belong to Scraper advertising and ICU Technologies.   See that is the name of their privacy-breaching data-scraping tech company ICU Technologies. As the plot unspools of course the company has to evict someone. And it is a close-knit group of multicultural tenants from an old Victorian at 1906 Babylon Lane. The tenants line up in front of their stoop like a row of glum Rockettes and seeing the eviction blues.  They are taking the floor from under our feet. Yes they are taking the floor from right here under our feet. We want to keep fighting but we are already beat. It was here during this number that I suddenly realized why my daughter had turned to me out of nowhere on the way home from school a couple of weeks earlier and asked whether our landlords planned to evict us. It surprised me she even knew that word.  The broken heart. I have got to move. I do not know what I am gonna do. Eviction blues. The eviction song killed. Everything killed which was strange given something I have not mentioned til now. Maybe half the parents in the auditorium actually worked in tech. And now they were watching their own children spear them as cartoon villains literally cackling and throwing money over flutes of champagne as they plotted the eviction of all those nice people. No one in the audience booed of course or huffed or stamped out. We were watching our kids perform. But I cannot imagine what it must have been like to keep smiling along as you suddenly realized that for weeks after school your own son or daughter had been rehearsing songs that mocked both you and the job you were off busy working which is why you would been forced to entrust your kids to the after school program in the first place. I later heard that one father in the tech industry had gotten wind of the play's plot and actually written to the director expressing concern. This led to a long explanatory email to all us parents with the subject line Is the CASA musical anti-tech? The short answer is no the director wrote. The characters are fictional exaggerations and no one group can be blamed for San Francisco's struggles. That said she insisted we do not attempt to answer questions with our art but rather to ask questions.  Eviction blues.  After the Eviction Blues the curtain fell on act one-- intermission. And we all filtered into the courtyard for paella and juice boxes. A neighbor of mine who works in tech walked over. And I noticed he felt compelled to lead with a good humored joke about how he hoped I did not mind chatting with the enemy. I took it as his way subconsciously at least to show he was brushing it off. There were no hard feelings. We were not the caricatures we would been watching on stage. The real truth was in this interaction him and me. And he was right. His family was wonderful. We would spent Halloween at their place. And one night when I sliced my finger open cooking I would run over. And his wife an ER doctor cleaned me up and assured me I would not need stitches while I bled all over their kitchen sink. All that familiarity colored our conversation at intermission. And yet I would be lying if I said that in that moment I was not also conscious of something else that my growing family could not afford to rent a bigger apartment in our neighborhood that our days were numbered. And that he meanwhile had recently bid up their house across the street to 25 over asking. I hated that I was thinking about that but I was. And I hated to think that he might be thinking about it too. But at the same time-- and I am definitely not proud of this-- I also hated that maybe he was not thinking about it that he had the luxury not to that as we stood there laughing off the play together his laughter might have been unencumbered casual laughter and not uncomfortable laughter not even slightly uncomfortable. I was embarrassed to recognize all those high pitched voices in the play stammering their shakily memorized platitudes. They were the voices in my head. It is all the techies' fault. Everything was just fine before they moved in. Hey does anyone have a phone with power? I really need to get online.  The techies are not the enemies. We are also dependent on the technological advances that they have brought. Yeah some of my best friends are techies. The real enemies are selfishness and greed. What is wrong with selfishness and greed? We all have to look out for ourselves right? That was last May. We do not live in San Francisco anymore. We moved a couple of months later. We still loved living in the city. But life there had started to feel impossible for us in the long term for reasons which were apparently close enough to what was unfolding on that stage that at some point in act two my wife started to cry. We were lucky to have options. We went somewhere small semi-rural and far away a place where we could afford to buy a pretty cool house and work a little less and where the children's theater program in town is satisfied doing Mary Poppins. Sometimes up here I think about that class pl