Well now it almost feels like a distant memory. But there was a moment this past fall when Hurricane Sandy hit the East Coast during the hottest year on record with a drought that covered two-thirds of the country and wildfires and floods. Lots of people seemed to be saying all right global warming. This is it right? Not far away at the polar ice caps but right here at home. It is finally shown up. Simply put when you look at Hurricane Sandy do you see climate change man-made climate change-- On TV guys like Chris Matthews were asking the question while over at CBS This Morning a scientist named Michio Kaku was saying sure he once doubted that global warming was real. But then you look at the indicators the fact that all the glaciers are receding. We have 100-year storms that are now the quote new norm. We could be seeing a new way of life. And of course it is been amazing to see since then public opinion went through a massive turn. Broad comprehensive legislation was passed to deal with climate change. Oh right. That did not happen. Because the conversation about climate change is stuck. It is stuck. It is stuck in the same utterly tiresome place that it has been stuck for years. There are the people who believe that global warming is happening and there are the people who do not believe that going back and forth with the same retread arguments over and over. According to a recent Gallup poll just over half the country thinks that climate change is real and is man-made-- which despite the crazy weather last year is more or less exactly where it is been for most of the last decade give or take a couple percentage points. And today on our program after a year that seemed like a dramatic preview of what climate scientists are predicting for all of our futures we ask why in the world is the conversation so stuck? That is going to be the first half of our show. And then in the second half of the show we have found some places where it feels like battle lines are in fact shifting a little bit. We have found completely fascinating efforts by people who are consciously trying to lift us out of the mire and muck that we have been caught in to end the standoff to reinvent the exhausting stupid climate change debate. In short we have tried to assemble an hour on climate change that is not stuff that we have all heard before. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Please stay with us. Act One The CO2 in CO. You know if you are looking for a place where people have been seeing extreme weather in their own backyards lately Colorado is about as good as you are going to get. And we begin our program today with the story of a guy who is supposed to explain the climate there to the people who are most affected by the weather. That guy is the state climatologist Nolan Doesken and the story is about what a difficult job he had last year for reasons that reporter Julia Kumari Drapkin will explain. Before I get to Nolan a word about just how weird the weather was here last year. I moved to the state in April and at first the stuff I was hearing about was kind of subtle. One woman started noticing squirrel roadkill near her house for example. Three roadkill squirrels. And I cannot say that I have ever remember seeing a squirrel on our-- The short winter meant squirrels were reproducing in greater numbers spreading out to places they had never been before. Flowers bloomed weeks earlier than normal way before farmers' markets even opened for the season. So people who sell flowers for a living had no place to sell. That is because spring came early throwing the entire agricultural growing season and pollination all out of whack. March usually Colorado's snowiest month had brought the lowest recorded snowfall in history. And in Colorado snow equals water supply. By the end of May things were starting to feel dire.  That is rancher Marla Bear Bishop freaking out when she sees her stunted hayfield. I know what I-- I know what looks right to me. It is not right. Nothing about this is right. Her hayfield-- it is alfalfa-- is water-starved. The plants should be six inches taller than they are right now. If they do not grow she is got no feed for her animals. Her neighbor Pat Polson had 80 head of cattle but only enough hay for 20. Meanwhile bears were killing off livestock like crazy because they did not have enough to eat in the woods. Because there were not enough acorns. Because the oak leaves froze. Because they came out too early. Colorado Climate Center. Hi is this Nolan? It is with a carrot in his mouth. Oh that is OK. So at the end of May I called the guy this story's about the state climatologist Noland Doesken to talk to him about all the weirdness. I got him at lunchtime. I asked him what are you telling people? Are you telling them the extreme weather they are seeing is climate change? And he said no. Nolan believes in climate change but he said there is no way to tell if any particular hot spell or drought happened because of it. And for almost every bizarre weather scenario happening now he can find a year just like it. Take 1910. Warm spring barely snowed in March. So about the time you think wow this is unprecedented. We have never had anything like this-- lo and behold we have had something sort of like it and it was fully 100 years ago. So what it does point out is that our climate is variable. Variability wins. Variability. That is the word climate scientists use when they mean it can get hotter it can get colder-- it is normal. No reason to panic. Nolan said this in May. By June panic started to seem like a reasonable option. Temperature records kept breaking not just in Colorado but nationwide. Mosquitoes descended. The worst West Nile virus outbreak in the state hit the county where I live. The land turned brown. Everywhere you stepped felt crunchy like the whole state was one big tinderbox. Everybody was praying for rain but the first storms that came were practically rainless just flashes of lightning like giant matches hovering over people's houses. It was terrifying. And then the fires came and stayed. 2012 was the most destructive wildfire season in Colorado history burning over 600 houses. Hugh Carson was fighting the fires from the air over Fort Collins and later in Idaho. He would been doing this work for decades. But last summer's fires were different. The first time I heard it described I think was about the 16th of June. And one of my air attacks down at Jefferson County Airport said Carson you would not believe what we are seeing out there. I said what? He says I saw a sheet of flame approximately half a mile long and 1000 feet high and all it was doing was sitting there and shimmering at me. And he said it in exactly that tone. It was sitting there shimmering at me. And I queried other air attacks and they said yeah we are seeing stuff out there like that weird stuff that we have never seen before in the last 25 years since this burn-down in the West started happening. Nobody could escape what was going on including the state climatologist Nolan Doesken. Every day the phone was ringing in his office people asking him is this climate change? Is this what the future is going to look like? And he gave them the answer he always has-- variability. But the summer changed him. Just a week after we had first spoken Nolan left for a vacation with his wife to Michigan and that is when the biggest of the wildfires broke out a few miles from his house in Fort Collins. And then we drove home into the heat and into the smoke. 400 yards from our office we went past a National Guard checkpoint every day. Helicopters flying smoke plumes. Having close friends whose homes burned or who were evacuated for many weeks it is just-- it hits you so hard. Most upsetting was what happened to his neighbor's daughter from the nearby dairy farm. The fires had died down some but the river near their farm still had tons of ash in it. Probably because of the pump clogging probably because of the ash from the wildfire in the irrigation system the young girl was electrocuted. That was about as painful as anything about the whole summer season just knowing their precious daughter was lost to a situation beyond their control. His neighbor's death was one of the things that made him start to think differently about the data. The important question was not is this particular drought caused by climate change? Whether it was or was not did not matter. Because either way he realized if the climate models are right he was seeing the future. Seeing were Colorado was headed-- droughts and dead crops and fires-- and it was horrible. You just sort of used to be able to say ah that is just a computer model. And then you get to see and this is what those numeric outputs from that model feel like. Say ooh I do not want to have to live through year after year after year of this. This will be a different place if that is what our climate will be like. Nolan's the person Colorado farmers and ranchers turn to the one they trust to tell them what the weather has done what it is doing and what it will do. That is been his job for 36 years. Now that he was seeing cause for alarm would he tell people that? In reporting on climate change I found that scientists do not always level with people that way. I have interviewed three different scientists who are already preparing for the worst. They have bought second homes high above sea level. They will confess stuff like this to me in private but never to the public. And sure it is not scientific information but it is telling. Saying emphatically this is what the climate models predict for your land and your livelihood-- that is information people would probably take seriously as they decide their own long-term plans. So would Nolan start telling people I believe 2012 is a sign of where Colorado is headed with climate change and we are in trouble? In September I asked him to come to Paonia in Western Colorado where I would been reporting to meet with a few of the people I would met who'd had trouble last year. One of the sheep ranchers Brian Farmer invited us up to his place. Howdy. Hello there. Brian. Brian I am Nolan Doesken. Nice to meet you. Have we met before? Brian comes from a pretty conservative family one of the first to settle here in 1890. He is got one of the bigger operations in town-- 300 cows and up to 8000 sheep. This year Brian had a terrible time finding pasture for them all. Without irrigation water Brian's ranch reverts to the desert it actually is. Brian and Nolan begin talking about all this speaking a dialect that I like to call Almanac. Anyone who is been here long enough can do this. They rattle off the hot years the wet years the bumper crop years. And then it did not dry up for another 17 to 20 years. And then it dried up for another three years in a row. And then the '80s and '90s were all really darn good years. Pretty good. I was-- Until the late '80s. I kept waiting for Nolan to lay it out for Brian to tell Brian that climate change is either here or on the way and that this year 2012 is what it is going to be like in the near future. But this is what Nolan said. The year that we just experienced that was way unusual to us now they are saying may be the norm 30 to 40 years from now. And I wrestle with that and say well I do not know. I do not know? Finally I raised the subject with Brian. Do you believe in climate change at this stage of the game? No not enough to affect us. And secondly there is nothing we can do about it or I can do about it myself personally. Here's what Nolan says when he hears that-- nothing. Back in the car Nolan shrugged. I am not that surprised that he was not that aware or concerned about temperature changes. Should he be? Probably. Why did not you tell him to worry? Because I have found that there is no-- you know telling people to believe something different than what they do hardly ever has an impact. And if anything it just is a reason for alienation. For me to just to make a bold statement that is not going to serve any good purpose. Which makes a lot of sense. The fact is the people most directly affected by climate change around the state are also the most likely not to believe it is real. And they say all the reasons you have probably heard. It is a liberal conspiracy. Or God's in charge. Or the science is wrong or rigged or inconclusive. Even the word environmentalist can trigger outrage like when this rancher Larry Moore charged at me with his four-wheeler. You know I am kind of pissed off. You did not tell me who you were who you represented. That you were one of these environmentalists that are giving us so much  out there. Wait I am sorry-- I oughta take that damned recorder and smash it to smithereens. Wha-- oh-- oh I am just-- I am reporting for KVNF. But why are you so upset-- I am sorry. I did not mean to-- Shut that thing off. Oh I am s--- He felt bad about losing his cool. Invited me up for cookies and coffee after. But you can understand why any message about climate change is the last thing a lot of farmers and ranchers want to hear. They stand to lose so much if climate models come true. Water is simply worth more in Colorado servicing a condo than it is irrigating an alfalfa field. If water's scarce agriculture will shrink. Water will be diverted to cities and suburbs which are growing in the state. Nolan and I talked about this for a while in the car back at Brian's ranch. Finally Nolan told me he was thinking about being more frank with his constituents. At the Colorado Farm Show in 2013 I will tell the farmers that I-- my level of concern based on my personal experience with the hot summer will change the way I communicate the problem. So you are going to tell a group of farmers in 2013? I did not say that but I might. It all-- I do not script what comes out of my mouth. I will be there. When is it? Late January in Greeley Colorado. I will be there. With my mic. With your mic. Every year at the end of January Nolan delivers the weather report at the Colorado Farm Show. It is like the State of the Union address for farmers and ranchers. Hundreds of them come some of them just to listen to him. Nolan has been giving this talk for 12 years and in all those years he is never once brought up climate change. Not once. But every time the first or second question he gets asked in the Q  A is what do you think about climate change? And every time there is been a local reporter in the front row with a notebook. And he would immediately begin taking notes the minute I started to speak. And I always found that a little bit intimidating. And the audience the vast majority were climate change skeptics and they sort of wanted me to embarrass myself in front of them and the newspaper reporter. Taking a stand can be dangerous. In recent years climatologists in four states have lost their positions because of what they said publicly about climate change-- Oregon Virginia Delaware Georgia. Democratic governors got rid of climatologists who did not embrace climate change and a Republican fired two who did. We think there'ill be a few more chairs delivered in a minute or two. Nolan's talk is in a side room. It is packed. They bring more chairs in but it is still standing room only by the time he starts. There are about 200 people from Colorado and also some from other drought-stricken states-- Wyoming Nebraska Oklahoma. Nolan's talk is a PowerPoint. He starts with data from 1890. Then we had the drought for years of the 1900s into the late 1920s. The Dust Bowl the '30s-- And that was just the beginning. He showed 187 slides. 187 slides. 30 minutes 45 minutes an hour-- it was so long there was an intermission. There may be some donuts left. There might be some coffee left. Stretch. After the break he is still going full steam. Soon we are an hour and 40 minutes in and no mention of climate change. 20 more minutes pass. And then right at the end. OK. I have one minute left.  One minute left to tell you a story. He shows a slide that says Do I have time for a little story? That is all it says. And that is a story of a climatologist grappling with the question that all of you wanted to ask me today and some of you have asked me every year. When I finish my talk you will end up saying well tell me about climate change. What do you think? Or some of you have told me exactly what you think.  And here's where Nolan tells them. Scientists are not 100 certain but they are he says pretty darn confident that the globe is warming and that is it is our fault. 2012 told me something that I had not been able to come to grips with that well until 2012 came along. The temperatures we experienced this year which were pretty extreme yeah they happened before. 1934 it happened before. So natural variations can cause it. But if the computer models are anything close to right-- and I am not a computer modeler. You cannot shoot at me. But if those models are anywhere close to right 2012 will be an average year in just a few decades. So that was it. Kind of soft but he said it. And then he got nervous changed the subject toggled back a few slides and started talking about flooding. Flooding. And then it was over.  I wondered if people even got what he was saying. So I asked around in the crowd afterwards. I met Dave Sharman who raises cattle. What about that last story that he just told? What was it on? Oh on floods? The one where he talks about climate change. On the flood parts you mean? Well yeah and his little story about climate change. You do not remember that part? No. I sure do not. I know he talked about something there but I do not remember the specifics. As for the newspaper reporter Nolan always worried about from Greeley Tribune he left before the end. He had a basketball game to go to. So he missed his scoop. Nolan's big warning was not even on the record. Does that give you a sense of relief? Yeah this time around I would say disappointment. Because in the past I dreaded the story being written about Doesken speaking about climate change. And I do not dread that anymore. That is a change. And when I said that there was a lot of nodding of heads more than ever. It was amazing to see. Measured against the damages from the weather last year billions of dollars of lost property in revenue nationwide and measured against the massive changes climate models predict for the coming decades in Colorado what the state's top climate official took was a tiny step. But at least it was a first step. Nolan spent so many years being afraid feeling like a conversation about all this was impossible. But 2012 made it possible. And now he feels like it is OK. It is time to talk about it. Julia Kumari Drapkin. Her climate reporting project at Colorado's KVNF is called iSeeChange. The website-- thealmanac.org. Coming up secret things that Republicans on Capitol Hill say to each other about climate change but only when microphones are off. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program Hot in My Backyard our premise today is we have started to see in our daily lives around this country the kind of extreme weather that scientists say that we are in store for as the world heats up. I am talking hurricanes droughts floods some of the hottest years on record one after another. But the politics of climate change the way that we talk about it in this country has been stuck for years. Both Republicans and Democrats have been mired in their own ways of looking at the issue. In this half of today's program we have a pair of stories-- one looking at somebody on the left the other somebody on the right who are trying to reinvent the politics on their side of the aisle. And what we are going to do is we are going to start with the Republicans with Act Two which we are calling Right Man For the Job. And environmental lobbyists told me last week that our country will never do anything about global warming as long as climate denial is such a big part of Republican Party dogma right? Until that changes he said you cannot get the votes to pass anything. But there is a man out there whose mission is to make it possible for Republican candidates to say global warming is real. To make climate change safe for Republicans. And that man is a Republican. Ben Calhoun has the story. Bob Inglis spent a total of 12 years as a Republican congressman in South Carolina. And here's how conservative he was. These are the numbers. Christian Coalition 100 lifetime rating. National Right to Life 100. American Conservative Union 93. An A with the NRA. What are some of the things that you have been called since you have been pursuing the climate change issue? Unpredictable unreliable unfaithful. A heretic you know. I have been called the Al Gore of the Republican Party. And that was not meant as a compliment.  I mean of any of the things that you have been called are there any that have really gotten under your skin at all or been particularly frustrating? I think when I was called a traitor on the internet by one of my son's friends who grew up with him. That-- that hurt. . Bob Inglis got taken down in the Tea Party wave of 2010. And he is now talked about as this textbook cautionary tale for Republicans about how dangerous climate change is for conservatives. Going into the election Inglis had taken a few votes that annoyed staunch conservatives-- voting for the bank bailout against the troop surge. And Inglis says sure those votes hurt him. But he says climate change was what did him in.  For instance at a debate during the Republican primary Bob's on stage with four Republican challengers. One by one they say climate change has not been proven or that it does not exist. They mock Inglis about climate change. At one point a South Carolina state senator named David Thomas stands up. Thomas had actually supported Inglis in previous elections. But now he was running against him trying to take his seat. Bob has gone astray. And I love Bob but his insistence on the idea of catastrophic man-made global warming has taken him down a wrong path.  Bob Inglis's eventual defeat was humiliating. He ultimately lost to a Tea Party-backed challenger 71 to 29. I just want to say those numbers again. Bob Inglis in a district he won six times lost 71 to 29. After that Bob spent some time thinking about what to do next and decided what he would do would be to devote himself to the very issue that got him unelected. Double down on climate change. So he started a nonprofit called the Energy and Enterprise Initiative. And now he spends his time making the case for climate change in front of the most conservative audiences in the country trying to build a conservative coalition on the issue. Trying to remove some of the political stigma that the issue has with people on the Right. I know. Could not be easier. Every fiber in my body's saying you are a conservative. You cannot believe this. This is SuperTalk Mississippi the top conservative talk network in the state of Mississippi. This is the morning host Paul Gallo interviewing Bob. Just to be clear this was the first question right out of the gate. You are asking me as a dyed-in-the-wool native-born Mississippian will die here to believe that humans are responsible for global warming and we must admit that. Mic's yours sir. Well yeah. I think that it is. The challenge here Paul is it is a conversation started by liberals right? We have liberals that basically started the conversation and what we are used to as conservatives is they gin up hysteria and then they drive through some regulations and some tax increases and grow government right? And so it is natural that we respond with no we do not want to do that. But what we are saying is OK what if we change this conversation? Bob believes the conversation about climate change is broken. Partly because the Left and the Right are incapable of talking to each other about the issue. On the liberal side he does not think liberals understand what they look like when they try to argue climate change to conservatives. How because the evidence is on their side they often overplay their hand and they come off scold-y and condescending. Bob also says he does not think liberals understand that conservatives see climate change as what he calls a quote lifestyle issue. He says conservatives feel like their version of the American dream is under attack that somehow parents driving their kids through the suburbs in SUVs to soccer practice are being blamed as the cause of global warming when in fact everyone uses a lot of electricity and gasoline. Everybody flies on planes. Bob thinks he can win conservatives over more effectively by saying to them I share your values. I know you are not a bad person. But I think we got this one wrong. If you believe in taking care of this part of Eden that is left and you believe in creation care-- OK in all due respect the people of South Carolina apparently disagreed with you as far as global warming. That is right. At this point they do. I do not believe that humans are creating this. Because-- and neither do apparently a vast majority of climatologists out there. No I was tracking-- That humans-- I was tracking with you until that last part. You are just wrong on that last part. I-- I do a lot of reading on this. You find me your meteorologist guy and I will find you mine. No no actually you have to go look for the folks that you are looking for. Because it is basically like this. 98 doctors tell you to treat your son this way. Two say this other. It is not conservative to go with the two. You are talking about the two climatologists. You are not talking about the 98. No no no-- I mean those are the numbers. In the end Bob does not convince the host. But the conversation's civil. He hears him out. Seems like he might even think about it. Which for now is the point. For the last year or so Bob's been getting into conservative publications-- Forbes the Washington Times. He is also been crisscrossing the country going to DC and business schools universities. Pretty much going anyplace in the US where he thinks he can get Republicans to listen to him. If you look at the polling of Republicans on climate change one of the first things you notice right away is this huge gap between how Republican citizens feel and how Republican politicians vote. A recent nonpartisan poll by Pew found that 44 of Republicans believe the climate's changing. Another by Gallup found that 40 of Republicans are actively worried about climate change. With that in mind consider a vote just a couple years ago on the House Energy and Commerce Committee. All 31 Republican members unanimously voted down symbolic language that would have simply acknowledged the climate's changing and humans are contributing to it. That gap-- 40 of Republican voters worried about climate change versus 0 of that committee-- that is Inglis's target. That is his business opportunity. That is what makes his mission seem realistic. It is like 40 of Republicans want ham sandwiches. Surely you can persuade a few more Republicans to sell ham sandwiches. Inglis's group has counted all the Republicans in the House and Senate who have ever publicly acknowledged that climate change is real. There is 20 names on their list out of 278 Republicans. The hunch you start to get is that there must be Republicans who believe the science but are just afraid to stick their neck out for the issue. Do you know personally Republican members who find the science credible but would never say so publicly? Oh yeah. Can you name them? No I would better not do that.  I cannot out 'em. But so yeah there are members of Congress Republicans who know better but they are afraid of crossing what is become the orthodoxy. This winter I was visiting the gym the House gym in Washington a couple months ago. And a friend a member of Congress and I were talking and-- This is a Republican member? Republican member of Congress. We were talking and we had some discussion about what is going on Congress. And then he asked me at the end now what are you doing again? And so I told him you know I am doing this thing of trying to convince conservatives there is a conservative answer to energy and climate. Bob says at that moment the Republican congressman he was talking to paused. Then he looked back over one shoulder and then over the other. And then he turned back to Bob. He says to me yeah we got to get it right on that do not we? And he sort of gave me a knowing nod and a wink and just walked away. I talked to Republican staffers from both houses. Some said Bob's right that more Republicans believe the science than will say so publicly. People are scared. I talked to one staffer in the House an energy advisor to a very conservative Republican representative. He agreed to talk to me only if he was anonymous. He told me Republican staffers tend to buy the science more than members because they are younger. But he estimates there is at least a few dozen Republicans in the House who agree with the science but who would never say so. He also said something that Bob said that if Republicans could vote their conscience on climate change not have to worry about politics you could pass climate change legislation today. The very hypothetical math here is that if you got all the Democrats to agree on something you would only need 17 Republicans to get a majority in the House. But here's how far we are from that Kumbaya day. This House staffer told me that personally he feels passionately about climate change. But he is never told his boss because he thinks he would get fired. I said fired? Do you really think you would get fired? He told me look I am a good employee. Maybe I would get one strike. But if people in our district knew I believed in climate change and I am his energy advisor they would freak out. I would be a liability. If that got out the smart thing for my boss to do would be to fire me. Inglis does have a small but growing list of allies. His group's website showcases some of this stuff. In general it is people with solid conservative credentials but nothing to lose. Like there is this video of Ronald Reagan's Secretary of State George Shultz showing off his new ride. And I have my electric car running on electricity from the sun. So I am driving on sunshine. Take that Ahmadinejad. Some other notable folks on the site-- a top economics advisor to Mitt Romney two from the McCain campaign Ronald Reagan's economics advisor and conservative icon Art Laffer. But Inglis is the first to say the thing he is trying to do it is lonely. Like being in an ongoing nonstop search for friends. Hey how are you? Greg Langworthy glad to meet you. Bob Inglis. Craig? Greg Langworthy. Greg. Recently I joined Inglis on a trip to the University of Kentucky. Oh there is chicken available. That is why people are here.  Watching him in person what is totally apparently is just how hard he is trying. In just this one day that I am following him around Bob's schedule includes an appearance on conservative talk radio a visit to a newspaper editorial board several media interviews a presentation at the University of Kentucky's law school in front of the UK Federalist Society and then a big nighttime event with him and two other speakers. Bob and his staff said this Kentucky trip this was the kind of event they really look forward to. A red state a Southern state a coal-producing state. This was the kind of place and the kind of audience that he is trying to reach. Good evening and welcome to the University of Kentucky. The evening event's in the university's Grand Ballroom. It is this huge room. And there is a good-sized crowd easily over 200 people. And the program from start to finish is custom-tailored to appeal to conservatives in pretty much every way you could possibly imagine. It starts with a respected climate scientist named Katharine Hayhoe who also happens to be a devout Christian. So science can give us a lot of facts. But in order to decide what to do with those facts we have to look to our values. And my values come from my faith. After her there is a retired army general from Tennessee a self-described conservative Republican who makes a case that climate change and fossil fuels they are a national security risk. Bob is the closer with a speech designed for climate skeptics. At the center of his speech is this pitch to do this thing that all kinds of economists liberal and co