Some people they read those old stories from 3000 years ago The Iliad and The Odyssey. They read them in school and it just gets to them. One of the producers here at our show Emanuele was like that. I loved the heroes Hector. I thought Agamemnon was such a diva. I loved The Aeneid. We had to translate it in my Latin class. And in addition to translating passages I decided to make like a 9x3 foot mural out of magazine paper depicting Aeneas' journey into hell. Wait when you say magazine paper you mean you are cutting letters out of a magazine like a serial killer? I mean I was-- no I mean I was meticulously ripping teeny pieces of different colors of magazine paper and making like a mosaic basically. Oh I see. And I remember that J.Lo was on the mural for some reason because she was wearing like a white dress that kind of looked Grecian so. It was like a toga-y dress. Yeah yeah yeah. So she got to be Dido in hell. When a teacher assigned a 20-page research paper on any subject in the world like they could do anything at all it was obvious to Emanuele what to do-- the story of Troy the place where the Trojan War happened the walled city that they pulled the Trojan horse into. And in doing research for this project I found out about this guy named Heinrich Schliemann. Heinrich Schliemann a man who also read those old stories and got obsessed. He is born in Germany in the 1800s. He is like a business man a merchant in Russia. And then he moved to California during the Gold Rush and opened a bank. It is said that he would carry around like copies of Homer. And he taught himself ancient Greek. Like in two years he taught himself ancient Greek which is insane to me just so he could read the books in the language of origin. Anyway but basically he amasses this huge fortune. And once he has this fortune he decides that he is going to find Troy. At the time people were not sure if it was a real place or just like a story like Atlantis. And I know this is kind of a dumb question but in that period did archaeologists even exist? Was that even a job yet? It is not really a job. It is like a very new field this whole idea of digging up the past. And so there are like sort of hobbyists dabbling in it. But these hobbyists by the 1870s have figured out from various geographic clues that Homer gives in the text about Troy's proximity to the Dardanelles and to Mount Ida. They figured out where a likely location for the city might be. It was in the place that we now call Turkey. And at that spot was kind of a big mound of dirt. And Schliemann gets going. So he starts to dig. He hires dozens and dozens of workers. And when he is digging he starts to find basically like these layers of cities that are sort of built on top of each other. So there is bits of pottery and foundations of buildings. When a city burned to the ground they would just build another city right on top of it. Right. But none of them are what he is looking for. What he is looking for is he wants to find basically gold silver and bronze. That is the thing he thinks is going to be the signifier that this is Troy. Because he is thinking of this treasure rich city that Homer describes in The Iliad. And he is also thinking that well it is got to be further down. It has to be at the bottom right? Troy is going to be at the bottom of this pile. And so he keeps digging. And he keeps finding more and more layers with cities. Yes. And then he gets to the bottom of these piles of cities. And that is where he finds this treasure. He finds exactly what he is looking for. He finds this gold. He finds the silver. He finds bronze. He calls it Priam's treasure Priam being the king of Troy in The Iliad. He says-- But there is nothing on it that says like Priam's-- He did not write his name. You have reached Priam's bank or something. No OK. No. No nothing like that. He does not have hard proof that it is Troy. He does not find writing which would have really helped. Can I ask one question? Yeah. Did he find a huge wooden horse? 'ecause that would have nailed it. No huge wooden horse. Would not have survived. Hm. OK. I am sorry. Fine. Today's show is about the inadvertent things that happen when you start digging up the past. And this is the point where Schliemann's story gets more complicated. Schliemann announces to the world that he is found the city that Homer was writing about. He is found Troy. He becomes internationally famous. But the truth of the situation is is that the Troy at the bottom of the pile with all this treasure and all this gold that actually was not Troy. It was not Homer's Troy at least. Like that is from thousands of years before Troy would have even happened. The Troy that he was looking for was actually one of the cities that he had just dug through and destroyed in the process of digging through it. So in other words he is just digging down. He reaches Troy. He is like no no this is not it-- throws it on the side as like debris. Yeah. That is garbage. Yeah. And basically he destroyed a big chunk of the ancient city in trying to find the city. The Troy he was looking for archaeologists understand now was just three layers down and he dug nine layers down. So what this means is that for any archaeologist today who is trying to figure out anything that is going on at Troy he kind of screwed them over. I called one of these guys. His name is Brian Rose and he was the co-director of excavations at Troy for 25 years. He is not a fan of Schliemann. So he did not really know what he was doing. So there is a lot of information that we have lost on account of his speed and digging. When I look through his notebooks he will say something like Byzantine building and debris found today dismantled. Now that does not tell me if it is early middle late Byzantine what the building looked like. Was it many rooms? Was it only one room? What did he find there? Or was it just debris that was in his way? Debris that was in his way that Schliemann would just dig up and throw in a pile on the side. Yeah Schliemann excavated extensively and he had to put the earth that he removed somewhere. Schliemann dumped all the earth from his trenches in the areas where I want to dig. And part of the reason that he wants to dig in that area is because there might be writing there. And so Schliemann has now made that very hard. Yeah because there is all this dirt all these uprooted ruins that are just on top of that area. And then it would take years and Brian says technology that does not even exist now to dig it up without doing more damage. So you have 20 meters of dump through which you would have to go in order to get to a deposit that might have writing of Late Bronze Age date. That is something I would love to be able to do. But for now it is just too monumental an undertaking to do it. One of the things that has always kind of bugged me about this story is that before Schliemann died they actually figured out that he was wrong. Oh they did? Yeah but he is still remembered to this day for discovering Troy. And one of the things I remember from that paper I wrote was that I really ended up mad at him. Like--  I was mad at him for like-- Like you were going to go visit Troy and he messed it up for you. Basically kind of. But when I talked with Brian about it he is kind of zen about it. I would certainly express frustration with Schliemann in the same way that an archaeologist digging at Troy in 100 years would express frustration with me. Oh I like his attitude. Yeah I mean I think when you are an archaeologist you kind of have to take the long view. You are aware that people are going to come after you and they are going to know more than you. So you are very aware of your own limitations. And that is actually our show today. Today on our program we have all kinds of people going and digging up stuff from the past full of hope but definitely with their own limitations. And the search changes things. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Family Plot. We move now from the losers of the Trojan War to the winners-- or anyway the descendants of the winners the people of Greece. Here's something you probably did not know about Greece. They do not have enough cemetery space. And cremation is not very popular there. So what they do is when you die you are buried in the ground. And then three or four years later your family gets together and digs up your bones. Get you out of the ground give the space to somebody else. One of the producers of our show Lina Misitzis her parents were both born in Greece. And she traveled there in September with them to do this for the very first time. We are in a rental car driving from Athens to a small village in the south called Stoupa. It is about four hours away. My dad's driving. I am in the front seat. Mom's in the back. We are on our way to Stoupa to exhume my grandmother my father's mom. My dad's talking about the cost of gas how much money it will cost to keep this car full of gas also other things about gas. There is no gas station here. I recognize this conversation not for its content but for its design. My dad an extraordinarily kind and thoughtful person he fills so much space with small talk. I hate small talk. Today September 19th is my mom's 66th birthday. We were not supposed to exhume my grandmother on my mom's birthday. It was supposed to happen tomorrow. But because of forecasted rain we are doing it today. What a gift for my birthday. This will not be the last time she brings up her birthday. My grandmother spent the last third of her life dying. Her disorder was never successfully diagnosed. It kind of looked like Parkinson's. It kind of looked like Huntington's. But it was neither of those things. A caretaker a distant cousin named Crisoula would come and change her diapers twice a day feed her baby food. Growing up I was kind of afraid of my grandma. She would lost her ability to speak and she just kind of looked at me and moaned and cried. It is called chorea. When you have it you cannot control your movements. You have jerking uncontrollable movements of your hands and face. And chorea is actually a Greek word right? Chorea yeah. Chorea. That means I am dancing. It means I am dancing my mom says. She is always answering questions for my dad. I think he prefers it that way. Mommy remembers better than I do and I have to pay the toll now. Pay the toll. My mom did not go with my dad to his mother's funeral. He went alone. I figured he would be doing the second funeral this reverse funeral alone too. And while I do not know what this process looks like at all the thought of my dad exhuming his mother's body by himself it just sounded sad.  And so a few months ago I decided I wanted to go with him. To be there for him. In my fantasy of it I would be by his side holding his hand patient curious even. Which is not how it usually goes between us. My dad does not talk about his feelings too often. Half the time I think he does not even know what they are. But then when I am around him I get impatient. I guess this moment just seems really big like a chance for us to be different with each other. But then when my mom found out that I was going she decided that she would come too. She does not want to pass up a chance to see me. She agrees to sit in the backseat while I try talking to my dad about what we are on our way to go do. In general I am not very comfortable in cemeteries. Why not? I do not know. I never was. Right most people are uncomfortable in cemeteries. But for some reason I just cannot let it go. Well there must be a reason. I do not believe so no. You expect me to say more now. I do not know what to say. No you are fine. You are fine. You do not have to say anything. I am driving too. You are driving. This back and forth is so typical it is practically scripted. He tries to play along to engage. But I never think it is enough. Do you know when your mom was born? I believe 1928. Actually she was born in 1925. Was she a smoker? No she never smoked. Was she a drinker? I do not think she ever had any alcohol. What did she do for fun? Cross stitch. Cross stitch. Did she have friends? Very few. Do you think she was depressed? Um-- I guess so. I never thought in these terms at the time but yeah I guess now you mention it I think so. Probably she was. Was she a good mom? I do not know. I guess. Uh-oh. What is wrong? The check engine light comes on in the rental. Check engine oil. It derails the rest of the car ride each conversation circling back to the potentially faulty engine. We pull up to his family's village at 200. The woman who took care of my grandmother Crisoula is waiting for us in her yard. I have not seen her in five or six years. She brings us cool water keeps remarking on how absolutely different I look. I would not recognize you anywhere she says. Then a different family friend Sotiroula walks into the yard and joins us. You look exactly the same she tells me. You have not aged at all. So much of what there is to talk about is how old each of us is what age looks like on us and how we all wear it. An hour later we walk to the graveyard. It is me my mom my dad Crisoula and Sotiroula. Crisoula is carrying recycled plastic water bottles full of vinegar. She is also carrying small white brushes the kinds you used to scrub dirty pots and pans. The village we are in looks like a caricature of a Mediterranean village. The roads are not paved. The homes are all stone. You can see the Mediterranean Sea and the Taygetos Mountains from anywhere. The graveyard is connected to the church which is connected to the school. Everything is dusty. The graves are all white. The buildings are all white. The grave digger is already at my grandmother's grave. He is wearing blue overalls and a yellow T-shirt. He has on a Yankees cap. His name is Arturo. Baseball is not really a thing in this country. I cannot imagine where he got the hat. My mom walks to the opposite end of the cemetery where she sits down on a stranger's grave beneath some shade. She does not want to see my grandmother's body she says. It is a small cemetery just a few dozen graves. And they are all so loved which makes sense. No one is buried for long here so as long as the body's in the ground people come to visit. Each plot has photos on it bottles of beer and liquor potted plants candles many of them lit. My dad hobbles around inspecting the other graves to see who else has died since the last time he was here.  Whenever he recognizes a name he confirms with Crisoula that yes the person whose name is written on the gravestone is in fact dead.   One of the graves is occupied by the priest who blessed my grandmother's body just a few years ago at her funeral.   But I just saw him my dad says at my mother's funeral. He is dead? All week people have been saying to us  which I understand as We hope she is melted. Such a strange way to say I hope your grandmother's flesh and organs have finished decomposing. My taxi driver who picked me up from the airport in Athens told me that at his aunt's exhumation he would had to wash the residual skin and blood off of her bones which is a thought so unnerving I do not think I fully fathomed it. Still I stand beside the grave digger defiant as though to say even if none of you are going to look I am going to look. For more than an hour there is nothing to look at. Arturo's just shoveling out rocks and dirt placing it all in a pile at the foot of the grave. And I stand there sweating waiting for whatever is going to happen. My mom keeps sitting on her shady grave. My dad keeps reading the names off of headstones though he is running out of names he recognizes. Growing up this village like the rest of Greece was homogeneous. Everyone was related to everyone. But now there are Balkan migrants living here retired Germans and Brits even some expats from the US. In Greece they are called  strangers.   They are listing off all the foreigners in here.  Eventually he walks over to where I am standing I think to check in on me. Do you want me to say something out loud? No I want you to just be normal. How do you feel? Kind of numb. Yeah. Kind of numb. You know what I am saying? I am not saying the--   He interrupts himself to say Look there is water to drink. Then he walks away to the corner of the cemetery where Crisoula has set up a makeshift water station. Arturo's dug 4 or 5 feet down and switches his shovel out for what looks more like an ice pick.  We are getting close to the body now he says. Dad walks over to stand with me. So does Crisoula. My mom comes over too which at first I find shocking but it is not really. She does not want to feel left out.  Slowly Crisoula says. That is the coffin. That is the flowers that they put on the coffin right? Yeah. Crisoula is hovered over Arturo holding out a giant trash bag. She is collecting any pieces of coffin that have not disintegrated in the past few years. For a moment everyone is silent.  It is time Arturo says. Be very careful. The body is ready.   Arturo pulls my grandmother's head out of the ground and hands it to Crisoula. There is still some hair on it but no skin. She plucks the hair off the skull which is not white like the fake skeletons I remember from science class. It is dark brown closer to black. My grandmother's eye sockets are filled with dirt. Crisoula rubs her skull clean with a scrubby brush. She holds it up to us to look at pointing out my grandmother's gold teeth still intact. It is like she is saying see? It is really her. Arturo keeps pulling out pieces of coffin and pieces of my grandmother. They are not connected to anything anymore. Most of these bones have come loose. He pulls out some ribs a shoulder bone what I think is a femur but my mom says is a clavicle. Crisoula collects each bone one by one and lays them out in the sun.   This was her left shoulder she tells us. See? You can still see the metal pin in her bone from when she got her surgery. For the next 20 or so minutes she reconstructs as much of the body as Arturo can salvage. It is all so bizarrely DIY. Crisoula climbs into the grave with Arturo mid-dig to help pull out bones. Neither of them is wearing gloves. In Greece Crisoula explains to me we bury the dead with their heads pointing west because that is where the sun sets. And so that is where life ends. And this process of exhuming it is conducted from the head down. The head comes out first and Arturo works his way down the body. The last thing that comes out are my grandmother's feet.    Both of my grandmother's socks thick wool are intact. This fabric does not disintegrate. She was buried in them on purpose so that they would know when they would made it to the end. Those are her socks? Yes.   Do you mind saying it in English? She is emptying the sock so all the little bones from the feet can come out. See all the bones? The heel of the toes and the-- oh my goodness. We stand there for a moment watching Crisoula wipe down each bone. It is jarring how practical this whole process is how unceremonious it feels to bury your loved ones in socks so that you will know when you have finished un-burying their remains. You OK? I am sitting down. Yeah. I am OK. This is going to be with me for a while now but. This is not scary. This is going to be with me for a while my dad says right as my mom says This is not scary. I feel annoyed with my mom for stepping on his answer on what he might have said just so she can say that she is fine that she is not scared. But then when my dad does have the space to tell me what he is feeling he cannot seem to catch his breath. The skull it is-- The skull-- --all her bones. --it is all her bones. When it first came out it looked like a coconut because there was still hair on it. Yeah it has hair on it. Yes. All right. What is wrong? I am OK. I am OK he is saying. Crisoula tells us that it is over. We can go. While we are away she will keep scrubbing the bones first with water then with vinegar. She will place them in a small box that'ill go in a shed which holds the remains of all the other exhumed residents of this graveyard many of them people my grandmother grew up knowing and some  some foreigners. I asked to see the shed which really is just a shed like where a friend's dad might keep his lawnmower except for this one's got stacks and stacks of small boxes in it. Some are labeled. Many are not. It does not seem like anyone visits this place.  Later we will come back to the cemetery to watch a priest one that is alive bless my grandmother's bones. One last goodbye. But for now we three-- me my mom and my dad-- we pile back into the rental to drive to a neighboring village where we are staying for the next few days. And suddenly my dad starts to talk about his feelings. And I just-- it was-- that was my mom. That was what? That was my mom at some point. It is-- I was expecting it to be-- I do not know. I feel peaceful. I was expecting it to-- I did not know what to expect. I spent a lot of hours up at nights. I am just muddled you know? No it is-- no I hear what you are saying. I thought it was going to be upsetting and it really was not for me. And that was it. It was over. Not as traumatic as we thought it would be. Here is a sign for it. And here in this car all my family has is what we have always had. I start fussing over my dad's driving. Well when that sign that said-- Yeah.  You will go left. We will need to look for it. And then I start feeling carsick. Every bad habit I have with my parents begins to bubble up. And instead of doing the thing that I came here to do instead of engaging with my dad I become a kid again complaining about an upset stomach. I am going to throw up. I cannot. And it says here Dad. Yeah but I do not have a good-- I want you to not drive if we do not know-- I am sorry. My stomach feels like . What is this? Somebody's seat belt is not on or something? Is the door open? Daddy can we make a decision about what we are doing? Listening back to this car ride what sticks out to me most is the moment my dad tries doing the exact thing I came to Greece hoping for. He tries talking about his feelings. And he probably would have if I had not so quickly stopped listening. Yes Baba but you have the phone. But you have the phone and you can talk to her and she can say. I think you should stop driving. A couple days later my last night in Greece with my parents we decide to go out for dinner. And when we get to the restaurant my mom pulls me aside to ask if I am going to be good tonight if I am going to be present. I am always present I lie. She says no. The only time I was present on this trip was at the cemetery. Otherwise I am the same as ever. We are all the same as ever. The only thing that is different really is we have one less day. Lina Misitzis is a producer on our show. Act Two Next of Kindle. So our show today is about people unburying the past. And when people leave us they do not just leave behind physical objects. Bim Adewunmi talked to a man about a digital excavation. Gloria Wayne was a voracious reader. Her son Dave has vivid memories of when he was six or seven going with her to the library in the whirl in Northwest England. They made a trip to Haswell Library every couple of weeks returning and replenishing her stack of borrowed Mills and Boon novels. It was a habit Gloria maintained all through her long life. And so for Christmas back in 2011 her sons got her a gift to aid in that habit-- a Kindle. Gloria was suspicious of online security in general so they paid her Kindle with Dave's existing account and added an unlimited subscription so she could read whatever she wanted whenever she wanted to read it. Earlier this year Gloria died. She was 83 years old. I spoke to Dave on the phone about his mom and we talked about the weird life admin that suddenly becomes super important after such a loss. One of the first things that occurred to me even though it may be the most insignificant was that my mum hated wasting money. She would absolutely go mad if she thought that the next month's subscription was to come out and she was not around to use it. So only hours after she would gone and still in a daze Dave went to do the responsible thing the thing he knew his mom would approve of-- cancel the Kindle subscription. And then I thought well just for old time's sake let us have a look at what was there. So I clicked on to Library and there before me I found 3046 books. In the time period between Christmas 2011 when we bought the Kindle to her said passing on April 16th she had purchased over 3000 books which was quite remarkable really. Dave had had an idea of his mom's literary interests. Her bookshelves contained a good amount of romance novels of the sort he remembered from childhood. He also used to get email notifications every so often. Remember his account was linked to her Kindle all these years but he did not really pay attention to what his mother was buying. Romance novels he would kind of expected. But-- But what there was was a number of-- I am trying to put diplomatically really-- should we say erotica. It was just erotica. And it was not just the vanilla stuff. It was a real pick and mix of sexual expression. If you are listening with kids right now do not worry. This is not in any way X rated. I mean not wanting to throw a whole cornucopia of acronyms at you but there were MFM MFF FFM triple MF all kinds of different combinations of relationships and sexual encounters which was quite staggering to be honest. You know there was no one aspect. There was no one peccadillo that she got drawn to. It was a whole variety. Dave tweeted about both his mother's passing and his inadvertent inheritance of a library of what he described tongue in cheek as magnificently epic sleaze. He concluded it with a tribute of sorts. Mother he wrote I raise a glass. Discovering the library made Dave curious. He and his mother shared similar tastes in music and film. Maybe there would be unlikely common ground here too. He decided to make a project of his discovery. He would delve into his mother's virtual stack of saucy literature-- his words-- and maybe find one more thing they had in common. It was not especially taxing. You know it was only a fairly short kind of thing. It was a 90-minute endeavor. So for 100 days on the run I read a book each day. Do you have a favorite title? Was there any title that stuck out to you as just either abominably bad or actually fantastically good? Probably a bit of both to be honest. And that is without doubt Spanked by the Italian Mob.  Superb. Because it does what it says on the page. It is literally about a girl who wants to be spanked by the Italian mob. And that is the beginning middle and the end. I mean the whole series to be honest of Spanked by books. There is about six or seven-- Wow. --with this poor girl being spanked by a variety of men. I checked out the series by the way. It is by Alexis Starr. The actual title Dave is thinking about is Spanked by the Irish Mob. Each book features a heroine looking for a spanking and getting it from the Yakuza a Navy SEAL an unaffiliated mob boss and others. As Dave read more books he found himself enjoying some of them enough that he started to have a few favorites. Opposing Briefs was an MM romance that was quite fascinating. That is great. I quite liked the playful nature of the title. That was written by Ian Finn. I did like that a great deal. And a one called-- one written by Anyah Omah called Sexsomnia Sleepless in Manhattan. And that was very good indeed as well which was a lighter tone and slightly less of an explicit nature to it. Now that the 100 book challenge is over Dave has kept his mom's subscription going and he is still reading her books. They are a reminder that his mom was more than just his mom. She was a real whole person with her own quiet obsessions. In reading these books do you feel is it helping? Is it in any way a balm for you? Yeah because it keeps her spirit present. You find yourself almost having a conversation why do you read them? You read a particularly horrific and explicit line. You think good grief mother what were you doing? So yeah it does tend to extend that relationship. And while we can never reverse what happened it does keep her memory more vivid. According to Dave his mom was a homebody. And in her eighth decade after a lifetime of working hard Gloria liked to stay home watch a bit of Murder She Wrote and enjoy her smutty novels. Finding her library is a confirmation that his mom always did whatever the hell she wanted. And more than anything else it just makes him admire her more. Bim Adewunmi is one of the producers of our show. Coming up the hip bone's connected to the-- it actually is not connected to anything in this case-- like nothing at all. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show Digging Up the Bones-- stories of people unearthing things from the past trying to make sense of them. We have arrived at Act Three of our show. Act Three The Case of the Curious Bone. David Kestenbaum has this story about a man obsessed with a single bone a bone that is inexplicably large really just too big to make any sense out of at all. It was a fragment of a bone so old it had turned to stone. The man trying to puzzle it out was a naturalist and professor in England named Robert Plot. He writes about it in this beautiful meticulous book The Natural History of Oxfordshire published in 1677. The curious bone he writes was quote dug out of a quarry in the parish of Cornwall and given to me by the ingenious Sir Thomas Pennyston. He writes that it seemed to be some part of a thigh bone except way too big. It measured 2 feet and weighed almost 20 pounds. This is the 1600s and no one in the world had a good explanation for a bone that big. Plot writes for almost nine pages in his book about the strange bone and he is methodical in trying to reason out what the heck it is. First he considers the possibility that maybe it is not a bone at all but just some natural rock formation. Which is admirable. It is so easy to jump to conclusions. But the more he studies it it really does seem to be part of a colossal bone. He writes that it has the capita femoris inferiora and quote the seat of the strong ligament that rises out of the thigh and gives safe passage to the vessels descending into the leg. And then inside the bone there is what looks like marrow. He can see the marrow preserved inside. But what in the world was it from? Quote It will be hard to find an animal proportional to it he writes. He runs through the possibilities eliminating them one by one. Horse oxen too small. He considers something other people have suggested that maybe the bone is from an elephant perhaps brought over during the Roman invasions back around 50 AD. He spends two pages on this possibility but it seems unlikely to him. He is clearly read through lots of historical accounts. Quote Suetonius in his life where he is very particular concerning this expedition into Britain mentions no such matter. There was one elephant 'tis true he writes sent as a present to King Henry the Third from the King of France in the year 1255 and perhaps two or three other elephants brought to England for show since then. But quote whether it be likely any of these should be buried at Cornwall let the reader judge. Also if the bone is from an elephant he writes where are the tusks? Finally as he is writing it he explains that an actual live elephant comes to town which he examines and decides no. Elephant thigh bone-- completely different shape. Definitely not elephant. And here you can feel him starting to piece things together. He is on the edge of seeing this thing. He mentions other large bones. After the great fire in London in 1666 under the wreckage of St. Mary Will Church quote there was found a thigh bone now to be seen at the King's Head Tavern in Greenwich in Kent much bigger and longer than ours. And also people had been finding unusually large teeth. In fact people had been finding unusually large bones for centuries. There is one account by a Chinese scholar from the 300s BC but none had a satisfying explanation. It is remarkable reading Robert Plot's book to think how close he was to such a stunning fact about life on this planet. But you can know a lot and still not see. Sometimes you do not even know what you cannot see. You just cannot imagine the possibility of it even when you were holding the thing in your