My friend Etgar his mom does not take no for an answer. Etgar's Israeli. Etgar Keret we run his short stories here on the radio show now and then. Anyway years ago Etgar's older brother was in the army serving in Lebanon. Israel had just invaded Lebanon. It was war. And it sounds incredible to us but the policy of the Israeli army is that if it is at all possible you go home on leave every two weeks. And Lebanon's close just next door to Israel. Etgar says his brother was coming home every month. And then that stopped. He was not getting any leave. And my brother did not come home for almost two months and it drove my mother crazy. And she decided that she should get my brother back home. And it is very difficult to deal with anything during the war because everybody is hysterical and crazy. But she decided that she needs to speak to the chief of staff. And she started calling-- And the chief of staff is the head of the army? Yeah it is like the head general. For the entire army? Yeah. Etgar explained her strategy was simple. She would call the guy's office talk to whoever answered. And she would talk for long enough until she would have something that she could say offended her or made her angry. And then she asked to speak with that person's superior. She did the same thing with that person and then that person's superior. And so on and on and on and on. And in the end she found herself speaking to the head general Rafael Eitan who is one of Israel's most famous kind of war heroes. And she said to him listen General Eitan I know that you are fighting a war. And I really do not want to waste any of your time so I will make it simple. My son did not get a leave from the army for the past two months. I give you 24 hours to send him back home. If you know what is good for you he will be back before tomorrow evening. Wait if you know what is good for you? Yeah. And the guy says to her I just want to understand Mrs. Keret. Are you threatening me? And she says yes I am. I am threatening you. And I did not want to put it in the subtext because I know that you are busy. So if you know what is good for you you will send my son back home.   And he says to her Mrs. Keret do you know who I am? And she said yeah you are Rafael Eitan the war hero. And he said to her if you know anything about me then you know that I am not easily scared. So my mother said yeah but I do not think you had many chance to fight with elderly Holocaust survivors who are 5 foot tall and weigh 82 pounds. And I want to tell you something and I will make it very simple and very quick. After you quit the army you either go to politics or you go to the free market. In both cases you are going to be very exposed. In both cases every time there'ill be a TV camera around or journalist. You will have this elderly lady sitting in the first row shouting at you accusing you of any bad things that you might have made and maybe of some bad things that you have never made. Because I am a very good liar. And you really do not want that. And at that stage he hung up the phone in her face. The next afternoon Etgar's brother arrived home. So they pulled him out of his ranks told him to get on a helicopter. He had no idea what was going on nor did anybody else. He assumed some family member died or something Etgar says. And he got his break. He came and took a shower slept for 16 hours. My mother saw that he was OK. And a day after that he went back to Lebanon. I should say we cannot confirm the details of this story including the dialogue between Etgar's mom and Rafael Eitan. This happened over 30 years ago. Eitan's dead. When we got Etgar's mom she said sure whatever Etgar says. But there are many stories of Etgar's mom doing things like this. There was a time she threatened a mugger so effectively that he abandoned the idea of mugging her in the middle of the mugging. There was a showdown with the president of Poland that ended when the president of Poland finally gave her the passport she demanded as somebody who had been born in Poland. Etgar is the same way in certain situations. He does not threaten. That is not who he is. He just reasons people to death. Case in point a couple of years ago he and his wife Shira and their then 8-year-old son Lev were traveling and they left a backpack on an airplane. In the backpack was Etgar's iPad which had all of his son's games on it. Lev had spent months on his games working his way up the levels of the games. Now that was gone. Lev was really messed up about it. Any parent knows what I am talking about. And they called the airline. The airline says no problem. When you get to the airport for the return flight go to lost and found. It will be there. So comes the day. They are on their way home. They get to the airport. This is in Rome. They cannot find the lost and found. Time is getting short. They have got a plane to catch. Finally a guy at the car rental-- super nice guy-- offers to take them to it. His name was Massimo. And he took us to the lost and found place where there was this really really nasty woman. And I said to her you know you have our bag. And we are supposed to take it and we are going to fly really soon. I said to her I can actually see it. And I pointed to the bag because it was behind her. She says to Etgar she needs a letter from the airline saying he was on the same flight as the backpack. Etgar does not have this letter. She said sir I am not going to give you the bag without the letter. I am sorry. And I said to her but I go to Israel. I never get to see the bag. And she said you know that is your problem. As somebody who knows Etgar I will just say wrong move. Something deep and powerful kicks in inside him. My wife said to me OK let us go so we will not miss the flight. I said no just a moment. And I said to the woman look do not give me the bag but just do this kind of thing. Please unzip the outside pocket of it and see if there are crackers in it with a Hebrew writing on the package of crackers. And she said why would you want to do that? I said to her I just ask you to please do it. And she went and said yeah there are crackers in it. So I said to her so we both agree that this is my bag? She says yeah this is your bag. So I said to her so would you please give it to me? She said no sir I will not give it to you unless you give me this letter. And I said to her but you understand that my son is here and his game is here. Are you a parent? And she said yes I am a parent. And I said to her so think about it. If your son had a game he really wanted to win you had to go and confront with the person who said yeah I know this game is yours. But your son is never going to get it just because of some kind of technicality. You are Italian. Be Italian. Be warm be nice be like in a Fellini movie. Give me the bag. And she said no sir. I am not going to give you the bag and you are wasting your time. You better go to your flight because you are going to miss your flight. And Shira said let us go. She is not going to give it to you. And I said to her but do not you understand as a human being there will be one day when you die and you look back at your life and you think about this day. And when you think about this day you will think about this father who came with a child. And basically technically you could solve all the problems but you chose to stick with some kind of technicality. Would that be a nice dying thought to leave the world with? And she was beginning to say sir I am not going to give you anything. But as she was about to say that Massimo the guy from the car rental jumped over the counter picked up the bag. And she said to him what are you doing? And he said to her I cannot take it anymore. And he jumped back over the counter and he gave me the bag. And she said to him if you do not get the bag back I am going to call airport security and they are going to arrest you. So I said to him look it is not a good solution. Take the bag. And Massimo said to me look at me. Do as I say. Run.   These things happen so often that Etgar's wife Shira worries that someday somebody is just going to go nuts on Etgar or something hurt him. There are situations when my wife just says to me just shut up. Shut up. Shut up now. Do not talk about it anymore. Shut up. And I always listen to my wife. But when it starts I cannot stop it. But at the same time I will say to myself I am this asshole who just keep arguing and does not move on. And I really think that this has to do with something very kind of primal that when I was a little child my parents were both Holocaust survivors. They kind of raised me to say people are good. But sometimes they do not get it that they are good. So you have to kind of tell them things a few times maybe slap them around a little. And then they understand that they are good. And then they are going to listen and everything's going to work. Well today on our program we have a story about somebody else who cannot help himself. He sees something he needs to fix he needs to take care of he needs to make it right. And then through sheer force of will he makes things happen boldly heroically. Though is it heroic if you cannot stop yourself? From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1 Loudspeaker. So we start today with a guy who-- I do not want to overstate this and it sounds really big when you say this out loud but I really think it might be the truth-- a guy who with sheer force of will utterly changed our politics and created the political world we live in today alongside a second man who helped him. Zoe Chace tells the tale. It is probably helpful in telling this story to remember for a second what politics was like before today-- how different informal and quaint things used to sound. Ladies and gentlemen the President of the United States. This is President Reagan walking onto the South Lawn. It is 1983 April but apparently a cold day. One of the lawmakers is looking very Soviet in his big coat and fur collar. Well I want to extend to all of you a very warm welcome. Something ought to be warm. Reagan's in this '70s all brown suit with a brown tie. But it is especially fitting that so many of us from so many different backgrounds-- young and old the working and the retired Democrat and Republican-- should come together for the signing of this landmark legislation. Social security legislation a major bipartisan compromise involving raising taxes and cutting spending to things that only go together when it is a bipartisan compromise. And now as a special treat I would like to ask two of our leaders from Congress. First to step forward for a few words is Speaker of the House of Representatives the honorable Tip O'Neill.   Thank you Mr. President. Mr. President Mr. Vice President my distinguished colleagues in government this is indeed a happy day. A special treat the Democratic leader. The friendship between Ronald Reagan and Tip O'Neill is one of the most famous friendships in American politics. These days it is regularly trotted out like a fable to demonstrate what the good old days were like back when things worked. If you knew anything about Speaker of the House Tip O'Neill you know he was a bipartisan schmoozer a big Muppety guy who took up a lot of space in the room. He would invite members from both parties to poker nights in DC. He was in Congress for decades and by the time he was Speaker he was a living legend type. We got along. And Nancy and I had Tip and his wife over for dinner. This is Reagan talking to William F. Buckley. Then one day I picked up the paper and read where he had made a statement about me that was pretty harsh. And I called him and I said Tip I thought we had a relationship here where we could do business together. And oh now I read in the paper that you said-- And he interrupted me and said well buddy that is just politics. He said after 6 oclock we are buddies. We are friends. I did take it that every once in a while when we had a meeting I would visibly set my watch at above 6 oclock. To be fair O'Neill had been known to call Reagan a real Ebenezer Scrooge. Truth is their relationship was complicated. They disagreed profoundly about a lot of stuff. But that is the point. It is why people tell each other this story. The two were able to come together and talk compromise and pass legislation. Anyway here we are today. The MS-13 lover Nancy Pelosi. People are mean about each other now in public all the time in particular the president. And of course people fight back. This is Congresswoman Maxine Waters. He is not a role model for our children. He is a liar. He is a con man. Maxine Waters a very low IQ individual. You ever see her? And Conor Lamb-- Lamb the Sham right? Lamb the Sham. Lamb the Sham never caught on. But you know what I am talking about. It is different now. Here I want to lay out for you one theory of the case as to how we got from there to here. We have always had two parties. But we did not always have two teams like we do now. Red versus blue us versus them. Each side routinely demonizes the other side as un-American. You sign up for one issue-- the wall the Mueller investigation Colin Kaepernick climate change-- you basically sign up for all of them. It was not always so zero sum like it is become. You could explain what happened in different ways. But I am going to argue it was the work of these two guys that got us to this point two guys one quarterbacking the other. And so without further ado ladies and gentlemen the first of the two men who created the modern world. You know him from Fox News. You know him from Republican primaries gone by former Speaker of the House Newt Gingrich. I hope I can convey this in a way that you can really feel. If we lose we will be able to look our children and our grandchildren in the face and say we did everything we could to save this country.  Gingrich was a weird nerdy kid growing up. People close to him say he always pictured himself as a historical figure someone who would bend the course of American history someone who anticipated stories like the one I am telling you now. From his teenage years he thought this way. He ran for Congress twice in West Georgia lost and then finally won a seat in the House in 1978 with a 1778 attitude like there was a revolution on and the country's very existence was at stake. We are fighting a war Gingrich said back then a war for power. Raise hell. Raise hell all the time. His goal was to retake the House of Representatives. At the time an impossible dream. Republicans had been in the minority for 24 years. People called it the permanent Democratic Congress. Once Newt finally got there he discovered as he would suspected was a place full of losers with Stockholm syndrome. It was chummy mostly guys in suits and ties smoking cigars playing poker together and generally getting along hanging out talking to each other. Also depending on your perspective it was a corrupt cesspool of bribes and giveaways. That is definitely how Gingrich saw it. Republicans did not have much power but they would go along to get along and occasionally do some deals. And most of them had stopped imagining it could be any other way. I learned most of this story from the great political reporter Steve Kornacki. He would just published a book about this time called The Red and The Blue The 1990s and the Birth of Political Tribalism. He is also that excited guy at the big board on MSNBC during elections. He explained that Newt arrived in Congress determined to turn the place upside down. Newt did not want everyone getting along. Republicans were never going to take the majority that way. He wanted to fight and the weapon he used was the media. His arrival in the House coincides with a historic moment in the house and that is the first television camera is placed in the chamber in 1979-- his first year there. And its C-Span. C-Span may not sound exciting to you but A it is still awesome. And B it is a major change. Now anyone can see for themselves what is going on in Congress if they want to. And people in Congress can speak to anyone on the outside. Newt gets it right away. The rest of the House does not. There is a lot of opposition to it because this is a club here. But once the camera's there most members they just kind of ignore it. And they leave at the end of the business day. And they go and they do whatever it is they do after business hours. To Newt Gingrich here it is. I want people to notice this around the country. I got an audience now. Yeah it is Twitter. The gentleman from Georgia Mr. Gingrich is recognized for 60 minutes. Thank you Mr. Speaker. I want to pick up where Mr. Walker left off on the document entitled What is the Matter with the Democratic Foreign Policy by Mr. Frank Gregorsky. OK not Twitter exactly. He is professorial pedantic not a lot of flair. Somehow someday this country has got to learn to live with revolution in the third world. It is endemic. And he starts claiming there is this rule in the house that at the close of business and any day any member can claim the floor for any reason they want for pretty much any amount of time they want. And it is called special orders. And Gingrich starts claiming these special order speeches that were 10 oclock at night 11 oclock at night. It is an empty chamber. His colleagues are asleep. They are drinking. They are not there. They are not listening to this. They are never even going to hear about this-- most of them. But Gingrich knows there are people all across America who have got these new cable boxes in their house who are scanning the dial and seeing what is out there. And some of them are going to pause when they see him. And what they are hearing is he is not giving a dry speech about and now if I can direct your attention to subsection 3 of the agriculture funding-- he is giving these grand speeches about American politics and an American identity and the corrupt Democrat machine. Often Gingrich or one of his few allies was explaining how the Democrats were fringy communist radicals. The whole party everyone in the party was more or less a socialist. It was sort of his version of all Democrats want open borders but less punchy. Since communism does not strike them as an independent inexorable force feeding on totalitarian personalities and concepts McGovern Democrats do not fear it. Trash America indict the president and give the benefit of every doubt to Marxist regimes. That is the standard formula. He is producing what you would now recognize as a cable news show on the floor of the House. And he is performing for the camera and he is giving his monologue. He is giving his monologue on the decay of the Democratic Party the decay of American culture the promise of a Republican Party that embraces opportunity and responsibility and all these things. And there is an audience that starts to tune in. And he knows it. He gets that. He gets the potential of that before anybody else. Newt believed there was a Republican majority out there. Because just a decade earlier Richard Nixon had trounced the Democratic candidate for president. He won 49 out of the 50 states. Clearly there was an appetite for Republican rule. But Republicans were still a minority in the House. People somehow were not syncing up their Republican votes into one Republican ticket. What he needed to do was paint all the Democrats more clearly as the enemy to the voters. And he would do that by associating all of them with a candidate who'd lost to Nixon-- George McGovern. George McGovern was sort of the Bernie Sanders of his day. So lefty he even freaked out a lot of Democrats in '72-- the counterculture anti-war candidate. If Republicans were able in 1972 to score that epic of a landslide running against the Democratic Party of George McGovern and the activists behind him Newt Gingrich believed that is the key to the Republican Party winning everything. If you nationalize politics and you make voters everywhere in the country see in whatever Democrat it is in their backyard who is running for whatever office it is-- Congress or Sheriff or state legislature or dog catcher-- if you get the voters to see that Democrat as no different from George McGovern and the folks around him well you know how those voters are going to react. They are going to go and they are going to vote Republican. And so his idea was to make voters across the country judge politics based on what they saw coming out of Washington based on what they saw coming out of the national media. Based on what they saw on C-Span where over and over again Newt brought up McGovern. In the late '60s and early '70s it became a truism with the entire American left from bomb throwers in Chicago to eastern writers to progressive pinstriped supporters of Eugene McCarthy and McGovern. The Southeast Asia would be fine once the US left. Attacking congressmen by congressmen by name and footnotes. Congressman Harkin on June 26 1979 told the house that the Sandinistas knew more about nurturing democracy than America did. Quote should the United States feel empowered to meddle once again in Nicaragua? This speechifying made the Speaker of the House furious. You remember the Speaker the affable Muppet Tip O'Neill. Newt Gingrich and a couple of the other guys Gingrich acolytes are talking smack about specific congressmen. They are questioning their patriotism on the public record and they are not even there to respond. That was not done. It was against the gentlemanly code of the House. As Speaker Tip O'Neill controls the cameras. And he orders them to pan out and show the empty room that Gingrich and his buddies are addressing. Bob Walker Republican from Pennsylvania happens to be speaking right then. And he takes great umbrage when this happens. But I do want to take a note of something that is evidently happening right now which is a change of procedure here. Tip O'Neill thinks this will make the guys look petty talking to no one. Watching it it is like a surreal Beckett play. A tiny man at the bottom of the screen gestures wildly from a podium as though he is speaking to a big crowd but he is surrounded by empty chairs. It is my understanding that as I deliver this special order this evening the cameras are panning this chamber demonstrating that there is no one here in the chamber to listen to these remarks. That is evidently the work of a change in the pattern of rules around here. It is one more example of how this body is run the kind of arrogance of power that the members are given that kind of change with absolutely no warning. I see the gentleman from California Mr. Coelho was standing in the back of the chamber just a moment ago. Mr. Coelho has talked in recent weeks about shutting off these special orders and not allowing them to even be seen in the countryside. And he stands in the back of the chamber now smiling. I have to feel that perhaps he is getting worried that some of the things that are being said in this chamber in these special orders are in fact influencing people out across the country to think that this body is something less than what the American people think it ought to be. Lots of C-Span watchers today understand the congressmen are putting on a performance. There is not always someone in the audience. But it was new back then. This all sets up a wild showdown between Newt and the Speaker Tip O'Neill. A few days later Gingrich gets time on the floor. OK I will be delighted to yield to our distinguished Speaker if he wishes to continue this. The Speaker of the House Tip O'Neill asking Gingrich to yield so he can say something. And Newt does knowing the Speaker is going to yell at him. This time the chamber is packed with congressmen and reporters both. Here's Tip O'Neill. My personal opinion is this. You deliberately stood on that well before an emptied House and challenged these people. And you challenge their Americanism. And it is the lowest thing that I have ever seen in my 32 years in Congress. Mr. Speaker if I may reclaim my time. As insults go in the US House circa 1984 this is big so big Trent Lott Republican from Mississippi standing near the Speaker says I move we take the Speaker's words down. I move we take the Speaker's words down.   This means that would Tip O'Neill just said to Gingrich is so offensive so toxic that he wants the wrongness of it officially acknowledged perhaps even struck from the historical record as though it had never been said. For five full minutes everyone shuffles around clutching their pearls about Newt about the Speaker's behavior how do we preserve the dignity of the House. The clerk reads out the offending speech once again so that the Chair can decide what to do about it. My personal opinion is that you deliberately stood in that well before an empty House and challenged these people and you challenged their Americanism. And it is the lowest thing that I have ever seen in my 32 years in Congress. The Chair feels that type of characterization should not be used in a debate. This is like saying that was out of line. Do not do that again. That was very bad. But it does not actually erase the words from the historical record. Still it was an epic showdown. Speaker of the House Tip O'Neill being scolded in front of America. Maybe it is hard to understand what a coup this is for a younger congressman. But think of him as a producer a producer of his newly-formed experimental cable news show on C-Span how expertly produced this moment was. Everyone's in the room. The Speaker of the House basically promotes Gingrich's late night program. Then the Speaker gets called out in front of the whole country and he looks arrogant and mean. And Newt Gingrich is at the center of the room like a conductor pointing from one guy to the next guy doling out time as the Speaker gets red in the face and yells over the room. Does the gentleman from Georgia yield? The gentleman Mr. Weaver--  Does the gentleman yield?  And the gentleman Mr. Walker if they would express their opinion to the members of the floor it would be fine. Point of parliamentary inquiry. And the story is covered on the nightly news. This is a turning point for Newt Gingrich. He is now the Pied Piper and other Republicans start rallying to his causes. Not long after this episode Tip O'Neill retires. And he is replaced by Speaker Jim Wright. Newt sees an opening to take Wright down. He thinks it will rally the Republicans in the House. It is a battle they can win. Wright is both cocky and dismissive of the minority party with none of the hail buddy Tip O'Neill warmth. It will be a branding exercise for the new aggressive Republican Party Newt was selling. Here's what happens. He reads a story in the Washington Post about the new Speaker getting 0.50 on the dollar for every one of his books he is selling. It is more of a pamphlet than a book actually but it is a way to give the congressman backdoor donations. The people buying it were like the local Teamsters in his district and supporters at rallies. Newt talks to the papers about this compares Wrights to Mussolini makes speeches. Think of it as though he is standing on his tiptoes shouting over the heads of Congress to the American people-- drain the swamp. That is his intention. Again it is just the idea that here's this clubby elite arrogant institution that the corrupt Democrat machine is powering. And they are so disdainful of you everyday Americans that this is how they behave. And so Gingrich is calling for an ethics committee investigation on the House Speaker. It is like shooting the general. The code of the House is you do not do this. Newt's striking at the top of the food chain. It is brazen. I want to say here as tactical as Gingrich's attack on Wright was from one perspective this was an attack on corrupt lazy Democrats that was long overdue. It felt idealistic for everyone sick of being pushed around in the minority. Gingrich promised a new system that was less corrupt more transparent more accountable to the voters not just like we are putting on a play that we are two parties. But at 600 PM we dropped the mask and make it work. Democrats freaked out when this happened but Republicans were getting into it. It is not like Gingrich launched the campaign and the entire Republican Party signed the letter and that is it. But they did not pull him aside and say stop. And I think even a couple of years earlier with Tip O'Neill that would have happened. Newt gets his ethics investigation into the Speaker's behavior. Wright defends himself petulantly on the House floor. It is true I think the people on my staff were eager to sell these books. I have got to accept some responsibility for that if it was wrong. But the rule does not say it was wrong. It is kind of yes I had a private email server but it was not that big a deal. You know by now how that goes over. After an investigation the most powerful man in the House who had served for 34 years is forced to resign. Wright gives a speech on the House floor that reminded me of Jeff Flake retiring from the Senate last year. And it is grievously hurtful to our society when vilification becomes an accepted form of political debate negative campaigning becomes a full-time occupation when members of each party become self-appointed vigilantes carrying out personal vendettas against members of the other party. And he frames it in terms of something wrong is happening in this institution. In God's name that is not what this institution's supposed to be all about. When I came here a congressman's word was a congressman's word and that mattered for something. When I came here we did not question each other's honor. I mean it is all subtext to all of this. He is not using his name obviously but the subtext to all of this is this is Newt Gingrich. Harsh personal attacks on one another's motives and one another's character drown out the quiet logic of serious debate on important issues. Surely that is unworthy of our institution. Jim Wright painted his resignation as a sacrifice on the altar of civility. He seemed to think his resignation would be so dramatic it would put an end to the wars Gingrich had started in the House. Obviously the opposite is true. Republicans in Congress are galvanized by Wright's fall and Newt's tactics to get him out. The wars that Gingrich dreamed of are starting to materialize. Newt becomes the second most powerful Republican in the House and he starts making himself into a franchise in the mid '80s. He starts running this organization called GOPAC. It is basically a candidate training organization and fundraising tool. That is where he develops these audiotapes little by-mail cassette tapes that teach potential candidates how to do Newt's divisive brand of politics. John Boehner has talked about driving around listening to tapes like this in the car. I do not want to repeat it. But I will just say I have said this now for six months. And every audience I say it to nods yes and understands. You cannot maintain civilization with 12-year-olds having babies 15-year-olds shooting each other 17-year-olds dying of AIDS and 18-year-olds getting a diploma they cannot read. And I stop audiences and say now if you disagree with that and you think you can maintain a civilization with those things going on the rest of what I am going to say is irrelevant. You are not us. I do not want to waste your time. You are not us. You are on one team or the other. So that is a lot. Gingrich is almost at the height of his power. He has an army of Republicans falling in line using the same language that they are going into battle-- he has media attention. But it is the same old entrenched Democratic Congress. The Republicans keep winning these big presidential victories but the House is stuck with that permanent Republican minority. That is when the second guy comes into this story the guy that made Newt Gingrich's dreams finally come true. And no I do not mean Democratic President Bill Clinton though you could certainly argue that that is why Newt gets his wish. But something happens before that-- someone. This is a man who I think has had an astonishing impact on America. He is in many ways the quintessential American. Here's Newt Gingrich introducing him at a training event for Republican candidates in 1995. One of the reasons I believe in the end we will win is the person who is about to talk to you. We now have a media giant who stands astride the entire of society. Join me in welcoming a man who is creating the 21st century-- Rush Limbaugh.   Rush Limbaugh was the 