Peter Coleman runs an outfit called the International Center for Cooperation and Conflict Resolution at Columbia University which means that he spends a lot of time thinking about disputes between people that seem unresolvable and what can be done in those situations. And he tells this story-- he wrote about this in a book too-- about the abortion debate in Boston back in the 1990s. Boston is a very Catholic city of course. You know inflammatory rhetoric really on both sides. And then in 1994 there was a shooting that took place. John Salvi III went into two clinics in Brookline Massachusetts. And he shot and killed two women. And he took a rifle and put it to the head of one woman and shot and killed her and said that is what you get. You should pray the rosary more. I think the pro-life movement was ashamed and infuriated by what had happened. I think the pro-choice movement was terrified and traumatized. And so the governor the archdiocese called for dialogue. Which is kind of a standard thing that people do after a tragedy like this. The idea is if we just talk to each other better people would not be getting killed. Let us have a dialogue. And in this case the dialogue actually happened. Three leaders from the local pro-life movement agreed to meet with three leaders of the local pro-choice movement. And they agreed it all had to happen in secret because of just how sensitive the whole issue was because how supporters on each side of the issue would see them meeting with people on the other side. They agreed to meet exactly four times. So they brought these women together. And reportedly the pro-life group had met in a Friendly's beforehand and prayed because they really feared sitting down at the table with this other side. They really believed that just being near them could taint them could affect them. Because in their mind at the time they were murderers. And to be with them not only was dangerous but also could affect their reputations within their own communities and could put their life at risk given what had just happened. At first the conversation was hard. Even though they agreed to some guidelines and how to have this conversation in a way that they felt would be constructive it was hard to hold to those guidelines initially. And you write about that that there was a lot of finger pointing back and forth. Everybody thought we are not going to do any finger pointing. But in fact they could not help themselves is what you write. It is what they did. It is what they had been doing. They were used to doing it. They knew the talking points. And it was so hard to try to put those away. And because basically each side saw the other side as just-- Evil. As evil or insane. Absolutely. These are precisely the conflicts that Peter Coleman studies. They are the conflicts where whatever the original dispute happened to be about everybody has moved past that long ago. And things have snowballed. And people started to organize their identities around the conflict. Coleman says that these happen in families. They happen in universities. They happen in politics of course. In looking at all the international disputes since 1816 there are researchers who have calculated that 5 of those disputes were these enduring conflicts. They lasted on average 36 years. They accounted for half of all wars between nations 34 of all civil wars. Of course the question is what do we do about these conflicts? How do we resolve them? Well Peter Coleman says that two things can happen. First sometimes a big disruptive event can come along and shake everything up. Like the Arab Spring could conceivably end up nudging the dynamic of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. And he says second sometimes it is just long-term changes lead each side to be more open to getting along and less open to violence. In Boston in the 1990s after these abortion clinic murders these women over the course of their four meetings-- They start to get some sense of the other person-- of the other group-- that is different from what they came in with. They start to experience each other as women who are decent women. And ultimately they end up speaking in secret for six years and really come to know each other and come to deeply respect and care for each other one another across the divide all six of these women. A decade later when we checked with these women this past week the three of them that we reached-- on both sides of the issue-- told us that the experience of these talks was life-changing for them. On NPR's All Things Considered back in 2003 one of them Frances Hogan told reporter Margot Adler about how she had been changed. I could share a little anecdote-- two little anecdotes-- when the day of the Salvi shootings I was on one of the local television news channels with Nicki Nichols Gamble They had wanted a per-- We should say that is another one of the-- Another participant in the dialogue. And we had been called there to kind of-- I guess as representatives of the pro-life and pro-choice positions. However before the show began Nicki and I wound up in the same waiting room to go on television. And she was there with her husband. And I came in and sat down. And I never said a word to her. I never got up and gave her a hug. I never got up and said I am sorry about what has happened. I said nothing. Because I was-- it was like we were in our assigned roles sort of. And I deeply regretted that as a human being. I felt that was a failure of my own. Later after we began this dialogue but while it was still secret I ran into Nicki at a State House hearing. I think it was a judiciary committee hearing. And there were a lot of people from both sides in the audience that day. And she walked by me and she tugged my sleeve as if to say you do not have to acknowledge that I am here. But I am just saying hi. So I turned around and did acknowledge her. Because I said I am not going to have that failing twice. And a couple of people had come up to me and said you know Nicki Nichols Gamble? And I was able to say actually she is a very lovely person. And it was shocking to some people as it probably would have been to me before this all began. So I said you know we are never going to move the issue forward if we do not talk about it in a civilized way publicly. OK so they are are all getting along so well. They have this amazing dialogue the kind of thing really that seems to never ever usually happen. Did it nudge any of their views about abortion? Well again here's Peter Coleman. To me one of the more fascinating things about what happened is that through these conversations the relationships got thicker. The relationships got more nuanced and more caring. And they became more polarized on the issue of pro-life pro-choice. So what does that mean more polarized? It means that they became more certain that their point of view on the issue was right and that the other point of view on the issue from the other side was wrong. One of the women Madeline McComish explained that this way. She said having to dig deep to explain your reasoning and why you believe what it is that you believe in a group like this it forces you to crystallize your own views. And so of course you end up even more convinced about your side. And as a result of this Peter Coleman says where they ended up was-- Even though they cared deeply about these women they differed fundamentally on this issue. So is this a success or a failure? Well from where we sit it is a complete success. How? Because what did happen is that the rhetoric changed. The conversations that would happen publicly around abortion around pro-life pro-choice lost a lot of the edge and the vitriol in the community that it had had prior to the shooting and prior to the dialogue process. Because these women were leaders in those movements on both sides and-- They consciously decided that part of what they had done is contribute to the conditions where an event like this could take place. Empathy has its limits. People are not going to agree. And the best that we can hope for is we will just try to see each other as well-meaning people that we respect and keep things from getting to the point where we are trying to out and out destroy each other. Well today on our program we have two stories which show just how difficult that is how difficult it is to keep on the path of respect. In each of these stories there is a pair of nemeses who get incredibly close to solving their problems to actually getting along a little bit. And then not only do they backtrack they backtrack royally. It is fascinating to see how far they go in the other direction and how they flip on a dime from one position to the other. One of the two stories takes place in Eastern Europe. The other takes place in another land where the rivalries are ancient and heartfelt. I am talking about suburban New Jersey. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act one Solidarity For Never. Poland had one of those national events a few years ago that you would think would pull an entire country together. It was a tragedy. It was a plane accident in April 2010 where the Polish president the first lady the country's military leaders dozens of officials and leading Polish writers and thinkers-- 96 six people-- all died when their plane crashed in Russia killing everybody on board. And from the outside this was this horrifying thing to witness people go through any country go through. But the more complicated thing was what happened inside Poland after the crash. Perhaps you have guessed where this is going. It did not pull the country together. It emphatically did not do that. Amy Drozdowska-McGuire is an American reporter who for the past several years has been living in Poland. She has that story. To understand the incredibly odd things that happened after the crash you have to understand that before the crash Poland was a country divided. Split right in half. You started to hear people talk about Poland A and Poland B. Poland A is the wealthier half less conservative and more educated more urban and younger. All for being part of the European Union. Poland B is the eastern part of the country. Deeply Catholic and conservative. Older and poorer. The one suspicious of the EU and the influence of godless Western Europe. Poland A sees Poland B as backwards. Poland B feels like it is the real Poland. And who are these snotty city people in their skinny jeans looking down on them? The split between Poland A and B was also a political split. And the biggest wedge between the two halves was the late president Lech Kaczynski. Half of the country Poland A passionately hated him.  The potato the midget. Napoleon also because of his height. Psychopath. Schizophrenic. This is Dominik Taras. In this story he is going to be the stand-in for Poland A. He is young early twenties born and raised in Warsaw. He is part of the Poland who could not stand Kaczynski thought he was an international embarrassment. And so Poland A liked to embarrass him.  Kazcka or the duck. I mean that is another name that we called him. That last nickname's a play on Kaczynski's surname. Kazcka. A duck. Not a bird exactly befitting the figurehead of a nation that wants to be taken seriously. To Dominik and Poland A Kaczynski was a blundering xenophobe anti-EU mired in the past and holding the country back from a future as part of the west.  Speaking for the other half of Poland that is Poland B here's Ewa Stankiewicz. She is a filmmaker and activist in her early forties. Tall but slight with this definite weariness about her. She wears a necklace with a small delicate cross. And she did not appreciate those Poland A types mocking and humiliating Kaczynski.  They made fun of him as much as they could. They took his dignity away from him during his lifetime but millions of Poles respected him. He was a statesman who was a great patriot. For Poland B people like Ewa Kaczynski was a hero. The defender of pure Polishness and national sovereignty in a time when EU integration was starting to threaten that. Kaczynski was their savior. Following the crash it was as if the whole division between Poland A and Poland B just disappeared. You would hear it everywhere. On the street on TV. Slogans like Let us Be One. Time to Stand Together. And these were people from two Polands. People who just days earlier would have told you themselves they kind of hated each other.  I felt a unity between Poles. A unity within the grief and the pain. And that we were living through it together. I felt a closeness between people. And for the first time I felt-- I do not know how to call it-- but perhaps a feeling of patriotism.  It really showed people how to be patriotic. It was almost-- everyone came together. I must admit actually it is the first time I have ever seen anything like this. For Dominik the memory that sticks out the most from this time was the day the country sounded the air raid sirens signaling the whole nation to stop everything and remember Kaczynski and the other crash victims. Remember this is for the man half the country hated. Including Dominik.  It was absolutely everyone. Just everyone came to a standstill. I was actually riding my scooter at the time. So while all the cars around me-- while they were actually honking their horns in tune or with the sirens at the same time-- I was there on my little scooter on the road. But I felt that I also had to honk my horn even though it was a tiny scooter. So it really was not a match for the cars. But I thought I had to do it. The grief that was reuniting Poland had a center the presidential palace in Warsaw sort of like the Polish White House. After the crash people came there from all over the country people from Poland A and Poland B. And they held vigil outside the gates for hours at a time. They brought flowers and candles and laid them on the sidewalk in front of the palace. Pretty soon they completely filled the street. A few days after the plane crash the Polish scouts-- they are like the Polish Boy Scouts-- added their own tribute to the sea of flowers and candles a cross. It was a simple structure standing about 12 feet high without color or any ornamentation made by hand out of wood.  Now in Polish culture the cross has a history which is more than a thousand years old.  Putting a cross there is actually quite a good idea. You have to remember that the cross in our culture is very close to the nation. It is close to our history. The cross is our identity. It is our culture. Everyone from around was we are going there. And it was kind of a duty of every Pole to do that. I mean this man was our president no matter which way you look at it. So going there putting your flowers or wreath down lighting a candle this is the way that it should have happened. Pretty soon this 12-foot wooden cross became the centerpiece of the entire nation's grief. You would see the coverage of all the people there on that street those huge crowds of mourners and always in the center of the frame was the cross. It did not take too long though-- just three days in fact-- before all this unity started to crack. It was like the end of a long family holiday dinner when tensions finally start to flare and the same old arguments come out. Kaczynski's family had declared their wish that he be buried at Wawel Castle Cathedral in Krakow. And the church gave its consent. Wawel is kind of like the Polish Westminster where the country's saints kings and national heroes are entombed.  So with the Wawel that is how it all started. The moment when they announced that they were going to bury the presidential couple at the Wawel Cathedral that is when Poles just kind of split up. The  hit the fan. That is when it all started. To get why this caused such a huge uproar why Dominik and the rest of Poland A freaked out about this I have to underline that the kind of people buried at Wawel are the stuff of legends like kings who slay dragons saints who performed miracles. So imagine the reaction when they announced that President Kaczynski and his wife Maria would be buried at Wawel. It was like Poland A woke up and remembered wait a minute. We cannot stand Kaczynski.  It was a joke. I really could not believe it. We all thought it was a joke. I would have thought that Wawel you know a place which is holy for all Poles-- I mean it is a symbol of Polish history-- It is holy. It is untouchable. I mean we all thought that the Wawel's closed. I mean there is no more room to put any more people inside there down in the catacombs. Suddenly there is room for Kaczynski. So Kaczynski being buried in the Wawel it is like he was rewriting the history books. And it is just amazing to think that the decision of one man is able to ruin a thousand years of this heritage by deciding to bury Kaczynski there. In the end on April 23 13 days after the crash the late president and his wife were laid to rest at Wawel. So Poland A lost that first round. If the whole Wawel thing was a slap in the face of Poland A the thing that set off Poland B was the election to replace Kaczynski. In the election Poland B's candidate was-- I am not kidding you-- the late president's identical twin brother Jaroslaw Kaczynski. If you were with Poland B you could vote for not just your beloved president's political heir not just his flesh and blood brother but a guy who looked exactly like him. Even their own mother could never tell them apart. Poland A's choice was Bronislaw Komorowski the former parliamentary speaker the guy who had taken over as acting head of state after the plane crash. The race was nail-bitingly close. But at the final count Bronislaw Komorowski Poland A's choice won. For Poland A this was like the restart the country needed to start moving on and get back to business. But for Poland B this was a huge blow. Not only was their hero dead. But now they had lost the power too. By the time of the election for weeks on end day and night Poland B had been holding vigil at the cross. Even after the funeral was long over even after the period of national mourning had officially ended the crowds at the presidential palace never stopped. Week after week the flowers and candles continued to fill the street and pile up around the wooden cross. And Ewa Stankiewicz was there from the start nearly round the clock filming it all talking with the people there. This is from her footage which she has released as two films Solidarity 2010 and The Cross.  Ewa filmed men and women standing out in the rain at 300 AM to keep the vigil going. People with tears in their eyes talking about their grief and loss.  And then after just a few days things started to shift. When you watch the interviews you start to see this hint of something different in the faces of people. That shift from composed sadness to something closer to fear and an edge that starts to underline their voices. There is this one word that starts coming up and keeps coming up. Zamach assassination. People start bringing up the idea that the plane crash was no accident. And the dark figure looming behind all this fear is Russia. They were behind all this. If anyone has reasons to not trust the Russians Poland's got them. More than a century of war and brutal occupation by Russia. Communism and the unrelenting paranoia of living in a police state. Those kinds of reasons. For Poland A though this is history. And they are all about looking forward. Whereas for Poland B this is all very much alive. For them Russia is still a threat. This is actually a huge part of why Poland B loves the late president Kaczynski. He was a hardliner when it came to Russia. As a matter of fact he would not even speak with Russians would not be in the same room with them. He was Poland B's anti-Russian hero. And the new president Poland A's Komorowski was in league with the enemy.  They saw him as a kind of Russian envoy a spy someone who is not worthy of becoming president of Poland who actually has no moral right to become president of Poland. At one point Poland B people actually started spreading this weird rumor. That Komorowski was not a real Pole. That actually he was descended from a murdering Bolshevik grandfather who slit the throats of the real Komorowskis and usurped the family name. So the new president was not even Polish. He was secretly Russian. And if that sounds nuts to you that Russia would have killed the Polish president here's how the facts lined up for the Poles. The plane crash happened in Russia. And even more than that the plane full of all those Polish elite-- political leaders financial heads writers-- they were on their way to commemorate the massacre of another group of Polish elite in the Second World War. More than 20000 murdered in the woods. And the whole thing covered up for decades. Also remember the trauma of their history with Russia is very recent. Moscow controlled Poland until 1989. So this idea that the Russians were at it again seemed entirely plausible to lots of people. Even a Poland A guy like Dominik told me sure he thinks the plane crash was just an unfortunate accident. But listen a lot of crazy stuff went down during communism. It is a perfectly reasonable thing to think the Russians might be behind it. Though Poland B did not stop with a few reasonable suspicions. You started to hear elaborate conspiracy theories and secret plots to destroy the nation. Like any group rallying around a cause Poland B adopted a symbol the cross. That simple wooden cross the Polish Boy Scouts put up had officially become the symbol of their country in crisis. All their grief all their fear went into those wooden beams. It was a bit like when the cross became the symbol of a free Poland during solidarity in the '80s. A symbol for the country's united fight against the communists. This time though the Poland B people by the cross felt abandoned turned on by their own countrymen. While Poland A everybody else was starting to feel uncomfortable impatient. With Poland A and Poland B starting to go after each other again things there in front of the cross were starting to get ugly. Violence started happening at first in small ways. Drunk young people would stumble out of the nearby bars in the area and mock the Poland B people praying by the cross. They would curse them out or even physically attack them.  There was an example of a young man who kicked a woman. I do not think she would even been praying for a very long time but a lot of passers by knelt down to pray as they passed. And I think she was one of those. There was another incident of a woman who was pushed. And she fell. And she nearly cracked open her head on the pavement. There were incidents of people putting out their cigarettes on the necks of people. Dominik and Poland A though saw this violence differently. The way he saw it it was the cross people who were out of control. They were embarrassing hostile. And it was starting to seem like they were never going to leave.  I did not want to go there. I mean the atmosphere was just too aggressive. I mean you would go there and you would immediately be accused of being a spy or being sent by Moscow to be there or something. There was even an anecdote going around at that time about the cross that even if Jesus had come for the cross they would have said what are you doing here you Jew? Get out of here. You see this is when Poland A started to feel like it was time time for those hostile people to stop camping out in a public street day and night like they owned the place to take down the giant cross standing in front of a secular government building. The plan to take away the cross was careful diplomatic. It would be done with the utmost respect. It would be taken to a place of honor the nearby Church of St. Anne. The right people would be there to do the job-- Catholic priests church leaders and Polish Boy Scouts-- the very people who had put the cross there in the first place. So with that plan in place the day came to take down the cross. And on that day all hell broke loose. Truckloads of police were there. Thousands of protesters pushing against the barricades erected around the cross. They were chanting and holding signs that said If you are a Pole then come with us and Komorowski traitor of the state and It is our cross. It is our cross. At one point a woman tied herself to the cross with rope and started shouting that the cross is a symbol of the 96 people who died in the catastrophe that we will not let it be taken away. When the priests and scouts showed up people started screaming at them. They chanted defend the cross. And shouted at them calling them Judas Judas and Gestapo. Keep in mind these were the conservative older very Catholic people of Poland B shouting Judas at priests who were there to move a cross calling them Nazis.  The key thing for me which really got me angry was the fact that they were offending scouts and priests. I mean these are people for the public good. So why are these people being shouted at and slandered? Only someone without a soul or a mind could do something like this. You would have to be really kind of an animal to be throwing such slanderous comments at these people who are only doing good for other people in the world.  The scouts were totally disorientated. They had tears in their eyes. And the people started calling out to them and to the priests not to do it not to take the cross away. And they asked the priests to start praying with them. And the people started praying. And the priests joined them in prayer. Some people started pushing through the police barriers put up for the occasion. And police tried to push them back. Then the police brought out the pepper spray and things got even more nuts.  You could see these granddads going at fisticuffs with the other people. You have got grandmothers elderly women beating people with their walking sticks almost. They broke through the barriers and they were rallying people to come and defend the cross. You know come with us. Things got so out of control that in the end the government officials in charge of the operation had to call the whole thing off. The cross stayed put. It is not what happened that day they tried to take the cross that really surprised me that shocked me into seeing a meanness within the country that I did not think existed was possible that really brought out the very worst in people. It was what happened after. When Dominik Taras pulling for Poland A threw a party a huge Facebook-led event attended by thousands. Those Poland A people who said to Poland B if you are going to pull a protest like that fine. Then we are going to protest your protest. It was the exact opposite of all this angry unyielding earnestness. They dressed up as sumo wrestlers put on Star Wars costumes and danced there in the streets in front of the cross defenders. They tossed around a beach ball. They did the wave. They blew bubbles and sang children's nursery rhymes. They waved around signs like Take down the presidential palace. It is getting in the way of the cross. But then it changed. It stopped being so light-hearted. It felt more like one group mocking another's most sincere beliefs their deepest fears. Like when I saw a bunch of Poland A people parading around a cross made out of beer cans and another person dressed up as a bishop in robes made out of toilet paper. And then the duck came out.  I mean that was like a cuddly toy in the shape of a duck right? A nice allusion to the surname of the Kaczynski brothers.  Kaczka which means duck in Polish. And this duck was tossed around like a football. And ripped apart.  It was quite emotional I would say. This duck was being kind of tossed around. And then suddenly someone grabbed it and ripped off a leg here and ripped off a leg there. And by the end of it the whole thing was in shreds and all the filling was up in the air. Like all the feathers from the inside-- this kind of guts-- were floating around in the air.  People were shouting one more one more. Which meant that they were calling for the death of the second Kaczynski his brother. Well that is her interpretation of one more. Dominik saw it another way.  Give us one more. Give us one more. And then someone just threw another one in there.  It felt terrible to wish death onto someone. It is not something I would wish on my worst enemy. Let me just say here I am of Polish descent. I have lived in Poland off and on for a few years now. And this is where I felt like I did not know this country anymore. For me Poland's a tough love kind of place. Grandmothers yelling at you to dress your kid more warmly. Hard on itself. But deeply sincere. Decent. Where the local version of the TV show Big Brother never really took off because Poles thought it was mean in a way that made them uncomfortable. Their version of So You Think You Can Dance is You Can Dance. It is like in the end they want to watch each other succeed. Not tear each other down. And I always thought this Poland A Poland B thing was an anomaly. Something they would all get over. Post-communist growing pains. But it is just started to occur to me that maybe this is what post-communist means. This is democracy. They traded a common enemy and a common cause for a system that pits them against their fellow citizens and turns their own countrymen into their worst enemies. That whole thing about coming together after a tragedy that tragedy brings people closer together that it brings out their best? It can work the other way too. It can bring out the worst and drive people apart. Especially when it is your own country your family. Your family your own countrymen they are the ones who have the real power to destroy you. Komorowski kept trying to come up with ideas to take down the cross Offered compromises all of which were shot down. At one point he tried a plaque one that honored Lech Kaczynski and all the victims of the plane crash. They put it right on the outside front wall of the presidential palace. The plaque itself even had a good-sized cross on it. Defenders of the cross were not impressed. A 71-year-old man threw a jar of his own feces at it. In the end the cross simply disappeared. In the wee hours of a Thursday morning in late September guards quietly and unceremoniously came to the cross took it down and carried it inside the palace before anybody realized what was happening before anyone could stop them. A non-event. It is now finally at the Church of St. Anne as originally planned. The two sides have continued in small ways to keep up the fight. Right where the cross stood at the palace a group meets to pray every night at 900 PM. Ewa Stankiewicz is often with them. People are constantly leaving crosses. The authorities take them away but people just bring more. Dominik told me there is even one on wheels that they pull around bring out hide bring it out again. To this empty space in front of a government building that people are still trying to fill. Amy Drozdowska-McGuire in Warsaw. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Nemeses stories of seemingly intractable long-term conflicts. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two A Tale of Two Jerseys. Chris Gethard was a freshman at Rutgers when this story took place the story in which he discovered a nemesis he did not feel anything for at all until suddenly he did feel something for fiercely and fully. Rutgers is the state school of New Jersey. And Chris says that when he was there back in 1998 it was he says kind of a low point for the university and for him. He says that they had started all kinds of construction projects to rebuild the campus but he says they had not gotten very far. And buildings seemed to be just falling apart. He says his classes were terrible. It was hundreds of unmotivated kids in massive seminars. He was miserable. He takes it from here. Rutgers during my stay was both overcrowded and filthy. I lived in this tiny dorm room with this Estonian nationalist known as the Russian bear. And the view from our dorm was the Raritan River which does not move. It is just like a streak of liquid malaria. The main reason I went there was because they did not make me write an essay. And it just blew. It just was the worst. So I did what anybody who was a college freshman in 1998 would have done. I sat on the internet all day. Specifically on the instant messenger program where my na