Now a man who took a leap into the unknown back in 1947. He was a New York City bus driver named William Cimillo. For a while he became the most famous bus driver in the country. Though I think what that really means is that he was the only famous bus driver in the country. He told his story on television. Pepsi-Cola presents Faye Emerson. Hello again. Do you ever think of getting away from it all? A bus driver had that same feeling. And he made every headline in the country. So I asked him to come up here and tell us all about it. Hello Bill. Pleasure to meet you. Thank you. Come on. Sit down and let us talk. Hey Charlie you got a couple of Pepsis here for us? Pepsis right here. Thanks Charlie. Yes madam. OK. So I just want to describe what is happening here. It is black and white. The set of this TV show is a living room but like a complete living room with everything. Window blinds paintings on the walls there is a credenza. This was back before TV figured out that the only part of the living room that they actually need for a talk show is the couch. So OK. A butler-- yes a butler-- hands the host Faye Emerson a silver tray with a bottle of Pepsi and two glasses. Faye pours her guest a soda and-- Will you tell us what happened please? I do not .  Wonderful. Well it is one of those things. I was on the job for about 20 years and I really got tired of it all you know. Up and down every day the same people the same stops nickels dimes transfers and-- well this morning I thought I would try something different. So I come out of my garage. Instead of making a right turn to go off to my route I thought I would make a left turn. And that was the first thought you would really given to it. Just you did it on impulse. That is right. So I made this left turn and I went west towards George Washington Bridge. It was a beautiful morning. The sun was shining. So I got on the other side of the Washington Bridge-- I was in Jersey then-- and I stopped for breakfast. After breakfast Cimillo got back in his bus and he did not drive to the Bronx to pick up his passengers on his usual route. He headed south on US Route 1. Cimillo had been a bus driver with what was then called the Surface Transportation System of New York for 17 years without any problems. Went to work every day never complained people said. As he drove further and further away from New York City and from his job and from his you know life he switched the destination sign from Subway to Special. Hours passed. I kept riding. Before I knew it I was in Washington. And I was right in front of the White House. You ever been to Washington before? Never been there. Never. So I decided to look around. I looked around for 15 20 minutes. When I come back there is a policeman standing by the bus. And he asked me he says what are you doing here with this great big bus in a restricted parking area? Right in front of the White House was not it? Right in front of the place. I said I am waiting for a delegation of union officials. They are up there on business. And-- Pretty fast thinking. Cimillo got back in his bus kept driving south. He said he even picked up a hitchhiker a sailor who rode with him for two days. Then on the third day Cimillo and his bus arrived in Hollywood Florida just north of Miami. It was late. He said he went for a swim. --moonlight bathing. I enjoyed that very much. Oh what a thrill. It was. William Cimillo was 1300 miles from the Bronx. 1300 miles from New York traffic from the daily grind. And he was almost out of money. He went to the Gulfstream Park Race Track. He liked to gamble. We do not know how much money he put down but he left the track with 2.60. Same day he also went to the closest Western Union and sent this telegram to his boss. Quote With disabled bus number 1310 stop. In need of 50 stop. Send money to Hollywood Florida stop. Cimillo. So I am waiting at the telegraph office for the money and two policemen come over. They says you are wanted. I said what for? They says for stealing a bus. I said oh no. I did not steal that bus. I said they gave it to me. Well one word led to the other. They said you are still arrested. Well today on our radio program what happens when you take a crazy leap into the unknown having no idea if it is going to work out or what is going to happen next. Will you end up on a beach in Florida happy and carefree? Will you end up in handcuffs? We have three stories of people risking everything in their lives including the surprising thing that happened next to this bus driver William Cimillo. Stay with us. You did what everybody always wanted to do. Just get away from everything. That is what I wanted to do. Talking about getting away from it all. Well if you are planning to get away from it all you may like to know that no matter where you go you are almost sure to find friendly sparkling Pepsi-Cola waiting for you. And of course feel free to pop open a delicious Pepsi as you listen to this next act Act One. By the way we are not getting paid for that at all. Act One Busman's Holiday. OK. So you remember where we left off. Cimillo had just been arrested in Hollywood Florida by two police officers. Joe Richman is the one who dug up this old TV interview and he picks up the story from there. After the arrest two New York detectives and a mechanic were sent down to Florida to bring Cimillo back along with his bus. The mechanic drove the bus but Cimillo told people later the mechanic could not really handle it. His driving made the detectives nervous. So the cops actually put Cimillo back behind the wheel. And then right before they arrived in York City they switched drivers again. They put the mechanic back at the wheel of the bus and Cimillo dutifully got into his handcuffs. So here's what happened next. As the bus pulled up to the steps of the Beach Street Police Station in Manhattan hundreds of people had gathered and they were cheering. In photographs you see Cimillo being led through the crowd by the cops and he has a huge smile. He is beaming. Over the time it took to drive back from Florida to New York news had spread about the busnapping. William Cimillo had become a folk hero. William Cimillo. The busman who took a holiday. And brother what a holiday. Just wanted to drive feel the tang of spring in the air. Busmen in the Bronx greeted their passengers today with a cry all aboard for Florida! Ah spring. But now here is Don Elda. That was NBC. The Daily News wrote It must have been a wonderful trip and we hope Bill's boss will try to understand. From the New York World-Telegram We know just how he felt. Who has not yearned for escape for change for fairer scenes? From as far away as Michigan The Traverse City Eagle wrote Across the nation today thousands of office workers and laborers went to their humdrum jobs with hearts a little lighter because of what William L. Cimillo did to escape the same kind of boredom that fills their ordered lives. Cimillo was indicted on charges of grand larceny. He was facing up to 10 years in prison. Cimillo's fellow New York City bus drivers-- who you would think would be the least sympathetic people in the country to his whole joyride-- they organized a fundraiser to pay his legal fees. Letters and telegrams of support came in from around the country. The court of public opinion was delivering its verdict and soon the Surface Transportation System of New York decided to drop the charges. Not only that they gave him his job back. On his first day back on the route a line of people waited to ride Cimillo's bus. One article reported that after school let out 350 screaming high school girls tried to get onto his 44-seat bus ignoring three other buses. They wanted his autograph. In the end William Cimillo was incredibly lucky. He took a huge leap fled home cut out on his job committed a crime and he got away with it because people loved the story. For the rest of his life he was that guy who took a city bus to Florida. He had his day in the sun. This is Richard Cimillo the bus driver's son. His dad died in 1975. He just felt like a star I guess. He was recognized wherever he went. He was not just another the bus driver you know? He was somebody. I guess that is what he felt. You say it so begrudgingly about him being a star.  Because you know every time we went out every place we went there was always-- you know it was like a movie star. Let me put it to you that way. And after a while I think my mother got tired of it. And I got tired of it. You know what I am saying? But he never got tired of it. Richard and his family never found the story as charming as most New Yorkers did starting with the day their dad stole bus number 1310. Let me explain something to you. I was 12 years old at the time. And after I come home from school my mother was crying. And I was well Ma why are you crying? And she said well he did not come home. I wonder where he is. Why would not he come home for supper and all that. And next day the same thing. He did not come home. Not a phone call. So she called the garage. They did not know where he is. The bus never come back to the garage. It just disappeared. And so we used to gather together at my grandmother's house. My mother crying my grandmother crying it was like a wake. I mean you are 12 years old at the time. What did you think might have happened? Either the bus ran off the road someplace maybe went into a lake. This is me thinking you know. Maybe it was a big accident that nobody knew about. So I really thought deep down that he must have died. It was not until his dad was arrested in Hollywood Florida that the family finally knew what had happened. Richard says he never sat down with his dad and really talked about why he did what he did even as an adult. Was it true his dad just got the idea one morning to spontaneously drive to Florida like he would said? He did not plan that at all? Did he really think he would get away with it? And the biggest question-- I do not know if my mother ever asked why did not you call. I never asked. He never called. Not a word. You know I looked up to him he was my father. But after the Florida incident I had problems. I had problems looking up. That was a tough time for me. Even now the word he uses when he talks about his dad's bus trip is embarrassing. But there is someone else in the family who has a completely different take on this. Richard's younger brother Dennis. Quick heads up their voices are remarkably similar. It is a good thing to me. To me he is still my hero you know? There is one simple reason the two brothers see this so differently. Dennis was just a baby when their father disappeared. He does not remember any of it. He does not remember his mother and grandmother crying. He did not think his dad had driven into a lake. He did not picture him dead in an accident. Dennis' vision of the whole thing is closer to Easy Rider if Easy Rider took place on a municipal bus. I could just see my father  putting the pedal to the metal and just go and keep on going. In the drive just looking out the window and driving. The way my father was being carefree and saying you know what? I am just driving. I have nothing on my head. I have no pressure today. I have nothing going on. Let me keep on going. Dennis has a collection of memorabilia about the bus trip. He pulls out a large manila folder. On the front it says Dad's Event. There are dozens of old photographs and articles and a videotape with footage from 1947. We go down to the basement to watch it. This is from an old newsreel that was taken at the time. It is really short. That is the bus coming in. It is his dad arriving back in New York. And right now he is being escorted into the courthouse going in front of the judge and being arraigned right now. That is it. Now Richard the older brother he had told me about the same newsreel. He had seen it the week it was actual news in a movie theater when he was 12. I am sitting there and all of a sudden boom. My father's picture is up on the screen. And I am looking there I was stunned. You see your father as a kid handcuffed detectives on both sides of him bringing him into the courthouse. I do not know anybody that would feel proud of something like that. So that is the older brother Richard. But here in the basement with Dennis his take on this-- I enjoy every minute of it. Just makes me idolize him. I wish I could do things like that sometimes. In a way a small way Dennis has done that. He sees himself as a free spirit. He says he got that from his dad. He does not worry about things too much. He likes to gamble. He started his own businesses distributing beer and soda. He was his own boss which meant no pension no paid vacation no security no guarantees. He says it is different from the life his brother chose. And Richard the older brother would agree with that. The lesson Richard took from his father's story was to be a responsible person to think about the consequences of his actions. Richard worked all his life as a fireman which oddly he calls a safe job. He is retired now. But as it turned out when I interviewed Richard he and his wife were getting ready to drive to Florida as he said the legit way. Did you ever want to do something like what your dad did? Did you ever want to-- No no no. No. No. I knew I did not want to do something as drastic as that. So that is the biggest difference between my father and me. My father never worried. Do not worry the rent will be paid. Do not worry we have got this food on the table. Do not worry about it. I worry about everything. I worry about my kids. They had to go to school. They had to go to college. I worry about the snow.  My father never worried about nothing. My father never worried about nothing. He worried-- you know I worry. I do not sleep nights. I toss and turn I am still worrying.  So you wish you did not worry as much? I wish I could have lived that-- yeah. I wish I could not worry. After Richard's dad William Cimillo got his job back in 1947 he went on to drive a bus in the Bronx for the next 16 years with no detours. Once a reporter asked him do you still think about hitting the open road? Turning left and heading across the bridge again? Cimillo said yes he thought about it. But when you tell somebody a joke he said it is never as funny the second time. Joe Richmond. Sarah Kate Kramer produced that story with him. That is part of their podcast series Radio Diaries which you can find and subscribe to at radiodiaries.org. Act Two Where We are Going We Do not Need Roads. So now a story about people who want to take a different kind of leap a kind of quantum leap you could say. There was this study done by the Pew Research Center and Smithsonian Magazine back in February published in April. The study was about future technologies. And basically they called up 1001 Americans. I do not understand why it is 1001 and not just 1000. Maybe 1001 just seemed sexier or something. Anyway they called up 1001 people. They asked them what new technological advances they expected to see in the future and what technological advances they wanted to see. So there were questions like would you eat meat that was grown in a lab? Would you get a brain implant to improve your mental capacity? The answer is yes and yes to those of course. And if you read through the whole thing there is this kind of bizarre finding at the end something small something that caught the interest of producers Sean Cole and Jonathan Goldstein. So the very last question in the survey about future technologies question 14-- it was a short survey-- was this. If there was one futuristic invention that you could own what would it be? There was no multiple choice. This was an open-ended question. And off the tops of their heads 9 of respondents so roughly 1 out of 10 people said they wanted some way to travel through time. One out of 10 came up with that on their own. That would be roughly 30 million Americans. That is like the entire nation of Canada sitting around wishing for a time machine. Which speaking as a Canadian I can say we secretly do. First stop moments before making our national mascot a beaver and not an American woodcock. The desire for time travel at 9 ranked highest on the list tied only with cures for diseases. People wanted time travel more than they wanted robot servants which was 4. More than they wanted world peace a whopping 2. Time travel was three times more popular than hover cars holodecks and jet packs combined. But the Pew study is just a study. It is just numbers. It does not explain why so many people want to travel in time. Is it our curiosity about the future? I wonder what new kinds of cutlets the world of tomorrow will hold? Regrets over the past? Boy do I wish I had not eaten all those cutlets. And so we struck out into the world to try to answer that question. Why do you want to time travel? This is something I think about a lot. Oh well I have done a lot of thinking about this. Oh there is a lot of things I would like to accomplish. And even though they have been mulling this over for so long many still reach for the most well-trodden sci-fi comic book staple. My first impulse about time travel is the same one that I would guess that everybody has. You know thinking that I am going to go back and I am going to kill Hitler. What is funny is that they know it is kind of lame. You can hear it in their voices. Or kill Hitler when he is a baby or kill his mother or something. They preface it with phrases like-- It is the thing everyone always says is-- And then they say it anyway. If there had not been a Hitler-- Put a bullet in Adolf Hitler's head when he was still a student I guess. We spoke to about 50 people both friends and strangers we walked up to on the street. Most of them had more thoughts about traveling to the past rather than the future. After all you never know with the future. Teleport yourself hundreds of years from now and you could land on an Earth devoid of people where the only remaining structure is a monument to President Donald Trump made out of eternium. Whereas with the past at least you know the basic plot points. And there is a vast encyclopedia of calamities you could still fix. If you could go back in time and do anything you want what would it be? I have no idea. Warn people of disasters I guess? Warn people of disasters? Yeah. Like September 11 or something. And how would you go about it do you think? Oh I have no idea.   And of course no one imagines that they will end up with an iron collar around their neck working in a quarry. Instead they have a starring role in the historical docu-drama. Like this guy who'd set the controls for the Revolutionary War. I do not think I would be like a general in the field or anything like that. But I would probably be more of like an adviser to Washington. Like Alexander Hamilton was right? And a few other folks. So yeah. I love how you are already an officer in this. Exactly. Yeah. But these ambitious world-saving time travelers are just a small subset of the people we interviewed. I have a probably much more selfish kind of answer.  Most of the people we talked to did not want to change history. They wanted to go back in time to fix something personal something in their own lives. Probably would not have asked my ex-wife out that first time. Really? Yeah. And how do you think you would be different now in that case? I would have a hell of a lot more money. There were some people that I wish I could have punched. One of them is deceased. If I could time travel I would go back and fix all the awful awful mistakes I would done. Because there is so many stuff that you just think of like when you are lying in bed you are like oh my God that is so embarrassing. Well wait. Hang on a second though. You are only 11. Yeah. I have got a lot of things I want to change. She told me number one on the list the night she told a room full of adults a joke that began a Canadian an Italian and two Chinese people were standing on a roof. More than one person said they wanted to go back in time just to advise their younger selves knowing what they know now. Like my friend Jimmy. I think I would meet myself at whatever coffee shop I used to go to. It was like the Derne Street Deli on the back end of Beacon Hill. I would be like look kid come here for a minute. Come here. These are the five things you need to know that is going to help you in the next 25 years of your life. These are the five things you need to know. And what are those five things? Bet on these sports games. Never ride this roller coaster. And sex moves. Two other things? Oh the sex moves was three things. And listening to both of these groups the ones who want to save the world and the ones who'd use the time machine to excel in the boudoir-- Or to do anything else in their private life. --you cannot help wondering are the people who want to save the world just better people? We posed this question to everyone we talked to. I mean do I think they are better people? I think it is just-- those people are less self-involved. That does not make them better or worse. I do not know. I think that that sort of grand delusion that you could ultimately change a big event a big life-changing event and that you would be doing everybody a favor by doing this is a little-- I mean that is pretty crazy. As opposed to thinking oh yeah. I could make myself not ride the J train that night when that dude threw up on me. When you talk to a large number of people about time travel you tend to hear a lot about the butterfly effect. That idea that a little change can have massive repercussions as it echoes through history. You have heard of this. But with these small little personal wishes it almost feels like you can get away with it somehow. It is just you after all and maybe one other person. I would probably go back in time to before my husband died. Maybe even the day or two before. Yeah. I would not do anything necessarily different but I might just enjoy that time a bit more than I actually did. Yeah. Would you say anything differently? Um no I do not think so. Except the last conversation I might not have made about a stupid Tupperware order.  I might make it about something a bit more about how I felt about him. What was the disagreement? I have to ask. It was-- the last conversation was he was berating me for not putting the order in. And I said it was difficult to put the order in when the Tupperware catalog's on the dashboard of your truck. He was driving the truck at the time. And he said no it is not no it is not. And I said yes it is. And then he obviously looked on the dashboard and seen the Tupperware catalog and gone oh. You are right. It is on the-- it is just stupid is not it? The stupid things that we realize afterwards and we remember. But yeah. I probably would have made that last conversation-- and we laughed but I probably would have made that conversation about something else. So yeah. At least we laughed about it. This phone call happened when he was on his way to play cricket. This was in Australia. At the end of the game he had a cardiac arrest. Other folks we talked to said they wanted to go back in time and study harder in school or pick a different career path entirely. One said he wished he had picked a better roommate. Some people just wanted to go back and relive parts of their lives that they enjoyed. A few people said they did not want to time travel. They already have too much they want to do in the present. And maybe everything would just end up worse if they changed anything anyway. And about that these people who just did not want to go back it turns out there was another finding in the Pew study. Older people people over 50 are less inclined to want to time travel. And people over 65 are way less inclined to want to time travel. But why? Does one achieve a greater sense of peace in old age? Self-acceptance? Or maybe it comes down to an older person's concerns about the time machine itself. Will it have legroom? Clean bathrooms? Will meals be served? And if so is there a low-sodium option? Clearly we needed to talk to some seniors. And so like Al Pacino in a geriatric version of cruising we set out at night to a park looking for old people. Oh we have got these guys here. Oh which guys? These guys right here. We found this Mutt and Jeff type pair of elderly guys sitting on a bench. We make them answer for their elderly brethren and sisteren. Is it true what the survey says? Are they not interested in time travel? No. I have divested myself from all fantasy. The only thing I believe up there is the UFOs. Seems consistent with the research. Sort of. Why would I believe in a fantasy like that? Why are you even interviewing me and putting that supposition to me? It is a waste of your time. It is a waste of valuable time-- Because it is-- --on the radio. This is all fantasy. Why are you even bringing that question? Did you always feel that way or-- The world is coming to and end. Why are you wasting my time? I mean but do not you like to indulge in-- But after a mere 8 and 12 minutes of cross examination it turned out these two were just as ready to climb into a time machine as a person half their age. You do not just want to go back in time to like-- What reason would-- the only way would-- I would like it. The only reason I would want to go back in time is to be young so I could have orgasm. Have you ever heard of the PTO movement? No. The Peace Through Orgasm movement. I have not heard of that. Well now you have heard of it. So wait you were saying that you would like to go back? Oh sure I would. I would like to go into the future. Now let us talk about the UFOs. This is documented in the library. In 1947-- But going back to time travel though do you ever dream about going back in time? Do you wish you could? I do not dream it but I would like to. Maybe see the dinosaurs. You want to see the dinosaurs why? It would be nice. Well just to see how they are. I would have to be equipped with some sort of a laser something. You never know. It was beginning to seem as though when you scratched the surface even those opposed to time travel might soften their position and find some reason to go back. Perhaps this is the limitation of a cold by-the-numbers survey. Scratching surfaces is exactly what Pew cannot do. Thank you very much. It is good to meet you. You believe in UFOs do not you? I think I do yeah. Good. And that is another form of insanity. You are a rube. So we went looking for senior citizens who truly have zero interest in time travel like the Pew study found so we could ask them why. Which is how we ended up at a senior center in Brooklyn. There was maybe a couple dozen people sitting around in the cafeteria after breakfast watching Let us Make a Deal on a big-screen TV. The director of the Center turned the sound down and told Sean to introduce himself. Hi sorry to bother you guys. My name's Sean Cole and I am a radio producer-- Not so much the radio professional when you are being stared at by a room full of silent seniors who hate you for getting their game show muted. Meanwhile Johnny just stood there helping not at all. And because you were not making any sense at all the director Rosemary Bland had to step in. OK. So he is just going to be talking to you all about time travel whether you enjoy time travel or whether you do time travel or whether you do not do time travel. OK? OK. OK. Of course those were not our questions nor anything like them. Nevertheless we made our way from table to table. Well I am not interested in time travel. No I am not interested in that. I think going backwards is not helping us. When I was younger but not now. If it is going to cost them money that is another no-no.  You have gotta remember you have got retirees. You know?  People that have Alzheimer's they go back in time. People that have Alzheimer's? Yeah. They go back in time. We do not have that yet. Going up there to the moon you know exploring. They are probably already up there with time travel. Fun fact-- when talking with seniors about time travel they sometimes throw the question into a big science-fiction food processor with space travel. But the Pew finding did bear out. Most people at the senior center were pretty dismissive of the idea some more emphatically than others. Hell no.  Why not? Why? This is Wallace Nottage a stately 86-year-old-- it was his birthday actually-- with a cane and he was wearing a colorful fez on his head. We were called over to talk to him by two women who said he would probably have a lot to say to you. And he did. We sat with him for about 20 minutes until finally he gave us what felt like the most plausible reason why old people would not want to go back in time. It is not so much that you are at peace with the way things are. It is that you have come to the realization that as not much going to change. Maybe the thing that much older people understand is not that time travel is frivolous. It is that it is pointless. When you have half a century of past behind you or more and you look at those decades in one swath you realize that even if you fix one thing something else will go wrong. Even some of the younger people we talked with felt that way about changing the past. I mean I would love to do it. And I am sure everyone would love to go back in time and change some things. But it would ruin things a bit too. How do you mean? Well experiences that people might not call experiences people might call mistakes. Even though at that time they make you sad if you go back and change everything like that then you do not learn. So you are sad more often. Yeah. So you are saying there is no getting around it. No. There really is not. Inevitably in between things when Johnny and I were interviewing folks together we got to talking about whether either of us would want to go back in time for any reason. In Johnny's case the answer would be-- No. Too adventurous. Not for me. Whereas I am one of those people who is thought about this a lot. Like a lot a lot. There was this point when I obsessively wanted to go back in time to a very particular moment in time to fix the past. The facts are pretty standard. I was with a woman and we needed to decide about our future. So I flew to Alaska for the weekend to visit her. And after talking for two days I finally said that I was not ready to be with her. And for a long time after that I wished I had made the opposite decision that I had told her yes instead of no. I would sit and pray that I could have that weekend to do over again. I would picture it all the time. And then just little by little there was not any big epiphany or anything I came to see that things were never really right between us and that they never would have been. It took about two years maybe longer to understand that. And now she is married and I am not but I am really happy we are not together. And it makes me realize that I have been time traveling. It is just that I have been traveling into the future at 60 minutes per hour. And maybe that is how we fix the past. Sean Cole this one of the producers of our radio show. Jonathan Goldstein is the host of Public Radio Program and podcast Wiretap which is distributed in the United States by PRI Public Radio International and also available on iTunes. Coming up the glass of wine that could change everything. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show The Leap-- stories of people taking a huge jump into the unknown. We have arrived at Act Three of our program. Act Three The Wisdom to Know the Difference. So Nancy Updike has this story about somebody considering a very big leap she might try in her own life. Tina Dupuy has a story she is told dozens of times in front of thousands of people. It is about herself at 13 years old when she was being told by people around her you have a problem. The problem landed her in AA and started early. She remembers drinking sake when she was five years old at a family reunion. At age 12 pouring herself a big glass of tequila at 300 in the morning to drink by herself and watch TV. The kinds of things that can seem cool or no big deal when you are in it until suddenly they are ruining your life. At a very young age Tina became what she calls AA famous for telling her story at meetings and AA conferences like this one. I got sober when I was 13. And for a really l