Elena's dad moved to China but here's the kind of thing that he does. On Christmas Eve every year Elena and her mom drive from Madison Wisconsin to her grandmother's down in Chicago. So he-- since he is overseas he does not make that trip with us anymore. So he will watch the weather and send me emails about how the drive's going to be. A recent email began comparing the temperatures in Wisconsin with temperatures in Illinois and warning her that quote the greater danger will lie in the colder Wisconsin portion hazardously slipping from water to ice and back. Elena read me the letter. Icy conditions could suddenly appear particularly on bridges and overpasses. In such conditions I test periodically by first slowing down then with no traffic around just touch the brakes a bit to test for slippage. If any at all slow down and maintain plenty of distance from cars ahead. Let the fools and cowboys roar on to their wreckage. You cannot that? Let the fools and cowboys roar on to their wreckage. In case you are wondering when Elena got this letter she had been driving in snow and ice for over a decade. If you feel yourself slipping steer gently towards the edge of the highway where the crusty accumulated snow and ice may keep you from spinning out. Sometimes there is a residue of sand on the shoulder and coarser pavement to grip. Sorry to give you advice but I am just passing on the fruits of a million miles in all kinds of weather. Love to all Dad. So what did you make of that? Well I mean it is pretty typical. I said it reminds me of a manual for someone who is never driven in winter before. It is a mix of I rolled my eyes and oh gosh here we go again. But at the same time I thought it was really sweet and endearing. You know? Dads man. We guys can have a hard time reaching out and telling our kids we love them. Take Jessica whose father a farmer who did not really show his feelings much through physical affection. One day when she was around 14 out of the blue walked up to her and started patting her on the shoulder. And she says soon he was doing this all the time. He did this every day to her. But eventually it came to a point where I really really disliked it. I would dread it. I would know it was coming. I could hear him approaching behind. And even developed a sense to realize where is my dad? When is this going to happen? She asked him to stop he was not able to stop. She could not understand this behavior. And then she found out from her mom that her dad had been listening to a show on Christian radio she thinks it was probably James Dobson and he heard somebody on the show give the advice that people in your family need to be touched a certain number of times per day in order to feel loved. And this was how he was going to do it. What if your dad had actually done this in a way where it was clear that what it was about is that he was trying to show you that he loved you? In other words what if your dad-- you would be in the kitchen and your dad would be in the kitchen and just out of the blue he would say hey I love you. Give me a hug. Would that have worked? Um I would have thought something was wrong with him. Like having a breakdown or something. Then it would have been Mom what is wrong with Dad? Yeah because it is not really his personality either. He is a little doomed in this. Still guys want to reach out to their kids right? In 2005 when Rachel was about to head off to college in New York one night her family's sitting around watching TV-- And my dad just turned to me and was like I am building you an emergency terrorist attack kit to take with you to New York City. An emergency terrorist attack kit. It was completely out of nowhere. But I looked at my mom. And my dad has this one particular face he makes when you must take him seriously. His eyebrows get raised and his eyes go really wide. And he stares at you. And he was doing that so I did not argue about it. So the whole summer my dad would find these different items to pack. Some of them were from weird Internet locations. You can only get a universal radio that did not require electricity that worked with every cell phone from a crazy website. This is not something they sell at every store. So he ordered this special radio he ordered a NASA issued space blanket and flares and fuel pellets for a stove you only needed fuel pellets for. Potassium iodide pills in the event of a nuclear attack. He was really proud every time he found a new object. Every time he thought of a new thing he would say I found something new for the box. And I would laugh I guess because what else can you really do but laugh? And find it really one of those oh Dad type of things. So it comes time to go to school Rache is dad packs all the gear into a nondescript three by three cardboard box seals it up tightly with tape. Writes Winter Coats on the side so as not attract any attention you know from the wrong element. And then he sends Rachel off to college in the city that is to be fair probably the nation's most likely target for any terrorist attack. And he gives Rachel just one instruction do not open this unless there is an attack. And she follows that instruction for a year. And for a second year. So I knew that there was 200 in there and I was about to leave for London for my junior year. And I really wanted to go tanning before the summer really started so I just decided to open the box and take out the 200. And I actually when I did open it to get the money out there was a letter inside from my dad that basically said you know if you are reading this your mom and I love you and it was just-- oh my God I am actually get choked up thinking about it I have never gotten choked up think about it-- but it was basically a letter. Just saying if you are reading this something really bad has happened. I just want you to know that your mom and I really really love you. And everything's going to be fine. You know my dad and I we talk and we communicate. But neither one of is very good at talking about our feelings. And it was just really sweet. It was really sincere. It was like one of the most sincere things I have ever gotten from him. Well today on our radio show for Father's Day we have stories of dads reaching out to kids in very dad-like ways which-- I mean these stories anyway-- means that dads are not always so direct in saying their feelings. They use the tools that they know. Which means instructions. Which means disaster preparedness. Or like my dad one of the big ways that he can show his love is by helping me every year with my taxes which I love. I love my dad. Anyway we have Jonathan Goldstein we have Michael Ian Black we have a dad who was not born in this country and has yet to learn the ways of American dads which are very very tricky. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass stay with us. Act one Astro boy meet robot dad. We start with this story of a dad and kid and the space between them. From Michael Ian Black. My own father was not the best father. Not because he did not love us but because he simply did not know how to be around kids. He was not socially adept with adults either but with children he was hopeless. He did not wrestle Or make dumb faces. Or play catch. Once he bought me a baseball mitt for my birthday which I loved except for the fact that I am a lefty and he bought me a right-handed mitt. It seemed equally possible to me that he was either unaware that baseball mitts came for both righties and lefties or that he did not know that I am left-handed. He was the first person I ever knew who owned his own computer. It was a hulking Tandy TRS-80. It did so much less than my brother and I did and yet he spent so much more time interacting with the computer than with us. A popular activity with my dad on the weekends when we visited him was to hand my brother and I each a plastic bucket and tell us to go outside and pick the rocks out of his lawn. He called the game go pick up rocks. So much fun. Here's how he died. One night the police find him pulled over in his car on the side of the highway. He is unconscious with a head injury the apparent victim of an assault. They think it occurred in the parking lot at Rutgers University where he is taking night classes to get his Master's degree. He is 39 years old. He is brought to the hospital where doctors perform emergency brain surgery. My brother Rick and I are not told until the following day after he is out of immediate danger. My brother and I visit him there a couple days later. I do not remember who took us Mom or his second wife Beth. My parents have been divorced for seven years and the relationship is terrible. So it is probably Beth. He is distant and foggy but recovering. Then one morning we are asleep in our bunk beds. It is early. A school day. I hear Mom come into the room. Boys wake up she says. My eyes open. She is standing beside our bed where she can see us both. She is unhesitant. Your father died last night. She says it quick almost blowing the words out with her breath. The hospital gave him a medicine he was allergic to. An accident. I am so sorry she says. She begins weeping huge convulsive sobs. I am so sorry she says again and again. She runs from the room leaving Rick and me alone. The news is so swift and shocking that I cannot process it at all. Dead? In what way dead? Above me I hear Rick began to cry and after a moment I start crying too. Because I do not know what else to do. Crying seems like the appropriate response and I am still young enough 12 that I can summon tears without too much effort. We lay in bed doing that for a while and I wonder if I will have to go to school today. No. No school today or for the rest of the week. Mom takes Rick and me to work with her that day because there is nothing else for us to do. She and her partner Arlene own a small stationery store in a crummy flea market. The day passes in a haze. We do not talk about Dad. We do not talk about anything. On our way home we stop at the video store. Mom tells us we can pick out whatever movie we want. We choose The Blues Brothers which is rated R. Normally we are not allowed to rent R-rated movies. She glances at the box but does not say anything. Awesome. A small shameful part of me begins to see the upside to Dad dying. For the foreseeable future it seems like I will get away with whatever I want. Staying up late R-rated movies. Maybe even the Holy Grail of childhood contraband sugar cereals. Our cereal cupboard is normally filled with high-fiber lesbian-friendly cereals like Product 19 and Special K. Yes Arlene is her partner and her partner. Surely a boy who has just lost his father is not to be denied a box or two of Frosted Flakes in his grief. Surely not. Even as I am having these thoughts I am aware what a horrible person I must be. Who thinks like this? Who thinks about using the death of a parent as a means to get sugar? As it turns out me. Why do I not feel tormented with grief? Is not that what you are supposed to feel when a parent dies? Am I defective? We have nothing to do before the funeral two days from now so Rick and I sit around the basement by ourselves watching game shows and soap operas. We do not talk about it. Anyway what is there to say? It sucks that Dad died. Pretty much. Can you turn The Price is Right on? Sure. I keep flashing back to an incident that happened a year or so before when Dad was dropping us off at home after one of our weekends with him. He was not a demonstrative man and it occurred to me that I could not remember him ever telling me that he loved me. I did not doubt that he did but he would never said it and I had never said it to him. So I decided to tell him I loved him. I am not sure why I felt the need to do it at that moment it just seemed important. That night I waited for Rick and our younger sister Susan to get out of the car. When they were clear I gathered up my courage and blurted out I love you Dad. Then I ran from the car up the sidewalk and into the house. If he responded I never heard. That is what I keep thinking about in the basement as Rick and I watch the Big Showcase Showdown wheel on The Price is Right spinning on its axis around and around and around. The next day our stepmother Beth picks us up and we drive with her to the funeral home a saggy Gothic house near the highway. Inside the place suffocates from wood and carpet. Beth asks if I want to go into the viewing where they have got Dad. In a minute I say taking a seat on the bench in the hallway. She and Rick walk in to the room together and I sit by myself. I do not want to go in. Absolutely do not want to go. It is going to be creepy and I do not care for creepy things. Even Scooby Doo stresses me out. There is a lot of people milling around that I do not recognize. Work friends maybe. People he knew from his neighborhood. My aunt Jane is also there with our cousins. My father's father who we rarely see is there. What is it like for him? He does not say much. He does not cry and he does not hug me or even shake my hand. All in all he seems remarkably unperturbed. He used to be a cop. He lives another 25 years but I never see him again. Somebody checks on me. Am I OK? I nod yeah yeah. Never better. My new suit is uncomfortable and itchy around the armpits. Also I feel like I cannot breathe and I might throw up. I am good. if I stay in the hallway do I still get credit for having attended the funeral? Because I really do not want to go in. I am out there for a long time. Eventually I am the only one left. Beth comes out and she tells me they are about to start. If I am going to go in I should go in now. I do. I walk in her hand on my shoulder guiding me forward. Rick is already seated in the front row. Ahead is the coffin. And inside the coffin is my dad. It is an open casket. I see him now and I want to turn back but I will not. We get right up to it and I stare at my father's face the last time I will ever see it. He looks OK. He looks like himself. I guess I expected to see some elemental change in him some subtle but definitive signifier that says this guy is dead. The fact that he is inside a coffin does a pretty good job of that I guess but I thought there would be something else. Some sort of mark. But there is not. He just looks like Dad. And it feels wrong that he should look exactly the same. I would heard people say the dead look like they are asleep but that does not seem right to me. Dad looks like something other than asleep. He looks arranged. I could reach out and touch him if I want to but I do not want to. I just need to stare at him a little longer because I am never going to see him again. And I try to sear his face into my memory. My dad looks like this. But it does not work. I have a hard time really remembering what he looked like that day. But I can remember the feeling of his hand on my head when I am six and we are at Indian Guides. And I remember his arm around my shoulder when I am eight. And we pose in front of the statue of the world's tallest man at the Guinness Hall of World Records. I cannot tell if that is the same person I see in the coffin. Is that him? He is got the same soft round face. The same brown dad mustache. And it surprises me that he looks so much like himself. The way I will be surprised years later when I study my own face in the mirror and finding it belonging to the face of a 40-year-old husband and father older than he will ever be. Sometimes I see his face in my own and my own in my kids. I stare at my father's face and try to hold on to the moment but there is nothing to hold. It is just a moment. And then it is gone. The service is quick. I sit in the front row with Beth and Rick. Afterwards people approach to shake our hands and tell us that they are sorry for our loss. I am sorry for your loss people say. The language of death is curiously proscribed. It is the one occasion when the spoken word actually resembles the language of greeting cards. The most awkward example of this occurs the next week when I return to school. My best friend Bradley who I have not seen since Dad died strides up to me at the bus stop holding out his hand for me to shake. I am sorry for your loss he says the way he was undoubtedly instructed to do by his parents. How odd this formality. Two 12-year-old boys shaking hands at the playground bus stop. I want to laugh and pump his hand and say in a bad British accent Pleasure to make your acquaintance. But instead I just thank him because I cannot think of anything else to do. Then we both kind of kick at the playground wood chips and find ourselves for the first time in our lives with nothing to say to each other. I come very close to crying at the bus stop. When the service is over we get into a limousine for the long drive to the cemetery. It is the first limousine I have ever been in and I have to pretend not to care. But I do care because it is exciting to driving a car this big. There are real glasses lined up along the side. Beer and soft drinks on ice. Beth says we can have a can of Coke if we want. I say no thanks even though I think it would be pretty cool to sip a cold Coke from a real glass in a limousine the way I imagine Billy Joel probably does every day of his life. The cemetery is small and bucolic. Soon the whole thing is over. Dad is buried we drive home. I return to school. Nobody there seems to have noticed my absence at all. Movie restrictions are put back in place. The cereal in our cupboard is once again the cereal of lesbians and those who are suffering from constipation. Everything goes back to normal. But I do not. Rather than feeling the loss of my father subside over the years I feel it more acutely as time goes on. I want a dad. I want my dad. I still feel that way 28 years later. Meanwhile I hurdle through life like a running back my arm forever outstretched to keep people from getting too close. Do you want to play Battleship? my son Elijah asked me the other day. I am busy I said. At the time I was online trying to figure out how much money Charlie Sheen is worth. Last week I was yelling at my son and daughter to sit correctly in their chairs because it is dinner time. And the fact that they refuse to sit correctly infuriates me because that is not the way we sit at dinner. I am suddenly unrecognizable to myself. A person who yells at other people about what is and is not the correct way to sit on a chair as if I am this snooty judge on a reality show about sitting in chairs. The other night I tell Elijah I am leaving town for work for a few days. I would been gone for several days the week before and when I tell him I am leaving again he starts to cry. My wife Martha thinks he cries too much. I do not. I cried a lot too when I was nine. You are gone too much he says. He is right. I am. I tell him I hate leaving so often but I will be home in a few days and when I get back from this trip I will be home for several weeks in a row. You promise? he asks. I promise I say. He hugs me around the neck and says through his tears You are the best dad a kid could ever ask for. It is the kind of thing that would make me throw up if I saw a kid say that on TV but this is my kid and my life. And it is such an earnest heartbreaking moment that I almost burst into tears myself. I mean does not he know what an a-hole I am? I stifle my own tears because if I start blubbering it will probably just have the effect of terrifying him. Instead I hug him back and I tell him he is the best son a dad could ever ask for. And I am careful to say he is the best son a dad could ever ask for not the best kid because that would imply favoritism with his sister which would be wrong. Because she is my favorite. That was a joke. Now I feel awful for making that joke although not awful enough to ask them to cut it out of this story. Because it was funny. You see what I am saying? proof that I am an a-hole. Where was I? Right. I kiss Elijah goodnight and I tell him that I love him just as I have told him every day since he was born. On the way out of Elijah's bedroom my mind flashes back to that night when I felt the need to flee my dad's car after telling him I loved him. Now that I am older and a father myself I find my memory shifting from my own point of view the point of view of the child to imagining myself as my father. I can easily put myself now in his place in the driver's seat watching a boy not much older than my son is now running away embarrassed. I know what it means to feel so far away even when you are right there. Through the windshield I watch him dash up the sidewalk. I watch him go up the stairs and disappear into the house the front door closing behind him. Michael Ian Black reading an excerpt from this book that he is writing called You are Not Doing It Right which comes out early next year. He has a stand-up comedy special airing on Comedy Central this August.  Act two I just called to say-- something that is very hard to say that I really should say more often Well now we will hear another case study of a dad who has trouble saying a certain phrase to his child. And the dad in this case gets put to the test. Jonathan Menjivar has this story about this tough dad and his now tough-skinned kid. The kid in the story is a girl. Her name is Naomi Azar and she is the youngest of four kids. The baby. She is in her 30s now but she says that as a child she was afraid of her dad. So her sister would hold her hand-- And my sister would take me to him and gently help me stroke his back to teach me that he is OK he is not going to bite. Like he was a Doberman or something. He was that intense. His name is Shaul Azar and he is one of those immigrant tough dads. He was born in the Middle East. As a kid he sold chickens on the black market. And then he came to America and from nothing he starts his own real estate business. The guy owns more than 30 buildings in Chicago now. And if that part sounds familiar this will too. I do not know why but immigrant dads seem to follow a sort of script. I say this as someone who is the son of an immigrant dad. Anyhow Naomi dad's Shaul he could be harsh. He once called Naomi stupid and ungrateful because she was chopping peppers the wrong way. But he was sweet too almost sappy. When Naomi was 18 he took her on a trip to Egypt and Jordan. Just the two of them. Naomi said she knew her dad loved her but he never expressed it. He worked all the time. Gave his kids everything they needed. That is the way he said I love you. I do not really remember hearing him really say those words. I think the only time I started to hear him tell me that he loved me was when I started to tell him regularly that I loved him. Some dads would get off the phone and automatically say I love you. He will say Thank you very much. Which is why it was weird when Naomi started getting these calls from her dad. Shaul had been at dinner with one of Naomi's sisters. Her sister's husband is a rabbi. And at dinner the cantor from his synagogue is there with his wife. And Shaul is arguing with her-- it does not really matter what it was about-- but eventually the cantor's wife turns to Naomi's dad and asks him if he loves his children. The cantor's wife basically called him on the fact that he feels all this love and respect for his children-- she is assuming but I believe he does-- but that he does not ever express it. And really he should be telling us that he loves us. And she basically asks him to prove it. She gives him this challenge. She tells Shaul I want you to call each of your four children every day for a month. And when you call them I want you to tell them I love you. Naomi was on vacation when he called the first time. Naomi this is Daddy . I heard that you rented a cabin and you are having fun. I am very very proud of you. And somebody you know the cantor's wife Sydney said to me I should call up all my children every day and tell them that I love them. So I am doing what she tells me to do. And she is the first one. OK and you are the first one I am calling. Does it make any difference? Let me know please. Bye. I was really surprised and I was really touched. It was really sweet to hear him say it and even just the tone of his voice around it. Like my dad really? He is going to call me every day? He is going to do that kind of thing? He is going to open himself up in this way? He did not call the next day. But the day after that he tried to make up for it though he clearly has his eyes on the finish line. Naomi this is the third day and I missed yesterday. So I am telling you twice. I love you one for yesterday. And I love you one for today. I cannot wait until the month is over. Naomi this is the third day. I am saying love you again. Twenty-seven days left. So what have you been doing did it snow in New York? The next day he did not call or the day after that. Or the one after that either. Three days. That is all he could handle. His big experiment was over.   Hello? . . . This is of course Naomi's dad Shaul Azar. So I want to introduce you to Jonathan he is on the phone. Hi Mr. Azar. Jonathan? Yeah my name's Jonathan. Good morning Jonathan. Good morning how are you? OK. Talk to me. It is nice to meet you. Thank you. So Naomi's been explaining this challenge that you were put on to call each of your kids. And then she explained to me that it only lasted three days. Right.  What happened? Well she gave me a challenge for a month. I just felt funny. I felt funny to tell them I love you and this and that. I felt-- it is not me. And that is why I could not take it more than three days.  It is not by word it is by feeling. And all my children know that I love them and I will do everything for them. At the beginning it was fun. But after three days I felt a little bit phony. Did your parents ever tell you that they loved you? Never. They never called me I love you. But they loved me. And you knew that. I always felt that they loved me because the society was different. I believe that parents should tell their children every once in a while I love you. But I think parents should tell-- maybe when they were small of course we told them that we love them. But now they are all married and you do not want to tell them I love you.  Do you have children? I have a little girl yeah. I am sure you tell her you love her every day. I do yeah. But how about when she is 25? We will see I guess. We will see. That is right. That is right.  Maybe I should have done it. I do not know. Naomi what difference-- did you feel lack of love if I did not do it? Well I wanted you to succeed. When you say that you felt phony maybe it was like you did not actually-- you were not hit with a wave of feeling love every day of the month. And so for you it did not feel genuine to call on a Wednesday when you were not actually feeling that kind of loving feeling is that right? Uh-huh. You see Jonathan I love this girl the most. But it is just one hair above the rest. She is a hiker she likes to travel she has a bicycle. All the things I like.  She has a bicycle. Naomi I wanted to ask you in the first message your dad says does it make any difference let me know please. So I guess did it make a difference? Yeah. It did make a difference. Really? Yeah. Because I know that you love me but it is different to hear you say it. I was excited and I was proud of you for doing it Dad. Yeah. So maybe I will start doing it again.  I will save all of those messages to you. Jonathan Menjivar he is a producer on our show. He is celebrating Father's Day with his daughter Sasha who is 16 months old. Coming up the guy who explained to us years ago on our program about the greatest phone message in the world. A phone message about why the Little Mermaid can go  herself. He is back for Father's Day with two daughters. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today we have a special show for Father's Day this weekend about fathers trying to connect with their kids using whatever flawed means are at their disposal. You know that adage that you do not really understand stuff your parents did until you become an adult yourself? I have a funny example of that that somebody emailed the radio show about. When Angie was growing up in this small town in Wisconsin her dad did a lot of goofy stuff that she never thought twice about. He always worked swing shifts so when should come home from school he would usually be in the kitchen packing his lunch to go off to work. And every day when we would pack his lunch-- it was practically every day-- he went sing the Thermos song. I would watch him and he would ask me about my day and then he would sing me the Thermos song. So he would be like  I am picking out a Thermos for you for you not an ordinary Thermos for you for you. It goes on and it is this goofy little song. Another thing was every year when the new phone book came out-- I was from a really small town so the phone book was probably an inch and a half think. Right. But he would freak out. And he would run to the front door. And he be like The new phone book's here. The new phone book's here. Me and my brother would gather around and he would flip through all the pages and he would be like Here we are. Our name's in print our name's in print. Every single time every year we would do that. So when I was in college my roommate thought I was crazy. I was in the phone book for the first time. And I was like The phone book's here the phone book's here we have to find ourselves. And I would actually sing the Thermos song too. Just randomly when I would pack a lunch you know you pick up things. So. Once she gets to college Angie happens to catch a old movie that she had never seen Steve Martin's 1979 The Jerk. And it is really not very far into the movie that he gets a job in the gas station. He is really excited about working there. And the phone book comes. He freaks out. He just jumps around like my dad did. And we was like The new phone book's here the new phone book's here. Oh my God. The new phone book's here. The new phone book's here. I wish I could get that excited about nothin'. Nothing are you kidding? Page 73. Johnson Navin R. I am somebody now. Millions of people look at this book every day. This is the kind of spontaneous publicity your name in print that makes people. And I immediately saw that and I was like holy crap. That is what we do. So I am watching the movie and then later on he is falls in love with-- I guess it is Bernadette Peters stars in the movie I think? Yeah. And he sings this song to her. He is like Honey honey I wrote you a song. Honey guess what I wrote a song for you this morning. And he starts singing her this song.  Oh I am picking out a Thermos for you. Not an ordinary Thermos for you. At this point I am just like whoa wait a minute. Why is he doing that? And then I felt sort of wronged. And so did you call your dad? Yeah. I called him up. I was like hey dad that is not yours. And he is like yeah I know. And I was like dad it is The Jerk. And he is like oh yeah. No I love that movie. And I was like did it ever occur to you that I would never seen the movie? He was like gosh no I never thought about it. Angie says it is impossible to imagine any part of the story happening with her mom. Lifting bits from an old Steve Martin film and planting them into a kid's life without ever thinking to mention where they came from. That is just a very dad-like behavior. When a dad sets the rules it is his world and the kids have to live in it. Which brings us to the next act of our show Act three Mr. Baby Monitor. Jonathan Goldstein tells this story of a dad and how he runs his house. My friend Josh is a stay-at-home dad. Recently someone asked me what Josh did before he was a stay-at-home dad. And I said he was a stay-at-home. Home is where Josh has always shined. Home being the place he would become absorbed in his many projects. Meticulously categorizing his music collection or stockpiling yet-to-be-read newspapers into tilting monoliths. Or much to his neighbor's sorrow teaching himself to play the castanets. But now Josh's newest home project the project that is taken over everything else is the raising of his 20-month-old twin daughters Matilda and Juliette. He brings to it a certain similar thoroughness. Even in the old days Josh was difficult to get out of the house. Scheduling a beer together often required the kind of constant back and forth one usually associates wi