The way I always heard the story was that Van Halen had something in the contract that they used when they toured that said that everywhere that they went in every city in every dressing room on their tour there had to be a bowl of MMs and that the brown MMs had to be removed. It is kind of a well-known story I think. And the way that I understood it is that it showed what divas rock stars could be that any whim that they had would have to be met no matter how petty. You hate brown MMs? Poof! They will cease to exist in your world. And then a couple of years ago we had this band They Might Be Giants on our radio show. And by the way you are listening to This American Life from WBEZ Chicago distributed by Public Radio International. Anyway we had this band on the show. And I got to know them a little bit. And I had never talked to a touring rock musician about that story. And I remember John Flansburgh saying to me no no no no no. I had the meaning of the story totally wrong. I think there was only one no Ira. This is John. I asked him to come and talk about this with me again today here on the radio. He told me that the music industry name for what we were discussing was the contract rider. The thing that the average rock fan does not realize is that in the itinerant life of somebody in a rock band they are relying on a promoter-- probably a different promoter every day-- to give them everything. And a contract rider is basically the entire show from beginning to end. I mean you are talking about personnel. You are talking about the PA. So a lot of it is very prosaic stuff. People really focus on the dressing room stuff but actually most of it is just making sure that there is literally enough electricity in the venue so that the show does not end after 10 minutes. And this Flansburgh says was what was so ingenious about the brown MMs. Van Halen had this huge setup with lots of gear and if the local promoter did not carefully read the contract rider stuff could collapse. It could be dangerous. So the brown MMs were like the canary in the coal mine. The contract rider said the brown MMs were not supposed to be there. If they were there look out. You know it was a very clever way to make sure that all the specifics of his contract rider were going to be met including technical requirements safety requirements all the things that David Lee Roth is probably more worried about than his actual MM needs. Yeah. Actually in his autobiography he writes this. I found this on snopes.com. He explains the MMs this way. David Lee Roth writes Van Halen was the first band to take huge productions into third level markets. Tertiary markets is the word we use in the business. Tertiary markets. We would pull up with nine 18-wheeler trucks full of gear in places where the standard was three trucks max. And there were many many technical errors whether it was the girders could not support the weight or the flooring would sink in or the doors were not big enough to move the gear through. The contract rider read like a version of the Chinese Yellow Pages because there was so much equipment and so many human beings to make it function. So just as a little test in article number 126 in the middle of nowhere was quote 'There will be no brown MMs in the backstage area upon pain of forfeiture of the show with full compensation' end quote. So he writes When I would walk backstage if I saw a brown MM in that bowl well line check the entire production guaranteed you are going to arrive at a technical error. They did not read the contract. Guaranteed you would run into a problem. Sometimes it would threaten to destroy the whole show. Sometimes literally life threatening. Wow. Now when I emailed you to see if you wanted to come on the radio and talk about this you said Oh that is really a coincidence. Because you just spent your whole day yesterday working on your contract rider? Basically a couple days ago I was looking at the contract rider which was 25 pages long. And I realized it was this crazy Frankenstein document that-- there was some really odd vestigial stuff. I mean I actually found-- we have all these personnel requirements for loaders and electricians and fly riggers and all these people. There is 30 people that the promoter is going to hire on our behalf and they have very specific job descriptions. But in only half of them did we require that they be sober. Wait your contract for some of them says specifically they have to be sober? It was such a hodgepodge that we had in some cases-- What had happened is that we had had a bunch of loaders that had come in from another show the night before that had ended at 500 in the morning. And they came to our show at 700 in the morning to literally do another show. And they all got drunk in the couple of hours in between. So in our contract rider we said the loaders have to be sober. But unfortunately the way a contract reads it looks like you are kind of implying that everybody else can be drunk. And no one had ever thought to cross it out. Is there an MMs clause in your contract? There are some-- It is such a personal thing. It is like asking somebody what is in their medicine chest. There are no MMs on our-- We have like hummus and tabouli. You would think it was Sarah McLachlan the way our contract rider reads. I mean more is there an MMs clause is there a thing in your contract that you put in there to be sure that people read the contract? I think the first line of our contract is the promoter needs to call our tour manager when he gets this rider. That is basically just getting good communication going rather than bullying and threshold tests is the way we do it. And so if you do not get the call you know all right-- Yeah yeah. And believe it or not oftentimes they do not call. They have got other things to do. Well today on our radio show we have stories of the fine print. We dive into the fine print in places where the fine print really really matters. Act one of our show Chana Joffe-Walt explains how the fine print may be the biggest obstacle to getting rid of our acne. Act two David Rakoff brings us the fine print that could fix what therapy fails to. Act three Nancy Updike has the story of fine print happening at a place you may never have expected it. Act four Susan Burton rereads the fine print that changed her childhood. Stay with us. Act One. One Pill Two Pill Red Pill Blue Pill. Let us start today in a place that is swimming in fine print the insurance business. President Obama said during the health care debates that if we all understood our health care it would save money. If there is a blue pill and a red pill and the blue pill is half the price of the red pill and works just as well why not pay half price? And the problem with the fine print is that it makes it hard to tell which pill is the red one and which one is the blue one as Chana Joffe-Walt explains. Ted Serra is in the middle of a war. It is been going on for many years and involves billions of dollars. A lot of us are in this war. And like Ted we do not even know it. He stumbled onto the battlefield because he is got pimples. Pimples and a card. It is called the Solodyn Patient Access Card. What is it look like? And it looks like a little credit card. It is white and blue. The Solodyn Patient Access Card is just the latest weapon in this war. It is an arms race really that is been escalating for decades. There have been moves and counter moves before. This war? It is a war over drug co-payments. If you do not say run an insurance company you probably hate co-pays. They are a way to make you pay for your drugs at the pharmacy even though you are insured. Which seems kind of evil right? But I tracked down an evil insurance VP Eileen Wood who actually was pretty personable. And she said no no no. Co-pays are an insurer's special little way of yelling at us. There are drugs that cost 1000. There are drugs that cost 5. When you are insured you do not care. You do not even know. So the insurers put a 30 dollar co-pay on one and a 10 co-pay on the other. They are giving you a hint that there is a difference in the drug's total cost. And the consumer does not see that. And so we struggle to try to shine the light on that and get called the bad guy. You do get called the bad guy a lot. Yeah we do. So co-pays were basically a bad guy's way of doing something good for everyone. That is the way Eileen sees it except for the bad guy thing. Because if insurers could discourage us from buying expensive drugs it is not just that they would save money. We would save money. They could charge us less in premiums which we all want. By the 1990s insurance companies had it down. Co-pays were working really well. The insurers felt like they were winning the war which was pretty gratifying to people like Eileen Wood. She would watched for years as drug companies came out with slightly tweaked versions of existing generics and sold them for 10 times the cost. Let us look at Kapidex. Oh that is this one. I love this one. That is the Minocin but this company this is-- Eileen works in a tidy office park in Albany New York for an insurance company called Capital Districts Physicians Health Plan CDPHP. And in her file cabinets she is got plastic zipped up pouches of her least favorite brand name drugs. She collects them. Minocin that one she is talking about there is a generic version that costs about 50 a month. Minocin PAC which Eileen is now waiving in my face is a newer brand name drug. It costs 668. So what is different? It has a couple of little extra items that are not prescription items in there. It has this lovely calming wipe so that when your skin is all red and you can pat this on. And it is supposed to bring the redness down. It is not a prescription item. Calming serum in a calming mask. It is basically stuff you can buy over the counter. But behind the scenes it is-- 668. Yeah. And the only difference in this is that it has wipes? It has these. That is it. That is the only difference. You could probably buy them for 10. So those three products are added to the Minocin PAC and I guess that must be what costs the extra 600. I am not sure. It is very slick. Eileen has dozens of stories like this that do seem ridiculous. An acne medication that comes with green tea swabs? Kind of like a prescription for Viagra that comes with a Hustler magazine that costs an extra 500. Now not all brand names are like this. There are brands that are better than existing generic options that are the only thing that work for some people. And with co-pays you can still get the brands. It is just the more expensive choice. You want the green tea swabs you pay 40 of the 668 for it. If you just want Minocin generic you pay 10 of the 50 dollars. The co-pay strategy worked so well that in 2003 generics passed the 50 mark meaning more than 50 of the drugs people went and picked up from pharmacies were generics. It was probably around then that it happened. The drug companies-- they noticed. People like Sally Beatty at Pfizer. That is the company that makes among other things the world's most popular drug Lipitor. Sally? Not a fan of co-pays. Now the issue with that is that we want treatment decisions to be made based on what the physician feels is medically best for the patient not just the cost to the patient or what another player may decide is in their interest. Another player like Eileen Wood and her insurance industry buddies with their co-pays that were hurting the drug companies. Lipitor was facing major competition from generics. In July 2007 sales were down 13. Now there is no approved generic for Lipitor. Sally Beatty from Pfizer will say this three times in 15 minutes. And what that means is that there is no drug that is chemically identical to Lipitor. What there are are generic drugs in the same class of cholesterol reducing drugs. That is what Lipitor does reduce cholesterol. And those generics are effective for most people. But there are some people who respond better to Lipitor. And for some of those patients a 40 co-pay stops them from getting the medication. And so in 2007 the pharmaceutical industry marshaled its counter-attack. That mysterious card you heard at the beginning of the story their central weapon. Coupons. A whole bunch of coupons. OK so I have always had a little bit of acne. Enter Ted Serra the paralegal with the card and the pimples-- pimples that just a few months ago were in need of drugs. Yeah it sort of comes and goes. And generally when I am going through more periods of stress either at work or just as a course of life it sort of gets worse. Ted walked into the doctor's office. She poked at him with gloved hands and told him OK we are going to put you on a couple topical creams and some antibiotics a drug called Solodyn. Ted was tentative but he mentioned he would been on a generic before worked pretty well called Minocycline. And the doc said Yeah that is great. Basically that is the same as Solodyn but Solodyn is time released. That means as opposed to Minocycline which you have to remember to take in the morning and in the evening you only have to take Solodyn once a day. It did not really sound that big of a deal to me but it is I guess to anyone slightly easier to take one pill per day instead of two. So I went with it. And I asked in terms of the cost of it just to pay the extra money to take it once a day if that was going to be a big difference it would not really be something I would be interested in. And then she presented this card. You remember the card. It is called the Solodyn Patient Access Card. It is actually called Solo-dine not Solo-din. Who knows where they come up with these names. The point is this is the moment-- the moment that the drug makers' weapon makes its way into the hands of its oblivious soldier Ted. Ted was going to get a deal. The doctor explained that this card it is a coupon. Give it to the pharmacist and it should make your co-pay very affordable which is exactly what happened. Without the card Ted's co-pay would have been 154.28. But when Ted got to the pharmacy he presented his card. They went to ring it up at the register and when it came up the price was 10. Ten bucks. Ten bucks. That is pretty good for drugs. Yeah it was great. Solodyn access achieved. Ted's insurance company was then charged 655 a month for Ted's once a day Solodyn. For reasons too complicated to go into here they only paid 514. Minocycline the one that you have to take twice a day costs 109 a month total. 514. 109. Ted never saw those numbers. So you think OK well Ted used the coupon because he did not really know any better. He thought he was getting a deal. Who would not go for that right? But the doctor-- what was up with the doctor handing out these cards? Luckily Dr. Elena Allbritton was generous enough to answer some questions. Do you know the price difference between those two drugs? I do not. Like Ted and the majority of Americans Dr. Allbritton has no idea what drugs actually cost not because she is lazy but because these numbers are really hard to find out. The insurance companies they all individually negotiate with drug companies and they each pay a slightly different amount. So no Dr. Allbritton is not thinking about prices when prescribing. She is thinking what is the best thing available for this patient? Solodyn is better. It is easier to take a pill once a day instead of twice. It is easier for Dr. Allbritton to get the dosage just right. And Dr. Allbritton wants her patients to have the best. I think if I can get a discount for most patients I think it is great because the cost of medications can be very high. It is like a free gift to give. Dr. Allbritton just wants it to be easy for patients to access the drugs she thinks they need. Truthfully she does not really want to keep track of all the prices. That is not her job. I just do not think that it is realistic to have that responsibility fall on the physician. I mean then are you going to start saying Well should I really do this biopsy? Because I am not really sure that it is really that significant of a difference in that mole. And it might cost you 1200 in the end if this does not get covered. I mean you do not want to start thinking about price tags with everything. Actually when people talk about how to reform health care in our country this is one of the things they talk about changing. That doctors should know the prices of things and at least play some role in deciding whether a time release version of a pill is worth 400 more to everyone. The maker of Solodyn is Medicis. They would not talk to me. By the way in the months since Ted started taking Solodyn a generic version has come out. And the war has escalated. Another tactical maneuver-- drug makers used to just give cards to doctors. Now they distribute them to patients too. They are in women's magazines. They are online. They are at the drug store counter. They are everywhere except in Massachusetts where they are illegal. And we pick them up. We see a deal. Like Ted we like deals. And Eileen Wood at the insurance company she gets that. I cannot argue with that argument except to say there is a consequence for that. Because what will you have to do if everybody gets the more expensive drug? We would have to raise premiums. I mean I think there is no question about that. It would have an impact on him and everybody that sits next to him. At work. At work and their families and so forth. Yes. I do not want to pay more in premiums next year and I do not want everyone around me to have to either. Do you think your co-workers are going to hear this and go Well thanks a lot Ted. You and your fancy acne medicine. Probably. But there I was sitting in dermatologist's office and I have no idea. Again I had never heard of this medicine. I had no idea how much it cost. I know it is brand name. But I certainly never would have dreamed that it would have cost 655 sticker price. Looking at this war laid out like this it is a view of a health care system that is comprised of enormous insurance companies throwing their weight around just as enormous drug companies striking back and then all these idiots in the middle-- us. You me and our doctors. Pesky interlopers who do not even know the price of the pills we are buying. President Obama wants us to choose the blue pill and not the red pill because the blue is just as effective but half the price. But with these cards which one is the blue one? We have no idea. Chana Joffe-Walt is a member of the Planet Money team. That story first aired in 2009. Since then the Solodyn Patient Access Card has been discontinued. It is now part of a different program the Medicis MediSAVE Program which is more of a package deal that allows you to get a few other drugs cheaper as well. We have arrived at act two of our show. Act Two Occupancy May Be Revoked Without Notice. This next bit of fine print was brought to us by David Rakoff. The following shall constitute the binding agreement between Mr. Gregory Stolzenberg of Yonkers New York hereafter known as Owner and his mother Mrs. Barbara Stolzenberg of Tenafly New Jersey hereafter known as Mother in regards to the third floor bedroom of number 41 Old Alewives Lane Yonkers New York. One. Upon completion of chemotherapy and surgery at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center Mother shall take occupancy for an as yet undetermined period of time hereafter known as convalescent period not to exceed four weeks in duration. Two. A front door key will be left underneath the stone frog near the rhododendron. Mother agrees to return said key to its hiding place for once. Three. Mother acknowledges herewith that she is aware that as a converted attic the third floor and its bedroom are accessible by a retractable ladder. Subparagraph one. Mother hereby waives any and all recourse to the Americans with Disabilities Act and to any liability on Owner's part in the event of any injury. Subparagraph two. Included in Mother's accommodation she shall be given 24-hour access to the bathroom on the second floor. Four. Per Mother's previous request she shall occupy the lower bunk of the third floor bedroom while Owner's eight-year-old son Robby Stozenberg shall occupy the top bunk. Five. Mother may take breakfast and supper with the family-- please see attached appendix detailing the meal plan-- and agrees that upon finishing eating she will quote make herself scarce. As has been previously and frequently discussed quote sitting quietly with a magazine and not saying a word even if you begged me to say something unquote differs wholly in spirit letter and intention from making oneself scarce. Mother further agrees not to do quote that thing with the chewing and the breathing. Subparagraph one. Further to the matter of quote making oneself scarce unquote-- and it is herein that this subparagraph not be construed as belaboring a matter to the point of obsession-- but Mother further concedes herein that both Owner and his wife have been medically assessed to be of excellent to above average hearing. And as such any and all comments even though spoken at a whisper are perfectly audible. Further Owner's wife as a Mexican-born Catholic and therefore not possessed of a formal Yiddish education is well aware that the word kurveh has entered common English usage to mean whore. And the use of said word even when muttered is heard and emphatically not appreciated. Six. Mother may make daily use of the public rooms on the main floor such as the living room from 1100 AM to 300 PM or until Robby Stolzenberg returns home from school whichever happens sooner at which time Mother must relinquish the television remote and quote make herself scarce unquote. See paragraph five. Mother may receive visitors no more than two a day although under no circumstances may Mother receiver her daughter the omniscient and perfect-- it is acknowledged that both adjectives are being employed ironically-- Mrs. Marla Stolzenberg-Burns of Ho-Ho-Kus New Jersey for reasons that have been previously and frequently discussed. If Mrs. Stolzenberg-Burns' eagerness to see her mother is deemed as so overwhelming then perhaps the entire location of the convalescent period can be reassessed. Just say the word. Go on. Say it. Say it. Say it. Subparagraph one. Mention is made hereby that in the matter of the husband of the omniscient and perfect Mrs. Marla Stolzenberg-Burns-- the Owner's brother-in-law Dr. Howard Burns of Ho-Ho-Kus New Jersey-- Mother further agrees that there is a material difference between a dermatologist and God Almighty. And that there are indeed many things that the former does not know regardless of how much he pulls down annually. Seven. All efforts have been made herein to draft an impartial agreement with malice and favor towards none. This document is to serve as a mutual protection to both parties and the full execution of which it is hoped will avert any future difficulties that might in any way resemble events of Thanksgiving 2005 2006 2007 or August 2008 at the beach. David Rakoff is the author of several books including his most recent Half Empty. Coming up what is fine print in Farsi? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Fine Print. You know usually most of us try to just skip the fine print. We do not read the rental car agreements or the software license end-user agreements. We just click I agree. Today on our show we have stories where the fine print has real consequences. We have arrived at act three of our show. Act Three. Side Effects May Include. A confession is not supposed to have any fine print. It is supposed to state This is what happened. This is what I did all very straightforward. But of course all kinds of confessions come with asterisks included. This story that you are about to hear is about a confession given in Iran. And just to review two years ago if you remember there were massive protests in Iran following a disputed election that returned Mahmoud Ahmadinejad to power for a second term. And many Iranians believed that the election was rigged and that a more moderate politician had actually won. This story actually starts before all that before Ahmadinejad in 2004 a time when moderate reformists still were leading the government in Iran but not for very long. Nancy Updike tells what happened. At 30 years old Omid Memarian a journalist in Iran went where he wanted talked to whomever he felt like talking to-- reformists hardliners foreigners the vice president of the World Bank. Why not? Political debate in Iran was robust. Omid's view was he lived in a country that had problems and he was a critic of those problems. But it also had a constitution elections some independent newspapers. Iran was not North Korea. It was not Myanmar. In October of 2004 Omid was arrested at his office by government men in plain clothes. Did not have badges. Did have guns. And within a few hours Omid was sitting in an interrogation room at a prison whose name and location he did not know. After a while a man walked in. Like 55 years old with a very short beard and kind of calm. And I felt that this guy might be a nice guy. But when I said hi to this guy then he just started beating me. And I was sitting next to the wall on a chair. And the guy took my head and was hitting my head to the wall. And he was doing that and at one point I remember the guy was asking me if I ever traveled to the US. In 2004 I was invited to come here to the US and give a speech. So I got my visa. I went to Frankfurt airport and then somebody called my name. So they told me that my name was on the No-Fly List. At least I think Osama bin Laden probably is on the top. So I took the first flight and I went back home. So the interrogator was asking me what happened in Washington DC. And I said Hi. I did not go there. I was on the No-Fly List probably you guys are there. We are all on that list. And the guy said No. We have tapes of those meetings that you had in Washington DC. We have all the documents. And I said Dude I have not been there. All right? You should look at my passport. It does not show anything. There is no stamp on my passport. At that moment I learned that they really in many cases they bluff. They just bluff. And once you figured out that part of what they were doing was bluffing was that a relief? Or was that more terrifying? I mean did that make you feel like I have no idea what to do? When they bluffed at the beginning I thought Oh there is nothing here. But the thing was when you have to talk about something that never happened it was much harder than to talk about something that happened. Because when nothing was there it was really hard to imagine that kind of incident. I mean this guy was beating me. And at one point I was on the floor. He was hitting my stomach with his leg. At one point in that case I threw up. I just could not accept that because I never went to the US. Forced confessions are not a new phenomenon more like eternal. And Omid got the standard treatment beatings and solitary. But every government that forces confessions has its own variation on the process its own way of building up its library of confessions. They gave me a kind of notebook and a pen and asked me to start writing everything you have done over the past seven years. So I thought That is fine. I can write everything. I do not have any secret and there is nothing to be worried about. So he was there. I was sitting on a chair and I started writing. There was a table there too. And every five minutes he asked me to see my writing. Every five minutes. And then when he saw what I was writing he screamed at me and said This is not what I want. This not what I want from you. You should tell me the truth. And I said This is the truth. And he said No. You are hiding truth. Tell me what happened behind the doors. I had no idea what he wanted me to write for them. I had no idea because I said in many cases that this is exactly what happened. This is exactly the people I met. Actually I wrote a biography of myself for them. It was a very honest biography. I even talked about things I never talked to my mom or dad or my friends. They asked about my girlfriends. In Iran you cannot have a girlfriend when you are not married. And the guy asked me to confess about my sexual relationship. Tell me how you started. Did you use condom? Did you use porn? Did you watch porn? I start crying. I begged him. I begged him please do not ask that. Please do not ask that. I cannot do that. And I was like oh my God where are you going from here? And he forced me to write that. They told me all the time you know you are going to stay here for six months a year two years. You are not going to go home. Forget it. And I was so devastated. I felt so hopeless. And I said God please help me. These people are doing this with me with your name reading Koran praying five times a day. The guy was beating me and sometimes stopped beating me to pray on time. And at one point in the thing I remember once I watched a movie-- its name is Irreversible. I think it was in my mind all the time. There is a point in everybody's life that your life separates to before that event and after that. So for me I knew that there is a point that I cannot take more pressure. I knew people who stayed for a long time in prison and they would never be able to come back to their normal life. They never become normal persons. They never recovered. They never recovered. And I knew those people. I talked to those people. I did not want to be those people at the age of 30. And at one point when the pressure was so high I thought I was entering to the irreversible part. In the third week he gave in. I said OK. What do you want me to write for you? And they said So these are the names. These are the topics. I drafted my story. It was the only unpaid story I have written in my life. I am always paid. But anyways-- The only unpaid story you have ever written in your life was your false confession? Yes. I drafted my story. I gave it to my interrogator. And then he was like my editor. He changed some of the names and he just changed the order. And then he gave me a few pages' analysis. And I had to include those approaches those lines in my confessions. He is literally-- your interrogator is literally writing on your draft. He is making notes in the margins and crossing things out and adding things like an editor? Exactly like that. He gave me directions. For example I said I wrote for this newspaper or that newspaper. I went to these countries. I met these people. So in their version was with the suggestion of that politician I went to this country. And I was a part of a plan. It was a big plan. And I had to say that I intentionally and sometimes unintentionally have cooperated with them through my writings through my blog through my travels through my talks and that kind of things. Were there specific words he wanted you to use? Definitely I had to use Velvet Revolution. And how do you say Velvet Revolution in Farsi?  And he wanted you to put those exact words in? Exact words. Confessions in Iran are sometimes broadcast on TV. They show up in the evenings on the state-run news programs. Transcripts of confessions are also posted on government websites. And watching reading and hearing about one Iranian confession after another it is impossible not to notice a distinct and unchanging editorial vision at work here. Because the fact is people in Iran who have never met each other have nevertheless been confessing to a lot of the same things in a lot of the same ways for at least 10 years. WOMAN  In these video clips one ordinary Iranian after another is confessing to having been manipulated by the BBC and Voice of America to cause mayhem or undermine the regime. And here's another confession. There is no tape but we have got a transcript. It is a TV confession from a documentary filmmaker and reporter for Newsweek in Iran. Maziar Bahari was arrested after the election. His confession is a classic of the genre. It is so crammed with buzz phrases and bullet points that in some parts it gets hard to understand. It says quote I as a journalist and as part of the huge capitalist machinery of the West sometimes blindly and sometimes intentionally positioned myself on the side that was suggesting that a Color Revolution was under way. According to the mo