It is hard to remember now just how often we were hearing about them. How they were being blamed for the entire economic mess collapsing all around us. And I think it is hard to remember just what a big deal they were because we never quite understood not then not now what they are. The treasury launched the TARP last fall to help rid the nation's banks of toxic assets. These toxic assets are the cancer in the balance sheet. The President opened up by talking about the importance of dealing with toxic assets. Banks are not the only institutions affected by these toxic assets. Toxic assets. Toxic assets. Toxic assets. Our Planet Money team has been covering the financial crisis for two years and they felt like one way to understand what is happening in our economy-- right now today-- was to become intimately acquainted with the source of its demise. The toxic asset. And so back in January reporters David Kestenbaum and Chana Joffe-Walt convinced three of their colleagues that they should purchase one. Purchase one for themselves pitch in together 1000. All right so how much do we owe you? All right you guys each owe me 202. Pay up. No change? Even 202? 202. There is no change. That is right buy one of the things that nearly brought down the global financial system. That blew up major Wall Street banks that plunged the world into an economic collapse from which it is still struggling to recover. They wanted to buy one of those. Caitlin you are dragging over there. I am writing a check I have to be precise. I am putting toxic asset as the memo on my check. Today we are going to be hearing the surprisingly riveting tale of a single toxic asset. The Planet Money team has rolled out installments of the story one at a time over the course of the last year on the Planet Money podcasts and on some of the NPR news shows-- serialized like a Dicken's novel published one chapter at a time. But today for the first time we bring you the whole story. Great Expectations Little Dorrit Bleak House the full novel beginning to end in one place for the first time so you can actually follow the entire tale. And to kick us off I am now joined in the studio by David and Chana. Hello. Hello. Hey Ira. All right so I brought it in. Here it is this is what we bought. That is chapter one volume two. It is just a pile of papers. Written by a lot of lawyers yeah. So technically this thing is called a mortgage backed security. Basically a bunch of Wall Street guys grabbed up thousands of mortgages from all over the country threw them in a pile and sold off pieces to investors. So big pension funds bought them insurance funds bought them banks bought them. And you guys bought them? Well that part happened much later. We bought ours in January of this year and by that point things had degraded so much that they were so cheap even a bunch of reporters could afford one. And your goal in buying this toxic asset-- I thought of it as somebody who is a fan of these stories when I would hear them-- you are like archaeologists in this project. You are like forensic doctors trying to reconstruct how the housing market collapsed and the economy died and truly understand what happened by carefully picking apart the corpse of one financial instrument. And I remember at the beginning your hope was that this one toxic asset would be like an encyclopedia of the entire financial crisis. Yeah it has. This thing has everything. There are homeowners and foreclosure there is crime there are the unintended consequences of bailing out both huge corporations and individual homeowners. There are questions of morality. And there is a dog named Muffin. All right well let us get to it. Our show in five acts. Act One Fire Sale in Kansas City. Take it away. So we have got our 1000 we have got the will. Now we just have to buy one. But it turns out it is not so easy to buy a toxic asset. You kind of need to know a guy. But David you knew a guy. Wit Solberg he used to work on Wall Street now he would set up shop in Kansas City his hometown. He was helping small community banks that got stuck with toxic assets. So I called him and I said How can we buy one of these things? And Wit said I can help you. Come on down. So we did. This is it? Yeah. Hey Chana? Yeah? I forgot my check book. I got you. All right. So David you took me to Kansas City to what feels like an abandoned alley. There is no one around it is like an unmarked brick building. I feel like we are buying drugs. Wait this is really it? Just in one of these little buildings? Yeah it used to be a barber shop I think. So we go upstairs and it looks more legit inside. There are maybe a dozen guys in a big open office white boards with numbers and lists. And each desk has several computer monitors sort of floating on a sea of crap-- potato chip bags Snapple bottles toothpaste chewing tobacco. Chewing tobacco that gets spit out into the Snapple bottle. That would be Wit. Wit Solberg. He is got a blond buzz cut he is very charming and completely all over the place. Wit is always telling you several things at once. Just getting him to sit down and say his name is tough. OK so we-- What is your name? Oh OK that is a good point. So my name's Wit. OK so a bit about what we are buying. A long time ago before toxic assets were toxic they were called-- and you have heard this phrase-- mortgaged backed securities. What that means is that these are thousands of mortgages all bundled together. And every month when people send in their mortgage payments think of that money as going into one big pot. And then the money in the pot gets used to pay the investors the owners of this thing. They each get a monthly payment. Of course we all know what happened. People stopped paying their mortgages. And the amount of money coming in started to dwindle. So there was no way investors are going to get all their money back. At this point the mortgage backed security has officially become a toxic asset. And now lots of investors are trying to unload these things at steep discounts which is a buying opportunity for us. We want to make some money on this. And we can if we pick the right one at the right price. So we are sitting here in Wit is office about to start bidding on toxic assets that people are trying to dump. Wit is going to look at the toxic assets analyze them and help us choose what to buy. He is got three computer monitors on his desk and brokers send him emails about what toxic assets are for sale today. Only they do not call them toxic assets they call them bonds. Wit gets lots of emails from guys in New York. Bobby sends a lot of email. And Cliff and Dwayne and Adam and Cliff again and Chris and you know. These are guys that you trust? They are guys that sell bonds. The emails have subject lines like super senior steal. One says cheaper. It takes us a long time to even find a bond Wit wants to make an offer on. But finally he picks one he thinks looks good. And then he asks this guy Rob-- who kind of looks like he stuck his finger in a light socket-- to go and analyze it with a computer model in the back room. Actually what Wit specifically says is Hey Rob go back to the bond cave and check this out. And back in the bond cave Rob is going to run a bunch of fancy software to try and answer one deceptively simple question. How much should we pay for this bond? Remember the bond is a pile of mortgages. Imagine that pile. The value of the pile depends on the health of those mortgages. As people's houses get foreclosed on repossessed and sold for a loss pop one of the mortgages disappears. The pile shrinks. Right now whoever owns the bond that Rob is looking at is receiving monthly payments. But once that pile of mortgages shrinks enough those payments will stop. This bond will die. So Rob is trying to figure out if we spend 1000 to own a piece of this bond now will those payments continue long enough for us to make our money back plus some. Rob comes back and says Yeah this one could be OK. And then Wit says something that blows me away. He says we should bid half a cent on the bond. As in one half of one penny on the dollar. Meaning at some point probably the height of the bubble say this was worth a full dollar now we are going to offer to buy it for half a cent-- less than one percent of what someone originally bought it for. So Wit calls Cliff one of those brokers who sent him the emails. And he says Hey man half a cent on the bond. That is the way these guys talk when they are bidding on something. Two cents mid teens twenties. So Cliff says OK let me check with whoever's selling it. We hang up wait and wait. And finally Cliff calls back. Hey Cliff. Hey. What is happening? They are saying high teens on that. That is . That is ridiculous. So what happened now? Somebody bought it for high teens? No that is what they are telling the trader. And you bid half a cent? So there is real disagreement about what these things are worth? There is huge disagreement. I mean honestly this is not uncommon. Chana we got outbid by someone offering 30 times more than we did. You think these toxic assets are plentiful and they are cheap it should be easy to pick one up. But it is not easy. It takes a really long time because no one really knows what they are worth. Remember TARP the government program? A 700 billion dollar toxic asset relief program. The government's original plan was to use that money to buy up toxic assets just vacuum up the whole problem. But it changed its mind. One reason it was too hard to figure out what price to buy them for. Turns out it is still a problem today. We are basically buying garbage and it ends up taking us two full days. So why do not we run the 051MV8. OK so the 1030 prime's no. OK it is now day two of toxic asset shopping late in the day Wit says I think I found it. This one looks good. And it is a beautiful totally toxic asset. Wit shows it to us on the computer screen. It contains mortgages on 2000 homes. Wit scrolls through them. There is a house in Arizona California-- oh there is a big one someone paid more than 2 million for that place. Now this house is located in Florida and it is a planned urban development in Sarasota. All right? Pretty nice Sarasota place right? You can tell the zip code. Yeah there is a zip code. 34240. Yeah golf course community maybe a cul-de-sac something. There is another guy in Sarasota there is another guy in Sarasota so you can start to get a feel that there was a guy in Sarasota who had a billboard who gave big loans and those big loans went into this pool. This toxic asset it originally cost 75000. We get it for 1000. Wit thinks that is a good price. And it says right there on the computer screen that there could be enough monthly payments left in it for us to double our money. Wit how you doing? Good. Wit calls a friend at a local bank to make it official. All right so that is all square-cornered. OK. Proud owner of a bouncy little private label mortgage backed security. We prefer toxic asset. Maturity value purchased for the cheap cheap value of 1012.09. So if anybody has any questions holler back at me. Later. Thanks. Bye. All right there it is. There you go. We will print screen on the settlement you can take it home with you. Thank you. Are you going to affirm? Can I click affirm? You can click affirm. Here we go. It is ours. At some point I realized I was the only one clapping so I stopped. But I am feeling good about our investment. I figured everyone's afraid of these things only a handful of people are analyzing them and looking for bargains. We got it for 99 off. We are definitely going to make money. I felt confident. We all did. Act Two An Old Man Chooses Between Logic and Morals Logic Wins. On January 22 David and Chana took their toxic asset back to the New York office introduced it around to their colleagues created a place on the corner window sill for the stack of paperwork. And then stared at it flipped through it. They considered some questions that in the end took them eight months to answer. What did they just buy? Who did they buy it from? Whose mortgages were actually in it? It was time to begin their archaeological investigation of their own toxic asset. Somewhere inside there there were real people real homeowners with real houses. The stack of 300 pages did not identify who those real people were. It is actually kind of fun having a toxic asset. David set up a live toxic asset web cam so he could stare at it all the time just gaze at the stack of paper. I thought other people might want to see it too. Sometimes I would sit things on it like flowers or a bottle of Tylenol. We go to a toxic asset investor conference we start reading obscure trade publications. And the toxic asset starts to feel like a pet. We ask our listeners what we should call it and it gets a name Toxie. And it gets a gender-- we all start referring to it as she for some reason. Which always seemed completely unfair to me since the one thing we can be almost 100 sure of is that this thing was created by men. But whatever yes it is nice that people start to connect with her slash it. One listener wrote a song for Toxie.  We spend a lot of time staring at this spreadsheet that came with Toxie. It lists all the mortgages 2000 of them and financial data about the loans but it does not give us what we need-- addresses and names. It just has zip codes. It is sort of like this map that you cannot quite read. So in the spring we call an investigative reporter to help us find some of the people in the spreadsheet. Michael Braga with the Sarasota Herald Tribune in Florida. Sarasota the very city that popped up over and over again when Wit showed us the loans and Toxie on his computer screen. So Michael went through public records databases took him about a day and he came up with nine names. Nine precious names of Sarasotans with homes in Toxie. We printed out the list and then stared at it. And then we stared at the phone. OK so the first person on the list-- What are we going to say to them? You are part of our toxic asset? Can we come swim in your pool? Yeah. All right let us call. We got wrong numbers we left a lot of voice mails for people who did not call us back. We called this one dentist who did not call us back. And we left a voice mail for this one very nice sounding couple. Hi you have reached Sylvia and George we cannot get to the phone right now but leave a message and we will get back to you. Thank you. Hi George and Sylvia this is David Kestenbaum I am a reporter with National Public Radio. I am calling to-- I am calling to see if you own or purchased-- You sound nervous. Well there is a lot to explain right? In a voice mail you have to say oh I am a reporter for NPR which you may not have heard of and we bought a toxic asset which by the way is a complicated bond which has mortgages in it and one of them is yours and we want to talk to you and-- you know. You made me leave the next voice mail. What is so awkward about this is this is probably the first time someone who invested in a toxic asset who actually owned a homeowner's mortgage as part of one of these massive bonds actually tried to get in touch with the homeowners. And think about what that means. The genius of these mortgage backed securities was that they connected people with money to people who wanted to borrow. This happen to the tune of 3 trillion. Hundreds of thousands of investors millions of home buyers but the two sides never met. Until now. Eventually we found a homeowner Richard Koenig. And this was very exciting. Half the homeowners in our toxic asset had stopped paying their mortgages-- half-- and Richard Koenig was one of them--he was not paying us. When we got him on the phone he said Sure come on down. So we flew to Sarasota to meet him and drove to his house. It says their house is on the corner-- 1792. There he is. Hi Richard. Nice to meet you. He is getting his mail. What if there is a statement from the bank in there. Richard Koenig is 81 years old lives in Sarasota owes us money and is nothing like we expected. First of all he does not look like a deadbeat. I do not have horns. I do not have much hair. Still have a good sense of humor. And he has a dog named Muffin. My baby. I love my baby. I know some dog lovers I have never met somebody as in love with their dog as Richard is with Muffin. So Richard Koenig took us to the actual house that is in our toxic asset the one that we have been looking at on this spreadsheet. We got to see it. Oh it is nice. Very nice. You cannot believe what was done to this place. Maybe when you think about toxic assets you picture rundown homes falling apart overgrown lawns. Uh-uh this place is really lovely. It is a condo on a little pond in a tidy housing development. It is Richard second home. He planned to move out of his bigger place with his wife and into the condo. That would be more manageable as he grows older. So in 2005 Richard took out a 300000 mortgage. And then the housing market fell apart and Richard found he owed more on this house than it is worth. So he decided to stay in the house he already lives in and walk away from the condo by the pond. After Richard showed us his real live house we showed him what it looked like from our end. There he is just this little line in our spreadsheet that reads CCC36999. And that nine stands for 90 days delinquent or more so a bunch of nines in a row means he has not been paying his mortgage for a long time. So we show him all of the toxic asset paperwork all 300 pages. This is what it looks like. This is where your mortgage ended up. Unbelievable is not it? My God. My eyes could not accommodate it. I am not going to live long enough to go through that pile of-- pile of poop. Did you have a picture of us? Like when you were writing your checks who you were sending them to? Oh you mean at the bank. No. No to me banks-- unless I know the individual a bank is a blank face. It is a non-living creature. Of course it was not a bank or a non-living creature. You were writing checks to us. Yeah but not you personally. Now had you been the recipients on a personal basis after having met you I would write you the check. How is that? And do I feel sorry for the investors? Sure I do. I am a sensitive person you know? I really am. I love my wife I love my dog I love my children and my grandkids. Yeah I would feel badly. We do not hold it against you. Good. Please do not. And really I do not. Richard is under water on the house. He owes more than it is worth and he has a home so he can walk away from this second house. It is going to kill his perfect credit rating but he does not really need good credit anymore. He is 81 years old he is probably never going to need to borrow money again. So it makes sense for him to just walk away. Well maybe logically it makes sense but he did make a commitment. He gave his word. That is not nothing that is what it means to be an adult someone gives you money you pay it back. And if the value of his house kept going up he probably would have continued to pay it back. That would have been the logical thing to do. But the logic changed. So his morals changed too. Was it a hard emotional decision to walk away from that house? Well yeah it went against everything that I was ever taught to believe. You know you just do not turn your back and say goodbye good luck. So from that perspective yes it did bother me. But if I have to compromise the way I live I am really not going to do that. Not at almost 82 years old. I really had no choice. Well you did have a choice. You could have kept paying it. I could have kept paying for it? Not really. You know at my age to have payments like that and a large income no longer a large income it did not make any sense at all. There are lots of Richards these days. In fact the moral compass of the entire country is shifting. So much so that there is a name for what Richard is doing. Walking away from your home like this? It is called a strategic default. I am unaware of strategic default from the residential sector happening on this scale in American history. This is Mary Kinsley a lawyer in Arizona. And Mary talked to our Planet Money colleague and co-toxic asset investor Alex Blumberg. Mary's job is to answer phones at a help line for people with real estate questions. She says just two years ago people would call up in tears facing foreclosure agonizing about how to save their homes. Then just one year later everything changed. Now it is almost a reverse. I am speaking to people for the most part who want to know How can I make the bank foreclose on this faster? And I talk to quite a few people who say Hm perfect credit score versus 80000 in my pocket and not upside down on this house anymore. It is really not-- it is a business decision rather than emotional decisions. And these are people who could continue to pay their mortgage? Yes. It is not illegal to breach a contract. And that is essentially what it is it is a breach of contract. And one of the dirty little secrets of real estate is businesses do it all the time. Strategic defaults are going to happen anytime you have plunging home values. But they were particularly bad because of something else that was going on-- another feature of the housing crisis that also shows up in our toxic asset-- speculation. This house is in your toxic asset. This is one of ours? Yeah this is one of yours that is your house. This is Michael Braga the investigative reporter who is been helping us. This house we are looking at was bought in 2005 at the height of the bubble. But it seems like no one ever moved in and unlike Richard's condo it looks like no one ever intended to. Today there are dead palm trees in the front yard with the tops cut off just eight feet of trunk sticking out of the ground. But the house has promise. Oh wow they have an ocean view? Yeah that is Sarasota Bay. And the pool is a little green which means that they have not put chlorine in it. And all the blinds are down. I can peek inside. Inside there is some nice white couches and a bar that looks into the kitchen oh and it looks like a Brady Bunch stair case that leads up to the second floor. This house was bought not as a dream home not even as a second home-- it was bought in 2005 by a man named Derek Taaca. Braga tells us Taaca is a local lawyer a purple belt Jiu Jitsu martial artist and a real estate speculator. Derek Taaca ultimately defaulted on five loans totaling 3.6 million including the 991000 loan that is in your toxic asset. Taaca did not return our phone calls. But his story is not unusual. Of the nine people we tracked down in Florida three were investors like Taaca-- they were speculators. And it turns out three out of nine was typical all over the country. According to one estimate a third of homes bought during the bubble were investments. Waitresses cab drivers executives all bought homes not to live in but to make them money. In Florida you can see it all over. Homes built dry wall hung air conditioners installed and no one ever moved in. They were empty in 2005 and they are still empty now. So if one third were speculators that still leaves 23. 23 of the people in our toxic asset probably bought their homes to live in. Some are still making their payments some are going through defaults-- not strategic defaults they do not have a choice. Act Three Flipper Not the Dolphin. When David and Chana went to Florida to find some of the home owners in their toxic asset they were not expecting speculators or an 81 year old with a new set of morals. And they certainly did not expect to walk into a crime scene which is what happened next. I should just say that if you have heard a little bit about mortgage fraud in this crisis this next story will finally explain exactly what mortgage fraud means. Here's David and Chana. So I am sitting at my desk right around the time of our trip to Florida looking through some court documents you know just doing some reporting for our trip. And there is this affidavit filed by an FBI agent listing a handful of mortgages that are apparently fraudulent. There is 202 Island Circle 1628 Bay Winds Lane-- I am sort of half paying attention. And then I see this one address-- it is George and Sylvia Bobka. Remember them? Hi you have reached Sylvia and George we cannot get to the phone right now but leave a message and we will get back to you. Thank you. I remember you sent me a heavily exclamation pointed text when that happened David. It was so surprising. I mean there are thousands and thousands of homes in the county a handful end up listed in this affidavit and one of them is in our Toxie? We got the court documents from Michael Braga at the Sarasota Herald Tribune. And it turns out our Toxie is linked to what could be a 100 million mortgage fraud scheme they have been reporting on. Michael told us the whole thing was masterminded by one guy a guy the folks at the Herald Tribune called the king of the flip. He just may be the biggest case of mortgage fraud in US history. And his name is Craig Adams. And he engineered more than 80 deals which he has told the FBI about that were in some way fraudulent. Those 80 deals properties were worth about 200 million. So Chana before when I would heard about mortgage fraud I always thought of some couple fudging something on their mortgage application but this is much much larger. No in Florida mortgage fraud appears to have been pretty widespread and organized. The reporters at the Sarasota Herald Tribune have been looking into this one circle led by Craig Adams the king of the flip. And it was a kind of fraud scheme based on flipping houses back and forth for higher and higher prices. So people taking out larger and larger loans from the bank and dividing that money up amongst themselves among the people in the circle. We are going to look at how this apparently worked by following one house this is a house on Cove Terrace in Sarasota Florida. This one is not in our toxic asset but George and Sylvia Bobka's house is connected to the same scheme and their house is right down the street. So the story of what happened at Cove Terrace begins with a man who may be the very last person to have truly loved this house. The last percent to own it before it was sold into the circle of flippers. Fred Bloom is my name. Fred Bloom? Fred Bloom. Is not Dr. Bloom a perfect name for an allergist? Are you an allergist? I am. Dr. Bloom the allergist raised his two daughters in this house. And it is a really nice place it is on a quiet street on a cul-de-sac it is got four bedrooms red tile roof it is painted sort of like you know that Florida salmoney kind of color? And it has a pool and a boat dock. We had a little boat and my kids enjoyed water skiing and fishing and family activities. At the time I owned it it was a two story family room with windows up above and you could sit there and watch lightning and you could watch the sky. Just a warm warm feeling room with the big windows and light. So they were good years. You can hear them sort of winding up now. That is right because the kids grow up huh? Exactly. It was a good time in our lives. And there appropriately are the cicadas-- or whatever they are-- right as we get to the drama. The drama began the moment Dr. Bloom decided to sell this house that he had loved. It occurred after my wife and I got divorced and she moved out of town and I stayed in the house trying to sell it because she had half equity in the house. And it did not sell and it did not sell and it did not sell. My wife wanted to get another Realtor and we did and she had the house for a three month contract. And then towards the end of her contract she became very intent on trying to lower the price so we could sell it. What'd you think about that? I was not happy about lowering the price but my former wife was saying I want my money and the Realtor was saying let us get it sold. And I was not happy about that I was not happy about lowering the price. And then we had an offer from Craig Adams. This is the Realtor Candy Swick. Now we should just point out here that this was the year 2000. Craig Adams was not known at this time as the king of the flip or as the alleged ring leader of the largest mortgage fraud scheme in Florida history. People called him something else. They called him real estate genius. Craig's offer was very good. It was right on the mark and when he made the offer it was a fair price. It was like this is good take it and run. It is been enough time. This is a very good offer. And I resisted as long as I could and then decided the fight is over so I caved in. Dr. Bloom sold the house for 600000 much less than he wanted for it. And then a few weeks later he is at the grocery store buying groceries and he runs into his former Cove Terrace neighbors and he asks them Hey how you doing? How are the new people on the block? And they told me that my house had sold again and he mentioned the price of 725000. And I was really upset. I said that is 125000 more than I got for it and that was only a matter of a couple of weeks. Oh it was weeks? It was just a matter of a couple of weeks. I was not happy. Dr. Bloom had no idea what was going on and he did not for 10 years until he gets a phone call from one of the reporters at the Sarasota Herald Tribune. So the Sarasota Herald Tribune was looking into what seemed like a lot of illegal flipping around Florida and Craig Adams's name came up several times including on the Cove Terrace house. So one of the reporters Matthew Doig calls up Dr. Bloom and he says Do you remember the details of selling that house? Thinking Bloom probably will not remember anything it is been 10 years. But Bloom remembered every detail of the sale he had held onto this resentment and to this mystery for 10 years. Why did he try to sell for over a year try to sell his house for 700000 and eventually have to sell it for 600000 and then weeks later this guy Craig Adams turns around and sells it for 725000. Here's that reporter Matthew Doig. After Dr. Bloom is out of the picture that house is completely controlled by Craig Adams and every time it is sold Adams is representing both the buyer and the seller. So he is completely controlling the process. And that house sold many many times. And in fact to Dr. Bloom it looked like he sold the house to Craig Adams but Craig Adams actually got his friend Steve Wexler to sign for it. So Steve Wexler buys it from Dr. Bloom and then Steve Wexler sells it to John Keyworth for 725000 who sells it to Craig Adams-- who actually buys it at one point-- for 1.1 million who sells it to Kelly West for almost one and a half million who sells it again to Charles Scott Abel for close to 2 million. So it sells five times in four years and basically triples in price. Yeah and Dr. Bloom the whole time is really perplexed about what is happening. He still lives in the neighborhood and the house keeps going up in price but it does not look better. It kind of looks worse. Occasionally I would drive by the house and drive through the neighborhood and at various times the yard was really in disrepair. When it was in disrepair did it look like no one was living here? Yes. It looked like it was vacant. So the way the Tribune lays this out Keyworth Wexler all these guys were connected to Adams. They were part of his circle. The idea here is that with each sale the new owner would take out a mortgage loan and use that to pay the previous owner for the house. The previous owner has now made money because he sold it for more than he bought it for. And that profit allegedly gets split among the players. So I borrow 600000 from the bank to buy the house and then a year later I sell it to my buddy Keyworth for 800000. Keyworth gets a loan from the bank 800000. And since we are working together we now have just made 200000 to split between us. That is the allegation anyway it is still working its way through the legal system. When the housing bubble popped in 2007 the Cove Terrace house was owned by yet another associate of Craig Adams's and he defaults on more than 2 million in loans. The bank forecloses on the house. And this is when Candy Swick Dr. Bloom's real estate agent finally figures out something funny has been going on. She has another client interested in the Cove Terrace house and for the second time 10 years later she pulls up the listing. Oh my gosh. What did it look like? It looked like it had been sold every couple of years. And I see Craig Adams listed and sold. Craig Adams listed and sold. Craig Adams listed and sold. Craig Adams l