This spring my friend Etgar was visiting the United States. He is Israeli. And we went to the Museum of Modern Art in New York City to see this exhibit by this artist named Cindy Sherman. And this very strange thing happened that we did not know what to make of it. It was truly a mystery. And I invited Etgar here onto the radio show to talk about it. We recorded this conversation a few days ago when I was still getting over a cold. So you will hear that my voice is a little croaky in this recording. So I have been thinking about how to describe the exhibit. Do you want to describe it? No no. I think you will describe it better. OK. Well basically Cindy Sherman-- she photographs herself as hundreds of different people. And to say that-- if you have not seen these pictures just to get it across she is utterly and completely transformed in them. And some of them-- they look like old movie stills. And some on them-- they look like Renaissance paintings. And some of them are super bright garish colors. And in some she is beautiful. And in some she is grotesque. And in some she is this composed matronly lady. And the way I remember the story is that you and I were walking into the third room of this exhibit. So we had seen two rooms of these things. I think that it was about the time when I realized that it was her in all the photos. Because before that I thought it was different people. Right right. And then you said oh wait. It is all the same person? And then a woman came over to us. And she said that she is Cindy Sherman. Yeah. And-- And that she comes to the exhibit every day to see how people react to it. And so she-- if I had to describe her I would say that she looked like she was about 55 or 60 wire rim glasses gray hair. Yes. She looked to me like a pretty well educated upper middle class lady who likes books. Yeah. Looking at her thinking that she might be Cindy Sherman I thought if you were to try to put on a costume to exactly blend in with the crowd at the Museum of Modern Art this is the costume. But the thing about it is that when you see the Cindy Sherman photos you will realize that she can look as old or as young or as beautiful or as ugly as she wants. So I just as I spoke to her I looked at the photos around me. And the range of appearance that were in them kind of-- I said OK this woman could be one of those photos. And I remember-- like I did the same thing. I was looking at the pictures on the wall. And I was looking at her face. And I was trying to think could this be her face. And I was just trying to get her to stay there and keep talking to us so I could figure this out. Were you also trying to keep her there talking to us? Was that your experience of it too? No. My experience was that oh Ira is so excited. And kind of thinking maybe I am missing something. Or maybe Ira is gone crazy. But I never saw you so excited. You never saw me so excited? No no. Maybe this says something about our relationship. Maybe you are always excited. But just went I am around you become this kind of cold fish. I am a really good friend. Yeah. And so I guess that I noticed that she was getting a little bit put off by my interest. And then she said to us oh I am not really Cindy Sherman. And I took that as oh she is Cindy Sherman. But she has to end this conversation. That is it. She is had enough of me. And did you take it as she is not Cindy Sherman? Or did you just think she was trying to get away from us? No. Later I thought to myself that if I would pretend to be Cindy Sherman the last thing I would do would be to tell people I am not Cindy Sherman. I would be too embarrassed to say in the end I am not Cindy Sherman. So I kind of thought in the end like after she had left that she probably was Cindy Sherman. I agree. To me it made her very credibly Cindy Sherman. Yeah. And it was also like be about the nature of the exhibit. Because she is a woman with 100 personas coming with her 101 persona. And I would say that even if she was not I think it would be smart of the museum to hire women who would go around and say that they are Cindy Sherman. I thought about this for weeks after it happened. And I really did not know what to think. You know if it was not Cindy Sherman if it was not her in a way the whole thing is even better. If there is some Upper East Side 55 60-year-old lady who just walks up to people in the Museum of Modern Art and claims to be Cindy Sherman I love that lady. I love the balls on that lady. That is somebody embracing life. For Etgar when we talked about this on tape he surprised me by insisting that it is better not to now. He said it is a better experience to just never find out the truth. Look. I can walk you through all the scenarios OK? A she is Cindy Sherman. She says I am Cindy Sherman. You say hey Etgar can you take a photo in your iPhone of me with Cindy Sherman? This is the one experience. The second experience-- she says I am not Cindy Sherman. I am just a bored woman who is into harassing people in exhibit. We say to her go away woman. And we throw things at her. And she goes away. Or c she says I am Cindy Sherman. No I am not Cindy Sherman. And we still contemplate about that. I think that from the three options this is the most interesting and exciting one. And we got our money worth. You know we went. We saw a show. We met a woman. She said she is Cindy Sherman. She said she was not Cindy Sherman. We still do not know if she is or she is not. I mean I wish all exhibitions were like that. I am going to get Cindy Sherman. I have set up a phone call to speak with Cindy Sherman about this. Leave poor Cindy alone. Why do you want to put her in that spot? I think it is not going to clarify anything. Because you are saying that she might lie either way. Because I am saying if it was Cindy Sherman then she had already lied. And if it was not Cindy Sherman then Cindy Sherman could still lie. Hello. Hey. Is this Cindy Sherman? Yes. Cindy it is Ira Glass. Hi. I am so sorry about yesterday. I feel like I am always-- I reached Cindy Sherman this week. She is saying she is sorry right there. Because she accidentally forgot our phone appointment on Tuesday. And I am only playing you that part of the recording to give you a sense of what an utterly normal straightforward undeceptive person she seemed like on the telephone. And I told her the whole story of the woman who walked up to me and Etgar at the Museum of Modern Art. Wow. So was that you? Not at all. Oh my god. But I would love to know who she is or-- I mean-- if this person really comes every day. Or I mean I have just vaguely fantasized about being in the exhibit while the public's there. But then what always sort of complete turned me off of it is any particular moment that somebody would suddenly realize it was me-- that would just freak me out. Do you like the idea that she did this? Yeah. I think it is great. I wonder-- I really do wonder if she does it a lot or if it was just some like fluke thing where she just thought oh I am going to play with this guy. Maybe once you air this other people will have other-- Sightings. Yeah right. That did not even occur to me. Right yeah. Let me just say like if you are hearing this interview and this has happened to you please go to our website and be in touch. That would be so interesting. OK. So she is not part of the show. No. You did not hire her put her up to it? No no. Do you have a message for this lady if we find her? No. OK. I mean she should do it more often. Yeah. What would be funny is if more people were going around pretending. Potential fake Cindy Sherman's and victims of fake Cindy Sherman's please note. The exhibit moves to San Francisco in July. Well today on our program Switcharoo pretending to be somebody or something you are not. Sometimes that is perfectly fine perfectly innocent hurts no one. Sometimes it is not that at all. And sometimes it is really hard to tell. From WBEX Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Healthy Start. So my friend Etgar is somebody whose work is actually here on the radio show from time to time. That is how I got to know him. Etgar Keret is his name. He writes short fiction here in the program. And he is thought a lot about this subject about the pleasure of pretending to be someone else. And he has this short story. It is read for us by an actor. Because Etgar always prefers that somebody read his stories on the radio show whose English is easier to understand. Here it is. Every night in the months after she had left him he would fall asleep in a different spot-- on the sofa in an armchair in the living room on the mat in the balcony like some homeless bum. Every morning he made a point of going out for breakfast. Even prisoners get a daily walk in the yard do not they? At the cafe they always gave him a table set for two and sat him across from an empty chair-- always even when the waiter specifically asked him if he was alone. Other people would be sitting there in twos or threes laughing or tasting each others food or fighting over the check while Myron sat by himself eating his healthy start-- orange juice muesli with honey decaf double espresso with warm low fat milk on the side. Of course it would have been nicer if someone were sitting down across from him and laughing with him if there had been someone to argue with over the check. And he would have had to struggle to hand the money to the waitress saying do not take it from him. Avery put it back. This one's on me. But he did not really have anyone to do that with. And breakfast alone was 100 times better than staying home. Myron spend a lot of time eying the other tables. He would eavesdrop on conversations read the sports supplement or examine the ups and downs of the Israeli shares on Wall Street with an air of detached concern. Sometimes someone would come over and ask for a section of the paper he would finished reading. And he would nod and try to smile. Once when a sexy young mother with a baby and a stroller walked over to him he even said to her as he gave up the front page with the banner headline about a gang rape in the suburbs what a crazy world we are bringing our children into. He thought it sounds like a kind of statement that brings people closer together pointing as it did to their common fate. But the sexy mom just glared at him and took the Healthy Living supplement too without asking. Then one Thursday a fat sweaty guy walked into the cafe and smiled at him. Myron was caught off guard. The last person who'd given him a smile was Maian just before she had left him five months earlier. And her smile had been unmistakably sarcastic. Whereas this one was soft almost apologetic. The fat guy gestured something apparently a signal that he would like to sit down. And Myron nodded almost without thinking. The fat guy took a seat. Rube he said. Listen I am really sorry I am late. I know we said 10. But I had a nightmare morning with the kid. It crossed Myron's mind that maybe he ought to tell the fat guy he was not Ruben. But he found himself checking his watch instead and saying what is 10 minutes? Forget it. Then neither of them spoke for a second. And Myron asked if the kid was OK. And the fat guy said she was. It was just said she would started a new kindergarten. And every time he took are there she had a hard time letting him go. But never mind. He stopped short. You have got enough on your plate without my problems. Let us get down to business. Myron took a deep breath and waited. Look the fat guy said. 500's too high. Give it to me for 400. Know what? 410 even. And I am good for 600 pieces. 480 Myron said. And that is only if you are good for 1000. You got to understand the fat guy said. The market's in the crapper what with the recession and all. Just last night on the news they showed people eating out of garbage cans. If you keep pushing I will have to sell high. You are pricing me right out of the market. Do not worry Myron told him. For every three people eating out of garbage cans there is someone driving a Mercedes. This made the fat guy laugh out loud. They told me you were tough he muttered with a smile. I am just like you Myron protested simply trying to keep body and soul together. The fat guy wiped his sweaty palm on his shirt and then held it out. 460 he said. 460 and I take 1000. When he saw Myron was not reacting he added 460 1000 pieces. And I owe you a favor. And you know better than anyone Ruben that in our business favors are worth more than money. This last sentence was all Myron needed to take the outstretched hand and shake it. For the first time in his life someone told him a favor someone who thought his name was Rubin but still. And when they had finished eating as they argued over who would pick up the tab a warm feeling spread through Myron's stomach. He beat the fat guy to it by 110 of a second and shoved the crumpled bill into the waitresses hand. From that day on it became practically a standard procedure. Myron would take a seat give his order and keep a lookout for any new person who came into the cafe. And if that person started searching the tables with an expectant look Myron would quickly wave and invite him or her to take a seat. I do not want this to end up in court a bald guy with thick eyebrows told him. Me neither Myron conceded. It is always better to settle things amicably. Just remember I do not do night shifts a Botox-lipped bleached blond announced. Just what do you expect? Everyone else'ill do night shifts except you Myron grumbled back. Gabby asked me to tell you that he is sorry said a guy with rotting teeth and an earring. It he was really sorry Myron countered he should have come and told me himself no middlemen. In your email you sounded taller a skinny redhead complained. In your email you sounded less picky Myron snapped. And somehow everything worked out in the end. He and baldy settled out of court. Botox lips agreed to ask her sister to babysit so she could do one night shift a week. Rotting teeth promised Gabby would phone. And the redhead and Myron agreed they were not quite right for each other. Sometimes they picked up the tab. Sometimes he did. With the redhead they split the bill. And it was all so fascinating that if a whole morning went by when nobody took a seat across from him at the table Myron felt let down. Luckily this did not happen too often. Almost two months had gone by since the sweaty fat guy when a pock marked man walked in. Despite the pocked face and the fact that he looked at least 10 years older than Myron he was good looking loads of charisma. The first thing he said as he sat down was I was sure you would not show. But we agreed to meet Myron answered. Yes said the pock marked guy with a sad smile. Except that after the way I yelled at you on the phone I was afraid you would chicken out. So here I am Myron said almost teasingly. I am sorry I yelled at you on the phone the guy apologized. Really. I just lost it. But I meant every word I said. You got that? I am asking you to stop seeing her. But I love her Myron said in a choked voice. Sometimes you can love something. And you still have to give it up the pock marked guy said. Listen to someone a little older than you. Sometimes you have to give it up. Sorry Myron said. But I cannot. Yes you can the guy shot back. You can. And you will. There is no other way. Maybe we both love her. But I happen to be her husband. And I am not about to let you break up my family. Got that? Myron shook his head. You have no idea what my life has been like this past year he told the husband. Hell-- not even hell just one great big stale chunk of nothing. And when you have been living with nothing for so long and suddenly something turns up you cannot just tell it to go away. You understand me do not you? I know you understand me. The husband bit his lower lip. If you see her one more time he said I will kill you. I am not kidding. And you know it. So kill me Myron shrugged. That does not scare me. We are all going to die in the end. The husband bent down across the table and socked Myron in the jaw. It was the first time in his life that anyone had hit him so hard. And Myron felt the hot wave of pain surge up somewhere in the middle of his face and spread in every direction. Seconds later he found himself on the floor with a husband standing over him. I will take her away from here the husband kept shouting as he went on kicking Myron in the stomach and ribs. I will take her far away to another country. And you will not know where she is. You will never see her again. You got that you rotten piece of . Two waiters jumped the husband and managed somehow to yank him away from Myron. Somebody yelled to the bar man to call the police. With his cheek still glued to the coolness of the floor Myron watched the husband run out of the cafe. One of the waiters bent over and asked him if he was OK. And Myron made an attempt to answer. Do you want me to call an ambulance the waiter asked. Myron whispered that he did not. Are you sure the waiter insisted. You are bleeding. Myron nodded slowly and shut his eyes. He tried as hard as he could to imagine himself with that woman the one he would never see again. He tried. And for a moment he almost succeeded. His whole body ached. He felt alive. Actor John Connolly reading a story by Etgar Keret from his new collection of stories  Suddenly a Knock on the Door. So I do not know if this can be redundant or not. And there was not time for it in the radio broadcast of this episode of our show. But here on the podcast and in the online versions we can go past 59 minutes. And I first read this short story Healthy Start I do not know maybe a year ago. And we knew we would be preparing it for this week's show and all that. And it was all planned. And then it was not until I talked to Etgar on tape for this week's show that he told me that the story was based on a real incident. You know this story came from a real true story. But here's-- What? Yeah. You want me to tell you the story? Yeah. Well the thing is that I was in Berlin teaching for a semester. And I was lonely as a dog. It was raining. I did not know anybody. And then one day my journal publisher who is based in Munich said that he is coming to Berlin. And he wants to meet me. So he gave me a name of a cafe. And then I went to that cafe. And I saw that the cafe was like the size of a football stadium you know? And I said how the hell am I going to find this guy. I do not even know how he looks like. So I took a table that was just facing the door. And I said OK. I am going to wait. And all kinds of people came. About some of them I said maybe that is him maybe that is him. But then this guy came. And I saw that he was looking with his eyes somebody as if he was looking for a guy he is supposed to meet. So I waved him. And he came. And he sat in front of me. And he started speaking to me in English which is a good sign because this is Germany. And he said I could not sleep all night. And I said to him why? And he said I was thinking about your email. And you know it flattered me you know. Because he is my publisher. He takes me seriously. But when I thought about it what I wrote in the email is that I could not make it 1030. I could only come at 11. And then so I said to him and? And he said and I cannot give you 300000 euros. I can only give you 250000. But I have them here in cash. Only you have to show me the goods first. And then I looked at him. And I said to him Gil? And he looked at me and he said Samir? And I said this kind of whoops. And he said to me oh I am sorry. And he had this big bag which seemed very heavy. And he took his big bag. And he said some words-- Etgar says that soon enough the German publisher shows up and recognizes Etgar by his author photo and sits right down. And Etgar says that he cannot concentrate on the conversation at all. All he can think about is what he should have said to that guy before. And I thought to myself all the time what would have happened if I just said to him OK. I am OK with the 250000 euros. But what is this I want to check the goods first? Did I ask you to see the money first? if you do not trust me do not do business with me. And I went with this sentence in my head home. And I got home. I wrote the story. Act Two Forgive us Our Press Passes. You know how when you call someplace for customer service and you are on some 800 number and somebody answers the phone and says her name is Jill and at some point the thought crosses your mind-- this person's name is probably not Jill. This person is probably sitting in a call center in India or somewhere. And you have that thought what other jobs can we possibly outsource to people far away at this point? Well Sarah Koenig tells this story of a fairly recent addition to the list of jobs. Back in November a newspaper reporter named Ryan Smith got an assignment from his editor. Write up a student of the week story for the Houston Chronicle. The student was a senior at Bellaire High School outside Houston. So I ended up calling the high school. And it was kind of interesting. Because I talked to the principal a little bit. He was sort of vetting me. And he is like well why do not you just come by the school tomorrow? And-- Why is this even vaguely funny to Ryan? Because Ryan does not work for the Houston Chronicle. he is never read the Houston Chronicle. He is never been to Houston. He is never been to Texas. When he made that phone call he was sitting more than 1000 miles away in the Midwest. But of course the principal of Bellaire High School cannot be expected to know that. He probably pictured the newspaper business the way most of us picture it that Ryan was from the area that he worked at some crummy office drove around in a beat up Honda Civic to cover local stories. And it was a little awkward for me. Because here I am in Chicago. And he is assuming that I am a reporter in Houston for the Houston Chronicle. So I was like um why do not we just do this over the phone? You did not tell him? I did not tell him. I just pretended I was from the Chronicle. I was like hopefully that they do not ask. Because I do not really feel like explaining it. Because I do not even understand it completely. What Ryan does not understand completely is the brave new world of journalism he is entered. Ryan works for a company that pays people in say Chicago Raleigh or Boise to create stories for papers in California Virginia or Connecticut which means embedded in major newspapers all over the country are local notes and stories produced by people who might not know how to pronounce the names of the places they are writing about. They call it hyper-local news. The stories are mostly short just a paragraph or two sometimes-- the Sheriff's report from York  County Virginia who died in Poughkeepsie New York and who got a marriage license in Pearland Texas the names of all the kids on the headmaster's list at Trinity Preparatory School in Winter Park Florida. They do bowling scores and school lunch menus and real estate transfers and holiday trash pickup schedules. Nothing is too small. And the engine of this whole endeavor is data tons of data that the company mines and sorts and enters into databases public information and also harder to find records. It works like an assembly line. One person does research. Another generates a lead. Another writes it. Sometimes a couple of paragraphs might be written by computer using an algorithm. And someone else edits it. The goal is to create the largest local news machine ever. In the next few months they want to quadruple their output to produce 100000 stories a week. The company behind this vision is called Journatic or maybe Journatic. Ryan himself is not sure. I have honestly never actually heard it said. But I have always said Journatic. Why are you assuming it is Journatic and not Journatic? I mean the way you are saying it it kind of sounds like heretic. Journatic sounds more like journalism. It does sound like journalism. But what makes Ryan uneasy is that he is not sure it is journalism. Ryan went to journalism school has been a reporter for newspapers in Missouri and California and Chicago for a dozen years. He got the Journatic job about a year and a half ago when he saw a tweet about it. He emailed his resume. But he was never interviewed. Eventually he got an email offering him some work. And in fact in all the time he is worked at Journatic he is never spoken directly to his supervising editor who sits in St. Louis. They communicate exclusively through the computer. When Ryan has a question about how to do something his supervisor sometimes answers by posting a private video on YouTube. That is the only time Ryan's ever heard the guy's voice. It is all very future. After he got the student of the week assignment Ryan was put in charge of editing death notices and little business briefs for Newsday a newspaper on Long Island. And my job was just to copy edit it and again put it in the database. And where were these stories coming from? Like who was doing the writing that you were editing? I was told actually that they are located in the Philippines. That everything you were editing was coming from the Philippines? That is what I was told at the time that these obituaries and these business stories were all written in the Philippines. I know right? In the Philippines-- which means when you look up the death notice say of a man named Eugene Squeleney Jr. on newsday.com you see a story about him. But there is no reporters name attached to it. It just says special to Newsday under the headline. But the story was actually written by someone in the Philippines. Journatics internal records listed her as Diana D. and say that Diane got the story from the obituary website legacy.com and just slightly rewrote the information there. I called Newsday's newsroom to ask about this why they would use Journatic for this work. I did not get too far. Mostly I learned that Newsday has exciting hold music. I talked to an editor who did not want to go on tape. When I pointed out the Squeleney story with no reporter's name on it just special to Newsday the editor said quote I am totally unfamiliar with this. I do not know what it is unquote. Then I talked to a company spokesman who cheerfully said he would look into it. But a few days later I got an email saying he quote could not provide any information on this. He would not even say whether Newsday was working with Journatic. Ryan says he learned about the Filipino writers after complaining to his supervisor that the copy he was getting was rife with basic grammar and spelling errors. That is when his editor told him to cut the writer some slack. They were not native speakers. So Ryan wondered why do we have these writers at all? His editor wrote back quote well someone has to summarize the obits for the death briefs. And it is cheaper to pay an outsourced writer than to have an American writer editor do it. Unfortunately they are basically paid pennies for these. I have Filipinos asking for better pay on a regular basis. I wish I could do something for them. An ad Journatic placed seeking Filipino writers offered 0.35 to 0.40 per story. I confirmed with a Filipino writer that they are paid 35 to 0.40 a story and more for longer stuff. But wait there is more. Here's Ryan. When I ended up looking at the names on a lot of the stories-- and the names on the stories that were published were not the ones that I saw that had written the stories. Here's what he is talking about. In the Chicago Tribune's local site covering the towns of Homewood and Flossmoor for example you can see that Eric and Joan So-and-so have listed for sale their 4 bedroom 4.5 bath home on such-and-such a street for 695000 that Eric is a general manager of a building company that he attended Roosevelt University. And there is a picture of him. The reporters name on the story is Jenny Cox. But there is no Jenny Cox. Or even if there is a Jenny Cox somewhere out there she did not write the story. The writer was someone named Giselle Bautista in the Philippines who works for Journatic. Again looking at the computer system the company uses to manage its stories it seems that when Giselle worked on this real estate story there was a button called Select Alias. When she clicked on it she had a choice. She could either be Jenny Cox or Glenda Smith. Journatics real estate stories come from a real estate website it also owns called BlockShopper. Some other fake names that have made their way onto the news sites of Journatics clients in the real estate sections-- Carrie Reed Amy Anderson Jay Brownstown Christine Scott Bettie Verdoon Sam Andrews Carla Andrews Deana Andrews Sienna Andrews Cindy Valens Angie Barrett CJ Marx John Simon Shania Samson Scott Johnson and my favorite-- Who is Jimmy Finkle? I have no idea. He sounds like a game show host kind of. I feel like he sounds like a Jewish gangster. You talk to Jimmy Finkle the Finks. He will straighten you out. So you do not know who Jimmy Finkle is. I have no idea. Yet you have edited a story with the byline of Jerry Finkle. Correct. So who wrote it? Well-- All of this seems wrong to Ryan which is why he does not tell most people where he works. He is embarrassed. It is sort of a tattered product that is being written overseas and half-heartedly edited and just kind of slopped on the page. And journalism is supposed to be sort of like a local institution and written by people that care about what is going on there. When I was a reporter on the Daily Beat sometimes it was hard. Sometimes you had to agonize over things. And sometimes you had to make tough decisions. And you did not always get things right and things like that. And you actually cared about it. With this I was writing stories. And I do not know those communities. And I have no stake in them. And so it did not matter to me that I found out all the information and I got it right. And so there is just something inauthentic about the whole process. And the picking of fake names for these writers in the Philippines is just a symptom of that. The whole thing-- When Ryan agreed to this interview I did not realize he was going to be quite so frank. Oh my god. Ryan you are so fired. I am. And are you OK with that? Um yeah. When he agreed to do this interview Ryan figured he would be fired afterwards. But he says it is worth it if he can do something good for journalism. He says the work he does at Journatic has been weighing on his conscience. But there is another side to this one that turns everything Ryan thinks about local reporting on its head. I personally think that we are saving journalism with our approach. This is Brian Timpone Ryan's boss's boss's boss the founder and CEO of Journatic. And it is pronounced Journatic by the way. Timpone says it is a mix of journalism and automatic. When I first spoke to him on the phone he began talking a mile a minute. First of all he loved our radio show. I am not kidding. I am president of your fan club. And I am not saying this just so you will give me favorable treatment. I mean I know you are going to make me look bad. But I do not care. I will deal with it. Because I believe in what we are doing. We are doing God's work. We are not like evil. I used to be a reporter. Needless to say I liked him right away. And I wanted to understand how what he was doing would save journalism. Timpone's premise is that what he calls the single reporter model the old way of doing local reporting that Ryan used to do and that I used to do as a local reporter-- that it just does not work and that it has not really worked in 30 or 40 years. It is going to get better if we do it this way. That is my belief. What is going to get better? Journalism is going to get better. How? We need to see more things. No one covers suburban America. No one covers all these small towns. Look at that story in-- was in Dixon Illinois that lady stole like 30 million bucks? It was actually 53 million bucks in the end. The town controller had been siphoning taxpayer money off the budget for 20 years before another city worker filling in for her stumbled on it. How did that happen? No one was watching. And I am not saying we are the solution. But we are certainly on the road to the solution. We are going to look at that stuff and help our partners. And there is 400 people or something in the Chicago Tribune newsroom. And they could not cover Dixon. They had enough on their plate. There 