To fight those massive fires out west there are these camps hidden from view. If you were driving by you might not even know they are there. One of the largest fires in California history the Creek fire has a base camp for 700 people in the parking lot of a ski resort in Central California just outside Fresno. Hose that! Pull! Pull! So if you know where to go the first thing that you see when you pull up to camp is these 20 somethings running back and forth with bright yellow firehose hundreds and hundreds of miles of it. Their job is to untangle miles of hoses all day every day. One of our producers Miki Meek recorded the sound that you are hearing right now and talked to these guys including RJ Brown who is 23 in a dirt streaked yellow jacket and a face mask with a panda nose and mouth printed on it. The official motto of his employer the California Conservation Corps which sends young people all over the state to do this kind of job? Hard work low pay miserable conditions and more. You guys what? Hard work low pay miserable conditions and more-- that is the actual motto. What is the best part of your job and what is the worst part of your job? The best part? Oh I should know. Hang on. I am going to start with the worst part. Just the worst part is when they say over here on the walkie talkie oh we got 60000 layers of hoses coming in. And then once the 60 comes in they bring in another 30. So when you hear 60000 hoses coming over the radio what is going through your head when you hear that? Defeat. Like I want to go home. I am like oh no no no. I do not want to do this. The way this job works is this. Trucks come back from the fire line and dump huge piles of jumbled hoses. Five guys untangle them. And then with each hose they take one end-- All right ready? Everybody grab a corner. --and sprint across the parking lot. Each hose is 100 feet long so it is kind of a long way to go. They lay down one bright yellow hose next to another next to another until the whole parking lot is blanketed with tidy yellow hose. What do you do to keep yourself sane when you are rolling hoses? I will just be thinking about music in my head that I have already listened to. And it just keeps me going. They are not allowed to wear headphones on this job. His teammate Kory Rovy has a different strategy to deal with that. I sing it out and I tell everybody. What song's on your mind lately? Cannot Break My Stride. It goes like last night I had the strangest dream. I sailed away to China in a little rowboat to find ya. As not nobody going to break my stride. And so that song just keeps going in my head. Why that song? Next step in this process they wind the hoses up in coils put them on pallets wrap them in plastic wrap and send them to be cleaned. After that the hoses go out to the fire line again then back to the hose rolling crews then back to the place where they are cleaned over and over week after week after week which is life at a fire camp. They have the same day over and over and over until the fire's out. When Miki visited the Creek fire had been going for nearly two months. It burned more than 350000 acres. It is over 500 square miles. Putting out a fire that large is a mammoth task. The base camp that Miki met RJ and Kory at it was like a mini city with a makeshift laundromat a cafeteria a mechanic shop sleep trailers with triple bunk beds. Like most people at the camp Kory and RJ work 16-hour days. And they sleep right on the asphalt right next to where they work in tents they have pitched. They sleep in their uniforms so they can squeeze in a few extra minutes of rest each morning. I was curious. What do you guys dream about at night?  My dream yesterday was about hoses. It was about rolling hoses. I was so mad. Like oh I cannot take no breaks no days off. But the thing about RJ and Kory they love their jobs despite the repetitiveness and exhaustion. Before this RJ worked retail and at a car wash. Kory had an office job coding. Now it feels like they are part of something important. They are team captains for their crew and they have this can-do attitude that it is actually kind of the culture of this camp. I just make sure that the crew's PMA is always at its highest. What does that mean? Positive Mental Attitude. SUBJCET KORY ROVY Me and Ricky will say something like hey yeah just keep the PMA up. Is that a well-known acronym? Yes. I had never heard of that acronym. I could use some more PMA in my life right now. With the fire season running longer than ever it is seven or eight months out of the year now. There is this entire ecosystem of people like RJ and Kory who swoop in and live in fire camps for months all over the west. Today on our program we meet the people putting these fires out doing all kinds of jobs you never think of to do it in this unusual situation where they have to push the same boulder up the same hill every single day. And in the second half of the program we have a different large group of people who are battling a different large sort of threat. And the stakes could not be higher. They are literally trying to save the world. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One The Extinguishers. So we heard about these fire camps from Lizzie Johnson. She is a reporter with the San Francisco Chronicle and spends most of the year chasing fires around California covering them and knows so much about them. She took Miki and one of our other producers Lilly Sullivan to the fire camp at Creek Fire and has these stories of the people there and what they do and of daily life in this place. Here's Lizzie. The drive up to the Creek Fire base camp should have been beautiful. This is Ansel Adams country in the High Sierra. But the two-laned highway was lined with trees that looked like charcoal toothpicks. We passed houses where the only thing still standing were the chimneys. The local gas station reminded me of a Salvador Dal painting. The letters on the big sign out front had melted dripping down like icicles. I have been to dozens of fire camps. At the big ones there is always a stand selling T-shirts printed with the year and the name of the fire. And you see firefighters wearing them. There is a predictable rhythm to daily life at these camps. They start with a briefing right at 700 AM. This is where everyone gets their orders. At the Creek Fire this happens by the ski lift. Quick roll call. Little T. Here. Groveland. Here. Grayback 17. Here. Over 100 firefighters are here. They looked cold tired wearing thick stocking caps and heavy jackets. Hundreds more are listening on the radio. This was day 48 of their fight against the Creek Fire. Plan on your same work assignments today. We are just really controlling that perimeter and making sure nothing moves on us. There is no way to put out a fire this big so the best they can do is stop it from growing. The actual mechanics of that feels surprisingly primitive. Hundreds of crews spread out all along the fire's edge working on their own little speck of land scraping the ground down to mineral dirt with chainsaws and shovels and bulldozers so there is nothing left to burn when the wildfire gets there. So be flexible is kind of a key to it. If something changes where we need to move equipment around that is kind of some of our reasoning for not getting rid of a ton of stuff yet. Because I know you guys are kind of getting Groundhog Day out there. A lot of the top brass the incident command team spoke to the firefighters through two flat screen TVs set up on a platform. They were at a command post more than an hour away. To me it sounded like a county fair. All right thanks John. Next up fire behavior. Patty Johnson. Morning. The most growth yesterday was out in this Edison Lake area mainly closer to the South Fork out here than any place else. Just for the folks in the field lots of heavy fuels burning out there lots of smoke coming out of it. So make sure you take breaks with your being in the smoke every day. Probably for some folks it is 24 hours of smoke that they are experiencing out there. Have a good day. All right thanks Patty. For safety-- A thick shroud of gray smoke hung over the base camp. The people at the center of the operation are the hotshot crews. They are the most elite of the wildland firefighters dispatched to the hottest and the farthest corners of the blaze. In the social hierarchy of fire camps the hotshot crews are at the top. After the morning briefing I talked to Pete Rosas in the parking lot. He is a squad boss for a hot crew out of LA County. His wife's also a wildland firefighter on a different crew. She drives a water truck called the tender. He told me that in the last month they would only overlapped at home one day which was challenging with a two-year-old daughter. We bounce back and forth between my family her family and daycare. Pete Pete Pete Pete Pete. That is a bunch of young guys from his crew sticking their heads out the windows of their sherbet green bus-- it is called a buggy-- chirping Pete Pete Pete. The phoenix is their crew logo. He is the head phoenix and we are just little birds. How many times a day do you hear that? Oh man. It is pretty constant. Do you like when they do that? I mean not that I like it or look forward to it but I think for me it tells me OK the guys are good. They are happy right now. So maybe sometimes when I do not hear it OK yeah what is going on? You guys are up to something. Pete's crew is called Little Tujunga or Little T for short. At 42 Pete's been on the crew the longest. Some of the younger guys joke that he hatched from an egg at the fire station and keeps them all safe under his wing. Pete's not just their boss he is a life coach a mentor and a therapist all rolled into one giving them advice on everything from how to clean their chainsaws to buying their first house. He even reminds them to pay their bills back at home. I feel sometimes like I am their dad. The reason it is like that because I am with them so much more than I am with my own family. It is like I know what makes them go off what does not how to calm them down how to rile them up when we need them to be. Pete's on the shorter side. He is got skull tattoos on his arms to remind himself that death's part of life. The crew knows him for his cool head. He keeps a book called The Subtle Art of Not Giving a Fuck in the side compartment of his truck. He grew up on the east side of LA still lives there. As a kid Pete says he never went camping or hiking never even visited the mountains. He ended up in this job on a total fluke. Back in the early 2000s the Forest Service was trying to hire more people of color. I remember it came out in The LA Times and it said Hiring 500 firefighters. It was like front page. And so all my buddies came to me. I was the guy with the car. Like hey can you take us to this? Drop us off. You know we want to go. I ended up taking them. I ended up staying with them a couple hours in line. I put in an application. So I think a month and a half later I get a call from the Stanislaus National Forrest offering me an apprenticeship. And the rest is history I guess. Little T is now majority Latino with a lot of first generation firefighters like Pete kids of immigrants. Here's a typical day for the hotshots at camp. After that morning briefing they load onto their buggies with backpacks crammed with chainsaw fuel tools and water. Their packs can weigh up to 50 pounds. They even carry their own stretcher because if one of them gets hurt they are on their own. They then drive out on a narrow backcountry road pull up alongside a mountain and start hiking in the wilderness. It is a brutal 2.8 mile trek to their job site. No trail no switchbacks no signposts. They had to keep going back there for two weeks. Here's one of the rookies on Little T Zach Hanson.  what are you thinking wanting a romantic answer and you are like I am thinking about Frank.  Yeah honestly that does happen you know? What are they doing right now? Like oh I wonder if do they need help. I do not want them to get hurt. I want to get back really. I am curious. Because you spend so much time with these guys does it ever feel easier to be more like a dad to them than to your own children who you do not get to see very often? Yeah definitely. I mean I do not know how to answer that other than yeah it is like that unfortunately I guess. Because I do see sometimes a difference in how I treat everybody in my family and how I treat these guys sometimes. More understanding and more patient. We are literally stuck with each other for seven eight months out of the year. If the guys get in an argument or are not seeing eye to eye you cannot just walk away. You have to deal with it at the moment or it could potentially cost us our lives. With the family you walk away. And you will come back a day later or whatever it be. With us you cannot. So I am aware that it might be unfair. I am 100 aware of that. Long fire seasons are now so consistent that there is a whole army of private contractors that chases these fires across California too. It is a multimillion dollar industry. Their jobs are to make life a little easier for the people out on the fire line. At the Creek Fire most of these contractors are set up in the main parking lot of the ski resort which is the equivalent of downtown here. There is hot showers the sleep trailers-- they are highly sought after-- and an industrial kitchen that packs up these brown paper bag lunches called the 5000 calorie meal. The mobile laundromat is in a white trailer in the back of the parking lot hooked up to a water tank. It has 16 washers and dryers going all the time. Is this one dirty too? Oh yeah right. Jenn Wolf is the person in charge of washing everyone's filthy laundry. She says Little T always texts her the second they get off the mountain just so they can jump to the front of the line as soon as they roll back into camp. Put a little detergent in there. There we go. How many loads of laundry do you do in a day? About 460. Yeah could be more. We are either working or sleeping basically. There is no real downtime. Jenn wears blue latex gloves so she does not pick up poison oak. Does it smell really bad when it comes in? It can. Some of these teams what is called a spike out-- Spiking out means camping out in a remote spot near the fire line. And they spike out there for sometimes two weeks. And there is no laundry service no shower. And yeah their socks can stand on their own sometimes.  One of the guys who works for her was a lot less diplomatic. So if you go to this grocery store you buy 12 eggs you boil them and now you leave them out for a month that is what some of these clothes smell like. The only snafu Jenn had here at camp was a sock mix-up. She accidentally put one firefighter's expensive wool socks in another guy's bags. And  we were able to unite the socks first. Sorry. Why is that so funny? It just is.  Well he was upset about his socks. But we got them back to him so all is good. How long did the sock saga last? Um I think a couple of days. So yeah it was very high stress. It is socks but you know what? I am telling you that is the comforts. They were his socks. He wanted them back. The Creek is the fourth fire camp Jenn has worked at this year. She says the smoke in each of them smells really different. Here it is like a campfire from all the smoldering pine trees. But in more populated areas where buildings and houses burn the smoke smells synthetic and greasy. It stings your lungs. That reminded me of the fires I saw in wine country in 2017. More than 5000 houses and buildings burned down. The smoke smelled awful because you were breathing in people's lives. Kaylee Ralls has one of the most important jobs in the camp. She works in a trailer printing the maps and action plans for all the teams. The printers run 24 hours a day and Kaylee is the only person on her 12-hour shift so she cannot leave the trailer. People are constantly running in and out. They never have time to chat which means that this person who everyone relies on is the loneliest person I met at camp. The most exciting drama that had happened the week I was there was a black bear busting into a giant grease spot from the kitchen. The cook told me the bear had chugged about 100 gallons of grease. But as usual that news had not reached Kaylee yet. Have you seen the bear? The bear? It is been eating the bacon grease. No way! I never even heard of this! I am like in the dark over here. I am not even kidding. No one tells me anything. Any time I get any juicy info I am like no way. No one talks to me. I am all alone over here. Kaylee says the only time she leaves her trailer called Firedog is to go out to the porta potty. She is so isolated that she has not even figured out how to read the map she is printing. They are typographic and color-coded to show where the fire's the hottest with symbols for all the different teams. At this point the outline of the fire perimeter kind of looks like a Sasquatch with its front leg kicked out. Kaylee's 20. She wears a hoodie and has perfect makeup. She recently broke up with her long time boyfriends. But she explained to one of my producers Lilly Sullivan that there is a rule at camp. So basically you cannot be macking on these boys and doing that. That is our policy. It is an actual policy. It is an actual policy. We sign it. We have to keep it professional. Yeah you have a job to do. Yep exactly. We have a job to do. But yeah the view is great you know? Not necessarily here but.  Every fire is different. You do not think there are other cute people here? Mm I am trying to think. No. Fed fires usually do not have cute people. Tend to be older and yeah. Fed fires-- meaning fire camps run by the US Forest Service. But camps run by the state's agency CAL FIRE? CAL FIRES-- that is where it is at. That is where it is at. CAL FIRES have cute boys. Say I get a call and he says I am sending you here it is going to be a CAL FIRE. I am like sweet. Every girl on our team would be like awesome. Because what is the difference? The CAL FIRE I do not know what it is but there is always younger-- and even when they are not. I do not know if it is because they have nice uniforms and they have to be really clean-like. It is nicer all around. Not only because there is cute boys but because you get better food. It is like if you are going to stay at this five star hotel compared to this three star type thing. So CAL FIRE is the five star hotel. Fed fire's like three. Kaylee does not actually sleep at the camp. Her company rented her a cabin about 30 minutes away. But it is the worst part of the job. It is creepy she says. The curtains on her bedroom windows are see-through. Did you get some sleep last night?  Yeah I was on FaceTime with my mom all night. All night? We set it up and then we go to bed.  Wait so you put your mom on FaceTime and you guys go to bed. You sleep like that? Yeah. We are usually not in creepy places but this just happened to be creepy. When I get back to the cabin I FaceTime her and we will talk all night. And then I am like OK let us set up our phones. And she is like OK. So we literally fall asleep. If I open my eyes I can look at my phone and see her. And I just wake up all throughout the night and look to see if she is still there. Does she sleep with the light on so that you can see her? No I sleep with the light on. And  so she can see me because I feel like there is something there. And then my alarm goes off in the morning. She is like Kaylee wake up. Yeah. Kaylee is thinking about moving out of her cabin and into a tent at the camp just so she does not have to feel so alone. It can be weirdly easy to work on these wildfires and not think about the big picture at all. This year was a turning point. The combination of climate change drought dead and diseased trees and more housing built in high risk places. California saw six of the state's biggest fires in modern history. For the first time firefighters began using the term giga fire to describe a million acres burning. We still approach wildfires with a very manifest destiny type of attitude believing that with enough people and grit there is no fire we cannot conquer. But we have spent four months and almost 200 million on the Creek Fire and it is still not out. The Creek Fire destroyed 850 homes and businesses. Most of them were in little mountain towns where nothing will be ever totally normal again not even the ground. After a big fire the dirt is toxic from melted insulation and all the other synthetic stuff inside a home when it burns down. And with the forest gutted you can suddenly see for miles. I talked to a bulldozer operator named Dean Mullis who goes by Woody. He got a glimpse of this and was still thinking about it a few weeks after he would gone home. On his very first shift on the Creek Fire he was sent out to protect a neighborhood the fire had not reached yet. It was on Cressman Road. He would never been here before. All of a sudden there is just fire. You do not exactly know where to go. So he started pushing away anything that might cause the houses to catch fire. I was basically in the bulldozer pushing cars that were on fire playground sets decks like wooden decks off the back of a house brush trees kicking that fuel away from those houses. He worked through the night. But most of the homes did not survive. And we would drive through there and we would go man why did that one survive and the other one did not? I do not know. Woody is a dozer operator for the state's CAL FIRE agency. Unlike hotshot crews he spends most of his time alone moving huge piles of dirt in his dozer scraping fuel breaks to get ahead of the flames. He jokes that the stereotype of a bulldozer operator is someone who is kind of salty and will push back against orders they do not agree with. Woody's bald with piercing blue eyes. He says he hates what the big fire camps like the one at the Creek have become. Once upon a time when Woody first started the fire camp was just a few boots in a lot where you went to pick up your paycheck or radio. You know it is been a really long fire season. How are you feeling at this point? I am not going to-- I do not like it. I do not like it. I mean it is too much. It is just devastation. You see all the comments on social media the new norm in California. It sucks. I do not want to be running the bulldozer in December in Southern California protecting structures. I mean I will. It is my job. Of course I will. But I care for people a lot. And I do not enjoy seeing houses burn. Nobody wants to do that. People want to go to their-- it is the holidays. You are supposed to be staring at Ralphie from A Christmas Story not staring at a wildfire. I first met Woody in 2018 at another California fire the Ferguson. It happened north of here. That year at least six firefighters died. Two of them were dozer operators and included Woody's best friend from childhood. His name is Braden Varney and he is the one who got Woody into firefighting. It was dark. It was extremely steep. And his bulldozer slid off the side of a road and he perished when it slid. It tumbled down the mountain. It took two days for firefighters to retrieve Braden's body. They draped an American flag over his remains and carried him out of the canyon. Now Woody has Braden's job at their local fire station in Mariposa. He sees himself as part of the lineage of dozer operators one that started with Braden's dad who held the spot until he died of cancer from the job. Braden and I always wanted to be partners on the bulldozers. Braden will always be on my mind. Braden will always be with me on the fire lines in the morning drinking coffee out of a plastic water bottle that is been cut in half out of a homemade coffee pot. Do you ever think about how much longer you can or want to do this job for? Are you counting down the days until retirement? Haha I am not one of those guys yet. I still have 19 years left. You have 19 years left? Yeah so I started late so. No no no no. I have 18 years left. Eight? That is still a lot of years. Well the retirement formula changed. You used to retire at 50. Now they retire us at 57. Do you think you can make it until you are 57? I mean if you look at a billboard statistic billboard if I do not catch cancer I am doing pretty good. Woody 18 years. Can you imagine what the fire season will be like in 18 years? I do not think anything will be left.  It very well might be that way. I do not know. I mean that brush grows back. Yeah. So I do not know. It is a crazy job sometimes. Hey guys. Hey what is going on? I met up with the Little T hotshots again on their very last night at camp. They were about to get to go home for two days. They stood out from the rest of the scraggly and bearded dirty men in the parking lot. Everyone on Little T was showered clean shaven. It is a crew tradition. In one of the buggies the guys were watching a Dodgers game on a little TV. They looked relaxed and happy even though they just heard the fire season might get extended another two months into January. That is something that would have been hard to imagine a few years ago. Again here's Zach and Frank. Like a lot of the crew they are contractors who get laid off at the end of the season. What do you think about the season possibly going all the way until January? It is so exciting. We were all excited. We were all happy. Yeah. It was funny. When they asked everybody on this crew's hand shot up. How do you just keep going on and on and on? Each other. Honestly each other. Like the synergy the family dynamics. You guys are all positive attitudes. That is mandatory. That is mandatory. You cannot have a negative attitude and get away with it here. I would say this job's probably impossible if you do not have a good attitude. But when you are having a really bad day what do you tell yourself? No bad days. It sounds so weird. And I totally get why it sounds weird but that is a big thing that we have is like no bad days. On the worst day it is not that bad. It can always be worse. We always say is like it can always be worse. It could be hotter. It could be a lot-- Steeper. --colder. It could be way steeper. The truth is a lot of people do not last more than a few years at this job. The adrenaline high eventually wears off and they move on to other jobs jobs that are easier on their families. One of the hardest parts of hotshotting is just how much they are on the road. More of their life is spent out at fires than at home. This season Little T has been on back-to-back assignments since June. Nevada Utah Arizona all up and down California. The way their assignments work is they go out for 14 or 21 days at a time then only get two days off before shipping out again. With all the overtime it is good money. One of the chainsaw guys on the crew said he would make 70000 after taxes. So some of them do not really work during the off season. While they are out fighting fires life goes on without them. They are reminded of this in a very literal way. They often go without cell service for days. And then the second they get back in range they are bombarded by everything they have missed. Joel Gonzales is one of the captains on Little T. Some guys over 100 messages a day. You are thinking of something. You are thinking about an example. I am thinking of someone who is in the truck right now.  What is the situation? This is a busy year for us. And she does not understand that one of my guys he just cannot be on his phone all the time you know? And then when he does get service he finds out how many times she is been messaging him so. But it is like how many? On the low end maybe in the 20s. In the high end maybe over 100. She is just like call me. Call me. Where are you? What the fuck? What is going on? You think he will talk to me about it? No.  He will not. I will not throw him under the bus. I get a lot Pete how come women do not understand what we do? Why does not she get it? Again here's Pete the squad boss who gets tripped out by the crew. He says they are constantly asking him for relationship advice. He keeps it pretty simple. Sit down and talk. Put yourself in her shoes. But the problem is they never actually have time to use it. I could be telling them that today this morning. But then he never makes it home to be able to do that. And now it just turns into worse and worse and worse. And unfortunately it does not work. It is really hard to understand or even sometimes believe that you are gone so long or believe that you are on a fire. Or why did not you have service? Why did not you have service? I just talked to you a minute ago. Well yeah I know I was hiking and I had service for one second and now it is gone. And now they do not hear from you again for three four days. You cannot explain that. There have already been a couple break ups this season. Pete says his first marriage ended in divorce because he was gone so much. Unlike the seasonal guys he is year round. He was on a fire when his son was born and this season missed his daughter's birthday. Pete often scrolls through photos of them on his cell phone. Get a picture of my boy. He showed me one of his son now 11 competing at a swim meet. Was that cool getting to be at his meet? Oh yeah. Well I did not make it to this one. This is a picture they sent me but I have been to some of his meets. Not too many but yeah it is fun. It is definitely fun watching him. Are they always very forgiving of you being gone not being there for the big things in their life? I like to say yeah because I think they do not know any different. They think it is the norm. It is like oh Dad's always gone working. I think-- Good morning Peter. Thank you. One of the guys from his crew stopped by his truck. This happened all the time while I was talking to him. OK I am sorry. So they brought me my breakfast. They brought me my lunch. It is like the first thing on their plate. OK we got to take care of Pete and then we will do our thing. It becomes to where you become very catered to. Well this is not normal. In real life it is not like that. I mean your kids are going to talk back. Your wife is going to want different things. It is going to be a different type of reaction. And somebody has been doing this so long somebody like myself and a lot of these other guys. You do not want to deal with that because it is a lot easier here. It is a lot easier. Pete's the perfect worker for these long fire seasons. He loves his job. And when I asked him if the relentlessness ever gets to him he told me no. The more fire the better. The more I work the more I do not have to think about real life. Lizzie Johnson at The San Francisco Chronicle. She is got a book about the Paradise Fire that is coming out that you can preorder online. The Creek Fire after burning for nearly four months is right now about 96 contained. Crews expect to get it to 100 at the end of this month or the start of the year. One of the hotshots from Little T Matthew Jacquez just came out with an album this month under the name Unholy Smokes. This song is about constantly being on the road. SINGING The great big galloping road grows between us now . We meet again some other day. Here I go again wondering my friend. Coming up a scientist who is out snowboarding gets a call to come save the world. We move from hotshots to cold shots in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Boulder v Hill-- stories of people trying to save the world by teaming up together and getting in there every day doing the same things over and over like Sisyphus pushing his rock up the slope again and again until the job gets done. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. In this act we move from people who are saving us from something very large to people saving us from something tiny. Act Two The Other Extinguishers. So the people in this act have been working at a task some of them for years and this has been in the news in just the last few weeks. They have actually succeeded. It looks like they got their boulder up to the top of the hill. David Kestenbaum spoke with four scientists who have been working on a coronavirus vaccine one of the ones that was just shown to be effective. David was a scientist in his early career. He worked at Fermilab. And from the coverage he could not understand what exactly they had done in any detail. And he wanted to know that and who these people were and espe