Hey everybody. Ira Glass here. So we got this email at our radio show near the end of the last school year from a 14-year-old. Hello? Hey is this Annie? Yes. I called her up at her house in California and asked her to read it. It says Dear This American Life I just escaped the whitewashed brick-walled iron-gated prison that is commonly known as middle school and I am finally out for good. But in all the time I have listened to your show I have never heard an episode devoted to what goes on inside the walls of a middle school. I hope you will think about it. Anonymous. Yeah you signed it anonymous but then your email was signed with your name. Yeah. Yeah. I did anonymous because in middle school everybody is so judgmental and I did not want the kids to judge me or anything if they heard me on the radio. Mainly she says that she wrote to us because she and her friends were talking right after they left eighth grade about how terrible middle school was. And she wondered was it just as bad for other people as it was for them? You always wonder whether other people are going through the same thing as you. And it would be cool to hear other people's stories about it and what they went through. And if you had to explain to somebody what are the worst things about middle school-- can I ask you to just walk me through it. What is so bad about middle school? Kids there are all in socially awkward stages that the drama every day can be frustrating. And girls write things that are someone likes so and so. And then no matter who you are or what you do you will get made fun of for it. Anything anything in the world you can get made fun of for. In Annie's case she had friends who smoked so she got criticized for smoking. But then she also was made fun of for not smoking for being too much of a sissy to start smoking. She was made fun of for coming from a bilingual elementary school where everybody learned to speak Spanish and spoke it throughout the day. And leaving elementary school I guess I thought that when I got to middle school everyone would think it was really cool that I spoke Spanish but when I got there they mostly just thought it was dumb. I do not know if they were jealous or what. They would make fun of me for it. Then they would say we were all full of ourselves that we spoke different languages and stuff. Did it make you feel bad? Yeah I did not want to stick out in that way. If I got a new sweater or something say for Christmas that I really liked and I would really want to wear it to school or something but I would be nervous because what if someone did not like my sweater or someone made fun of me for wearing it. It can be hard to do even the smallest things because you are so nervous that people tease you or judge you from it. That sweater example is that a real example? Yeah it actually is. I worried about it so much. I also had a pair of moccasins that I would never worn and they are kind of my signature now. Everybody really likes them. They are ankle-high lace-up moccasins. And how long did you have the moccasins before you actually wore them? A few months probably two months. I guess I just thought if people did not like them they would all make fun of me for wearing them. And I did not want to stand out that much. What could be done to make middle school better? I do not think you can really do anything about it.  Nothing. We talked about this for a little while. She said basically everybody comes into middle school as a little kid and you are going to have to grow up and figure out who is in what group and who you are and who is above who. And you are going to have to figure that out somewhere at that age right? It might as well be middle school. And it was terrible she says but now she is in high school. Whatever middle school was it worked. Everyone is a lot friendlier and everyone's lives are a lot better now. Well today on our radio program for Annie we look at whatever it is that happens in those mysterious years that we call middle school. We have stories today from all over the country people lurching their way through these years when you are figuring out so so much. We go to middle school dances and classrooms and down to the Mexican border. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Life in the Middle Ages. So we wanted to understand what is going on exactly physically and emotionally with middle school kids and we talked to all kinds of people about that these last few weeks. And one of the producers on our staff had a very strong opinion about all this Alex Blumberg. Before he got into radio he taught in a middle school in Chicago for four years. He was a science teacher. And he concluded from that experience-- I do not know if they learned anything. They are so consumed with learning all these other lessons about where they fit in in the social order and how their bodies are now working and-- And who they are going to be. --who they are attracted to and who they are going to be that facts and figures and geography and all the other stuff that you teach in school it just does not even penetrate. Wait are you saying we should not even bother to have them in school? We should just basically put them to work in the factory for two or three years? Yeah. I basically came away thinking you are sort of wasting your time trying to teach middle school students anything. If that seems just insane Alex told me that Maria Montessori who is the creator of the Montessori schools who looked at what kids could learn at each developmental stage at one point in her career actually tossed out a similar suggestion. Perhaps she said young adolescents would be better off at a farm school what she called an Erdkinder where they would work with the land.  Has he just got a great sense of humor or what? I ran Alex's thoughts by Marian Strok the principle of Evergreen Academy Middle School in Chicago which was listed as one of the best middle schools in the country a school to watch by the National Forum to Accelerate Middle Grades Reform. I have to say well I obviously do not agree OK? I think that we definitely have a way to stick knowledge in their heads. It is being creative about how we do it and taking into consideration all of those other things. I am not going to lie. It is not easy. Can I ask you how much of the stereotype around students this age is true? Are you saying that the stereotype is true? You just have to deal with what it is? It is true and you have to-- as the adult in the situation-- you have to find a way to work around it find a way to help them to grow up. They will not have to suffer if we do things right. They will not have to suffer as much let us say. I mean you are going to go through emotional changes and your body's changing. That cannot be helped. The raging hormones that cannot be helped. All of that cannot be helped. It is the way that we react to it that will make such a difference in their lives. It is our flexibility. It is our concern. It is our listening to them. It is our hearing them out. And so what is actually happening developmentally in the bodies and brains of kids when they are in middle school? Let me give the overview this way. The terrible 12s are a complete analog to the terrible twos. They are just not as cute right? This is Linda Perlstein. When she wrote a book called Not Much Just Chillin' The Hidden Lives of Middle Schoolers following five middle school students very closely for a full year she also incidentally researched everything she could find out about what is going on developmentally with kids that age that makes them so different from other ages. And it is fascinating. This is the time of biggest growth for a human being aside from infancy. So your bones are growing faster than your muscles so you cannot actually sit still. But your brain your gray matter-- during the middle school years what happens in your early stages of puberty is this fast overproduction of brain cells and connections far more than you actually need. And only some of them are going to survive puberty. This growth in your frontal cortex it peaks at 11 for girls and 12 for boys. And then what happens is the cells just fight it out for survival. And the ones that last are the ones you exercise more. In other words during those years your brain turns you into you the adult you. The stuff you do not exercise just kind of goes away. And what stays? So if you think about what you learned at the early stages of puberty I do not know what that was for you. For me it was tap dancing and French. It sticks. I know French much better than any language I learned after that and not because I had a better teacher. I was learning it at the right time. I can still do tap dances though I will not that I learned when I was 12 or 13. Yeah I can still do magic tricks that I learned at that age. Exactly it is embossed in your existence. It is this important time for your brain. It is this use it or lose it time. Linda Perlstein agrees that all the stereotypes about middle schoolers everything in fact that Annie complained about all of that is true. But she says that there is a flip side that people do not usually talk about. Middle school is when kids open up to the world. It is when they think about bigger things. And they have not formed their opinions on things yet. Everything is up for grabs which is amazing to be around. I just think kids that age are fun. I like being around them. Middle schoolers are in that real nice spot of being interesting but also being able to explain to you what is going on in their minds and why they do things they do. They are self-reflective. They are capable of self-reflection in a way that younger kids might not be. Older kids she says high school kids by then they can be jaded or cynical. They are settling into who they are. In middle school everything's new. You are probably picking your friends for the very first time. For the first time they are not just the kids on your block or your parents' friends' kids or the kids who are around. And so you make a best friend one day who then you drop two weeks later. You get obsessed with guitar or computers or dance for two weeks and then two weeks later you drop it. For everything that is awful about middle school she says that is the great thing about it. You experiment. Act Two Stutter Steps. One good place to see the experiment that is life in middle school in action is a middle school dance. Last Friday there were middle school dances all over the country all at the same time and we sent reporters to a half dozen of them to find out how kids were doing. They talked to them before the kids went inside to the field of battle. And no surprise we found a lot of stress a lot of uncertainty. Who is nervous about tonight? I am. Why? Well just you do not know what is it going to be like. And I am just confused. I just do not know. Yeah. These four girls are sixth graders and they are in a car on the way to a neon-themed dance at Edgewood Middle School in Highland Park Illinois with their mom and reporter Rob Wildeboer. Who is going to dance with a boy tonight? Nobody. I do not know. I can tell you that. No one in this car. Roughly 800 miles east in New Jersey sixth grader Ethan Derose was hoping there would be at least one slow dance though did he feel ready for a slow dance? Nope not at all. Why not? What are you worried about? I just do not know how to do it. I am not sure that I will do it correctly or-- yeah. He is standing in front of the school with one of our producers Brian Reed as kids stream into the school. Ethan is wearing a button-up shirt with green and black stripes that he is not happy with. That was my mom. She made me wear it. She said that if I do not wear the two shirts that I am wearing right now that I cannot go to the dance. What are you hoping happens at this dance? I am hoping nothing bad happens like no humiliation or not something that'ill be a story for the next month or two. Of course Ethan and the girls in that car in Illinois are sixth graders. In New York City seventh graders Evelyn Benson and Alice Westerman are excited and feeling very grown up on their way to their school's Halloween dance. I am really happy because last year they split the gym in half so it is light on one side and pitch black on the other side. All the sixth graders are banned from the dark side but that is where all the cool kids are. So now we are in seventh grade we can dance on the dark side. So it is like woo we are cool. Dance on the dark side. Some of the middle school boys got up the nerve to ask girls to be their dates to the dances. But because this is a new experience for the girls too being asked out on a date they do not exactly know how to handle it. Here's a girl named Autumn talking with our producer Lisa Pollak in Delaware the afternoon of the dance. Did you get asked to the dance? Yes I did. And what did you say? I said I do not know but I probably will not say yes. Wait you have not told him yes or no yet? No. OK so it is 120 and the dance is at 700. Yeah. When do you have to let him know? I probably will not answer. Are you serious? Yeah. I just kind of want to hang out with the girls. So he is the only one who asked you. There was other people too. How many? Probably five-ish. Five boys asked you to the dance? Yeah. You told all these guys I do not know? Yeah. What if they took that as a yes? Then they got the wrong answer. Do you say I do not know because it feels too mean to say no? Yeah I am not mean. Of course some of the boys are no better. During the dance in Windham Maine our reporter Claire Holman pulled six grader Christopher Potter out of the action for a chat. Is there anyone you like at the dance? There is. Does she know? Yes she does. We are kind of dating at the time. So how is that going? Good it just started 20 minutes into this so yeah. You asked a girl to go out during the dance? No a girl came to me and asked me out. OK let us go over it minute by minute. So where were you when this happened? I was in the cafeteria just got a drink of root beer and she walks up to me and asks me to go out. What did she say exactly? She said Chris will you go out with me? And were you surprised? Not really. We have kind of been on and off again. So it is not the first time. Yeah not the first time. But she always asks you? Or do you ever ask her? Well it is kind of weird because it is always she wants me to ask her. So it was weird that she asked me. Usually they do not last. It is a middle school relationship. Nothing really happens. What does that mean a middle school relationship? What do you mean it does not last? It is destined to fail pretty much. Yeah because it is a middle school. This is not where you are starting your life with. You do not hear things about middle school sweethearts. In Richmond outside Moody Middle School's dance reporter Eric Mennel spoke with Elliot German and his step-brother Jonathan Lawton. They are both eighth graders who ran through the official rules for the dance. So some of them are kind of funny because I mean it is like no hands below the waist no petting which I thought was kind of funny. Wait no petting? Yeah no petting. What does that mean? No one knows. It was specifically on the flier that they hand out. They give you the dress code and then they give you the rules no petting. And it is in quotations and you never know what it means. Do people sit there at dances and just pet other people? Because that would be really weird. There are rules like this at all the dances and some more comprehensible than others. As for whether or not the kids obey the rules and what actually happens inside the dance on the actual dance floor one of our producers Lisa Pollak went inside to the dance floor at the Fall Costume dance in Lewes Delaware. And I am going to hand it off to her. So the scene in the gym was pretty much the way you remember it. Older kids dancing in the middle younger kids at the periphery a few aimlessly wandering around looking like they are not sure what to do. Lots of kids were dancing jumping up and down. Occasionally you would see a fist pump. They danced in these tightly packed clusters very little room between them. And outside of the clusters were chaperons ready to step in if they saw any grinding or suggestive dancing. Hovering outside one of the clusters was a teacher named John Gauze and he looked perplexed. This knot has got me on edge at this point. Why? Because they are trying to get away with stuff. You can tell by the way they are looking at you. They have a guilty look because you are about to see me swoop. He actually did swoop. He plunged into the pack of kids pulled the boy aside and talked to him. Then he told me why. He needed to be taken aside and told to stop being up against those girls like that. I do not want to jump in too much but I just want to give them the whoa the flat hand whoa just whoa. Just calm it down a little. I mean usually if I see it then they are going to stop because they see me. And then comes the moment of truth the moment that forces every kid in the room to make a decision the moment that separates the timid from the brave the slow song. I watch it with teacher Brian Comra. So we got our slow song and just as I suspected a majority of the students left the dance floor. All the couples are in the middle of the dance floor in a cluster. I suspect so they are not near an adult. I love how the kids go up to the couples dancing and interrupt them. Oh absolutely. Some of the couples did not have much privacy. Their friends were standing a foot away hanging out and talking to them. And every so often a random kid would just cut across the dance floor. This girl right here just grabbed onto the back of her friend's neck while the friend was dancing with the boy. Yeah I do not know if she did not want to be left out or they came as friends. I think at this stage of the game it is hard when boys and girls pair off and then one friend is always left behind. There are a few of these slow dances but most of the songs are fast. And then suddenly the song Hit the Road Jack starts playing and the lights snap on. Oh my god they just all like-- oh my god. Yeah it ends very abruptly. It is 900. It is 9 oclock. That is it? That is it. There is no wind down. 9 oclock. Lights come on. Parents are waiting. It will be empty in another minute. And he was right. The experiment in mini-adulthood that is the middle school dance was over. The same kids who minutes earlier were holding each other and swaying awkwardly on the dance floor got into cars and said hi to their parents. Lisa Pollak. Coming up surviving middle school by pretending that you are from a completely different family. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Middle School. A 14-year-old from California who just got out of middle school asked for a show on the horror that is middle school. It would be cool to like hear other people's stories about it and what they went through. We thought you know that is a pretty good idea. That is a place with a lot of stories. We have arrived at Act Three of our show. Act Three Mimis in the Middle. The place that Domingo Martinez went to middle school they still called it junior high. And he says that his sisters did something to cope with any feelings of inferiority they might have otherwise felt in their new school with all those new kids. When they started junior high my sisters Mary and Margie invented the Mimis. They were entering the sinister world of teenage girls which in the mid 1980s in Brownsville Texas was tinged with border town racism. Instead of being ashamed of who they were my sisters decided to create a polite fiction and invited everyone to participate. First they died their brown-black hair blond until it turned the color and brittleness of hay. Then they began dressing in Sergio Valente and Gloria Vanderbilt. And finally to cap it off they decided to call each other simply Mimi. A typical conversation between them went like this. Mimi do you like my new Jordache jeans? Yes Mimi I do. Do I look rich in my new Nike's Mimi? Mimi you look like a tennis player Mimi. I know Mimi. Maybe I should make Mom buy me a racket. It was really that simple. The Mimis made a conscious decision that they would be rich and white even if their family was not. In other words Marge and Mary had a small break from reality that we all participated in to help them through junior high. We all helped in creating the Mimis. At the time the rest of the family had not fully realized that our job as relatively new Americans and worse yet Texans was to be as white as possible. And we honestly did not see their delusion as anything other than another bewildering tactic in our sisters' quest for a higher level of superior fashion. Just teenage girls doing what teenage girls do. There had been a time when our family had been rich by barrio standards because our grandpa dad's stepfather fought in the Korean War and used his GI money to start a trucking business when he got back. He married grandma who was widowed from her first marriage at age 16 and gave both her and my dad citizenship. My siblings and I we were all born in Brownsville as Americans but really did not understand what that meant. Then grandpa died in 1980 and our world began to crumble. The trucking business began to disintegrate around dad and he was started on his slow road towards desperation and religion. Meanwhile the Mimis had made their decision to be two blue-blooded trust-funded tennis buddies from Connecticut accidentally living in Brownsville Texas with us a poor Mexican family they had somehow befriended while undergoing some Dickensian series of misfortunes. No one acted like it was peculiar especially those in the family who did not speak English or could not understand the Mimis when they showed up at family gatherings.  one of the Mimis would say to an uncle or cousin who more often than not would linger lasciviously around them at first conflicted by the idea of being turned on by so young a relative. And then mentally calculating just how distantly related they were and tabulating his odds of scoring with this new white chick who just happened to show up at this barrio party. Mimi how did you like my Spanish? Oh Mimi it is getting really good. Mimi do you think they understood me? Oh Mimi who cares? Soon the Mimis were buzzing at a fever pitch intoxicating everyone who came near and cut a whiff of the Mimis' Anais Anais perfume. We had all seen the commercials on network television while watching Dallas or Knots Landing. And it was a forbidden fragrance for rain depressed English women with secret muscular boyfriends who drove Jaguars dangerously through unpaved one-laned Scottish roads. So the Mimis had to have it and they found it at the local JC Penney and had Mom pay for it. Me and my brother Dan and our older sister Sylvia we just kind of stank from the heat and dealt with it. Even Mom developed her own fascination with the Mimis like she could not believe her luck now that she was related to royalty. So she was always ready for an air-conditioned trip to the mall. She took the little clothes budget reserved for us boys my brother and me and added it into the Mimis' wardrobe because to her it was a sign of status for the family that the Mimis looked their best. None of the rest of us would question it even though it felt wrong. I was often left with the Mimis' recently stylish hand-me-downs. No one else in my grade school was remotely label conscious or capable of reading in English really so it passed unnoticed that most of my clothes were made for glamorous junior high school girls. Almost every child at my school came from recently immigrated families kids so poor they would save half their free lunch to share with their younger siblings at home their heads shaved to rid them of lice. My best friend Arthur he noticed though. He was part black and part Mexican had just moved to Brownsville from some big city slum in Michigan where his mother's boyfriend had been employed at a GM factory and he read labels. Hey Dom he said yo man. You are wearing a girl's shirt. Or is Esprit making baggy boy's shirts now too? So to change the subject I slugged him high in the chest and ran away. He chased me down to punch me back and left me crying in my girl's blouse. If she had any guilt about giving the Mimis the lion's share of the clothing budget I imagine the justification my mother probably used was that my older brother and I would just ruin our clothes working with Dad under the greasy trucks. It made better sense for the Mimis to be in high fashion than for the feral boys to wreck new clothes. Mimi you look just like Jennifer Beals in Flashdance. You should join the dance team at school. I know Mimi. I think so too. Mimi I think you should dye your hair back to its original color ash. I know Mimi. I am trying. During this time my brother Dan's eyesight was so bad he could not read the blackboard in school and constantly ran into corners or short skinny people. People thought he was Asian he squinted so much. Every photo of him taken in junior high he looks like he is trying to see into the photographer's eyes through the camera lens. This of course goes entirely unnoticed and it is the younger Mimi Mary with the 20-20 vision who gets vanity glasses with her name etched in gold script in the corner. Dan would not get classes until he was in the military when he was 17. Eventually Dad's failure at navigating the business and providing for his family intruded on the Mimis' fantasy. Dad made a decision that as soon as school ended Mom would take the Mimis and Sil and drive them to California to participate in the seasonal grape harvest with Dad's cousins people vaguely related to grandma through marriage I think. They would be treated like adults there paid the same as everyone else. Mom I remember was horrified at the implications at the shame of having to send her virginal and royal daughters out to the fields. Plus Dad's extended family out in California were very different from us wild and frightening and Californian. Texas Mexicans and California Mexicans are very different from each other like the Scottish and the Irish. The Mimis though were undaunted did not understand the complications. Mimi we are going to California? Oh my god Mimi. We are going to be Valley girls. Mimi gag me with a spoon Mimi. Mimi your roots are showing. We packed up Mom the Mimis and Silvia in the beige 1980 Pontiac Bonneville already an antique on its second engine and failing transmission. And they drove out of Brownsville. A year later I took this ride as well and also ended up picking grapes for the summer. That we were migrant workers for that period did not occur to me nor to anyone else. That label would never stick could never stick. We could not descend to that level. We just had to do it to help out Dad. That was all. But it was too much for the Mimis the reality of this first trip. Sadly I think it was childhood's end for the Mimis. The vineyards had somehow inverted their secret garden and the low door in the wall had closed shut behind them. When they first reached California the Mimis did indeed become Valley girls the hippest cutest best dressed migrant workers of that year and very likely for many years to come. The older Mimi Marge continued to dress like Jennifer Beals in Flashdance out in the fields where the sun sizzled any inch of exposed skin. She wore a spaghetti-strapped red and white striped Esprit top white cotton shorts and a matching headband with her red and white leather Nike tennis shoes and took pictures of the vineyards and the workers with her Canon AE-1. Eventually though even she started dressing like the rest of the migrant workers wearing long-sleeved collared shirts buttoned all the way to the neck thick un-stylish denim and work boots with a bandanna covering her nose and mouth or else she would have died of heat stroke. There were no photos taken of that. Mary the younger Mimi did not fare any better. Her vanity glasses with the fake lenses were scratched well beyond recovery. Her roots grew out and her hair turned a lighter brown as a result of the heat and the pesticides of the grape fields of southern California. The hard work went on all summer and eventually it became bitter enough to breach even the walls of the Mimis' perfectly constructed fantasy. And so sadly eventually even they were humiliated and the illusion of wealth that had kept the family's idea of itself buoyant was deflated. When they returned to Brownsville as happy as we were to see them no one ever mentioned the Mimis again. They were gone and it was Marge and Mary that returned in their place. Mary rubbing her nose with the palm of her hand from allergies and snapping at anyone who tried to talk to her. And Marge who never went back to California and took a job at the bank the following summer instead. I was sorry to see the Mimis go. We all were. When they were at their peak the Mimis had been capable of creating a real sort of magic around them enchanting both people and places so that you could be looking at the same dreary landscape as them the same terrible and hopeless event. And while you might be miserable and bitter they would be beaming enthralled and enthusiastically hopeful. And then if you got near them or were blessed enough to maybe talk to them you would walk away feeling the same way as they felt too. They were a gift to everyone who was lucky enough to get caught in their Anais Anais the Mimis. They made all of us Americans. Domingo Martinez reading an excerpt from his memoir The Boy Kings of Texas which is going to be published by Lyons Press next July. Act Four Anchor Babies. So this week as we were putting together the radio show and sending reporters out into middle schools we discovered that in schools all over the country there already were reporters on the ground deep inside covering the issues that middle school kids really care about. Good afternoon Huskies. It is Thursday September 15 2011. After today there are only 162 school days until summer vacation. I am Taylor. These are student newscasters from Hart Middle School in Pleasanton California. I myself got my start on the mic on the morning announcements. And this is what middle school morning announcements in some schools are like today. Students make these full blown video productions. Some of them have music themes.  The kids stand in front of banners with their school logo or sometimes it is a green screen backdrop so they make it look like they are on a local TV news set. Our producer Jonathan Menjivar has been watching these newscasts all week with fascination. And he has noticed a few trends. Just like the local news middle school newscasts tend to follow a formula. They almost all start with the pledge of allegiance. --and to the republic. This next segment from DMS News at Dibble Middle School in Dibble Oklahoma is a staple of almost every broadcast I watched. OK we have late breaking news. You will be the first to know that we have two birthdays today. Happy birthday to both Gabriel Ramiro and Nathan Neidell. This has to qualify as breaking news because it is school. There is not a lot of exciting stuff for them to report. They have to tell their fellow students what the cafeteria is serving that day when make-up pictures are being taken and do the weather. My favorite comes from this girl McKenna near Buffalo who is clearly had enough. Good morning  Middle School. This is McKenna with today's weather. It is going to be how it is like it is now pretty much all day. In the afternoon colder windy and wet with heavier rain.  In the evening winds to the southwest-- These newscasts are middle school in relief like what you would see if there was a middle school exhibit at the Natural History Museum. There are tiny kids with big ears shy red-faced kids jocks computer club kids-- completely normal super sweet over-achieving ones. And spazzy kids who are far too proud of their terrible jokes. They were fun to watch. I would forgotten that middle school kids can have this over-confident goofiness. I spent days watching kids deliver these newscasts. And I was curious what they would be like if they actually repo