If you grew up in a big city you may have heard the urban legend alligators in the sewers. They got there when people brought back baby alligators from vacations in Florida and flushed them down the toilets. That is the kind of thing that once you turn 12 you do not believe in anymore. Well New York Times February 10 1935 reports three teenagers were shoveling snow into a manhole on East 123rd Street. They look down and see an alligator which they pull out. It is not very healthy. And they carry it to the Lehigh Stove and Repair Shop at 441 East 123rd. Lots of neighbors witness it. People are quoted by name. Best guess? The gator came off a boat in the Harlem River. Or take this urban legend. I would heard this one but I would never believed it. Turns out to be true. Ian Meyer in Portland Oregon three years ago walks home one night with his girlfriend from a party where he would had a couple of beers three beers. Gets to his house goes in the bathroom Start unzipping with one hand lifting the lid with the other hand and you know I get the lid maybe halfway open. And there was this wet beady-eyed rat in the toilet just looking up at me. Right? Maybe you heard stories like this that do not seem they could possibly be true about somebody. They go in their bathroom late at night. They sit down. They get bit by a rat that came up through the pipes into the toilet. Here it is. The lid was down so he must have come up through the sewer pipe somehow and swum through the lines and popped up into our toilet. Was the rat trying to get out of the toilet? No I think he was just as-- almost as stunned as I was. No he was just sort of perched in the bowl looking up when I opened the lid. OK. Horrifying. Ian of course quickly closes the lid stands there dumbstruck. What is his next move? It is obvious. I took a minute gathered myself and then flushed. Cracked the lid just a little bit and he is still there. He is just more wet now and he is probably a little more alert now. Now he is mad. Yeah now he is ready to get out of there. He is ready to take action. Ian picks up the magazine rack by the toilet which is heavy with three-years-old National Geographics. He puts this on top of the toilet lid leaves the bathroom to figure out his next play. His girlfriend Chelsea is outside. I do not want to kill the rat because I have never killed an animal. It should be easy enough to just catch him and let him go outside. Sure What I told myself that I needed in order to accomplish that plan one was some music. I had to-- Really? That was step one? OK. That was step one actually. And that was Chelsea's job. She had to turn some loud music on. This was kind of to psych me up.  Ian puts a leather garden glove on one hand and puts a rubber kitchen glove on top of that figuring the rat's wet that is going to be better. So I gear up go in the bathroom shut the door. And then I guess I must have just kind of stood in there for five minutes or so because the next thing I know Chelsea has the music turned down and she is asking me what is going on in there. I do not know what she thought had gone on but she was worried and was checking on me making sure that everything was OK. And once she checked on me I think that kind of triggered the man instinct like OK come on dude get it together. Yeah time for some pride. It is just a rat. At this point I take the magazine rack off of the toilet lid crack the seat and somehow before I know it he is halfway out of the toilet. Not good. Ian drops the lid leans his weight on it which catches the rat half-in half-out of the toilet. Its head and front arms are sticking out waving around. Now he just feels sorry for the little thing. But this is his chance to set it free. And so I am thinking OK perfect I have got him caught here. He cannot move anywhere. I will reach down grab him carry out the plan. Right when I reach down he bites me. He bites my finger. I will spare you the gory details that follow. Let us just say that after another couple grabs Ian comes to realize that he cannot capture the rat. He is going to have to kill him while he is trapped there halfway out of the toilet bowl. Which Ian does with his not-bare hands. It was terrifying for months after that maybe a year after that. Chelsea and I we would just be extremely paranoid about sitting on the toilet especially at night. Ian says half the people he tells this story to do not believe it. He thinks they just do not want to believe it. But it turns out that the pipes that lead from your house to the sewer are not full of water. They are mostly empty unless you are doing your wash or something else that is sending a lot of water down. So rats can climb up through the pipes and the only time that they actually need to hold their breath is when they get into the little reservoir in the toilet trap. In a way it is surprising it does not happen more often. Ian says he is found another rat in his toilet since then. He now flushes when he walks into the bathroom just to send water down the pipes as a precaution against vermin. As for Chelsea? I think it was worse for Chelsea because she did not actually really ever see the rat in the toilet. I got to see it and I came to terms with it somewhat. For her it was just-- it was still just sort of a myth. Chelsea was left with the urban legend that rats could come up into the toilet. I mean now she knew it was true. So when she went into the bathroom her imagination could just go wild. Well today on our radio show we tried to wave away the smoky vapor of illusion and myth. We dive into a few stories a few urban myths to see what is real and what is not so our imaginations do not have to run wild anymore. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. We bring you today three stories of real urban legends. Act One What is That Smell in which a retired millionaire tries to understand the reality of a tough seedy inner city neighborhood. Act Two Fleeing Is Believing. Foreigners come to the US who believe all kinds of misinformation about us that turns out to be true. Act Three Sleeper Cells. Is it an urban myth that your cell phone gives you brain tumors? Stay with us. What is that smell? The way Steve Poizner sees it he did something admirable something daring something unusual. And when I read his account of what he did he seemed sincere about it too. He is a bit of a corny writer. Though even that you can kind of forgive him. He is not a professional author. At the age of 45 after starting one Silicon Valley company that he sold for 30 million and a second one that sold for 1 billion Poizner did not need to work anymore. He says he wanted to do some good for people. And so he called a dozen public high schools and volunteered to be a guest teacher of some sort. One called him back a high school called Mount Pleasant. And Poizner got into his car drove the 15 miles from his neighborhood in Los Gatos in Silicon Valley to East San Jose. I passed nearby my neighborhood French bakery and the local Ferrari dealership. This is Steve Poizner reading from the book he wrote about this. Several miles and a couple of highways later I took the Capitol Expressway exit and drove into what felt like another planet. Signs advertising janitorial supply stores and taquerias. Exhaust hung over 10 lanes of inner city traffic. Yellowing weedy gardens fronted many of the homes as did driveways marred by large oil spots or broken-down cars. When he sees the sound walls that separate California homes from the highway he asks were they keeping out the city's grit and noise or hiding profoundly sad lives? He is allowed in the school to teach one US government class for one semester under another teacher's supervision. What he finds in the school are leaky roofs hardened unresponsive students gangs and violence a drop-out rate twice the national average. He worries that one student is going to punch him. And later that this student and his thug friends are going to push him up against a wall. He wonders if the students are too busy ducking bullets to consider their careers. At the end of his first visit to school he is relieved to find his Lexus still in the parking lot where he left it. The shadows grew longer and the surroundings became a bit scary. Opening the door to my car I notice a residential street just over the school's parking lot's fence. There was an old Cadillac resting on two flat tires something smelled rotten like trash that had sat around for too long and a dog's raspy bark sounded uncomfortably close. And the only problem with this is a lot of it might not be true. Good evening. Steve Poizner released a new book today. It is about his time as a substitute teacher at a high school in East San Jose. And what he put in print is drawing a lot of heat. ABC7's Lisa Amin Gulezian is live tonight to explain. Steve Poizner's book got more attention than most do because in the seven years since he spent one semester at Mount Pleasant High School Steve Poizner ran for assemblyman and lost ran for a statewide office California Insurance Commissioner and won. He is in his fourth year in that job now. And today he is one of two front-runners to become the Republican candidate for the governor of California. And right after publication his book which is titled Mount Pleasant jumped to number 5 on The New York Times Best Seller list. Mount Pleasant High School students teachers parents and alumni are outraged. Tonight we are here to denounce Steve Poizner's comments. Well you know it got very heated inside of Barnes and Noble before Steve Poizner's book signing. Eddie Garcia the president of the East Side Union School Board got in Poizner's face challenging him about things that are written inside Mount Pleasant. I heard about Steve Poizner and the controversy over whether his book got things wrong when a publicist for the book contacted our radio program. She wrote an email describing the incident at the bookstore this way Liberal activist took offense at how he describes the school accurately as plagued by gangs teen pregnancy and disrepair. They are trying to shut him up and discredit his argument about charter schools. Poizner makes a case for charter schools late in the book. This is a classic case of liberals refusing to listen to simple facts and rational solutions. So I read the excerpt of his book online. There is a full chapter and Poizner links to it from his campaign website. You can read it yourself. And it raised more questions than it answered. It is a very odd chapter all about Poizner's first days teaching a class at Mount Pleasant. There is scene after scene where he is floundering standing in front of the class asking big abstract questions. Would you want to live in a country where the leader did not want to lead if the money issued by the government was not any good or people were treated unfairly? None of the students respond. He is a rookie teacher. He does not know how to engage them yet. Nothing unusual there. But here's the strange thing. The conclusion Poizner comes to again and again during these scenes is not that he is doing anything wrong or he has anything to learn as a teacher. Instead he blames the kids. They are tough. They are unmotivated. They lack ambition. They are wired differently. The students meanwhile in every scene in the book-- I have read the whole book-- seem utterly lovely. Polite they do not interrupt they do not talk back. They just seem a little bored. His very worst student is a graduating senior who is hoping to go into the Marines. Checking school records I learn that Poizner's unmotivated unambitious class included one of the school valedictorians Charles Rudy who graduated and went to college. Could he be getting this so completely wrong I wondered? Could he have written an entire book misperceiving so thoroughly what was happening in front of his own eyes and was now trying to use that book to run for governor? It seemed too incredible. And that is what brought me to San Jose last week to visit the school and its neighborhood. My eyes were rolling throughout the entire book. This is Joe Lovato. He teaches English at Mount Pleasant. His Dad taught English at Mount Pleasant before him. Well in the book he tells stories of crossing the valley from his local Ferrari dealership past his local French bakery crossing town getting off the freeway into my neighborhood and passing the taquerias and then wondering about the profoundly sad lives of the people who live behind the sound walls along the highway there. That is me. I live there. I can tell you I have the white picket fence. I have two-- Literally? Yeah literally. A very well-manicured lawn. My Infiniti is in the front. And I have got a real cute dog. I have got two kids running around in the front yard with my wife chasing them around. The derogatory statements to our students the inaccuracies the exaggerations that is the part we are upset about. Mark Holston is one of Joe's colleagues in the English department. In his book Poizner talks a few times about wishing that he could have a Stand and Deliver moment with his students. And Mark says that is a problem right there. There is a narrative he had in his mind. He saw teacher movies and that was the narrative he had. And it fits his narrative to show that this school is a horrible school. I would not work at the school he described. I would be afraid to work in the school that he described in the thing. It is almost like he is stepping over bodies and there is gun shots as he goes to his classroom every day. And it is completely inaccurate but it fits his narrative. It fits promoting himself for the governor. And if anybody has not-- and some people say well it is not true we know it is not true it is exaggeration. But anybody else outside of East San Jose reads this book that is the truth. Driving around the neighborhood it is hard to disagree with the teachers who say that it is a perfectly nice middle class and working class area. Occasionally you will see a house in bad shape but overwhelmingly it is nicely tended yards garages decent cars and SUVs in the driveways. It is suburban. I was surprised to learn that when Poizner taught here in 2003 there was a golf course just a couple blocks from the school. There is still a lake and the Raging Waters water park. He does not mention those in the book. We called a half dozen local real estate agents who confirmed what the teachers told us. That the neighborhood looks the same today as it did back in 2003. If anything they said with the recession it is gotten a little worse. Average house price in 2003 near the school was 457000. Today it is 317000. Well it is 445 and I am standing in the staff parking lot where Steve Poizner used to park his car I suppose. And I am hearing the raspy sound of a dog's bark. I cannot see any beat-up old cars over the fence. Mainly it is incredibly lush and green and beautiful. There are little purple flowers. There are palm trees. And it is just-- it is lovely. And it smells nice. Though there is the dumpster for the school right by the parking lot. Conceivably on some day that he was out here that is what was making the trash smell was the school's own trash. Now we went to the neighborhood and were told it has not changed that much since 2003 when you were there and-- So I ran all this by Steve Poizner the tidy houses the golf course what I did not smell in the parking lot. Are you overplaying the desperate poverty of this neighborhood? No I do not think so. I mean it is definitely not like some inner city areas. And I do not know what-- what you described does not strike me as the neighborhood I was at. I mean at least in 2002 and 2003. I mean the neighborhood is rough and tumble in that there is definitely a lot of crime and no question lower income. And there is a lot of signs that people were struggling economically. That is why the crime statistics for surrounding the school you can get those from the San Jose Police Department like I did. And we definitely documented that not only did it appear to be kind of a rough up-and-coming area but the police will tell you that too. So we went to the police. And they informed us that no the neighborhood around Mount Pleasant High School is not especially dangerous or crime ridden. It is average for San Jose. And while San Jose might have a reputation in the richer suburbs around it for being sketchy and definitely was more dangerous in the '70s and '80s a police spokesman told us that that view is out of date an urban myth. According to FBI statistics San Jose is one of the safest cities in the country. There are 371 violent crimes per 100000 people in San Jose in 2003 the year Poizner was there. You would be more likely to be a victim of violent crime in Austin Texas or Seattle or Phoenix or Columbus Ohio or San Francisco. When it came to property crime that year you were more than twice as likely to have something stolen from you in Honolulu Denver Seattle San Francisco or nearly any big city you can name. In his book Poizner plays up the violence at the school itself. He mentions a shooting at the school that happened all the way back in 1990 where a Vietnamese student from another school shot a Mount Pleasant freshman. And Poizner tells a story of a student of his who let him know that she would not be at class for a couple of days because her boyfriend was on trial for being the driver in a bank robbery. There is another student in Poizner's class that Poizner assumes must be in a gang. Though confusingly in the book Poizner never actually goes to the trouble to find out if the student is in a gang. That is the student who Poizner worries will hit him or get his thug friends and push him against a wall. So is the school dangerous? Well I checked with the man who knows Christopher Schroeder the associate principal at Mount Pleasant in charge of discipline. There is a gang presence in the area. They have been here for-- we are into the second and sometimes third generation of gang families. We know this. But at school we do not have gang problems per se. Our students are able to sit next to each other in a classroom and not have conflicts. We do not have fights in the classroom. We do not have fights on campus. We have few fights. Off the top of my head I think we have had about a dozen fights this year. That is about the number of fights that you would get at any high school even in a fancy neighborhood. There are no metal detectors in the school's entrances. Mr. Schroeder says the total number of gang members among the 1900 students here? 50 at most. They are aware that we know who they are. But we also have gang intervention specialists who work with them every day. Almost every day we have a gang intervention specialist out there with those guys talking about their problems talking about what is happening on the street making sure that we have peace on campus. When it comes to the drop out rate Steve Poizner also seems to be choosing his statistics very selectively. Mount Pleasant's dropout rate including the year he was there is consistently better sometimes far better than the state and national dropout rates which is a huge achievement for a school like Mount Pleasant that is 23 Latino. Nationally Latino dropout rates are much higher than those of other students. In his book Poizner does not mention any of those numbers. And he does not mention the school's stats at all but instead quotes a number for the district that the school is in the East Side Union High School District. Even here he cherry-picks. In 2003 the year Poizner was at the district its dropout rate was slightly lower than the state and national averages. Poizner instead chooses to quote the number for one of the two years during the past decade 2005 when the district had twice as many dropouts as the state and national numbers. Statistically Poizner did not teach at a terrible school in a terrible neighborhood but an average school in an average neighborhood.  We got trouble. Oh we got trouble. Right here in River City. Right here in River City. With a capital T and that rhymes with P and that stands for pool. That stands for pool. We surely got trouble. These are the dangerous toughs of Mount Pleasant High School rehearsing The Music Man in the brand new auditorium that the school just built. The school has 150 students studying animation in a special studio with rows of Macs and animation stands. This was all going on when Poizner was at the school too. There are 19 AP classes. There is a vocational program teaching metal and woodworking and computer-aided design plus a variety of special projects and programs to close the achievement gap and get less-priveleged kids to college. School attendance is 95.  All right. Iowa Stubborn. Everyone into place. Some things about the school though clearly could be better. The school does not hit its goals in statewide testing. It ranks in the 40th percentile of all California schools partly because a fourth of Mount Pleasant student body is rated not proficient in English. But measured against schools with similar demographics it is in the 70th percentile. For years I was a reporter in the Chicago Public Schools for NPR's daily news programs. I have been in great schools. I have been in dangerous schools urban schools suburban schools. Mount Pleasant is definitely one of the better public high schools I have ever visited. And I know that it may seem like I am belaboring all this putting this one book under a microscope point by point but so many of the political discussions in our country just seem so disconnected from reality. Every year there are egregious examples of politicians and commentators who believe that if they repeat some non-fact over and over it becomes true. And the more I looked into Poizner's book the more it seemed like one of those rare cases that is so obviously and provably untrue. Though in Poizner's case what made this especially interesting was that from his book it seemed very possible that he really is just a well-meaning idealistic guy who wants to help people who just got a lot of this wrong. Though when I asked Steve Poizner if that is what happened here that it is not a dangerous bad school he stuck by his guns. You write really honestly in the book about how you are not from a neighborhood like this and how naive you are going in. I mean you write really really honestly about it. Do you think it is possible that you went into this neighborhood and you just misperceived how dangerous and tough it is? And that is what people are pointing out? Well most people who are reading the book just do not have that reaction. There are some-- Well no but I am not talking about-- I am talking about the people in the neighborhood who know the neighborhood. I do not think it is a surprise that people who are in that neighborhood bristle at blunt observations. But do you think it is possible that-- By the way I just said-- Do you think it is possible-- I mean you talk so honestly about this in the book-- do you think it is possible that you just misperceived it because you were not used to that kind of neighborhood? Well this is a book about my experience. And so that is all the book is about based on my background. So I am taking it-- so are you saying you do think it is possible? This is the way I perceive it. So you think it might be possible? No I am not saying that. What upsets me from the beginning and even now is his intent. Again English teacher Mark Holsten. Soon after his experience at Mount Pleasant he ran for assemblyman. And I think what kind of turned me off to him was I got some of his campaign literature and on there he had businessmanteacher based on his one semester teaching. And he claimed he was a teacher by profession. And right away that is what kind of offended me. The centerpiece of his campaign was his experience at Mount Pleasant High School. Even in his commercials he said I have taught in schools I know what it is like to work at the schools I can fix the problems and things like that. From my understanding it was obvious that he was there to exploit our students to exploit our school. He came there saying he had no political ambitions. He told our principal this is not about politics I just want to give back to the community I just want to see what it is like to teach in a school and get a better understanding what the schools are like. Even in his book he says I had no intention of running for office when I went there. Poizner still insists on that. It was two months after he stopped teaching at the school that he filed papers to start fundraising to run for assemblyman. In the spring after that his campaign came back to Mount Pleasant to shoot a commercial with testimony from teachers and students about what Poizner had done for the school. The videographer set up a camera and lights in one of the classrooms during seventh period. And students were ushered in one at a time. In campaigning including in one of his campaign biographies-- a biography which by the way calls Mount Pleasant an inner city high school-- Poizner also touts the fact that the principal of Mount Pleasant named him Rookie Teacher of the Year. Oh the Rookie of the Year thing it was-- Mark Holston and Joe Lovato explained that at the end of school that year the principal quickly wrote up a bunch of certificates on his computer for a staff party. Lots of people got them for all kinds of things. And that is the other part that really incensed me when he put out his press release as a result of his he received the Rookie of the Year award as if it was voted on statewide and there was a board and there was a panel and essays were written about great he was. It was a certificate printed out. Everybody that was leaving was getting certificates. And that was a certificate of appreciation. The reason I have been wanting to talk to people about the book is just because I hate to see somebody's character get assassinated unfairly which is my judgement that was what is been happening. Todd Richards is the social studies teacher who supervised Steve Poizner in classroom 612 back in 2003. He is still there. Well it is still largely as it would have been when Poizner was here. You can see there is the usual whiteboard in front. There is a screen for the LCD projector. In the debate among Mount Pleasant teachers over whether Steve Poizner was a Machiavellian schemer who used them or a sincere perhaps slightly naive guy who actually wanted to help out Mr. Richards is a principled agnostic. We cannot know what he was thinking Richards says. So let us judge his actions. Richard says that he was as suspicious as anybody when this millionaire showed up in his classroom. But over the course of the year-- I came to think that he was someone who cared deeply about the students. I would had people from the business world come in and really talk down to students not put any effort into it speak to them in jargon. I mean it just-- I never want you back kind of thing. Poizner clearly worked very very hard on this class. He was a rookie. He made rookie mistakes. But he clearly wanted the kids to have a valuable experience. And he clearly cared that they graduate and do well. When I recorded Mr. Richards teaching a class his sixth-period college-level macroeconomics class for seniors-- So C plus I plus G plus X minus M. He asked me if I would like to take five minutes and ask a few questions of the students. He left the room so his presence would not bias anybody. I asked the class if there was anything that they would want me to ask Poizner on their behalf or to say to him. One senior raised his hand and said that he would just heard from colleges. I am going to Berkeley. Take that Poizner.  No seriously. Because it is like how is he going to talk about us the way he did when we had almost nine people get into Berkley this year? That is ridiculous. Yvette Rodriguez another senior spoke up. A lot of things that he said is something that you would expect someone who does not live in this neighborhood to think of us. He was just really quick to judge. He did not grow up here. And he says it in his book. Where he grew up they do not have any of this so how is he just going to-- I am not going to go judge him and say oh you know he is like a rich white guy and does not know. Because I do not know him. But yet he is over here judging us. That is stereotyping. So I think he needs to come out and say-- apologize I think at least because a lot of us felt really offended by it. When I visited the school I went to Mr. Richards' class. And I asked the students if they had questions for you or anything that they would like me to say to you. And they had one request. One senior girl said she would like you to admit you got things wrong. She would like you to apologize. What do you want to say to her? Well no. I appreciate her feedback. And I appreciate their passion. And by the way it is been pretty interesting to see how much school spirit has emerged as some people at the school were concerned about whether their school was being fairly characterized. Let us just step back for a second and just think about what I have done and what I am doing. So here I sell my last company for a lot of money. And I am pretty financially well-off. And I decide to go into Mount Pleasant High School. And then after I teach at the school for an extended period of time I then go back to the school every year to do guest teaching. And then my wife and I get all kinds of requests from teachers and students about certain projects. And we end up donating over 80000 to the school over a period of many years. I love the school. And then I write this book about my experiences at the school. And the purpose of the book-- even the critics at the school I guess seem to understand-- the purpose of the book is to zero in on the fact that Mount Pleasant High School is underperforming. Huge opportunities to improve. The school is in the bottom 40. And I guess you can argue about my characterizations of the school. I stand by them. But no one seems to be arguing with the conclusions of the book. Well sort of. Some conclusions obviously people do argue with. But this particular conclusion-- that being at the 40th percentile among California public schools is not good enough-- is one that is kind of gotten lost in the shuffle in a lot of the discussion at the school. And that is the part that kind of frustrates me. Sudhir Karandikar created the AP calculus program at Mount Pleasant. He teaches four classes of AP calculus. He is the only teacher I saw at school who could be described as dapper. And the only one wearing a suit a charcoal gray pinstripe. He is been at Mount Pleasant 14 years. And he says sure Poizner got it wrong when he wrote that this is a dangerous school. The whole ducking bullets and the kid is going to hit him and his Lexus is going to get stolen it was either a gross exaggeration for the sake of making a dramatic book or he just misread it. Let us move on. We know he got the safety issue wrong. As far as academic performance of this school he was dead-on. Academically I do not find anything wrong in his conclusions or assessments of our school academically. We should be doing a better job with these kids Mr. Karandikar said. That is what we should move the discussion to now. A few teachers told me that they agreed with Poizner that academically the school should be better. And they like the fact that Poizner gives lots of details in his book to help his readers understand the money problems that the school faces and that he shows some of the everyday teaching problems they are up against stuff that is not really talked about in the news or normal political discussions about schools. Here's English teacher Vivian Bricksin. He talks about one student that tells them I do not think I want to do that when he is trying to encourage them to work a little harder. And that is a kind of a surprising challenge to face as a teacher. No I do not think I want to do that. And the lack of motivation is a daily challenge I think for teachers in the school even if they are veterans. Steve Poizner says this is exactly what he hopes readers will take from his book. He wants it to lead to a better discussion about how to improve schools. In the book he talks mostly about charter schools as being a good laboratory for new ideas. In his gubernatorial campaign he also talks about cutting down on the central school bureaucracy in California giving more control of the curriculu