OK so I do not know any other way to get into this than to just say it. I am alarmed about something with this year's election. And yes I know everybody is alarmed about this election. That feels like the one bipartisan thing going on in our country is that everybody on both sides is kind of a little freaked out. But even in that context there was this one moment where I felt like oh this is the world that we are living in? Like it is this bad? This is a moment that was widely reported. I bet you saw this. September 16 Donald Trump held a press conference to say that he now believes that Barack Obama was born in the United States. And then he added this claim. Hillary Clinton and her campaign of 2008 started the birther controversy. I finished it. I finished it. You know what I mean. Jake Tapper was doing the live coverage of the press conference on CNN. He is their chief Washington correspondent. And he knew the whole history of the birther controversy. He had covered this for years knew it backwards and forwards. And I got in touch with him because I wondered what it was like to be on live television when Trump announced this. It was just-- it was just bizarre. And there is a famous quote from the writer Mary McCarthy who was in a feud with another writer Lillian Hellman and she said every word she says is a lie including 'and' and 'the.' And that is what it was watching that press conference. In the live coverage Tapper almost sounds mad. Here he is on TV. Donald Trump said that Barack Obama was born in the United States which has been a fact since 1961 but congratulations for realizing it. And then he said Hillary Clinton started birtherism-- not true-- and I ended it-- also not true. Watching you what it seemed like is that you were feeling something like oh something so wrong is happening here. A lie is being born in front of my eyes. I must stop this somehow. I have no delusions that I can stop a lie.  But I mean I just wanted anybody watching who heard this to know that it was wrong. It was just false. He did not end it. He perpetuated it. He made the birther lie bigger than it had ever been. But let me add one thing just because I do want to say one thing about-- OK. At this point Jake Tapper could not control himself. He ran through all the facts about how we know that Hillary Clinton's campaign did not start the birther issue and this has been summarized plenty of places by now. Look it up if you are curious. Back in that September press conference it was the boldness of the lie that was disturbing. Like seriously? Do you think they were going to believe you? Or do you know that we are not going to believe you and you just do not care? And it did not take long for the results of the lie to be measured. Just a few days after the Trump press conference a Monmouth poll showed that one third of likely voters in Florida believed that Hillary Clinton started the birther controversy. I told this to Jake.  Your reaction? I mean there is a large percentage of the country that thinks Barack Obama is a Muslim. That would also be a third about 30. He is a Christian. I mean there are a lot of people who believe a lot of wrong things. It is-- it is crazy. I mean and it is dispiriting. I mean it is just-- I have never seen anything like this. In just the last two weeks Donald Trump has said that Hillary Clinton may have been on drugs in the second debate. He said Hillary Clinton quote meets in secret with international banks to plot the destruction of US sovereignty. During the debates he denied saying that climate change is a hoax created by China and that Japan should get nuclear weapons even though A many of us remember him saying those things. It was not that long ago. And B we can all just find this in our phones in like seconds. These lies are perplexing in their nakedness. Like he knows lots of us know these are lies but we are in some kind of new kind of universe where that is normal and that is OK and we will just accept that. It is crazy. I mean honestly Joe McCarthy said crazy things in you know the '50s but I have never seen accusations this wild in American politics from a major major political figure. I feel worried about the country. Like I feel worried that we live in a country where so many people distrust the fact-based media and fact-based journalists and are getting their information from other news sources and that things like this can enter the atmosphere and then they become true for so many people. I feel worried. What is uncomfortable about this election is that the Trump campaign-- not the Republican Party but the Trump campaign-- has made it so when you stand up for facts and things that are true they act as though those facts are partisan. And that is very uncomfortable because I do not belong to either major political party. I do not think the Democratic Party or the Republican Party have answers to the nation's problems independently. In addition to his live coverage Jake did a whole fact-check segment with FactCheck.org about whether Hillary Clinton started the birther movement. But of course he is on a network that is seen as so partisan-- it is so hated by some Republicans-- that stadiums full of people chant against them at Trump rallies. CNN sucks! CNN sucks. CNN sucks! CNN sucks! CNN sucks! CNN sucks! This fact-check technique is the latest. Let me tell you what it really is. There is no fact-checking. This is Rush Limbaugh a couple weeks ago. The fact that The New York Times and The Washington Post and USA Today and all these other papers and networks now have fact-checkers is for one reason. It allows them to fool you. The idea that it is a fact-check story is designed to say to you that it is objective and analytically fair. And all it is is a vehicle for them to do opinion journalism under the guise of fairness which if you fall for it gives it even more power.  So that is where we are right now. The presentation of facts is seen as partisan opinion and then every day a barrage of untruths are presented as truth and we are just supposed to suck it up. That is the moment we live in. That is our country right now. And this is going to continue after this election no matter who wins. Like this is the rest of our lives I think this post-truth politics. With so many of us getting our news from social media and from sources that we agree with it is easier than ever to check if a fact is true and facts matter less than ever.  Well today on our program we take stock of how far we have fallen and we have got some other stuff too-- about truth and the elections. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass.  So before I say anything else I want to say of course there is solid fact-based journalism done on the right. That is not what I am going to be talking about right now. I am talking about the stew of websites talk radio and commentary that churn out all kinds of stuff every day that is half-true or not true at all. And I feel like for months I have been thinking about this just all the time how extreme the gap is this year between the reality put forth by the mainstream media and the reality put forth by the right-wing media. Like why is the gap so big? This was really driven home to me recently when I have been talking to my uncle Lenny on the phone. My uncle Lenny's 81. He is a retired plastic surgeon outside of San Diego. He gets all of his news from Fox and The Wall Street Journal. Not into President Obama or Hillary Clinton at all. Does not like Trump very much but he is voting for him as the lesser of two evils. Ira. Good morning. Hey. Have you been for your walk today yet? No I will do that after we finish. Really? I thought the walk was more of a first thing in the morning kind of activity. Well it sometimes is but I do not want to be too rigid. You do not want to be somebody who at night eats exactly seven almonds.  That is right. That is a crazy person. That is right I am telling my Republican uncle an Obama joke just to make him happy. A few weeks ago I started recording conversations with my Uncle Lenny about the election. Mostly we read The New York Times together online and he would tell me what he thought of the stories. But what struck me most about these conversations is when Uncle Lenny would talk about Hillary Clinton and especially about Barack Obama the way he sees them. The story in his head about them seemed very out there. Hey can I ask what do you think of Obama? I think he is an intelligent man who is never done anything worthwhile in his life. A print at-- Hey wait stop right there. I feel like I find that confusing. Like he is the first black president. That is an incredible thing. That is an incredible thing. Well symbolically it is. But his performance has been that of an amateur which he also is. He is done nothing. He is played more rounds of golf than any president in history. I checked this later. Untrue. Dwight Eisenhower played nearly three times as much golf Woodrow Wilson played four times more than Obama. But everything in Obama's biography seems suspicious to Lenny. Obama claims to have run the Harvard Law Review Lenny told me. Why did not he write a single article for them? I looked into it. He did. And no one in his graduating class from law school can remember ever having seen him there. Oh I know somebody from his law school class who knew him. Did he know him? Yeah. Ayelet. My friend Ayelet. She knew him in law school. Well that is the first person I have ever heard of who said they knew him in law school. Notice that we are not even out of law school yet and already this is a narrative where the most mundane details about the man's life are doubted. Already there is this tone of conspiracy and cover-up over nothing. And I bring this up because these details are part of a story that grew up around Obama in the right-wing media. He is not what he seems. He has a secret agenda. This story got traction of course partly because he is black but the right-wing media would probably do the same thing with a white candidate. I mean look at some of the things they have said about Hillary Clinton a candidate who gives them plenty of legitimate things to criticize and yet somehow they dwell on this nonstop speculation about her health the earpiece she supposedly wore at the debates. When Lenny and I talked about this the story that he believes about Barack Obama and the one that I believe based on the mainstream media each of us was like really? You believe that? He hates what America stands for. To him it stands for slavery it stands for exceptionalism it stands for mal-distribution of wealth. When Lenny talks about Obama's policies it is all conspiracy. The president is a Muslim. He is on a mission to put Muslims in positions of power and influence. He has an ultra-left-wing agenda to erase the borders with Canada and Mexico and end the United States as we know it. This guy-- he wants to have one country of North America which is composed of Canada the United States and part of Mexico if not all of Mexico. That is why the existing laws which dictate that border trespassers shall be deported he chooses to ignore. Well no he actually deported 2.5 million people. More than any other president. I do not believe that Ira for one minute. I do not believe that. OK I love my uncle. I remember crying as a kid when he went off to Vietnam. Back in the '70s and '80s he hated liberal politicians but he hated them because they were liberals. Like they spent too much money they were soft on defense. Like that was enough. He did not believe these kind of dark conspiracies. That is the thing that is changed for him and lots of people I think. And those numbers that I quoted him are true. They are from the Department of Homeland Security. But facts do not have a fighting chance against this right-wing fable. And in the last few weeks since I started obsessing over all the lies that are being presented as truth right now at some point I realized like oh maybe the defining issue of this election is built around a story that is not true. Like honestly this is one that I just took for granted. Like people talk about this all the time. I had not given it a second thought. This issue that propelled Donald Trump to win the Republican nomination. You know the one. I will build a great great wall on our southern border and I will have Mexico pay for that wall. Yes! Mark my words. Yes! The premise of the wall is that immigration is out of control. Trump told an interviewer on Fox-- I am not just talking Mexico. I am talking about all over the world they are coming through the southern border. You are going to have them coming in from the Middle East. You have them coming all over. It is not just Mexico. Everybody's pouring through the border. So when this became the central issue of the Republican primaries the wall to me seemed like it might not be the most practical solution to this problem but I figured this was a response to a problem facing the country. People might agree or disagree in the way that they would with any policy. But if you look into it you come right away to this fact. And this is not a big hidden secret or anything. It shows up in news stories from time to time. This flood of people pouring across the border-- the total increase in the number of illegal immigrants in the United States each year-- is zero. I think he is describing an alternative reality. Or at best a reality that existed over a decade ago. This is Alex Nowrasteh. He is a conservative a Republican the immigration policy analyst at the Cato Institute a libertarian think tank. And so there is not a flood of illegal immigrants right now. There is not. There are new illegal immigrants entering the country each year but they are offset by the illegal immigrants who are leaving. There is about 350000 in each direction each year. And it is been that way for years since 2009. In fact between 2007 and 2009 at the start of the recession when jobs dried up the number of illegal immigrants in our country fell by about a million people. And so why do so many people believe that we are being flooded with immigrants if in fact we are not being flooded with immigrants? I ask that question but of course you know what the answer is. I mean the problem is out of control. We need a fence on the border like Israel has. All right listen. Look at the impact it is having on our health care system our criminal justice system our educational system. That is Ann Coulter and Sean Hannity on Fox TV two years ago. Stories about our out-of-control immigration system have been a staple of the right-wing media for years now. Ann Coulter here is talking about President Obama's immigration policy which includes some permissive things but like I told my Uncle Lenny he is ordered removals of more illegal immigrants from the country than any president-- 2.5 million. Coulter characterizes his policy towards immigrants this way. Obama just wants-- get 'em in. Just get 'em in. And in a matter of years they will be voting Democrat and collecting welfare. Unfortunately the country cannot afford it. We have our own poor people we need to take care of. And we are running out of money for that. It is completely out of control. Researching all this-- I had not listened to Rush Limbaugh for a while and listening I remembered oh right he just makes facts up. Like that is standard operating procedure on right-wing talk radio. Here he is trying to give a little immigration policy history. You know I still am amazed by the reaction I get from people when I tell them that there was zero immigration in this country from 1924 to 1965. People do not know it. It is not reported. It is never been part of history class history education. 41 years essentially there was no immigration.  Try telling people that in the midst of this debate and they will not believe you. They will think you are making it up. They will think you are lying about it. Well there is a good reason they think you are making it up and lying. Millions of people became legal immigrants during that period. 8 million were granted status as permanent residents. 6.5 million became citizens according to the federal government. Alex Nowrasteh the guy from the Cato Institute contests all the big plot points that you hear on right-wing media about immigration. That immigrants cause more crime than native born Americans that they are a drain on taxpayers and of course that they are flooding across the border. I wonder what it was like for him to see those ideas propagated so often so broadly and taken so seriously by so many people. Like to the point where a candidate is proposing a wall and then stadiums cheer. It is incredibly depressing to see people base their policy opinions on things that just simply are not true that are basically just myths. Like to say otherwise to state what the facts otherwise are gets you labeled a traitor or gets you labeled sort of anti-American or gets you labeled a socialist. All things which I am not. Absolutely not. So it is depressing and it is hard to fight against. Wait wait. Just walk me through that. Are you in a situation often where you are trying to present these facts and people who you feel like are your natural allies do not believe you? Frequently. Frequently. I travel across the country all the time to speak to different groups. Out West in Arizona in California a lot of conservative and Republican clubs. And just the quantity of skepticism for well-established facts on this topic is astounding. And are you often in the situation where people just think you are some sort of pinko like you are working for Obama and Hillary Clinton? All the time. Increasingly all the time. When I go on the radio people will call in and they will say something to the effect of oh well of course you believe that. You also think we should make guns illegal. You know not knowing that I am personally quite a gun nut and I have the exact opposite opinion. So it is like a lot of political assumptions go into this.  Alex used this phrase that I would never heard before-- Patriotic Correctness. It is like political correctness but the right-wing version of that. Like if you say that there is no flood of immigrants coming across the border well that is just out of bounds. That is not something you say. You are not patriotically correct. So people do not even give him a chance. I think that is because politics at some level is more than the sum of facts. It is an identity. You know you are a Republican or you are a Democrat and then there is a whole set of stories and beliefs that go with that identity. And facts do not have much power against a set of beliefs. Those of us in the fact business-- our facts are puny compared to that.    Act two Judges with Grudges. So let us turn now in this election year to the story of one little referendum on one state ballot. Here's how we heard about it. A few years ago we devoted an entire episode of our program to the story of this judge in Georgia a woman named Amanda Williams. Judge Williams had a history of doing things that it seemed like judges just should not do. For instance she put a teenager named Lindsey Dills into solitary confinement for an indefinite period of time. Indefinite like until further notice. No end date. No access to a lawyer. Lindsey told me-- I cried a lot. Pretty much all the time I was crying. I was like how is this happening? How is this ethical? Where am I? Like am I in a foreign country? Have I killed someone that I do not know about? Like how does what I did merit that type of treatment? But there is nothing I can do about it because I cannot even use the phone. I cannot even send a letter. Finally during this confinement Lindsey tried to kill herself. We attempted to interviewed Judge Williams about this and some other issues but she declined to comment on those issues. So while I was working on that story an official commission in Georgia that is charged with investigating judicial ethics violations was also looking into Judge Williams. The commission later filed a 14-count ethics complaint against her. Shortly after that Judge William stepped down from the bench. The commission that filed those charges-- before we did that story I did not even know anything like this existed but all states have them. Sometimes they are called JQCs for Judicial Qualifications Commissions-- that is what the one in Georgia is called-- and they are the way that we as a country have come up with for getting rid of judges who do bad things. Georgia's JQC seemed pretty impressive. They have a tiny staff seven members who work pro bono. They are not paid. And in the past decade in addition to Judge Williams over 60 judges in Georgia have stepped down after being investigated. So we did that story years ago. And then a few months ago one of my sources in Georgia called me to say guess what? Lawmakers in Georgia were trying to neuter the JQC and the whole thing was going to be on the ballot this fall. And OK I know that state-level politics can be kind of nutty sometimes but my question was OK here's an example of a government agency doing a good job. It would seem like a very low cost. Like how can something like that happen right? Like why was this on the ballot? It seemed like the only people who would benefit from weakening the JQC would be bad judges. Like that is not a big constituency. Like who is going to vote for that in a democracy? Well one of our producers Dave Kestenbaum flew to Atlanta to figure out what was going on. A quick warning to podcast and internet listeners. There is some language in the story that we have un-beeped here in the internet version of our show. If you prefer a beeped version of our program go to our website. To understand this referendum you first need a little background on Georgia's JQC and just how aggressive it is been at going after judges. More than anyone the person who probably embodies the boldness and zeal of the mission is Richard Hyde. Hyde is a commission member. He was their paid investigator for a decade. I have heard him describe himself as the point of the spear and once at a legislative hearing under oath the turd in the punchbowl. When I asked him about the 60 judges that had resigned and that that seemed like a lot he shrugged. Georgia judges are no different than judges around the country. What is different is the way we investigate judges. Hyde calls it the Georgia method. He is traveled to Ukraine to train officials there how to do it. Basically they will get some tip about something a judge may have done they will investigate the hell out of it and if they find something they will confront the judge. Hyde says he will explain that the judge has the right to a public trial but then he will just say this-- Judge given the nature of the allegations if true what do you think the appropriate sanction from the commission should be? And about 90 percent of the time those judges would say I think it is time that I leave. Honestly I cannot tell if that question is some high-minded way of trying to engage a judge's inner sense of duty or just a fancy version of we can do this the easy way or the hard way.  Judges are powerful people but Hyde is not easily intimidated. He used to be a street cop. Back then he would tow the cars of state lawmakers who had double-parked near the state capitol. Once he shot an escaped chimpanzee who was attacking people on a street. He felt bad about that. In the Atlanta school testing scandal where teachers were doctoring students' test scores it was Hyde who got an elementary school teacher to wear a wire which broke the whole thing open. One news story quoted someone saying they would rather have a wasting disease than to be investigated by Hyde. He is just so relentless. But Hyde says the JQC is not out to get judges. They are just trying to protect the public. If a judge slips up they try to work things out. Here's an example of that. When I went to interview Hyde he would brought along a transcript of a case they would had to look into. It is a murder case and the defendant is refusing to use a lawyer. Just refusing. He starts actually swearing at the judge using profanity. The judge tries to reason with him and then this happens. I had Hyde read this part. The judge-- listen to me. The defendant-- fuck you. Listen to me. The defendant-- go fuck yourself. The judge-- I am finding you in contempt of court. I do not care. I know you do not and I sentence you to 20 days for that. And if you say anything else I am going to add 20 days for everything you say. The defendant-- fuck you. The judge-- 40 days. The defendant-- fuck you again. 60 days. The defendant-- go fuck yourself. The judge-- a year. The defendant-- your mama. The judge-- 10 years. The defendant-- suck my dick. The judge-- you know something? This is going to be an interesting trial. The defendant threatens to kill the judge's family and the judge just kind of loses it. When the defendant says he is going to masturbate in court the judge says why do not you do that right now? Do it now. Do it now. Hyde says the judge had a stellar record before this so the JQC when it heard about it did what it often does. It had the judge in for a little talk to discuss what had happened and how to avoid it again. They publicly reprimanded him and the judge went back to being a judge.  But Hyde says there are more extreme cases. Like the time a judge in court took a gun out and told the witness she was quote killing her case and might as well shoot her lawyer. And then there was this other time. An attorney said that a judge hearing her case had sexually harassed her at one point leaving her a phone message in which he the judge identified himself as Santa Claus and said the following hey hey hey little girl. Want to sit on Santa's face? The woman gave the recording of that message to Richard Hyde and Hyde went out to talk to the judge. I met with him at his courthouse. And he is got an office full of people doing whatever it was that was going on and I identified myself and asked him if we could talk in private. So we walked outside and I am asking him questions about have you ever sexually harassed any of the women in front of you? Did you ever make any sexual demands? Did you ever leave a message on somebody's voicemail inappropriately? He denied all of that. So I said well then we have a problem because somebody is lying to me. Either the complainant or you are lying. So I played-- we sat in my truck and I played the recording and he listened to it. What was his reaction when you played him the voicemail? He just told you he did not do it. He became very emotional. He wept. He walked in his office got a piece of stationery out and hand-wrote a letter to the governor resigning and agreeing never to be a judge again.  Before we get to why some in the legislature wanted to dismantle and remake the JQC it is interesting to see how badly they wanted to change it. This is not an easy thing to do. In Georgia like in a lot of states the Judicial Qualifications Commission this entity with the power to remove judges for unethical behavior is written into the Constitution. One lawyer who helped put it there-- this was back in the '70s-- told me it was put in the Constitution expressly to avoid political tampering. People make a basic separation of powers argument. Keep the JQC independent. If lawmakers got their hands on it they might pressure JQC members to drop cases against their friends or go after a judge they do not like. But this past January one Friday afternoon House Resolution 1113 was introduced a bill proposing an amendment to the Constitution that would abolish the JQC and allow lawmakers to remake it however they saw fit. Lester Tate at the time a member of the JQC says he would pulled into his driveway when someone called with the news. Tate was furious. It seemed like a straight-up power grab. He told me he saw HR 1113 as an act of war. Clearly it was. You know when the Japanese bombed Pearl Harbor we had no knowledge that it was coming. Nothing's been said about this to anybody and then all of a sudden you introduce a bill like this I think it is pretty clear that a sneak attack has been launched. It is not quite as bad as Pearl Harbor. Well no ships were sunk in the process but the analogy I think still holds true. There is one little detail worth pointing out here. It gets mentioned in a lot of the local news coverage. One of the sponsors of the bill is a representative named Johnny Caldwell. Before being a lawmaker Caldwell was a judge. The judge who was accused of leaving the Santa Claus sit on my face voicemail. Representative Caldwell declined our request for an interview.  Secretary will read HR 1113. House Resolution 1113 by Representative-- Altering the Constitution is a big deal. For starters any proposed change has to be approved by 23 of the House and 23 of the Senate. Then the voters have to approve it as well. Republicans introduced the measure and they had the votes in the House. But in the Senate it was tight. If all the Republicans voted for it the bill would pass. But here they had a problem. A man named Josh McKoon. McKoon is a Republican who seems to enjoy not voting Republican sometimes. He is loved politics since he was a kid. Favorite President Calvin Coolidge. McKoon is chair of the Senate Judiciary Committee and he thought taking the JQC out of the Constitution letting politicians remake it however they wanted sounded like a terrible idea. And I just remember somebody mentioning hey this is coming up. And I kind of dismissed it because it seemed so absurd. Chair recognizes Senator 29. Thank you Mr. President. This is McKoon on one of the last nights of the legislative session for the year. The bill at this point has failed to pass once but it is coming up for another vote. McKoon does not shout. His tones is more INCREDULOUS seriously? Um it is just really hard to wrap my brain around the fact that we are going to do this. We ought to think long and hard before we say we are going to abolish the independent constitutional agency that has overseen judicial ethics in this state for the last four decades. McKoon is particularly upset about how the legislature would remake the JQC. The JQC has seven members and lawmakers want to give the Speaker of the House and the president of the Senate the power to pick four of the seven seats. Currently they pick zero. I looked into what other states do. According to the Center for Judicial Ethics only one state gives lawmakers the power to pick a majority of its JQC members. We are taking literally the only bright spot in the network of ethics and conflict of interest laws in state government and we are throwing them in the garbage. And for what? McKoon began to suspect that this was all about personal gripes or lawmakers who are friends with judges who the JQC had investigated. The Speaker of the House in particular seemed unusually determined to overhaul this little commission. This became very clear in the final days of the session. Time was running out to pass the bill. McKoon says he and the other Republican senators got pulled into this urgent meeting. We were told that the Speaker had made it clear if we did not pass the JQC constitutional amendment that he would quote shut the building down. Meaning the House would not consider any Senate legislation. Until the JQC got passed. Correct.  Two days before the end of the session-- it is after 900 PM-- the bill comes up for a final vote. --is agreed to. All those in favor vote aye. Those opposed no. The Secretary will unlock the machine.  A minute later the bill narrowly passes. If you look at the breakdown you can see what happened. One Democrat crossed party lines and voted in favor. A woman named Donzella James. She declined to talk with us but a newspaper reporter who was in the room Greg Bluestein with The Atlanta Journal-Constitution says it was totally clear what had happened. Republicans had made a trade. They would offered to support a bill that she would been trying to get through for years to turn the area where she lived into a city. The bill was to put a referendum on the ballot about it. Bluestein says he knows this trade happened because a Republican at this point walked up and just started narrating what was going on. He said she stuck with us now we will stick with her. So this was-- this was-- there was no effort to hide that there was horse trading going on here. Like you watched it happen. Oh literally watched it happen. And had people openly talk about it