I am in the office of Dr. LJ Drakovic who examines dead bodies for the police in Pontiac Michigan and he is running through this carousel of slides all of them murder victims. They are close-ups of body parts. To say as you just flip through these things this is the grisliest slide show I have ever seen. It is just like every slide is some-- Is another story yes. Every crime scene is a story of its own is a novel and it opens up in every direction. To illustrate he tells me this story. Back when he worked in the Wayne County Coroner's Office in Detroit there was a young woman. This story by the way probably is not suitable for younger children. OK anyway there is this young woman. She apparently killed herself by taking her boyfriend's gun putting it in her mouth and firing. It was ruled a suicide. That is what the police thought. That is what the other medical examiners thought but Dr. Drakovic wondered. This woman did not have a history of depression. There is no note. My colleagues tease me as being paranoid and seeing things where they were not. So he does the examination including the inside of the woman's mouth. In this particular case the tongue showed two holes. Two holes he says is very strange in this kind of case because usually he told me-- this gets a little explicit again. Usually he says when people shoot themselves in the mouth to kill themselves they kind of point the gun upward toward the brain. The tongue does not get involved at all-- does not get injured. The only way this could have happened he realized is if the tongue was all bunched up kind of pushing against the tip of the gun-- the muzzle of the gun when the gun went off. But why would you do that? Why put your tongue there if you were killing yourself? In my assessment of this this was a homicide. Now do I know for sure? No I did not. But that is the logic. So I told the detectives that that was my finding. They went back to interview the boyfriend and they said we know that you shot her. He said no I did not. They said yes we know. The doctor told us. He said what doctor? He says the doctor that did the autopsy. He said what autopsy? I called the coroner's office two weeks ago and they told me they never did autopsies on suicides. Of course you know why call the coroner's office to ask that question if you are not planning on killing anybody? It did not take very long after that he said for this guy to confess. As Dr. Drakovic says every crime scene-- Is a novel. Well today on our radio program we dive into those crime scenes and the novels that led to them. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. And the thing that makes a crime scene such a strange kickoff to any story any detective's investigation is that the crime scene is filled with details but it is totally unclear which ones are the important ones. Years back I was talking to this former forensic criminologist Enrico Togneri about this. And he said sure at a crime scene there is all the stuff you would imagine from watching crime shows on TV. The shape of a blood stain can tell you the velocity and direction of the blood. A mist of blood means one thing. A puddle of blood means something else. But there is so much more he said. Yeah there is certain routine things that you would look for and let us say you get into a scene where there is still some food on the table. You want to see if it is still warm. You want to see where the placing of the utensils might be. That might give you a clue whether it is a right-handed or a left-handed person that was last there. A smell could be important. You never know. If you can remember it can you think of a case where an utterly ordinary object ended up being the piece of evidence that clinched it? Well as a matter of fact there was a burglary with a piece of cheese that had a tooth mark in it and we were able to match the bite mark to the individual that did the burglary. What? Just a piece of cheese left in a refrigerator. The individual decided to help himself to some food and he took a bite out of a piece of cheese. And he had a unique enough bite mark that we were able to identify it. When the police are done with a crime scene who actually cleans up the crime scene? Usually the person who owns the property. We would mark it as a possible biohazard and then the individual would hire whoever he wanted to hire to have it cleaned up. Other drivers stare at Neal Smither's truck and sometimes take pictures. On the sides and back of it in big red letters is the company name-- Crime Scene Cleaners specializing in homicides suicides and accidental deaths. That is Nancy Updike and this is Act 1 of our program. Act 1-- Grime Scene. Back when we first broadcast today's program-- this was a few years back-- Nancy went to a town near San Francisco to see Neal Smither who cleans up crime scenes for a living. Quick warning-- some of this might not be suitable for younger listeners the squeamish and wimps. Also we have unbeeped the curse words here in the podcast. If you prefer a beeped version of our show it is at our website. After spending two days with Neal Smither I was this close to signing up to open his Los Angeles franchise. I am not joking. Neal spends all day every day speeding around in a huge white pickup truck with a cell phone glued to his ear making sure his company gets to dispose of every drop of blood within driving distance of Orinda California and his franchises in Utah Kansas Texas Las Vegas and Alabama. Mostly he does not leave the truck. He is had this one for about a year and it is got 90000 miles on it. Neal is absolutely blunt about his job to the point of crassness. I did a job one time. An old guy dropped dead decomposed on his kitchen floor. So when we got there we had about a 10-by-5 foot square pool of just gore. No power in the house so it is dark. It is very quiet. I am in there with a respirator because it was just humming. It smelled. I am hearing this noise you know and I should not be hearing a noise. There is no power in this house. Nothing. I get a flashlight. I am hearing this funky noise man. What the fuck is that? So I get closer to the gore with my light and it is just a bowling ball size thing of maggots and they are writhing around in the blood and the gore and it sounds like when you knead hamburger. The maggots were making a sound that you could hear? There were so many of them just so many of them writhing around in this pool of gore that yeah you could hear them. The only time he speaks gently about what he does is on sales calls.  Hi there this is Neal. May I help you? Yes sir. Yes sir. All righty. That is all you need to tell me. Let me kind of walk you through how we work. We would have a crew to you within the hour. They would write you up a free estimate. If you like the estimate they would rock and roll on that job right then and there. Our services are all-inclusive. By the way have you noticed Neal's southern accent? He made it up. He borrowed it from his Arkansas grandparents so he could play Steel Magnolia during business negotiations. He grew up in Santa Cruz. He has no problem admitting the accent is cultivated. Something about a southern voice it just kind of opens up a trusting vein you know which is great. I mean that is what I want. Neal has that tightly wound energy like Jim Carrey. He is 5' 5 with short brown hair under a baseball cap and sunglasses. He smokes Kools does not stop for lunch and drives way too fast. The directness the crassness is all deliberate. It is his marketing strategy. Gore sells. Look at the truck. We are pretty up front. I hope I do not offend too many people. I just try to be honest with them you know? I mean we are dealing with death. How do you sugarcoat death? You know you cannot. Neal describes for me the outline left on a pleather couch by a body that has decomposed into it over the course of 60 days. And I want to stop here and acknowledge that this is gross. It is. It is gross but it is interesting. And to me it is much more interesting than it is gross. I mean think of it-- a melted person. Four years ago Neal had never seen a dead body. He was a laid-off mortgage broker for God's sake. Then he saw Pulp Fiction. Remember that scene where John Travolta blows the guy's head off in the back of the car by mistake and they have to call in Mr. Wolf to fix everything? Good. What I need you two fellows to do is take those cleaning products and clean the inside of the car. I need you to go in the back seat scoop up all those little pieces of brain and skull. Get it out of there. Wipe down-- Neal is possibly the only person in America who saw that scene and thought wow I want that job. And it turns out it is a real job. If someone dies in your house it is up to you to get it clean. But doing it yourself even if you wanted to raises all sorts of problems. Are you complying with the state and federal laws governing the disposal of bodies and bodily fluids? Do you have the proper permits and liability coverage? No you do not. So you call Neal. Here's how his job breaks down. Murders are the least of his business. Most of the cleanups are either decomps-- bodies that have sat for a while and started to decompose. I did a decomp on the very end unit upstairs there. It was bad. How long had it been going? He sat for a good long while. He was all humming maggots everywhere. It was a typical decomp. Or suicides. Suicides and attempted suicides are a surprisingly big part of his job. The rest of Neal's business consists of meth labs and kiddie houses. Kiddie houses are those places usually full of old newspapers and other garbage that have dozens of cats everywhere eating and peeing and crapping. Meth labs are usually hotel accounts. Neal has a few national chains on contract. Hotel rooms get used all the time to cook methamphetamine Neal says. He does a lot of business with hotels. He claims hyperbolically that there is no hotel in the country that has not had a murder or suicide in one of its rooms. The second day I spend with Neal he gets called out to a jail to clean up after a woman who tried to kill herself in the bathroom off the prisoners' waiting room. I am not allowed to record anything. I have to just watch. I hold open the bathroom door with my foot while Neal sets up his stuff. Next to the sink are several thick dark red drops of blood and there are a few streaks of blood on the wall. Inside the sink is more blood. It is not a lot maybe a third of a cup overall but clearly she did some damage. Then while Neal's getting into his protective suit a woman in the waiting room behind us-- a tweaker Neal confided to me later meaning a meth user-- reads the back of Neal's shirt out loud. Crime Scene Cleaners she says. You cleaned my mother's house. Neal turns around. Yeah? Which one was that? Without any emotion the woman says her mother and cousin were murdered by her mother's boyfriend a while ago. You guys cleaned the house she repeats. Oh yeah. I remember that one. That was on the news Neal says. The woman nods and does not say anything so Neal goes back to cleaning. He whips through it in about 10 minutes like it is spilt milk. In fact it is exactly like cleaning up a mess at home except with industrial strength cleansers and equipment. He snaps on some rubber gloves sprays the whole area with a special enzyme to neutralize the blood and kill any bacteria or viruses scrubs any tough spots with a little brush and then wipes everything clean with heavy duty paper towels. It is not hard. Just depressing. Bottom line-- I am a businessman. I am an entrepreneur. I want to make money and build my company. Were you like this as a kid? Well I was the kid in school who would buy boxes of Blow Pops and bring them to school and sell them at lunch. I was the kid at school who ran a lunch ticket scam. What was the lunch ticket scam? I had a girlfriend in the office the head office in high school and she would kick me down with lunch tickets for a discounted price. And then I would sell them for an increased price but it was still lower than what the Mexican kids or whoever could buy them from the school. So I just figured I would beat the school by 0.20 a ticket. Shit I bankrolled my whole high school career on Blow Pops and lunch tickets. It was a beautiful thing. I always had money and I did not break any laws. Did not sling dope-- none of that shit. Bought my own car and I bankrolled it with Blow Pops and lunch tickets. Neal's plan is to retire in seven years at 40 and be rich. But in the meantime the job is changing him. Seeing so many crime scenes seeing the way so many people die he is also seen how they live-- in houses filled with old newspapers dirty dishes and too many cats never cleaning the bathroom. I think more than anything now most people are just dirty motherfuckers. We live like animals man. You have no idea. I am a clean freak. My place is spotless. So I was-- when I got into this I was shocked by the way people live. It is amazing. I went into a bathroom yesterday at a car wash right? Guy in there doing his business and I walk into the thing. And you know this guy had thrown his garbage on the floor and did not flush the toilet. Just common-- no common courtesy at all. And he was in a tie and-- a clean-cut nice-looking guy. Did not your mom teach you anything you 40-year-old dirtbag? Are you just a dirtbag? That is dirtbag straight up. That is a dirtbag. Did you think people were this big dirtbags before this job? No I had no idea. I had no idea. I thought everyone was normal. Believe me. The normal is the dirtbaggedness. Fuck. But now you see more dirtbaggery everywhere? Oh it is 8020 dirtbag. You bet. I swear to God. So now I go home and take a hot shower. Then I will convert to a bathtub read my book and not think abou dirtbags wait for my girl to get home. Wait for death. Death or my girl-- I love them both.   Neal's thought a lot about his own death in the last few years not surprisingly. He says he wants to die slowly so he can say goodbye to everyone. He does not want to be found by a company like his and cleaned up with his family off somewhere wondering what happened. He does not even care if it is a painful death he says as long as it is slow. Cancer would be fine he says. He would take cancer. When was the last time you heard someone say that? Nancy Updike is a producer for our program. We heard about Neal Smither from the book Gig which is a kind of unofficial sequeltribute to Studs Terkel's classic book about Americans and their jobs Working. Neal is still working. He has not retired. He says business is booming. Act 2-- The Police Cannot Do. So the clues at a crime scene are not always conclusive of course. Lots of crimes are forever unsolved. People die and it is never explained why. Stuff disappears and is never found again though we want it to be. Fiction writer Aimee Bender has this story about a boy who would be handy to have around at lots of crime scenes. I have to say this is one of my favorite pieces of fiction we have ever put on the radio show. Her story was read first by actor Matt Molloy. Once there was an orphan who had a knack for finding lost things. Both his parents had been killed when he was eight years old. They were swimming in the ocean when it turned wild with waves and each had tried to save the other from drowning. The boy woke up from a nap on the sand alone. After the tragedy the community adopted and raised him and a few years after the death of his parents he began to have a sense of objects even when they were not visible. This ability continued growing in power through his teens and by his 20s he was able to actually sniff out lost sunglasses keys contact lenses and sweaters. The neighbors discovered his talent accidentally. He was over at Jenny Sugar's house one evening picking her up for a date when Jenny's mother misplaced her hairbrush and was walking around complaining about this. The young man's nose twitched and he turned slightly towards the kitchen and pointed to the drawer where the spoons and knives were kept. His date burst into laughter. Now that would be quite a silly place to put the brush she said among all that silverware. And she opened the drawer to make her point-- to wave with a knife or brush her hair with a spoon. But when she did boom there was the hairbrush matted with gray curls sitting on top of the fork pile. Jenny's mother kissed the young man on the cheek but Jenny herself looked at him suspiciously all night long. You planned all that did not you she said over dinner. You were trying to impress my mother. Well you did not impress me she said. He tried to explain himself but she would hear none of it. And when he drove his car up to her house she fled before he could even finish saying he would had a nice time which was a lie anyway. He went home to his tiny room and thought about the word lonely and how it sounded and looked so lonely with those two Ls in it each standing tall by itself. As news spread around the neighborhood about the young man's skills people reacted in two ways. There were the deeply appreciative and the skeptics. The appreciative ones called up the young man regularly. He would stop by on his way to school find their keys and they would give him a homemade muffin. The skeptics called him over too and watched him like a hawk. He would still find their lost items but they would insist it was an elaborate scam and he was doing it all to get attention. Maybe declared one woman waving her index finger in the air-- maybe she said he steals the thing so we think it is lost moves the item and then comes over to save it. How do we know it was really lost in the first place? What is going on? The young man did not know himself. All he knew was the feeling of a tug-- light but insistent like a child at his sleeve. And that tug would turn him in the right direction and show him where to look. Each object had its own way of inhabiting space and therefore messaging its location. The young man could sense could smell an object's presence. He did not need to see it to feel where it put its gravity down. As would be expected items that turned out to be miles away took much harder concentration than the ones that were two feet to the left. When Mrs. Allen's little boy did not come home one afternoon that was the most difficult of all. Leonard Allen was eight years old and usually arrived home from school at 305. He had allergies and needed a pill before he went back out to play. That day by 345 alone Mrs. Allen was a wreck. Her boy rarely got lost. Only once had that happened in the supermarket but he would been found quite easily under the produce tables crying. The walk home from school was a straight line and Leonard was not the wandering kind. Mrs. Allen was just a regular neighbor except for one extraordinary fact. Through an inheritance she was the owner of a gargantuan emerald she called the green star. It sat glasscased in her kitchen where everyone could see it because she insisted that it be seen. Sometimes as a party trick she would even cut steak with its beveled edge. On this day she took the green star out of its case and stuck her palms on it. Where is my boy she cried. The green star was cold and flat. She ran weeping to her neighbor who calmly walked her back home. Together they gave the house a thorough search and then the neighbor a believer recommended calling the young man. Although Mrs. Allen was a skeptic she thought anything was a worthwhile idea and when the phone answered she said in a trembling voice you must find my boy. The young man had been just about to go play basketball with his friends. He would located the basketball in the bath tub. You lost him said the young man. Mrs. Allen began to explain and then her phone clicked. One moment please she said and the young man held on. When her voice returned it was shaking with rage. He is been kidnapped she said. They want the green star. The young man realized then that it was Mrs. Allen he was talking to and nodded. Oh he said. I see. Everyone in town was familiar with Mrs. Allen's green star. I will be right over he said. The woman's voice was too run with tears to respond. In his basketball shorts and shirt the young man jogged over to Mrs. Allen's house. He was amazed at how the green star was all exactly the same shade of green. He had a desire to lick it. By then Mrs. Allen was in hysterics. They did not tell me what to do she sobbed. Where do I bring my emerald? How do I get my boy back? The young man tried to feel the scent of the boy. He asked for a photograph and stared at it-- a brown-haired kid at his kindergarten graduation. But the young man had only found objects before and lost objects at that. He would never found anything or anybody stolen. He was not a policeman. Mrs. Allen called the police and one officer showed up at the door. Oh it is the finding guy the officer said. The young man dipped his head modestly. He turned to his right to his left north south. He got a glimmer of a feeling towards the north and walked out the back door through the back yard. Night approached and the sky seemed to grow and deepen in the darkness. What is his name again he called back to Mrs. Allen. Leonard she said. He heard the policeman pull out a pad and begin to ask basic questions. He could not quite feel him. He felt the air and he felt the tug inside the green star an object displaced from its original home in Asia. He felt the tug of a tree in the front yard which had been uprooted from Virginia to be replanted here. And he felt the tug of his own watch which was from his uncle. In an attempt to be fatherly his uncle had insisted he take it but they both knew the gesture was false. Maybe the boy was too far away by now. He heard the policeman ask what is he wearing? Mrs. Allen described a blue shirt and the young man focused in on the blue shirt. He turned off his distractions and the blue shirt came calling from the northwest like a distant radio station. The young man went walking and walking and about 14 houses down he felt the blue shirt shrieking at him. And he walked right into the back yard right through the back door and sure enough there were four people watching TV including the tear-stained boy with a runny nose eating a candy bar. The young man scooped up the boy while the others watched so surprised they did nothing. And one even muttered sorry man. For 14 houses back the young man held Leonard in his arms like a bride. Leonard stopped sneezing and looked up at the stars and the young man smelled Leonard's hair rich with the memory of peanut butter. He hoped Leonard would ask him a question-- any question. But Leonard was quiet. The young man answered in his head. Son he said to himself and the word rolled around a marble on a marble floor. Son he wanted to say. When he reached Mrs. Allen's door which was wide open he walked in with quiet Leonard and Mrs. Allen promptly burst into tears and the policeman slunk out the door. She thanked the young man 1000 times even offered him the green star but he refused it. Leonard turned on the TV and curled up on the sofa. The young man walked over and asked him about the program he was watching but Leonard stuck his thumb in his mouth and did not respond. Feel better he said softly. Tucking the basketball beneath his arm the young man walked home shoulders low. In his tiny room he undressed and lay in bed. Had it been a naked child with nothing on-- no shoes no necklace no hair bow no watch-- he could not have found it. He lay in bed that night with the trees from other places rustling and he could feel their confusion. No snow here. Not a lot of rain. Where am I? What is wrong with this dirt? Crossing his hands in front of him he held onto his shoulders. Concentrate hard he thought. Where are you? Everything felt blank and quiet. He could not feel a tug. He squeezed his eyes shut and let the question bubble up. Where did you go? Come find me. I am over here. Come find me. If he listened hard enough he thought he could hear the waves hitting. Aimee Bender's short story is called Loser. It is from her collection of short fiction called The Girl in the Flammable Skirt. It was read for us by Matt Molloy. Coming up-- what does it mean when you get out of prison kick your drug habit return to the scene of your crimes and little kids make fun of you? Kindergarten con in a minute on Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose some theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show-- crime scenes and the stories they tell. So today's episode first aired years ago but in putting together the rerun we all realized here we did actually have a question about crime scenes that comes from stuff that is been in the news recently. I am Bennet Omalu. I am a forensic pathologist and neuropathologist. After Stephon Clark was shot by Sacramento police back in March the county coroner did the official autopsy for the state. But the family also hired a well-known forensic pathologist named Bennet Omalu to do an autopsy for them. He announced his findings at this press conference. If you remember that case Stephon Clark was unarmed 22 years old shot by police multiple times. Dr. Omalu's analysis came out before the county coroner's and he was definitive about a number of things. There were a total of eight gunshot wounds meaning that he was hit by eight bullets. The first shot Omalu said hit Stephon Clark in the side and then spun him around so his back was to the officers. Then six of the eight shots were to his back. That is a different story than the police had told. Police had said he was advancing towards them when they fired. So the proposition that has been presented that he was assailing the officers is inconsistent with the prevailing forensic evidence. Weeks later the county released its report. It was different from Dr. Omalu's report in some significant ways. First it said there were seven bullets not eight. It said only three shots were to the back not six. And as for the first shot the county said it was probably to his thigh and that Clark probably was walking towards the officers when it happened. And we wondered here at our show how could something so basic be in dispute? The number of shots whether they entered from the back or from the front does that indicate that one of the autopsies was deliberately spinning the results? Or are these actual honest scientists simply disagreeing about the evidence that is in front of them? Well I asked Dr. Judy Melinek a veteran forensic pathologist who does autopsies in San Francisco and she said these kinds of discrepancies happen all the time when there are two autopsies of the same person. She said in these kinds of cases the official autopsy-- the coroner's office-- usually happens first and then the family gets to do their autopsy after that. That is true even though the family usually goes public with their results first as happened in this case. So Dr. Melinek says picture OK two autopsies by two doctors. The first autopsy done by the coroner's office alters the body and changes the evidence. So it makes it a lot more difficult for the second pathologist. When the second pathologist gets the body it is already been washed clean so it does not have any bloodstains or trace residue. The first pathologist has already cut open the body has already removed the bullets. So when Dr. Omalu got the body he did not have the bullets anymore. They had been taken out by the first autopsy and he did not have access to the x-rays of the body from the first autopsy. Which would have shown him where the bullets had been. He also did not have the organs in their proper orientation in the body. The organs had been taken out by the previous autopsy pathologist and sliced up to identify the wound tracks and then put in a plastic bag inside the body cavity. So the first pathologist has that advantage because they got the body pristine and it was not altered. In this way Dr. Melinek says there could be lots of disagreement and it could be honest disagreement between pathologists. They are people looking at different sets of data so they come to different conclusions. And with that we have arrived at Act 3 of our program. Act 3-- Return to the Scene of the Crime. You know there is this truism in detective fiction that a criminal always returns to the scene of the crime. It turns out in real life that actually is not very common at all except among arsonists. Arsonists apparently like to see the fires they have set and then some of them are actually caught when police look at pictures taken of crowds at fires. And then-- OK maybe this is rare maybe not nobody really keeps track of this kind of thing-- there are the people who circle back to the scene of the crimes to undo to erase something or at least to promise that it is never going to happen again. Katie Davis discovered that one of her own neighbors in Washington DC an old friend of hers was trying to do just that. Bobby comes up my street one afternoon in March. I have not seen him in a few months and he is kind of gliding along smoking a Marlboro. That is the way he is carried himself since sixth grade when I first met him-- one of the bad boys from over on Calvert Street. Bobby tells me he is going to coach a Little League team with some neighborhood kids. Great I say from up on my porch. Inside I am thinking who is he kidding? He is rail thin. He is sweating. It looks like he is been using all winter. Bobby flicks his burning cigarette into the street and watches me waiting for more reaction. This is the same Bobby I loved and tried to save for a whole year. Bobby who sold 60 from my house to buy heroin and swore to God-- swore to his own dead daughter that my dog Purdy ate the money. And this is his latest plan to get clean? Coaching a bunch of 10 11 and 12-year-olds rounded up by the DC Department of Recreation? All I can say is that is great. A week later Bobby's back this time on my machine. You have two messages.  Message one. Hey how are you doing? Just calling to say hi. When I get off I will probably walk Bailey. See if we can both run up and see if we can say hi to you. Katie you have got to see this. These thugs I got are unbelievable. One of them tried to spit on me yesterday at practice. A couple of them I do not think-- I do not think even I can handle. It is like they are too much of a disruption you know?  My machine cuts him off but now I know Bobby's clean because if he were still using heroin nothing could puncture his detached haze. He is sounding awake and rattled. Bobby who spent 2 and 12 years in Lorton Prison on assault and possession charges rattled by a bunch of kids at their first baseball practice. First day was just crazy. We went to Harrison Playground between 13th and 14th on V Street and that is a rough neighborhood. And as soon as we got on the field my kids started to act up right away-- right away-- and I think they were afraid. I was a little afraid. OK he was like picking who was going be right field or whatever but then everybody was just yelling at each other and jumping on each other. I tried to get them to chill to relax and play ball focus on the game. They started cursing me-- a few of them-- cursing me and cursing each other. One kid spit at me. And he got mad and said practice was over. And I cursed them and I told them I did not-- they did not  impress me. Before they were born I was in the penitentiary you know so if they are trying to act like they are bad they are not impressing me. And right when I did that I felt in my gut that I had just screwed up. I felt right then that you know what? You just laid all of your cards on the table. You do not have a whole card anymore. Now they know you. Then Shannon said maybe he got pumped in the butt by lots of men. That is when everybody was laughing. One kid says well while you were in prison were you getting humped? And then I knew I had screwed up. I said no that did not happen to me. Another one said oh because you were the humper right? Three days later they hold a second practice this time at a field in our neighborhood. Bobby's back for more salvation through Little League. Shut the for I smack the shit out of you. Do it. What is your strategy? Or do you-- maybe you are formulating it? I am formulating it but my strategy short term is to-- my strategy is to remember I am the adult. Break! Good stick! Go go go go! Run it out. He might fall. He might break his ankle. Al