Rana Awdish is a doctor in the intensive care unit at a big hospital Henry Ford in Detroit. And when corona cases started arriving in March she made up this job for herself. How are you? I am good. She started spending hours of each day walking the fourth fifth and sixth floors that made up the ICU just checking in on her co-workers seeing how they were doing. Which means that maybe more than any single person in the hospital she knows best what the staff has been going through at every stage of this pandemic. And she tries to help. Even for instance when a unit clerk tells her that she is short on bleach and wipes. I will see if I can poke some people. OK thank you. I love you. I love you too. Miki Meek on our staff is the person who first reached out to Rana and got to know her. Hey there Miki. Hey Ira. So one of the things that is new about coronavirus is how much death the doctors and nurses see. It is relentless. And Rana especially worries about the doctors who are still in training the residents and fellows. Ah right. Henry Ford is a big teaching hospital. Yeah so when Rana was a resident she says the doctors in charge never checked in with the trainees about their feelings after a patient died. She says it is traumatic. You can feel like you failed them. And Rana says that two of the residents she trained with actually died by suicide. She sometimes still wonders if someone checking in might have made a difference. So when she heard about the team of Henry Ford trainees who lost a patient she made a point of stopping by to see them. They were all in this cramped windowless workroom. It is on the fifth floor.  Hi you guys. How are you? How are you? I was trying to write an email to you but I got caught up. That is why we came down because I figured it was like a better talking thing than-- we heard there was a bad day. There was a young 22-year-old woman who died and everyone took it pretty bad. Yeah. So-- There was not a dry eye. Anywhere. That is a resident named Rim saying there was not a dry eye. I am not sure I have ever heard doctors talk like this among themselves about what it is like when a patient dies. I have to say it is interesting. You have played me this tape and before this conversation with the trainees even get started their leader Jay Lakshmikanth heads for the door to leave. And we had to kind of blocks him. You guys can chat. I have got to go do this thing. I am going to walk over here. Yeah. So she stands in front of the door and she opens up this bag of donated scrub caps that have sharks and dinosaurs on them. Did it make you too sad? Is that why you just took yourself out of the conversation? No well-- I feel like you need one of these though because I am seeing your hair.  Do you know how many of those I have? Why are not you wearing them? People keep giving them to me. It is sort of a hint.  And then Rana she turned to that resident Rim to get her to say more about her feelings about this patient who died. They would taken care of her for a whole month. What were you sharing about the patient? Oh no it was just you know-- like she is 22. She is just like one of us. And I was just staring at how beautiful she was. Aww. Like her eyelashes her nails her toenails. She worked in the eyelash business. She was-- like we saw her pictures. Her mom shared her pictures with us. And she was so beautiful She was the hardest case for us. I know for me personally I wanted to quit many times. Many days I would imagine the conversation with Dr. Perry. I would just tell him I cannot do it anymore. Aww. But it is almost over so it is like-- We all have those days. We literally all have those days. It is crazy what we expect of ourselves. I have cried on rounds multiple times. I have had to leave to take a break to cry and then come back. It is just really hard. And I have such a good-- Jay had tried to get Rim to take a day off to get a break. The next day was her son's seventh birthday. But Rim did not want to leave the rest of her team hanging. And he said-- Your son's birthday come on. Yeah I know. It is OK. And you miss it. Come finish my work and then I will go. No. No it is OK. He does not wake up till 1100 anyways.  You know what seven is? I got him a drone. I got him many toys so-- Toys are not going to replace you. Do you know what seven is? It is a lucky number in Hinduism. Yeah? Oh really? In my culture it is a very lucky number. Even here with white people.  Hey have you seen this room? We do not know about white people.   We chose Henry Ford Hospital because it is in Detroit. The city is 80 Black. Black Americans have been dying of COVID-19 at higher rates than anybody else. In Michigan they are four times more likely to die than whites. Henry Ford usually gets a mix of Black and white patients from all over the Midwest. But with the pandemic the hospital basically turned into a huge COVID ward for the city of Detroit and the patients in the ICU were now mostly Black. The staff says the majority were essential workers-- bus drivers police officers firefighters sanitation workers people from grocery stores. It is personal on a lot of levels. Dr. Geneva Tatem is one of the few Black doctors in the ICU and one of the senior doctors in the hospital. She is a pulmonologist. Her family moved to Detroit when she was 10. She has deep ties to the city now and a deep awareness of what the virus has done to Black people there. I mean I have had friends' parents I have had multiple church members multiple community leaders die. When I walk into the ICU and 15 out of 16 patients is a Black male between the age of 45 and 75 it is really an emotional emotional thing. Dr. Tatum lives alone but because of the stress of COVID she is talking to a therapist for the first time-- her cousin. She has way more phone calls with me than she would probably care to admit. I probably owe her thousands of dollars in counseling money  at this point. We started recording the staff at this hospital in mid-April because we wanted to see what it is like for them to be going for so long in this intense and difficult situation. Rana started recording these conversations on her iPhone for us with everybody's permission and knowledge. And she sent out emails to 40 people urging them to talk to us and to be honest about what is really happening in the hospital and tell everything including quote where we fail at times. Be you she wrote. I love you. The day in mid-April that we started talking to Rana and the doctors at Henry Ford was the very first day that the number of people admitted to the ER was fewer than the day before. It was the very first day after their peak and the number of COVID patients has slowly dropped since then. We wanted to follow a hospital staff over time because we wanted to see how they managed and adapted and adjusted and just what it did to them personally. And so we did regular calls with nurses and doctors on the Henry Ford staff for 2 and 12 months. And what we are going to bring you this hour are the moments that just really struck us and surprised us of all sorts. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Stay with us. Robyn Semien is the producer on our staff who talked to Dr. Tatem who you just heard. And Dr. Tatem told her this story that gives a sense of the situation at Henry Ford and in Detroit. Robyn will explain. In our first interview I asked Dr. Tatem a benign question about COVID patients using FaceTime to talk to their families who cannot visit the ICU because the disease is so contagious. And as an answer she told me a story so harrowing it speaks to the relentlessness and devastation of the disease on the city its speed and cruelty. It was about a patient in his early 40s-- --who had Down syndrome who was being cared for by his sister at home. His sister brought him in with COVID symptoms. She was also taking care of her mother who was also sick with COVID so she had to drop him off at the hospital by himself. We bring him in. He is very sick. We brought him into the ICU. You know we are gowned and masked and face shields and gloves and that physical barrier between us and him. And we are trying to explain to him what in the world is going on. He does not understand it. He just sees a bunch of people dressed this way and is scared confused wondering where his sibling is and what is happening why he needs to wear oxygen. And then that is when it dawned on us-- we have to figure out a way pretty quickly to help him understand. So they used FaceTime. This was one of the first times Henry Ford used it with COVID patients. It was still early in the pandemic. Dr. Tatem and her team got the man's sister on the phone on video so she could explain to her brother how sick he was and why the oxygen was necessary. And then she told the doctors what might help her brother relax.  His favorite TV channel is this. His favorite TV program is that. He likes this for a snack. He likes these things for activities. And so we were able pretty quickly to get those things that he needed to create the environment as close to normal as it can be in an isolation room if you will. And did that work? Did it calm him down? It absolutely did. It absolutely did. Meanwhile she says his mom was at a different hospital with COVID and her condition was worsening. His sister was monitoring them both from home and calling their brother all the time to check on him and keep his spirits up. Was she giving updates to her brother about how their mom was doing? Or was that a bridge too far? That was a bridge too far. Oh wow. So he really did not know that his mom was sick basically? No. And the sad thing in this case is actually because the sister who was his caregiver was both taking care of him and his mother she got ill. The staff found this out by accident. One day they needed the sister's help. And we kept calling and could not get an answer. And then after multiple attempts another sibling called and said hey I am so-and-so as other sister. And the reason why you have not been able to get in touch with my sister is because she has now passed away. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. I am not really sure if he knows that his sister who is his caregiver has passed away. Oh my goodness. Yeah because it-- so it was devastating to us as a team when we heard about that. Because again this is the aftermath of what we are seeing. And to know that his sister who spent her life making sure that he was OK wound up dying from the very disease that we are treating him for was really really difficult.   And this was what we would been seeing over and over again-- the person who gets admitted to the ICU who tells us yeah well my spouse is also sick or my daughter or son is also sick. We have had instances where we have had multiple family members of just one family in our ICUs. So it is really difficult and something I do not think any of us could have even emotionally prepared ourselves for. At its peak COVID spread through Detroit like an invisible wildfire entire homes neighborhoods unrecognizable afterwards. The man Dr. Tatem treated was moved to rehab to recover from what COVID did to his body. What it did to his life is different. There is no rehab for that.  Robyn Semien is a producer on our show. Act One Pod Bless America. In April when we first started talking to the staff at Henry Ford the intensive care unit was struggling with something they had never seen before-- all these patients who were just not getting better. These were COVID patients who would either die or they would stay stuck on ventilators for weeks and the staff had no idea how to get them off. When that doctor Rana Awdish-- who we heard at the beginning of the show-- would circulate through the hospital talking to staff and checking in they all knew that she has a very particular approach to medicine and to patient care. Miki Meek welcome back. Hey again Ira. So yeah Rana's whole approach to medicine comes out of an experience she had back in 2008. She was a doctor here at Henry Ford and then she landed in her own ICU as a patient. She had multi-system organ failure and went on a ventilator. And she told me her co-workers acted like she could not hear them but she actually could. What shocked and upset me the most was overhearing a resident in the hallway say she is trying to die on me. Hearing in the operating room she is circling the drain. That sounds so scary to hear that. Yeah. It was so difficult to imagine my own recovery when everyone around me was talking about me as if I was dying. But you know I had said similar things. She is circling the drain? Yeah. It was a culture of bravado and it was showing that you were untouched by suffering. It was that it did not matter. One of the things I have always felt sort of ashamed about is that our patients have been telling us these things for years. When she recovered she returned to her job at the hospital with a new mindset. It was all about empathy-- that empathy would make her a better doctor not worse which was the opposite of her training. She would been taught that too much feeling clouds a doctor's judgment. She and a small team revamped the way the whole system talks to patients and Rana wrote a book about her experience that is now used in medical schools. But when COVID hit their ICU it became impossible for the staff to do some of the things Rana put in place. Like before COVID when someone arrived unconscious or sedated into the ICU they would always ask the family what do you think your loved one would want me to know about them? Families would put up photos and bring in quilts personalize the rooms. And the staff they liked that. They really wanted to get to know the person they would be caring for. But under COVID all that was impossible. Families could no longer come in and get to know the staff. I had one nurse tell me just yesterday I feel like all of my patients are the same.  What does that mean all the same? In this case they all have COVID pneumonia they are all proned they are all on the ventilator. And so there was the risk of depersonalization for the patients. She said getting to know their patients was a part of their job that they really got a lot of satisfaction out of but they did not totally realize that until COVID took it away. This change throughout the hospital was biggest for the nurses. They are the ones who spend the most time with COVID patients. And our next story is about the nursing staff in Pod Four. The ICU in Henry Ford is broken up into these pods. Pod Four was the front line in the hospital's COVID-19 effort. It was the very first pod designated as all coronavirus patients before the other ICU pods also became all COVID all the time. Ben Calhoun spent weeks talking to the nurses in Pod Four. By mid-April the nurses in Pod Four had adapted to the alternate universe of COVID-19 at least in certain ways. What I mean-- take just the PPE. That is the personal protective equipment they had to wear to go into COVID rooms. This was a high-stakes thing. At this point people had seen 10 ICU staff get COVID. Two colleagues were on ventilators. One nurse had died. Some people got superstitious about I always put on my gloves in this order. I always wear a scrub cap under the paper cap and then I will not get sick. What I did not get about the PPE until talking to the nurses in Pod Four was the mundane relentless crazy-making-ness of the very gear keeping them safe. This arduous ritual of rubber gloves tie-up gowns P100 respirators that look like gas masks clear plastic face shields. It took five minutes to put it on to go into a room five to eight minutes to take it off when you come out. You might have to do this as many as two dozen or more times every single shift. How long it took to get into a room because of all the PPE is actually a good example of how COVID changed what it was like for people to do even just the basic and normal parts of their jobs. Evan Guffey is a nurse in Pod Four. He says you have these ICU rooms with windows out onto the hallway. Like all shift long you hear people banging on the glass windows.  Because they need-- they went into the room and they forgot their supplies to draw blood or they forgot one medication. So-- OH so that is a regular sound? Yes it is very irritating but we are all doing it to each other.  So there is a little bit of a boom boom boom-- oh not again? Yep yep. It was hard in the new world of COVID to even communicate with these patients to explain where they were and what was happening and to reassure them and to connect with them in the way that they are used to the way Rana Awdish talks about. They were still puzzling out the ways to do that. These patients many of them were sedated alone in a room with the nonstop sound of the ventilator which is loud. It is like a vacuum. So nurses had to shout through their P100 masks-- which is like a gas mask-- and a clear plastic face shield over the roar of the ventilator. Hey sir do you know where you are right now? You are at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit. Do you know that? OK. Now it is-- really you are speaking through your eyes because that is really all they can see. Anthony Valeri another nurse in Pod Four. You have got to speak through your eyes because they cannot see it. Or you just explain to them that you are smiling. Think how many times I have said that. I said I am saying good morning with a smile on my face right now. You know what you are here for? You are being treated for COVID-19 the coronavirus right now OK? Are you in any pain right now? In April a month and a half into all of this the nurses from Pod Four seem like people who are in the throes of a crisis but also like people who are used to crises. The first time I talked to Evan I asked how he was holding up.  I am good yeah. I have a good ability to leave work at work. So the second I leave I can just not think about it. But I am holding up good. Sarah Davis is another nurse in Pod Four. She would been hoping to take on extra shifts because her husband lost his job thanks to COVID. But you ask how she is doing she is got the same kind of ICU nurse toughness which I sort of grew up around. My mom was a neonatal ICU nurse. She talks like Evan who talks like Sarah. I think what I do and most of us do you are in the ICU things are hard. What I say is you put your pants on and you do it. You cannot complain about it. That is going to make it worse. And you just-- you have got to do it. By May a month later things change. Now it seems likely that Pod Four patients who have been stuck on life support for weeks most of them would probably never recover. Evan was used to helping patients get better or giving them a dignified death. Now he felt like he was seeing too many situations that were neither. The nurses had not seen this coming. Sarah Davis told me she would braced herself for the surge but nobody envisioned this part. You know you go to work because you want to help people. These patients-- any patients-- are why we go to work in the morning. Yeah. And when we cannot-- when we cannot help somebody or we are just helping them just get through the day when a lot of this-- and I do not want this to sound the wrong way-- but we know that they are probably not going to make it out of there right? Right. So-- and I feel like I am a person optimistic by nature too. Mm-hmm. And recently I feel that-- because I feel like I have changed. I am more of like-- my husband is a realist and I am an optimist. And now I feel like we are changing places. When I talk to Evan Guffey in May he tells me about what he is struggling with the most-- that families are continuing to tell them to do everything they can to save patients which he gets. But there is a patient who typifies what he is seeing-- a man several underlying health issues who is been stuck on life support for weeks. He is heavily sedated breathing tube down his throat. Eventually the man's kidneys give out so he is on constant dialysis. His lungs also give out. And even when they stop sedating him he remains unresponsive. It is like what are we doing here? We are just continuing to make these people suffer in a way. It is tough to see those people suffering every day hooked up to all of these different lines and tubes and they are essentially unresponsive. And we know if we were to cut a couple of the interventions off they would pass away very quickly. Mm-hmm. So I think it causes a lot of frustration with the nursing staff. Because we feel like we are prolonging the inevitable. Some of the frustration got brought up yesterday. We had one of our nurses talking with our physicians about well when is enough? When are we done? Evan means that the caring thing would be to let them die. I do not know Ben. I do not know. It sounds like everyone from what I could tell from the rounding they are just really frustrated. They feel like they are torturing people now. They do very much. I actually was-- Around the same time Rana Awdish checked in with Erin Dicks Evan and Sarah's boss. They were standing outside the nurse's break room talking about exactly what Evan was saying. Because they feel like they are doing wrong. Yeah. They feel like they are preventing the inevitable and everything that we do is not doing anything. And they are like this is not right. Like they feel-- they start to feel guilty. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like they are just keeping somebody alive when there is nothing we do is changing any outcome you know? No I completely understand that feeling. You know there is no way-- They talk about how Pod Four nurses are stuck in the worst position in medicine. They are caught in the middle between patients who they worry are suffering who are clearly dying and their families who are holding out hope. Because that is-- they do not understand it. It is so abstract. Yeah. We would not believe any of this if we were not here right? No. No it is hard. I mean you do not. Unless you are sitting there day in and day out and living it every day you do not understand it. You cannot have the feelings that we all have. And so it is-- I have been wondering if there is anything we should try to prepare to do differently maybe before the next wave. I know which is going to come. I hate to even say it. I know I know. Like if there are different timelines for these conversations. By these conversations Rana means conversations with patients' families. She wonders if doctors and nurses need to change the language they are using with them when a patient is not getting better. We were talking about this the other day. I think it is how we say things. Instead of saying-- when they are that sick instead of saying we have seen progress today maybe we say we have seen a change today. And this is what we have seen. Because it creates false hope. Right. And so not to-- I do not want to instill that like oh my god they are getting better because they are still so crazy sick. But if we say it differently-- Yes because we are so eager to give good news right? We want to and so we-- You almost need that. Yeah. But sometimes it is false. Yeah. Yeah because they can change. No that is a really wise insight. Yeah they can change so rapidly. So I think that is the challenge. We are asking a lot of everyone. A lot. Yeah.  That same week-- this is week nine-- one of the nurses I talked to Sarah Davis she had a day where two patients died and neither of them had family in the room with them. The first was a man who was intubated so he could not speak. Sarah stood with the doctor and held an iPad wrapped in a plastic bag in front of the face of this dying man as a woman said goodbye to him. And just hearing that conversation with that woman who was talking to the patient who could not speak back to her just saying how much she loved him and that it was a pleasure to have him to have him in her life. And there was just really-- just so much sadness. In normal times Sarah would not even be witnessing this kind of private moment. Families would come into the room. Doctors and nurses would leave. The second death-- this was the same shift-- Sarah and others in Pod Four gathered outside the room of a man who was dying alone and they prayed with the man's son who was on speakerphone. So that-- that was hard.  Probably less than an hour after that Sarah says the other patient the man with the iPad a couple family members were supposed to be there when he died. But things went wrong. The family told the hospital take his ventilator tube out and we will be there to say goodbye at 730. So not long before 730 Sarah was in the room and he was extubated. But then this man starts dying much faster than normal and his family is not there yet. So I was waiting for them to come. But while-- I was waiting for them to come and I was making him comfortable. And I stayed with him while he died before his family came. And he ended up passing right before his family came. I cannot stress enough how different this is from Sarah's normal job being alone with a dying patient. Since COVID it is common for nurses though in hospitals everywhere. With this man Sarah stood by herself and held his hand and stroked his head. She told him he did a good job as she stared through the window hoping desperately that his family would appear. And then I came home. And you would appreciate this because you have kids. And I thought I was OK. And I had come home. My kids are normally asleep. So I just peeked in the room that they were in. And they both were looking like they were sleeping. I was just looking at them crying.  And then they were both up. And my son was like oh are you sad? Then I start bawling my eyes out. And I was like yeah it was a sad day. And you know he knows what I do. And we called the virus the world bug. And he asked if somebody died. And so I told him yeah. And just in six-year-old terms that I was with him and that he was comfortable. And so that was probably the saddest day that I have had. I am so sorry. I cannot imagine. Yeah. It just really-- it just really sucks. Around the same time early May COVID cases have finally receded enough that parts of the hospital are starting to go back to normal. Non-COVID floors are reopening. People who have been furloughed are coming back to work. Specialists who'd been assigned to COVID ICUs go back to their normal jobs. Even the deli reopens. Some people tell Rana that they are surprised to find themselves feeling upset about other parts of the hospital going back to normal-- not because they are jealous but because it makes them feel like this awful thing they would all gone through is being erased. And for the staff of Pod Four with their 16 ICU beds they are still 100 COVID patients. And the COVID patients are going to keep coming. Rana talked to Miki about it. I am not seeing relief. I am seeing sadness. And that is the thing that is starting to settle in is this is ours. The relief valve is not coming any time soon. Right. The group of I think doctors and nurses who are caring for these patients are going to be the group of doctors and nurses caring for these patients for the next two years. And I do not know if we have wrapped our minds around yet. COVID was this brutal new normal stretching out all the way to the horizon of the foreseeable future. Ben Calhoun he is one of the producers on our show. Coming up OK your dad comes off a ventilator. His life has been saved. What is the very first thing he says to you? We hear what happened in one family. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show The Reprieve stories of coronavirus at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit-- not when they were busiest and things were the worst but in the weeks since as the number of cases steadily declined. What you are hearing this hour is when things were less awful. I should say before we go any further that of course this past week COVID-19 cases across the country have been on the rise including in Michigan. Anyway in the first half of our show we focused mostly on the staff of the hospital. In this half we turn to the people that they tried to save. We have arrived at Act Two of our show-- Act Two Stan's Good Day. And we found out about the patient in this story from a recording made by a young doctor named Stan Linder who worked in the intensive care unit during the second year of his training at Henry Ford studying his specialties nephrology and critical care. He said that he would binge Oreos to cope with the stress. I am not going to make my summer body goals he told one of our producers. Anyway our producer Emanuele Berry put this together. It begins with a voice memo that Stan recorded for us on his phone. This is April 30 2020. It is 730 at night and I have just finished my last COVID ICU day. I have worked the last 11 days in a row and it is been sort of a crazy experience. And today was really rough-- really rough. I have had some really horrible moments-- horrible moments that I will always remember. And I feel like I am eventually going to have PTSD from this which sucks. But one of my best moments in this has definitely been one of my patients-- and I will always remember her for the rest of my life. She was young and pregnant very along in her pregnancy-- very along. And the first day that I met her she was struggling to breathe-- like really struggling to breathe. And you could tell that just by how fast she was breathing. But she was in that same moment comfortable. Her face was total comfort. It was sort of eerie to see how fast she was breathing. 40 to 50 times a minute-- that is very fast. That is almost one breath a second. For you to inhale and exhale that quickly takes a lot of work. It takes a lot of muscle movement to do that. Eventually someone will tire out and they will stop breathing. Before the patient ended up intubated I had to have her call her husband on the phone so we could have a conversation about what would happen not only to my patient but also her unborn child. That is an extreme conversation to have within five minutes of meeting a person. And so she was on the ventilator for seven days and ended up getting extubated on that seventh day. And she did great for a couple hours after she got extubated. And then by noon everything went haywire. And she was adamant adamant that she would not-- she absolutely did not want the tube back in. And I pleaded with her because her heart rate was up she was breathing so fast. I thought she was going to tire out again. And she was adamant. She is like no I do not want that tube back in. And then two days later she had a vaginal delivery. I have never-- she had a vaginal delivery two days after getting extubated from a ventilator for seven days. That blows my mind. It blows my mind blows my mind. A miracle! Amazing! My patient survived. My patients survived. I had two two patients in that room and they both came out healthy. And a lot of my patients especially in the beginning of all this did not. So I am really glad I have had this experience right at the end. What is the baby like? Well she is--  She is a really tough baby. Why? She is like-- she want to be in arms all day. And if you do not do what she wants at the moment she gets really mad and she give you this mad face. And it is funny that she is--  You do not know what I went through for you child? Yeah. I am like OK. Yeah I am like OK you really have a bad attitude with me.  This is Francesca Miranda Aquino. She worked as a chef at PF Chang's. She is originally from Puerto Rico. Now she lives in Mexicantown Southwest Detroit with her husband who is a preacher their two-year-old son and now her newborn daughter who does not seem to appreciate what her mom went through to bring her into the world. Francesca remembers a few things from her time in the ICU. She remembers how hopeless the place seemed when they wheeled her in. It felt like breathing in death she says. She remembers how days later when she came to no one else in her pod was awake. And she remembers the moment Stan talked about where she refused to be re-intubated. It was the morning of the 21st. The tube had only been out for a few hours. And I remember that another doctor came in and he told me that my heart was beating really fast and my blood pressure was really really high. And he told me that really they need to put the tube back in again and I need to relax. And I told him no.  I told him no you are not going to put those tubes back again. And I told him it is just passed one hour where they took out the tubes on me and now you w