I was surprised this week during this interview I was doing I sat down to talk to the guy Jim McManus is his name whose book Positively Fifth Street is the book that actually started me playing poker years ago. And we were going to do this interview about great poker hands. And you know that saying know when to hold them know when to fold them? This interview was going to be about moments when players showed an almost supernatural ability an uncanny power to know whether they should get out of a hand before they are crushed. I will tell you what I have. I have four examples. One of his books is actually a history of poker called Cowboys Full-- he knows all kinds of poker lore. And so Jim shows up with four examples and three of them were poker hands. And then I have the Cuban Missile Crisis between Khrushchev and Kennedy in which Khrushchev folded thus saving the world from a nuclear exchange. Well I think let us start with that one. So how does that lay out as a poker hand? Just walk me through it. Well Khrushchev and the Soviets had bet that the young inexperienced Kennedy who they had met in Europe and had read him as not quite as tough as the previous president Eisenhower. They decided that they would try to put missile bases on Cuba. And Kennedy startled them by raising by blockading the island insisting that the bases be taken apart and putting our nuclear forces on highest alert. And Khrushchev made what is called an awesome lay down. He agreed to take the sites to take them apart. There could have easily been a nuclear war over that. So in this reading of it Khrushchev's original bet was really a bluff? It was a testing bet. Kennedy needed to figure out whether he was bluffing or he actually was ready to commit all the way. So he raised by blockading the island communicating to them-- bluffing-- that we were ready to make a nuclear strike. Whether or not we were bluffing still remains unknown. And Khrushchev's response was to fold. Of course this is a perfect week to talk about politics as poker. All this week Barack Obama's been in a high stakes game of chicken with Congressional Republicans over shutting down the government each side firing what I guess Jim would call testing bets insisting on their version of the federal budget demanding the other side would fold. Each side calling the other's bluff day after day after day. Neither side willing to toss in their cards. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Today on our show to help our nation's leaders and the rest of us as well Know When To Fold 'Em. Stories about people who have to figure out when they should give up. When is it time for a tactical retreat? We have dictators drunks an ungrateful kid facing off with his parent and a team of guys chasing a lone man through the Brazilian rain forest. None of them on today's show wants to fold their cards. And as Jim McManus points out figuring out when to hold them and when to fold them is not always so obvious at least when it comes to real games of poker. Well the major hand of my life-- an example of one in which a player either foolishly or brilliantly decides to hold them rather than fold them-- was a pot that the other guy in the hand was TJ Cloutier who was also the winningest tournament poker player in history. Jim calls it the major hand in his life because it is the hand that made the most serious players in the world take notice of him. This was back in 2000. Jim was covering the World Series of Poker for Harper's Magazine and he entered the tournament his first one ever. And he was terrified. He actually ended up at the final table walking away with a quarter million dollars which would have been impossible without this hand against one of his poker heroes TJ Cloutier. I had studied and even memorized long passages of his book about how to play hold 'em. And the hold cards he focused most of his attention on were ace king. So in this crucial life changing moment Jim's across the table from TJ and that is the hand that Jim gets-- ace king. Jim bets just like it says to do in the book. Everybody folds but TJ who raises. You have to also bear in mind that he is a large former tight end in the Canadian Football League. So it is not just the size the number of chips he is pushing forward it is the growl and the snarl factor and the physical intimidation that sort of go along with it. Jim says that he knew the relevant passage from TJ's book so well that he could nearly recite it. And he knew that he should either raise or he should fold. And then he does neither. He matches TJ's bet-- he calls-- thinking that TJ is probably bluffing but too scared to raise him. Next time TJ bets Jim calls again. And the next time after that which puts Jim all in. All his chips are now in the pot. And in the end when all the cards come down neither he nor TJ even has a pair. And when we turned over our cards he had ace nine I had ace king and I won a pot that made me the chip leader in the tournament. But now with 11 years of experience playing tournament poker that is a call that I would never make. I would never call all in with no pair in a big tournament. So at that time you are saying in the end it worked out to be the right move but you are saying it was a mistake? It was probably a mistake. A mistake because given the aggressiveness of TJ's bets TJ very well could have had at least a little pair. even a pair of twos would have beaten Jim. But Jim was such an amateur at that point he did not fold the way an experienced player would. It is interesting because I have heard that professional players they say in some situations the hardest person to play against is an amateur because they cannot predict what the amateur is going to do when they put pro moves on them. And in a way what you are saying is that is what happened right here. That is exactly what happened. And my call was in one sense a brilliant call. Amarillo Slim who was the color commentator at the time said That boy's got the heart of a cliff diver. I am going to bet on him to win. And yet other people including TJ said He played it more like a deer in the headlights. He was too scared to fold. My ability to suss out the situation was inadequate to realize that I was probably beaten-- even though I was not I was probably beaten. And that I made a mistake that just turned out to-- Make you a hero. Yeah make me a hero. Sometimes the line between a foolish call and a brilliant one it just depends on how the cards-- the rest of the hand gets dealt out. And the fact that so much of the time you really are just kind of in the dark and you have to figure out Should I raise should I fold these? Is that the thing you hate about poker is that the thing you love about poker? No that is the thing that I love about poker. That is what makes it an art from. The thing that I hate about poker is that you can sit there and puzzle it out and think it through and come up with exactly the right answer and play the hand perfectly and your opponent can play the hand as stupidly as he can and still get saved by the dealer on the river and you lose. The fact that you can play the hand well and lose all of your money is really uncool. That is a rub. It is hard to know when to fold them and when to hold them much less when to walk away and when to run. And even when you figure it out even when you suss out exactly the right thing to do the cards can come down in some crazy way that favors your opponent and you lose anyway. We have four stories of people navigating all of that away from the poker table. Stay with us. Act One Is This War or Is This Hearts? Dave Dickerson has this story of laying down his cards which includes one of the most exemplary pieces of parenting I think I have ever heard of. When I was 28 years old I came back home for the first time in six years fully aware that I was the black sheep. I had rejected my faith. I had rejected Tucson Arizona. I was the only one in the family who was not married. I was the only one who could not even speak Spanish. And I was just sitting with my dad in a booth at a diner and it should have been just this kind of innocent thing where I am visiting after six years and it is nice to catch up. But it was not like that. We were facing each other. We both had as it happens cowboy hats and cowboy boots. And I remember thinking this is a showdown. Because my dad and I were at war. My dad did not know this but I was at war with him. I was at war with all Christians and I was just waiting for an excuse to fire a shot. I would been raised an evangelical Christian-- you know conservative Bible-believing Christian-- and I loved it so much that I said I am going to be a pastor. I am going to learn everything I can learn. And I went off and I majored in religious studies in college. And from my very first scholarly class in the history of the Bible my faith began to crumble until there was nothing left. And I now had this game I could play where if you open a Bible to any page I could find five flaws in it. So I would spent this entire time not just with my dad but certainly this particular evening just waiting for a chance. Just mention the virgin birth just once and I will tell you it is a mistranslation from Isaiah. Just mention Second Peter and I can prove to you it is a second century forgery. Say anything at all please please about the Antichrist revelation the end times anything like that and I have a screed set up that is so blistering it would make Billy Graham feel ridiculous. And I had all this ammunition and I could not wait to use it. I was just looking for an excuse. It had sort of turned me into a jackass. Now what my dad did not know was that one of the reasons I was so excited is I actually was just coming off a victory. The previous night I had argued my brother-in-law to a standstill. He had mentioned something about how proud he was about being a Christian because everything in the Bible was so scientifically accurate. And I went a little nuts and I said Oh yeah what about this thing? And there is this tiny little section just one sentence in like Exodus where the Israelites are fighting the Amorites or somebody and God does a miracle where he makes the sun stand still for an entire day in order to give the Israelites a chance to recover and give them more time to fight. And I told my brother-in-law You really believe this? You believe this actually happened? That God stopped the entire planet from rotating stopped gravity all of things that would have to happen for the sun to stand still? Is that the most sensible thing the most powerful being in the world can do? And my brother-in-law said Well OK that is weird and I wish it were not in there but if I doubt that where do I stop? And that I knew was as close as I was going to get to him saying You are right and I am wrong. I remember looking at the clock and it was 500 in the morning. I had argued this one point for seven hours. And I realized this is like my job. I just put in a full working day. Obviously I was obsessed. At the time I was 28 years old. I was also a virgin and I would been a virgin because the Bible says so because I thought Jesus wanted it that way. And then Jesus vanished on me. I had spent all of my life trying to be good trying to do the right thing and you know trusting that this would be rewarded. And then my faith collapsed. And there is no betrayal like losing 10 years of your life your sexual peak basically. I am never going to get that back. And I was furious. And I did not know who to blame. But I knew I could help other people from having the same horrible experience. And I was looking at my brother-in-law and thinking-- you know we were arguing about Genesis but in my mind I was thinking there is no way you have a good sex life. You know because the Bible does not care and pleasure does not even matter in the Bible. But I can save you. And with this kind of exciting thrilling victory still humming in the back of my head I was sitting there with my dad in the diner. Because a brother-in-law is one thing. A dad is someone else. I needed to save him. And so I said So dad what is your life like right now? And he said Well I found a new church home. And I heard church and I perked up and I was ready to go. But I thought eh church not much to argue about there people go to church OK it is nothing biblical. And he said You know it is a small church and the pastor found out that I play the accordion and he made me the music minister. That'ill be nice. And again I was like  but I thought Meh music ministry no nothing there. And then he said You know this other kind of interesting thing is happening I have been praying about it and I think I am going to be a missionary. And that struck a chord. I sat upright and I went Oh really? A missionary? Where are you going to go? And then he said Oh Spain. And I snapped. I said Oh of course. Of course you are going to go to Spain. That is so arrogant. Only an evangelical Christian would say oh those poor benighted Spaniards need to learn about Jesus. You know I said evangelical Christianity as a way the whole model of salvation that you guys preach was not even around till the 19th century. You claim to represent all of Christianity and you are really just the tiny sliver at the end of the iceberg. And you know the model of salvation you are even selling is so weird. Conversion should be the response of the whole person to a call from God on a deep personal level and evangelical Christians have turned it into this transaction like a merchandise like a try our God and your life will be better. Say this prayer and now here's the merchandising table. It is just horrible. And Dad I said You are saving people? What are you saving them from? Hell may I guess? Because let me point something else out to you. Hell is a mistranslation from the King James of four completely different words for the afterlife. Gehenna and hades and sheol and King James just kind of rounded them all up to hell. And the idea of eternal torture has no precedent in the Old Testament. It has never made any moral sense. And the second you believe in hell you are undermining everything good. Because a morality based in fear can only bring out the worst in people and never their best. And I just rambled on like this. And I knew essentially while I was doing this I was also assaulting his dream. You know saying everything he was excited about that he was sharing with me was misbegotten was a bad idea was morally corrupt. But all he had to do was admit I was right and then we would be OK. And I really did not know what was going to happen now because I would just fired the first shot. And he just quietly let me do my thing. And when I would settled down and gotten my piece out he said David I am really proud of everything you have done. And I am really glad that you enjoy studying all these things and thinking all these thoughts. But I have got to tell you before I became a Christian I was miserable. I wanted to kill myself. I wanted to get a divorce from your mom. And I remembered suddenly like I was six years old and I was back in the car and I remember driving in the station wagon with my dad from South Dakota to Tucson because dad had had a miserable life had a nervous breakdown he was rebuilding everything. And he was holding a cigarette out the window the whole ride down. I remember-- as a child this had had a strong impression on me-- about halfway through the trip he simply threw away all of his cigarettes. Never picked them up again. That was his conversion. That was the start of the change in his life. And my dad continued. He said You know when I first went to Grace Chapel which was the church where he had converted. He said I thought those people were crazy. And when I was eight years old I had gone to Grace Chapel with him. And this was a charismatic church. The kind where people raise their hands and they speak in tongues and they anoint people with oil and they pray for miraculous healings and people roll on the ground sometimes or dance. And my dad said You know I was just staring at the stuff these people were doing and I thought this is crazy. But I could not ignore the love in that room and the care they had for each other. And I kept going back and I kept going back. And I wanted it to make sense to me and I wanted it. And finally one night I prayed. And I said God if I have to cut my own head off to be happy I will do it. So I know you have gone to college and you have learned all these things but here's what I know David. I followed Jesus and the lord gave me a family. My parents really had almost gotten divorced. I remember one time I ran across a notebook where my dad and my mom had divided everything up on a piece of paper. You know who was going to get the TV and that kind of thing. They would gotten. that close. And then my dad converted and he said No we are sticking this out. I am going to make this work. And it had. And my brother too. He is deeply conservative listens to all the right wing talk radio and so forth. And he is got to be convinced that I am going to hell. But this one time I was on this trip and I was a student and he gave me 300. And he said Do not bother repaying it. And I remember looking at my dad and I thought-- had sort of expected to argue like I had with my brother-in-law. Not to win but to come to some kind of armistice some kind of truce where we are like Well we will agree to disagree but I see your point. It is a good point. I had not expected to lose completely. Because you cannot argue with decency. You cannot argue with goodness. The thing about the Bible is it is huge. I could poke at it because I could pick at anything I wanted-- you know talking snakes virgin birth. But eventually I came around to thinking well maybe religion does not have to be consistent. Maybe you can just like it enough for it to be good. Maybe religion can be something more like-- like I am a big Star Trek fan. And if you asked me I would say I love Star Trek. But if you asked me to defend individual episodes I would be at a loss because I cannot go to bat for everything Star Trek did. I just love the concept. And maybe religion could be like that. So what I said to my dad was Oh look here comes the waitress. And we got our Sprite and had our hamburgers and we looked at each other raised the glass had a bite. And my dad did not know this but we were having communion. Dave Dickerson. He is the author of a book of short stories like this one called House of Cards.  Act Two Kings Do Not Fold. What is a dictator? Yes an absolute ruler yes a tyrant yes to all that. But a dictator is also in the vast majority of cases someone who is absolutely fundamentally not leaving. 30 years in office 40 years in office these are not people who know when it is time to step aside. Witness the last few months of news from the Mideast which Nancy Updike has some thoughts about. Looking at one dictator at a time it is easy to get caught up in what is unique about him. For instance some specific brutality his regime favors-- Kim Jong-il's forced labor camps. Or you can get distracted by his eccentricities-- Muammar Qaddafi's very special no light reflecting black hair dye Saddam Hussein's side career as a novelist. But I have been pretty glued to the coverage of all these Middle East dictators who have been under siege for the last few months. And the other day after listening to yet another speech by one of them I drew up a rough checklist. I want to read it here. I have been calling it the 11 Stages of Mideast Dictator Damage Control. It is a working title. And not every dictator does them exactly the same way or does them in exactly the same order. But in general it goes like this. Stage one shut down the internet. Stage two send thugs. On foot or on horseback if you are in Egypt. Stage three attack and arrest journalists. Stage four shoot people. Stage five promise to investigate who shot people. Stage six do a meaningless political reshuffle. Stage seven blame Al Jazeera. Stage eight organize paid demonstrations in favor of your regime. Stage nine make a condescending speech about how much you love the youth. Stage 10 threaten that the country will fall into chaos without you. Stage 11 blame foreign agitators. There is actually a stage 12 but it is the one the dictators never want to get to because it is leave. Get out. I called a guy named Marc Lynch to make sure I was not hallucinating these 11 stages repeating in one dictatorship after another. Marc runs the Middle East Studies program at George Washington University. He blogs at foreignpolicy.com. When I started reading him my list he got excited and put the phone down for a second. Hold on hold on hold on. Are you ready? Yes. He went over to his computer because he is actually been seeing a bunch of these lists in the Arabic language media plus tons of comments about the weirdly similar script these dictators seem to be following. Every day people are weighing in from Syria Egypt Bahrain Libya Yemen. It is been all over Twitter and Facebook. Activists from the Middle East they have all noticed it. And so you will see people from Yemen saying Ali Abdullah Saleh is now on stage three he is begun to meet the protesters' demands but he is refusing to resign. When the unrest was beginning to get especially heavy in Syria there were a lot of people asking why has not Bashar al-Assad said anything? Why has not he given a speech? And the joke that was making the rounds was Well he does not want to give speech number one because he knows that after the third speech he is gone. And that joke raises the central question here. With two dictators Egypt's and Tunisia's already thrown out by their people why would any other dictators keep plodding through the same 11 stages the previous ones did? I think that Arab leaders have grown accustomed over decades to not having to respond to their people. And they are not used to having to really take seriously what their people say and I think that decades of that really breeds this tin ear. When they are finally forced to listen they are unable to hear. The fact that they are unable to hear and take seriously their protesters' demands is clearest in the speeches these dictators have been giving. Each one is full of these bizarre echoes of the others. The empty promises of reform that nobody believes. The promises to step down sometime in the future. The claim that we are with the people we hear what you are saying. All of these have become so frequent and so repetitive that as soon as people hear them it is like Oh there he goes again. He is saying the same things that Ben Ali said the same things that Mubarak said.  So here is former Egyptian president Hosni Mubarak making the speech that in retrospect seems to have become the template for other dictators although no one's been able to reproduce Mubarak's exact blend of condescension and menace. Here he is doing step five from the list promising to investigate who shot people. I tell you that all those who're injured their blood will not go down the drain. And I confirm that I will penalize all those responsible and I will hold accountable those who committed crimes against the rights of our youth. The youth. That is stage nine talking about his love for the youth.  The citizens the children of Egypt men and women I address you today. To the youth of Egypt I address you all with a speech from the heart a speech from father to his children to his sons and daughters. I tell you I take pride in you dreaming of a bright future and shaping such a future. Utter nonsense delivered with utter conviction. By the time Mubarak spoke these words more than 300 people had been killed during the protests in Egypt. Of course nothing Mubarak said saved him from progressing to stage 12 and leaving. But other dictators learned by watching what happened to him and they have managed to hold on by just repeating and escalating steps two through eight-- the thugs the political reshuffles the paid counter-demonstrations the shootings and killings. The big difference in a lot of the cases-- between Tunisia and Egypt on the one hand and what we are seeing now-- is that for the most part both in Tunisia and Egypt the army refrained from carrying out massive violence against protesters. And one of the lessons that the Arab dictators learned is that that does not save them. And so from Bahrain to Syria to Yemen to Libya what we see in the next round is the willingness to unleash deadly force to stay in power. And it is one of the reasons why the excitement of the Arab world back in January and February has given way to the grimmer realities that we have right now. It is grim. There are dead and jailed protesters in six countries now. And most of these dictators are not going anywhere. Nancy Updike's one of the producers of our show. Coming up they tried to make me go to rehab and I said no no no I will go to Minnesota. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bringing you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Know When To Fold 'Em stories of people who wait way too long before folding their cards dropping out stepping aside stepping down. Sometimes to be fair out of sheer confusion as to what is best. We have arrived at act three of our show. Act Three Gin Rummy. One of the principles of treating alcoholism is that there is hope for everyone. Everyone still has the possibility of quitting you are not supposed to give up on anybody you never fold your cards. But in Saint Paul and a few other places too they have something that clinically they call housing for chronic late stage alcoholics but most people just call a wet house. The idea is alcoholics live there-- you have to be an alcoholic to get in people are referred from detox centers-- and they let them continue to drink. Which is the opposite of most shelters. Most shelters if you are caught drinking you are out at least until you sober up. Same goes for rehab centers and treatment programs-- if you are drunk you are gone. This idea of a place where drunks can stay drunk and get housing makes a lot of people angry. The one in Saint Paul called St. Anthony Residence is run by Catholic charities but with some state money in there too. Reporter Marc Sanchez visited St. Anthony House to see how it works. There're no guys passed out in front of St. Anthony Residence when I pull up. No broken bottles on the sidewalk either. The building itself looks like it should have a sign on the outside advertising loft apartments. Inside it is surprisingly nice free housing. 60 rooms quite and orderly. Every guy who lives here-- they are all men by the way-- each guy gets his own room with a lock on the door. Breakfast lunch and dinner are served up by the kitchen staff. Or if you miss a meal you can grab a sandwich anytime you want. Each resident collects 89 a month in general assistance from the state and after buying essentials like razors and toothpaste several of the guys told me that at least half their money goes towards booze. Well I have to tell you about 85 of my time I spend drinking. That is Nick. And for privacy's sake I am only going to use his and other residents' first names. On days that you are drinking when do you typically start drinking? Whenever. You know when the liquor stores open usually is a good time for me. And if I have booze on me it is always nice to have a drink when you wake up and you are-- at 3 oclock in the morning. It does not matter what time of day it is. You are not allowed to have booze in your room so if it is 300 in the morning he has to go to a little patio out back the one place here where you can drink. If guys have any alcohol on them when they come home they check it in at the front desk where someone's on duty 24 hours. The staff member will take out a big black marker and tag the bottle with its owner's last name. The alcohol is simply placed on a table in a room behind the front desk. There is no lock and key. And you can see there is very little here-- one two three four five. Six bottles and two 12 packs. And they will put your name on it and when you come back you check it out and you go out to the patio and have your drink. The guy showing me around is Bill Hockenberger. He is the program manager at St. Anthony. Bill's a recovering alcoholic and he used to run with some of these guys in his drinking days. He is been sober for almost 16 years now but he says he could have easily ended up living here. We go to his office and before I even have a chance to sit down he goes to a metal filing cabinet and pulls out a yellow candy box with a picture of a cartoon cactus on it. It is filled with photos. These here are just my daily reminders of some of my drinking days here. You can see where the-- a couple of the fights that I have been in the results of some of that. You can see my jaw swollen out of shape there my eyes totally black and the whites of my eyes are covered with blood bruised down the side there. Was that common for the time? Getting in fights like that? Not to be on the receiving end of it like that no. No that was why I think I took pictures of this because this was pretty much one of the battles that I was never too happy with. I noticed you keep the pictures in this candy box is there a significance to that? No I just keep them close by me. This is for some time when I want to remind myself or let a resident know that I have also been down the road with them. Bill's story rivals anyone's at St. Anthony. It was not until his body completely shut down-- his liver was failing he fell into a coma for nine days-- that he quit for good. And you can see how totally yellow-- I look like a banana. Bill's quick to point out that St. Anthony's services are not treatment. But there is an on-site nurse who administers preventative care twice a week. Residents also meet with counselors who set goals like getting a state ID or making a trip to the dentist. And if staff notices a pattern in someone coming in and falling over drunk they will step in. We are not going to let a resident come in here and drink to excess here. We are here to monitor their drinking a bit and make sure that they do not endanger themselves by drinking rubbing alcohol. They are not drinking mouthwash. We try to get them to taper off onto some beer if they are drinking vodka and they have a hard time walking or being mobile. We will talk to them a little bit and their goal is Listen next time you go to the liquor store instead of buying a half a gallon why do not you try buying a pint? Try to drink in moderation a little bit here. It seems like total hopelessness and just giving up on people. Like you are not really worth fighting for. You are not really worth recovery anyway. So bottoms up. Nell Hurley is another person who went from drinking to trying to help drinkers. She runs the Minnesota Recovery Connection. They are basically the yellow pages for recovery in the state. When word got out about St. Anthony in the recovery community people were upset. She says it is hard for her to justify not stepping in. I mean I am all about keeping people safe and giving someone a blanket. I do not at all want to come off like If they are going to drink let them be cold or whatever. But there should be more of an attempt to rehabilitate or guide someone into recovery. The minute somebody wants to go to a program we have referral places for them. Again Bill Hockenberger. We have an AA right down the corner here and I will drive you there personally and see that you make it to AA meetings. And we do have people that do recover out of here that do take in their own programs and we support them 100. You know I cannot help but not say this. The residents here the clients here have been through treatment so many times that they know the program better than the counselors do. I mean they have the tools and what it takes to stay sober but they just cannot-- they cannot do it. I do not want to ever give up hope. I do not want to ever give up hope on anybody. I think people think that by letting them drink you are giving up hope. Well I am not certainly one of them. If they have a better plan than I would certainly like to hear it. The biggest argument for a wet house like St. Anthony is one I heard from a resident named Paul. And it comes down to this before he