One of our radio show is producers Jonathan went driving around after the snowstorm this week with this family friend. We are heading down into a neighborhood where I started all this. That is when I got my first snow plow. And I think the karma thing started there. This guy was working for a school. It was his job to plow the parking lot. And just as a lark he began to do a few of the neighbors' driveways also. And it totally won people over. It actually made him a friend. It made the school look good with its neighbors. And then after that long after he quit that job he would be driving around in the middle of the night plowing driveways for a couple dozen people who would pay him for the service. And he also just for free would plow the driveways of people that he liked and for old people he did not think should be shoveling and for people who he thought just deserved it. He tells this story about how a couple years ago he was riding around with his motorcycle and he ran out of gas. And he knocked on a stranger's door. And this really nice Chinese lady answered her door. And I told her I ran out of gas with my bike. Could I leave it there? And I was prepared to walk home. And she offered the gas. She said I have gas for my lawn mower. Will it work for your motorcycle? She saved him from a five-mile walk home late at night. So I did her driveway for her for two years. And she never knew that I did it I do not think. Why did not you tell her that you were doing this? I did not think I needed to do that. I do not know. I did not want to creep her out or anything. I just did it like that. So that is what he would do if you likes you. If you crossed him he would mete out snowy icy justice like he did with one of his customers who decided not to pay him for a couple plows stiffed him. You know that six inches of snow at the end of her driveway I cannot tell you how many times that became 12 or 18 inches. And it was not from mother nature. It was from me. Drop a little present you know? Some snow a little extra for them. A little payback there. It would be nice if we all had a snowplow fairy out there for every part of our lives shoveling out street justice while we all sleep. We do not of course. Usually the best that any of us can hope for is that everyone around us will get what they deserve that they will reap what they sow and things will work themselves out in a way that rewards the right people and punishes the other people. Today on our radio program we have two stories where we watch that play out. In one story an entire state tries something bold and then everybody in the state has to live with the shakeout. In the other consequences include two live chickens. From WBEZ-Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Alien Experiment. The Obama administration has deported undocumented immigrants at a greater rate than any previous administration. It was 392862 immigrants in 2010 over a million since he took office which means that he is on track to deport more people in four years than the Bush administration did in eight. The Obama administration has also issued 10 times more in fines to employers who knowingly hire illegal workers. But as a country we are still in this weird limbo of having no coherent or effective national strategy to deal with the 11 million people who are in the country illegally. For a long time there is been two camps when it comes to this issue. There is the zero tolerance people who want to round them all up and kick them all out. And then there are other people who want leniency a pathway to citizenship. But now there is this third way. There is this new movement that has popped up in states like Arizona and Alabama. It is formally called attrition through enforcement. But casually proponents use a phrase that you may have heard self-deportation. The idea is make life so difficult so unpleasant for illegal immigrants that they choose to go home. They self-deport. Jack Hitt went to the place that has been trying this out since October Alabama. When Arizona passed its notorious immigration bill in 2010 there was outrage and a national debate about whether it had crossed some constitutional line. Then last summer Alabama went way way beyond that passing the most sweeping immigration bill in the country. I went down there hearing that the law was causing no small amount of chaos. I wondered if they would accidentally created more problems for themselves than they would solved. You may have seen reports of desperate farmers complaining that their crops were rotting in the fields. Tomatoes blueberries squash unpicked as workers fled the state. Members of the military who could not prove citizenship were frustrated in the simplest thing like registering a boat. The Alabama Department of Revenue sidestepped certain provisions of the law so people would not be thrown out of their homes. Frightened Latino parents kept thousands of students home from schools. Outraged principals rose up against the law. A 12-year-old I met named Stephanie told me about an assembly in her school. They started talking about how they are going to take illegal Mexicans out of school. They were talking about that if they do take our parents we are OK because they could send us to Mexico with them. Almost everybody was crying. The new law is designed to work like this. Turn almost every encounter between a regular person and a government official into a checkpoint and the illegals will leave on their own accord. That is self-deportation. Alabama's law known as HB56 does this by enlisting every local and state police officer into the work of busting undocumented aliens. It also requires every state and local bureaucrat to first make sure you are legal before having any quote transaction with a citizen. This includes everything from getting a hunting license to a mobile home registration sticker to getting a death certificate. Undocumented kids can still attend public school. But administrators have to determine the immigration status of all new students. The law also makes it a crime for any citizen to knowingly hire or even help an undocumented worker in any way. The Home Builders Association of Alabama the US Chamber of Commerce the Alabama Farmers Federation and other local business groups came out against the law because it created heaps of new paperwork and made the state look like a bad place to invest. This bill was so far-reaching and so much unintended consequences out of it that continues to surface. This is Gerald Dial the Republican whip in the state Senate who helped pass the new law and now regrets it. He worries that new businesses are going to stay away. I understand economic recruiting. And I say often that economic recruiting is more ruthless than quarterback recruiting for colleges. They will use anything against you. And other states will begin to say hey you do not want to go to Alabama now. If we are teetering out there it is us and another and everything's pretty even we are probably going to lose those people. We will not know about it. It will not be a big red flag-- hey we did not go to Alabama. We are going to go to Arkansas or we are going to go to South Carolina because of this. But those things are going to impact on people. And that is probably the most detrimental part of the whole bill. The guy who runs Alabama's retirement system David Bronner declared in November that the new law was already chilling foreign investment. An 80 million Birmingham office tower planned by a Spanish mega-bank BBVA Group had been scrapped. And the Chinese backers of a new copper plant in Thomasville were having second thoughts Bronner said. Nine days later the morning I arrived in Birmingham the six-column headline screaming across the front page of the paper was Mercedes manager arrested under immigration law. The first newsworthy bust of this law was not a tractor-trailer filled with Mexican workers but a German executive named Detlev Hager who was seized and detained for not having the proper papers. It was the talk of the town all day. The St. Louis Post-Dispatch later published an editorial poking fun at Alabama for its southern inhospitality and invited Mercedes to move its plant to Missouri. We are the Show-Me State it said not the 'Show me your papers' state. A week later another auto executive was stopped at a police checkpoint this one from Honda. He was carrying an international driver's license a passport and a work permit. But it was not enough. The governor Robert Bentley freaked out. He held a press conference to let foreign executives know that they were still welcome in Alabama. People just need to calm down he said. Everything's going to be OK. I spoke with Steven Anderson the police chief in Tuscaloosa whose officer stopped the Mercedes executive. I figured he might be defensive about the arrest considering it made national news and embarrassed the governor. But from his point of view the situation was straightforward. Officer made a traffic stop on a vehicle because it did not have a license plate displayed on the vehicle. The officer subsequently under 32-6-9 was required to take that individual into custody. If those same circumstances were to happen this afternoon would the executive be brought before a magistrate again? I mean is that the process now? Yes. If the situation were to arise again we would handle it just as we handled it. Back before the law the officer could have issued a quick citation to the German executive on the side of the road. And be done with it in about a 15- to 20-minute traffic stop. Versus? Versus having to spend two or three hours with an individual while we determine whether they are here legally or not. Chief Anderson tells me flat-out he thinks this is a waste of resources something his officers should not be doing. But they have no choice because the new law makes immigration a primary mission for police. Legislators put language into the law that allows any citizen to sue the police if they are caught not enforcing the immigration provision. To me that just screamed of the fact that they understood that they had to have some type of sanctions out there to hold law enforcement's feet to the fire on this because we would not make this a priority if they did not. And why would not they make it a priority? Because there is actual crime in Tuscaloosa. And I will tell you what. The Hispanic population was not the population in our community that was committing those crimes. So immigration was not a problem for our police department. It was not in my top 10 maybe not even in my top 20 of concerns that I had for the city of Tuscaloosa. Not in the top 20 for many reasons. But here's one. There just are not that many immigrants in Alabama. It is not like Arizona where a third of the state is Latino. In Alabama the number is less than 4. And yet rooting out illegal immigrants is now a priority across the state. The law is so comprehensive that some officials seem to be overreaching just to be on the safe side. An attorney told me about one guy being denied a jailhouse phone call since use of the phone was considered a business transaction and about a victim of domestic violence who was told by a judge that if she wanted a protective order she might open herself up for deportation. But what I found most surprising was that amid the chaos regular Alabamians here and there were taking the law to heart pursuing ad hoc immigration justice on their own. I met a young Costa Rican woman named Carolina who long ago overstayed her visa. She told me about a recent time at a grocery store checkout. She and her husband tried to pay for their food with a credit card and valid ID. The cashier refused them saying they would first have to show that they were here legally. I swear they do not want to sell us the groceries. Carolina had just had a birthday when we met. And her mother back home had wired her some money to buy a gift a money gram she could pick up at Walmart not a government office but a private business. So no problem. She would done this many many times in the nearly seven years she is lived in Alabama. Before the law all she had to do was show ID and type in the secret PIN number her mother had sent her. But this time-- They did not give me the money. They just refused to give me the money because I cannot prove to the girl that I was legal. And I do not know why I have to prove her that. Again this is not part of the law. So I tried a lot with her. I was dealing with her for about 15 minutes. But she says no. So I went already to three different Walmarts. And I do not have my money yet. When we asked Walmart about this a spokesperson said their procedures for getting a money gram are the same at every store nationwide and do not require proof of citizenship. Another provision of the law makes any contract with an undocumented alien unenforceable in court. Some people are using it to mess with illegal immigrants. Mary Bauer is a lawyer with the Southern Poverty Law Center. Certainly people have been told that they are not going to be able to rent housing anymore. That is something that is been very common. Some workers have been told that they are not going to get paid for the work they have already done because that would be an illegal contract. Before the law undocumented people like Carolina expected certain bureaucratic inconveniences. She could not get a water bill in her own name. And sure she had to be careful in certain situations. She worried what would happen if she were pulled over by a traffic cop. But by and large life was predictable. It was not scary. The intention of the law is to take all that away to make life uncomfortable. And it is working. Now Carolina told me that before she drives anywhere in a car she says a prayer. She has appointed a legal guardian an American for her three-year-old son in case she disappears into an immigration holding cell. At least she will know that her son will not wind up in foster care. And recently she made a decision. Her son loves preschool. He is a smart kid. And he is got a lot of friends there. But getting caught on the road now on the drive back and forth to school is too risky. And actually this is the last month that my son is going to school because he is not safe with me to take him to school. And he is going to be safe in here at home. For a lot of Latinos who have decided to stay in Alabama life has become about hunkering down waiting and seeing. I went to a mobile home park where a lot of undocumented immigrants live and spent a day with a mother named Gabriella. Like Carolina she is afraid to drive now. But she is taken it one step further. She is quit her job and almost never goes out. And I had to be here hide in my own home because I need to stay here for my children when they come back from the school. Folks like Gabriella have another strategy too-- try not to encounter white people at all. They only shop at Hispanic markets. Carolina told me that when she does go to a regular grocery store now she wanders up and down the cashier area hoping to catch a subtle smile before getting into a checkout line. Another mobile homeowner told me he would heard of a friendly clerk in a neighboring town who would renew mobile home licenses without asking too many questions. Others said they have created an underground railroad of information about sympathetic folks and make contact with faith groups that defiantly provide workers rides to their jobs. Gabriella said that the new attitude has permeated every aspect of her life every aspect. Even in the church. Really? Yes because even in the church you find people that say well we are in God's house. And then they do not want to talk at you. And they do not want to give the peace to you. That is so sad. So in your church you have the passing of the peace that part of the service? And so in your church when they do that what normally happens? You turn and shake hands with people? Yes. They shake hands and everything. But now I found some people that say I do not want to do peace with you. Every Latino person legal or illegal whom I spoke to noted at some point that there is just something hateful in the air now. Before the law they felt accepted. They had American friends. They did not feel out of place. Now when they go to a store every single one of them told me they feel that people are looking at them weirdly like what are you still doing here? When the law changed to make them less welcome they actually became less welcome in a day-to-day passing you on the street sort of way. School kids told me they are fighting off comments like I am glad you are all moving we do not want you here you take our jobs. At a pep rally where Latinos were all sitting up front kids started shouting Mexicans move to the back. And most of them did. How many people have left your class? There is missing about at least five in each one of my classes. Are there friends of yours? Yeah. This is Stephanie. She was hanging out with Gabriella's daughter and some other kids in the back of Gabriella's trailer playing video games while their parents held a prayer meeting in the other room hoping for repeal of the new law. We talked about all the kids that had left her school since October. It was really hard to let them go mostly because they were girls. One of the names was Jessie. She was my best friend. But she had to leave because of the law. So what we did we went to the movies before she left. And the day that she left I went to the store and bought her a teddy bear. We started to cry. When was that? Two weeks ago. And where did she move to? She moved to Mexico. And what did she tell you about Mexico? She said that it is funner than here. She said that she can move around. Her parents let her go out more because they are not scared that immigration or something that she can just be free go out to the mall by herself because here we cannot do that without getting in trouble or something. Stephanie says that. But the adults in fact are terrified of Mexico. They read the papers too and hear of dead bodies found in playgrounds revenge killings random murders. If the new law brings more pressure on them the grown-ups say they might move to another state but not to Mexico. Here's Gabriella again. A friend of hers did go back to Mexico just after the law passed. And I even called her last week. She was crying because she never thought Mexico was so scary. And she told me I prefer to be there waiting for the police to catch me. But here I am afraid. And they are going to kill my children or me. Besides the fear Gabriella's like any mom. Her kids are Americans. They were born here. Their friends are all here. Alabama's their home. She does not want to uproot them or herself. We met in November in her living room. Earlier this week as I was finishing this story I found out that Gabriella's husband was arrested and deported. She and her children have moved to Mexico. All these bills are designed for people to say you know what they are going to try to enforce the law here in this state. And maybe we need to move back to our home country. Or maybe we need to move to a state that has its arms wide open for illegal aliens. Senator Scott Beason is the Republican leader in the state legislature. And he was the primary sponsor of the bill last year. As far as he is concerned the law is working spectacularly well. In just three months it is prompted massive self-deportation roughly 75000 people. And Beason says this has opened up jobs for American citizens just like lawmakers hoped it would. Of course it only went into effect October 1. We have already seen a tremendous drop in our unemployment numbers. In the month of October alone while the country averaged a tenth of 1 drop Alabama had five times that. And that is corrected seasonal numbers. So we are very proud of what the legislation has done already. Given those numbers Beason has every right to be proud. He is saying Alabama shaved half a percentage point off the unemployment rolls in October while the national average was a piddly one-tenth of 1. And that is in a place that ranks among the lowest states in terms of illegal immigration. If Beason's right then a quick solution to this unending recession and its high unemployment would be an anti-immigration bill like Alabama's in every state. Jobs Beason told me were the main reason he drafted this bill. I would probably say one of the most moving stories is back in 2008 we had started the immigration commission. And we were in Huntsville Alabama. And there was a woman who came up. I do not know her name. I would never seen her before and never seen her again. My guess is she was in some sort of maid service custodial service. She came up to the table and said Senator-- she was beginning to cry-- she said I just want to let you know that in the job service I am in a lot of my competition has begun to hire people who are not supposed to be here at all. They are here illegally. Because of that competition I cannot find work. I have lost my clients. And I have just paid my house payment on my credit card. When I tell that story today it still breaks my heart. And I decided that was one of the main things. I have been interested in this issue. But this is the kind of thing that cannot be allowed. We were elected to stand up for that lady. And if I ever get a little deterred about what we are trying to do I think about that lady's face the story she told me. I have never talked to her again. And I hope that now that we have done something that we have helped her. Whether he is helped her is unclear because when it comes to the impressive unemployment numbers Beason cites there is a catch. Other than Beason and his strongest supporters I could not find anyone else who attributed the drop in unemployment to the new law. The director of economic forecasting at the University of Alabama Ahmad Ijaz he did not. In fact he said that most of the job growth last year was in the automotive sector. You do not find many illegal workers in those Mercedes and Honda plants. He went on to say that the other area of growth this fall was retail probably due to the seasonal Christmas bump. And Ijaz says there was not any job growth in sectors where Latinos typically work-- agriculture poultry processing and construction. So how did immigration become the hottest political topic in a state with relatively few illegal immigrants? It was not much of an issue at all in Alabama until 2010 when Beason and his fellow Republicans put it on the agenda in a big way way. They campaigned on a set of promises they called the Republican handshake five pledges to voters including combating illegal immigration. The Alabama legislature has been dominated by Democrats since the Civil War. But the handshake worked. Republicans gained super majorities in both chambers of Alabama's legislature. They essentially could pass anything they wanted. And they had a mandate from the people. Democrats say the people had little to do with it. I did not once hear about immigration when I was on the campaign trail. Now keep in mind I live in an urban district. But it seemed to me to be more of a political issue than a practical issue. Joe Hubbard is a conservative Democrat for Montgomery. He was also elected in 2010. He says that the immigration issue represents a fundamental change in the way Alabama politicians run for state office one that is been in the works for years. In the past decade or so before 2010 your state legislator was as local a politician as you got. He was the guy that you talked to about schools. He was the guy that you talked to about funding for that road project you need. And so the legislature was in essence a very local race. I think from 2004 to 2006 and ultimately in 2010 you saw efforts by the Alabama Republican Party to nationalize local elections and to talk about what is going on in DC the congressional Democrats Nancy Pelosi on and on. I think there was polling that showed immigration which heretofore has been a national issue could make for good state political fodder. And when it came to actually writing the immigration bill Hubbard says the Alabama Republicans seemed to listen not so much to local voters but to strategists in the National Republican Party. And I think Alabama perhaps has become a state where the National Party could try out some legislative experiments to see how they would work in other states. I am not sure. But that appears to be the case on immigration. And I know for a fact that an attorney from the Midwest actually drafted the legislation that the state legislature passed. The bill that came out of conference committee was not drafted by any Alabama legislator. It was drafted by an attorney. And his name escapes me right now. My name is Kris Kobach. And I am Secretary of State of the state of Kansas. And he is the mastermind of attrition through enforcement. You might not have heard of him but he is an up-and-coming Republican star. He was campaigning with Mitt Romney in South Carolina all last week. He is helped write different immigration bills in cities and states all over the country-- Pennsylvania Texas Missouri Nebraska Utah. And he wrote Arizona's law. So some folks on the weekends they go into their garage and fiddle with their car. You go into your garage and fiddle with immigration law. Yeah. People do with their spare time what they feel fulfilled in. And so some people golf. Some people work on their car in the garage. I go into my home office and start typing away on the computer and trying to help states do what they can to restore the rule of law. And if you are starting a new movement Kris Kobach is who you want to have as your spokesman-- Harvard undergrad master's degree from Oxford Yale law. He is young. He has three adorable children. He is ruggedly handsome in a TV superhero rip off his shirt sort of way. And in the final days as the Alabama immigration bill came close to a final vote the lawmakers wanted his help. Even though Kobach already had plans he is not the kind of man to turn his back on legislators in distress. I had already scheduled a turkey hunt and was going to be in Gardner Kansas looking to call in and shoot a tom turkey and realized that if I wanted to get this work done I would have to do it while in the turkey blind or just give up on the hunting. So I got in the blind took my laptop computer took my shotgun and got all set up and had a good fully charged battery and just started working on the final amendments to the bill. And fortunately I did that because the turkey did not show up that day. So I had something else to do. Maybe it was the clicking on the keyboard that scared them away. For Kobach the passage of HB56 was the culmination of years of work. He would been drafting and trying out different laws in other places seeing if they would hold up in court revising trying them again. Then a few years ago he met Senator Beason at a conservative conference. They collaborated on an anti-illegal immigration bill that went nowhere. Then in 2010 with new super majorities in the Alabama legislature they could try everything on their immigration wish list even things Republicans did not get into the Arizona law that immigration data would be collected on all entering schoolchildren that every business transaction with the state would require a birth certificate. After much of Alabama's bill held up in court Kobach felt he would finally had a template for other states to adopt. Kobach has been working on illegal immigration since 2001. His big insight came right after 911 when he was working for the Justice Department. It was an a-ha moment when I realized that five of the 19 hijackers were in the country illegally. Four of those five had traffic violations while they were illegally in the country. And if the police officer had had that information at his fingertips he could have made an arrest. But cops do not check for immigration status. Immigration agents do. The problem was there were only a few thousand of them. Kobach realized what we need is what war planners call a force multiplier. What if we enlisted the more than 700000 state and local law enforcement officers across the country into the fight against illegal immigration? The simplicity of Kobach's argument is what is so appealing. He is not creating new policy at all. He is simply empowering states to enforce what is already in the federal statutes. And from the alien's perspective it is better too. He can depart the United States on his own freely without ever being in custody. And so there is more liberty for him. And there is less cost for the United States. There is less cost because if someone self-deports there is no arrest. There is no detention or immigration hearing. Attrition through enforcement sounds so rational so clean when Kobach explains it like it will happen automatically. You do not have to do much. They will just go. But of course the reality of self-deportation is much messier than that. You are threatening to separate parents and kids drive them from their homes. It is completely primal the things that terrify us most. And that is the actual plan to scare them. I asked Kobach point by point about the unintended consequences of the Alabama bill. He disputed everything. Did it hurt business? Did it create chaos in the schools? All overstated he said. Finally I asked him if it unearthed long-sequestered racial attitudes aimed at Latinos. I think it is really an argument of last resort. And that is well if you start enforcing immigration laws more aggressively that is going to become a racially charged issue. And my answer is no it is not. I do not buy it. And frankly that has not happened. Well you must know that there are people in Alabama who are saying unholy things as a result of this law no? Well I do not think it is fair to say as a result of the law. You cannot legislate what is in people's hearts. And if people have those twisted ideas of the world and have those ill feelings toward people who have a different skin color I do not think you can say that the law has caused that. And I do not think you can say that the law can ultimately stop that. I would also say that Alabama's reputation has also increased around the country too. There are many legislators in other states that are saying they have really done something great. Do you think there have been any unintended consequences from this bill? No not really. I mean there have been some minor misinterpretations by one or two local officials of how they read the language. But that is inevitable with any state law. Which brings us back to State Senator Gerald Dial the Republican whip you heard earlier who is worried about scaring away business. He is leading a campaign to as he puts it tweak the law in all sorts of ways. Here's a big one. He wants to get rid of this idea that any attempt to help people who might be illegal is itself illegal. That bothers him enormously. He is a devout Christian so he wants to insert a Good Samaritan provision to protect good charitable folks who are just practicing their faith. I had a man who runs a soup kitchen feeds people just off the street call me and said that is just terrible because I feed people. And I do not stop the door and say are you here illegally or legal? I feed you because you are hungry. And so that is a compassionate thing. And that is the Christian thing to do. And we are going to put that part into the bill also. OK. So once you have amended the bill do you think Jesus would vote for the bill? Gosh you have asked me a tough question. I would hope that he would understand. I would say that would he vote for the bill? Probably not. Probably not. If you just laid it all the way down probably not. Do not get Dial wrong. He still favors a strong law to encourage self-deportation. But he thinks the law that passed last session the rush and reach of it the stuff that got inserted last minute and the stuff he was told that would be included but was not is hurting the state. I would not have voted for the bill had I understood the unintended consequences. There are others who would not have also. But you were locked into position where you either vote for this or you vote against it. And therefore you are encouraging illegals. So you are in a catch-22 as far as that goes. So to show that we were not illegals we had to vote for the bill. But today after hearing our constituents talk and after looking at the problem we a