A quick warning-- there are curse words that are unbeeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version you can find that at our website thisamericanlife.org. We are all getting kind of old in my family. And when we get together for the holidays there is never any drama anymore. Used to be. I avoided coming home for years all through my 20s and early 30s because my parents and I were not getting along so well. Part of the problem was me. In my early 20s I was harsh and judgey and said lots of things that now I would not have said and have apologized for. But part of the problem was them. They did not agree with most of my big life choices starting with and especially the fact that I worked in public radio. During that period I was working for the NPR news shows All Things Considered and Morning Edition. And my parents were completely against it. I have said this before-- and my parents hate it when I say this-- but my parents are the only Jews in America who do not like public radio. The stories are too long. It seemed second rate to them. If I wanted to be a journalist why was not I on TV? Why was I settling for this place that paid me so little? The money was a huge thing. My dad is an accountant does all our taxes and so he knew what I made and could not quite believe it. I could still earn a good living somewhere. I could still be a doctor. So coming home for the holidays sometimes my dad would pull me aside. Sometimes he would bring it up during dinner at a crowded table. Should not I quit these jobs I love and finally go to med school? It is not too late my parents pleaded with me well into my 30s. My mom officially kind of half joking half serious gave up the effort when I was 41 and had been hosting This American Life for five years. But for so long my dad especially would express his love and concern for me when I came home by questioning the basics-- where I lived how I lived how I dressed how my hair looked who I fell in love with why was not I more of a success. To be clear he was not mean. He was not angry. He was just very very concerned. My sisters Randi and Karen they got their own versions of this. So holidays yeah things would get very tense. Which is to say we were a normal family. But now it could not be more different. My mom died over a decade ago. My dad's in his 80s. In the last couple years he is had a lot of hearing loss. It is harder to interact with him. He is not the critical questioning man he once was. I go home now and nothing's bothering him about me that he needs to get off his chest. He is been trained over the years to say I love you when we talk on the phone or see each other. And he actually seems to mean it. He is lovely. But I am not used to this milder gentler version of the overworked stressed out dad that I grew up with. It is like that guy-- I do not know-- dissolved away that whole side of his personality leaving another man standing there. And I have to say-- this is bad to admit-- sometimes I miss that other guy. I go home for the holidays and it is chill and everybody gets along. And I never thought I would say this-- I swear I never thought these words would come out of my mouth-- I wish he would pick a fight with me. I feel like that is my real dad. This elderly guy with the same name who likes and accepts the person that I am in love with and in fact notices if she leaves her glasses in the dining room and then helpfully brings them to her in the kitchen just to be nice that guy he is awesome. But where is my real dad? And this BS of going home for the holidays and not having anything to fight about at all I mean are our lives over? Are we already dead? That is it? We are done? No fighting? Are we really a family anymore? Today on our program we have families boisterously noisily getting into it with each other kids coming home with important stuff they have been waiting to get off their chests parents showing up at their grown children's houses with demands that absolutely need to be met and then let the games begin. For the holidays it is a family get-together episode of our show including a song sung at a family event that either is or is not a veiled critique of one family member in particular. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One How Do I Say This? So we begin today with somebody returning to their family in the suburbs out in the far west in Canada in Calgary Alberta. And she is returning with a mission something she needed to discuss in English though the thing she wanted to discuss was a different language entirely. The person doing this is Scaachi Koul. Nine months ago after 28 years of being alive I finally started taking Hindi classes. My parents are both from India and they emigrated to Canada long before I was born. They speak a number of languages including Hindi and their mother tongue Kashmiri. But there is no real textbook or organized class or Duolingo program for Kashmiri. Hindi proved to be the easiest one for me to learn. I am not enjoying these lessons. I have said aloud in class several times that I hate it. I hate it because it is hard harder than I expected. Because for some reason I thought this language would come naturally. And yet for two hours every week I meet my teacher and fellow classmate at a coffee shop in midtown Manhattan and learn how to greet someone and tell them what I am presently eating and that the cat is sitting in the big chair. Sometimes the cat is sitting on the little chair. Learning to say that has cost me 1150 thus far. I started these lessons on a whim. I knew for years that I wanted to do it but I did not give much thought as to why. I assumed my parents would be happy about it. Not even just happy-- elated. My dad has said to me more than once you are barely recognizable. When he says it he means I am not recognizable to him as the person he wanted me to be the person who would never for example have married a white man much older than she is or refused a career in medicine or smoked at least 800 cigarettes. But I do not know if my learning Hindi even matters to my parents or how much. I also do not know why they never made me learn it in the first place. So I went home to find out. Hey Google. Play something by Girija Devi. Here's a Spotify station featuring  Devi. When I visit my parents we do not usually do much more than sit together in the living room and alternate between joking and fighting. We are all indoor cats. Hey Google. I recently got them a Google Home foolishly thinking they would delight in being able to boss it around. They have had it for a day and have been characteristically hostile to it. Hey Google. No that is wrong. Sorry I might be a little buggy. Yeah you are buzzy. She did not say she was buzzy. She said she was buggy. What does that mean? Like she has a bug. My parents have long converted my childhood bedroom into a sorry storage facility but it is still home. There is nothing more comforting to me than my mom accusing an inanimate object of being against her. This thing is a racist because I keep telling play bhajan and it does not play bhajan. When the Google Home fails to play the devotional song my mom requests she curses at it. And I finally recognize one of the few Kashmiri words I know from my childhood.  What'd she say?  as my mom said is her saying that she hopes lightning hits the Google Home. The insults my parents use are the part of their language I absolutely know. I can help you call someone lazy dumb loud annoying rude ugly. But the one I know best is . You say it when you are mad or shocked or when someone's cooking is so excellent you just cannot help but want them to get hit by lightning. My dad eventually gives up on trying to teach the Google Home Kashmiri and settles on something she knows. Hey Google. Play Frank Sinatra. You have to say please to her? No she is a robot. I mean it is nice but it is not necessary.  That is my main man is not he? I should have a cigarette and a whiskey in one hand and a smoking jacket. It is 1000 in the morning. Who cares? It is 1000 PM somewhere. Later that night my mom hosts a party for my brother's 40th birthday. And she is cooked her usual dinner party spread-- the mallu rogan josh bhatta haakh dripping in oil. Happy birthday. Thank you. I have all these questions for my parents. But first I want to talk to my brother the only other person in the world who understands what I am getting myself into. I call my brother 'Bhai' meaning older brother. He is 12 years older than me and was born in India. Kashmiri is his first language and though he understands it when it is spoken to him he lost the ability to speak it himself soon after he moved to Canada as a toddler. He does not remember anyone trying to get him to speak Kashmiri instead of English. But nobody said anything to me or maybe they did and I just said I just want to watch Three's Company. Thank you very much. That is how my brother learned English-- reruns of Three's Company. Consequently he has a very complex understanding of tenant protection rights. My brother affirms one thing I remember to be true when we were kids. It was deeply uncool to speak Hindi or Kashmiri. We knew lots of Indian kids who spoke their parents' language. They were dutiful good polite always saying yes Auntie . But we also knew that those kids were fucking dorks and worthy of our ire. We were never dutiful. Back then I envied my brother. He is fair-skinned with angular features and a phonetic name. He could always hide in plain sight. I used to wish I could do the same. My brother is married. He lives 20 minutes away from my parents. And he has a nine-year-old daughter that I call Raisin. She is the best person in the world. Raisin is biracial. Her mother is white and she is light skinned with bright blue eyes. She does not speak Hindi or Kashmiri with the exception of naming her favorite foods. And even though my brother could do something about her slim language skills he has not. Why have not you put her in those classes? She does not want to do it. Yeah but she is nine. She does not want to do anything. I do not think she wants to wash her butt. Like-- But I do not want to-- I also do not-- I am super lazy. So if it is like the reality is driving to the  at 830 on a Sunday that is not going to happen. I can barely get her to go to karate something she is interested in. As for my brother he is not likely to sign up for a class himself despite having the urge just like I do. Do I think about practicing? Yeah all the time. But I just do not. LAUGHING Why not? I do not because our parents are merciless when you try to learn something new and I am not interested in giving them more fodder for jokes. What do you mean that they are merciless about-- Have you ever tried to speak a language that they know in front of them? Yeah. Yeah how did that go? Um-- Yeah exactly. I would say it is a spicy experience. That does not mean anything to me but OK. Do you think that we turned out the way he wanted that he would-- like when he-- No. No I do not think we did at all. If we did not turn out the way our dad wanted us to well my dad bears a lot of responsibility for that. For one thing instead of forcing us to learn Hindi he made us learn French. Why instead of making me take Hindi classes at the temple did you decide oh I know I am going to put them in French immersion for some reason? Because Canada is a bilingual country. And I was hoping that the Hindi would come automatically because at home and other Indians. My dad is loquacious and wry and thinks he is the smartest person in the room. He is also stubborn as hell and so am I which means we are often trying to murder each other. After I first got together with the man who would become my husband the way older white guy my dad did not talk to me for a year. When I first asked him how he feels about me taking these classes he is his typical self-- dismissive and glib. What did you think when I started taking the Hindi classes? I was amused. Since you do whatever you want to do I thought maybe OK good. What does that mean I do whatever I want to do? Because you are a very independent-minded person. You do not take any instruction or anything. So I was glad that at least you are doing something for your betterment. Because like I said having knowledge of another language can never hurt you. Do not be fooled by his detached attitude about whether I speak Hindi. He has other feelings as well depending on the day. He used to get upset about it. When I was younger sometimes he would speak to me in Kashmiri and quickly get frustrated that I could barely understand it and could not respond. He gave that up after I moved out. But ever since I started my Hindi classes he is trying again. Now when I call my mother he will barge into our calls and demand that she speak to me in Hindi and Kashmiri. I had to ask him the same question over and over again before he finally admits that yes he is absolutely thrilled at the idea of me learning Hindi. And hopefully one day you will converse with somebody in Hindi. And you should go to India. I will go with you but let you lead so that you can speak with taxi drivers or auto rickshaw drivers or shopkeepers and try to haggle with them in Hindi. I bet you it will be hilarious. It will be wonderful. Were you surprised that I started taking lessons? Yeah I was. Because you were-- both you kids were extremely whitewashed. Maybe I had something to do with it. I did not purposely do that. Exactly what my dad had to do with that goes all the way back to his arrival in Canada. This is who my dad was when me and my brother were kids-- 125 pounds 5 foot 4 ambitious and working hard as a pharmaceutical representative. It was all so we would eventually have all you could ever want-- house two cars a yard university educations. We were middle class in Canada all with traditional Hindu names. It was the Indian dream. We did not have much family near us in Calgary. I did not go to school with any other brown kids until I was well into high school. My brother and cousin spoke to each other and me in English. My father had this idea that we would pick up Hindi at home but that is ridiculous. My parents spoke Kashmiri and English. Hindi was reserved for Bollywood movies and when my mom needed to speak to her jeweler. What form of osmosis is my dad even talking about? I thought that this language mother tongue specifically would come a little later on. And I should concentrate on you being totally assimilated with the Canadian culture if you will whatever that culture is. But somehow I should have created some sort of infrastructure where you would be-- you would learn and be at least proficient in one of the languages-- Indian languages that is. Well why did not you make me take lessons for either Hindi or Kashmiri? I do not know. I do not know why. I ought to have done it. I do not think my dad is equipped to directly talk about how hard it was to leave India. My mom can talk about her sadness easily as if all those feelings are still right at the surface of her skin waiting to bleed out of her and drown me. I had to say goodbye to my dad and my mother. That was very hard. That was really really hard. My dad was the family's sole breadwinner and in her early days in Canada my mother was alone a lot with my brother just a toddler. She noticed he was losing his Kashmiri three or four months after they arrived. And I would talk to him in Kashmiri and he would answer me in English. And I said OK this is it. He is not going to say anything back now. And I would push him and say it in Kashmiri and he would say it in English. He would not say in Kashmiri. So then why did not you push him to keep it up? Well how can you make him do-- push-- how can you make him to speak? When bhai got a little older my mother and father considered signing him up for Hindi classes. And it turns out their reason for not doing so is the exact same practical yet lazy one my big brother gives about Raisin. Papa said Sunday morning I do not want to get up at 10 oclock and take him to Hindi school. That was only because Hindi schools that is what the timing. Sunday's the only day when I had my day off. And I was not that confident driving that time on the Deerfoot in wintertime. So that is all. Fell apart. My mother says that years later they actually put me in Hindi classes. I was maybe five then. She says that I would wander out of class which was held in the basement of our  and would trot up the stairs to find her. I do not remember this at all. They stopped trying to force it. At the time I am sure I was thrilled that they left it alone. I pushed against brownness in every way I could. I recoiled when my white friends would call and overhear my parents speaking Kashmiri in the background. I did not want to invite them over because they could smell sandalwood in the curtains. I resented my unpronounceable first name and passively let people call me Sasha or Sara or Scratchy or Sushi or whatever examples of genteel racism were permeating my life. Are you disappointed that I cannot speak Kashmiri and I cannot speak Hindi? I would not say disappointed. But I feel sad that it would have been nice. Because sometimes if I want to tell you something and I have to change the language it loses its-- what I want to tell you. So that time I am really frustrated. I say I wish she could understand what I am trying to tell her. Sometimes I could see my mom struggling to find the right word to convey the right feeling. Has she always felt a gap between what she wanted to tell me and what I was able to grasp? When I moved away for university I worried my mom would be lonely. I resented that I worried about her. But I wondered who my mom would talk to when I left home. I never considered that maybe the language we were speaking left her feeling lonely before I even moved away. Did you want me and bhai to assimilate in Canada? Yeah. Did we assimilate too much? Well I will say yes and no to that. It would have been nice if a little bit stayed towards your heritage towards your culture. But I guess it was supposed to happen and there is nothing I can do about it. This idea from both of my parents makes me nuts. Of course there is something she could have done about it. I know that my parents made the best choices they had at the time. Now though I feel like I missed out on something that I desperately want. I wish I could have spoken to your mom when she was alive. Yeah well I wish that you-- I mean did that-- did she say anything to you about that that she could not speak to her grandchildren? Yeah she used to cry and cry and cry. She says I cannot speak to them and they do not understand me. And I wish I could talk to them. So it was hard. It was a shame that you guys could not talk to her. She would have been overwhelmed if you would say just a few words. Now it is all gone so it does not matter now. Anything else? Of course there is something else. There is always something else. What are we making first? You said you wanted to see how we cook green beans right? Yeah. Cooking is the only place where I do not know the English equivalency of most words evidenced by how many times I go to the grocery store and ask for amruth or elaichi and struggle to name it in English. In the kitchen my pronunciation is flawless. And for once I do not feel like a fraud when I speak in Hindi or Kashmiri. When I was a kid I would not even let my mom pack me Indian food for lunch. No one wants to be different in a grade school cafeteria. Then I moved away for university and I realized all I wanted was my mom's cooking. I wanted her to braid my hair and rub my back and wax my mustache off for me all these blips of intimacy with her I once had. I have been learning how to make her food ever since. My beans always turn out weird. Why? I do not know. They get too salty. Maybe you are putting too much salt. Simple. Yeah Mom I know. God. How is that helpful? My Hindi after a few months of lessons is finally good enough that I can have slivers of conversations with my parents. Recently they visited me in New York. And on a walk with my husband barely two feet ahead of us my mother told me in Hindi your husband has no butt. One day my parents will die. And when that happens we will all forget the insults and the sounds and the way my mom rolls her Rs. I cannot even imagine how lonely I will be without her sounds. Maybe it will hurt less if I learn how to make these sounds on my own. For now I am still stumbling over how to say I love you to my mother in her mother tongue.   Thank you. My mom now tells me constantly how proud she is that I am trying to learn Hindi. More than anything that is what keeps me going to class. Scaachi Koul she writes about culture for BuzzFeed News and she is also the author of a collection of essays One Day We will All Be Dead and None of This Will Matter.   Coming up they did not mean it. They really did not mean it. They really really did not mean it. Right? That is what they say. Mother and daughter and the song they chose to sing at a very significant family event. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on the program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Too Close to Home. For the holidays stories of family get-togethers where somebody shows up with something they think the entire family has to deal with or at least discuss. And they are ready to force the issue. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two You Probably Think This Song is About You. So in this act two family members show up with a message. The message is contained in a song which makes sense because the family includes a bunch of musicians. The dad in this family is Loudon Wainwright III the songwriter who started putting out albums in the 1970s. He is father to singer-songwriters Rufus Wainwright and Martha Wainwright and with a different mom Lucy Wainwright Roche. Lucy's mom is Suzzy Roche who got some notoriety in the band The Roches. Lucy and Suzzy came into the studio to tell the story of this song. We sang this one actually at one of my dad's weddings. To be precise her dad Loudon had gotten married for the second time. And this was a party to celebrate it maybe 50 people. Lucy went with her mom Suzzy who'd never been married to Loudon but they were together for years. And he asked us if we wanted to sing something and we said sure. And then he was like OK well pick whatever you feel like singing and surprise us. And we would been learning this song that was a cover song that we just really liked. And sometimes when you are learning a new song you kind of have a little crush on the song so you just want to sing it all the time. And so we were like let us just do that new one that we have been learning. And we just did not really think it through. Yeah I would say that that is an understatement. I do not know what we were thinking. I mean it was one of those kind of situations where you are standing in front of a roomful of people and they all have their champagne glasses. And they are looking at you smiling. And you start to sing the song. And so just imagine that you are at a wedding and-- Yeah you are-- --these people are going to sing. You got your champagne and then this happens. All right. Let us hear the song.   SINGING Desperado why do not you come to your senses? You have been out riding fences for so long now. Well you are a hard one. I know that you have got your reasons. These things that are pleasing you can hurt you somehow. OK so at this point what are they thinking? I feel like as soon as you sing Desperado people think oh-- oh. They are talking about Loudon. I bet more than anything they felt like what is happening right now?  Like is this OK? Is this a message? It is a slightly hostile thing to sing at your father's wedding or your ex's wedding. But we were thinking SINGING G G7 C C Minor. And basically concentrating on playing it because I did not know it that well. OK keep going. SINGING Do not you draw the Queen of Diamonds. She will beat you if she is able. You know the Queen of Hearts is always your best bet. Now it seems to me some fine things have been laid upon your table. But you only want the ones that you cannot get. What do you think people thought at that point? I think that is the most cringey line in the song. In this context. Yes. Yeah. It seems to me some fine things have been laid upon your table and you only want the ones that you cannot get. I mean that-- That seems rude. You do not often hear a wedding toast that says like and what I love about him is lucky you. He never wants the things he can get. That is not-- No I have not heard that at a wedding. Weird. No. I think that is the low point of what we have done here. Let us go into the next verse. Oh you as not getting no younger. Right. I would say this is the second to worst line of the song. SINGING Desperado oh you as not getting no younger. Your pain and your hunger are driving you home. And freedom oh that is just some people talking. Your prison is walking through this world all alone. So how do you think people might have heard that? Oh it is so sad. That is so sad. It is so sad. Now the line You as not getting no younger how old was your dad? Old.  He was not getting any younger. So you are singing this and you are looking around at the faces. What are you seeing? It did not feel like it was the most well-received thing we would ever done. Yeah.  Yeah I mean there was a kind of a feeling of being looked at without a lot of expression which is sometimes not a great sign.  I think they were probably thinking a thought that I think a lot when something happens that is uncomfortable. And when something like that is happening like just make the right kind of face right now.  And maybe this will be over soon. Yes. Like just make sure your face is right. I mean the truth of it is that nobody has ever mentioned it again to us. To this day. Yeah. What did he say afterwards? Nothing. Did he say thank you? No. Not really no. The horrible thing about this is that people must have felt like we were doing something passive aggressive or aggressive maybe. Right. And the sad thing is we were completely oblivious. And I know that that probably sounds like maybe it is not true and unconsciously we had some sort of thing we were doing. Perhaps but it did not feel like that at all. But I think then after that a couple years later when we first performed this song in a show I might have said to the audience for the first time oh actually we sang this once at my dad's wedding. And then the absurdity of that really hit us. Right and also the song kind of turns into a comedy instead of the beautiful song that it is. Let us hear a recording from one of those concerts. SINGING Desperado--  --why do not you come to your senses? It is weird that you can get a song like this to play as comedy. I mean people get hysterical when they hear it in that context which makes it obvious that there was something strange about it. SINGING Now it seems to me some fine things have been laid upon your table. But you only want the ones that you cannot get.  Desperado no you as not getting no younger.  Well here's the other thing about it. I do not know if I should say this but I mean on the one hand it is a terrible thing to sing at a wedding and at that wedding. But on the other hand it is kind of the perfect thing to sing at that wedding. I know. How do you mean it is the perfect thing to sing? Well because you are basically-- the lyrics if you really study them are basically saying you have got to let somebody love you. So you are saying unconsciously maybe it was the perfect pick for the wedding. Right I am starting to change my mind on this whole thing and say that yes of course we meant to sing this song. I am not.  When I see what it is actually saying what it says to me if there is a subconscious message that we were aiming at Loudon-- or I will speak for myself me-- is just I see you. I see what you have been through and I see your pain. And we are happy for you that you have found somebody to be with. Suzzy and Lucy Roche. Their version of Desperado is on their album Mud and Apples. Lucy's most recent album is Little Beast. I did by the way check with Loudon Suzzy's ex and Lucy's dad to see what he thought about Desperado as their choice of song at the party since they really had no idea at all. And Loudon told me he definitely remembered it. Oh yes. Yes. I remember thinking it was hilariously funny and ironic. And I thought it was a kind of really ironic cool choice of a song to do.  Music from Loudon Wainwright III which brings us to Act Three of our show. Act Three Pigeons on a Plane. So we have one more family member on a mission for you today and this mission was made possible by a government official a government official in Mexico namely the Secretary of Migration in the Mexican state of Michoacn. And a little while back this official he started to hear that lots of elderly people in Mexico were dying without being able to see their kids. Because their kids were living in the United States and were undocumented. And the kids did not have the papers to cross in and out of Mexico. The migration secretary wanted to help and he set up a program to help these elderly Mexicans with families in the US get tourist visas. They have special days at the US embassy for them to apply buses to take them to the embassy. And then they organized these trips these trips were they fly them to the United States en masse. These elderly people get regular tourist visas with the same rules as any other tourist visas but good for 10 years so that they can come and go and see their kids and grandkids in the US. You have to be 60 years old qualify for the program. And since 2017 over 9000 people have come to the States this way. Not one of them we are told has ever overstayed a visa. Over a dozen other Mexican states have created their own versions of the program. In Michoacn the elderly travelers are known as palomas mensajeras the messenger pigeons. Reporter Kevin Sieff tagged along on one of their trips. He started in Mexico and flew to the US with them. I am standing with a group of 70 elderly palomas mensajeras. They are all wearing matching T-shirts and have lanyards around their necks with these big clear pouches holding their airport tickets and passports. It looks like a giant group of really old schoolchildren. To make sure no one's wandered off the chaperones take a roll call.   We are at a small airport in central Mexico. The people in this group have some very specific things in common. None of them has ever flown on an airplane before and they are all headed to Chicago to see their kids for the first time in more than a decade. The biggest migration boom from Mexico happened in the 1990s nearly 5 million people by the end of the decade. The exodus was especially big in a city called Ciudad Hidalgo where these parents are from. By 1998 roughly 10 of the city's population was living in Chicago. Today the kids who cross the border as teenagers and 20 somethings are middle-aged undocumented immigrants with children of their own US citizen children who have never met their grandparents. Those are the grandparents I am with now. They board the plane slowly so slowly as you would expect on a flight where almost everyone is elderly on canes and wheelchairs and utterly unaccustomed to air travel. Sort of chaotic now as everyone's boarding a lot of confusion about where people are sitting. This woman's asking am I in the right seat? Is this the right seat? She is actually in the wrong seat. The parent I ended up talking to the most was a mom named Lupita Neri. At 67 she was one of the younger parents on the trip. She sat in the front of the plane in a window seat wearing a yellow dress and heels and bright pink lipstick.   She is saying she expected the plane to move like a truck but it did not. Lupita's son Daniel and daughter Marilu have been in Chicago for almost 20 years. For you guys you have only been able to talk over the phone. Is there anything you have been waiting to talk to them about in person?   Well I am going to of course get there. And then I am going to greet my children and my grandchildren. But then there are some things that we are going to have to talk about once we are at home about what they are going to do. Because I want my kids to come here