Josh Bearman heard this story as a kid. His dad is a physicist and told it to him. And it just stuck with him. He is a reporter. And he checked it out recently. The story is true. It involves two scientists. One you have definitely heard of Galileo. The other you may not know you may just vaguely recall. He is one of the big iconic figures of early astronomy Johannes Kepler. He discovered the laws of planetary motion. He figured out that tides were caused by the moon's gravity. He is a big guy. And in the year 1610 Galileo is in Italy. Kepler is in Prague. And Kepler is further along in his career. He is a court astronomer. Galileo had just made his first telescope a year before. And Josh says Galileo and Kepler they are writing back and forth. And Galileo at a certain point decided to communicate one of his very important discoveries to Kepler with an anagram which is essentially a word scramble. Right. He just scrambles the letters. Wait wait why does he decide to do that? Well there is a couple of purposes. One is he is sending the message in code so that at some later date he can always unscramble the code and say see as of this date I had made this discovery. Essentially the anagram was some kind of like patent or copyright insurance on the idea or the discovery. Remember science itself is so new. There are not scientific journals yet. Short of publishing a little book this was the kind of thing you had to resort to to prove that you found something. And the anagrams were publicity. They were a way for Galileo to generate interest in his work. To get the attention of the great Kepler at the Royal Court. And they are kind of toying with poor Kepler. One of Kepler's guys in Prague even writes Galileo at one point stop toying with us. Tell us what it means. So the first anagram was about Saturn's rings. Galileo had seen that Saturn had rings. The anagram itself was just a jumble of letters did not make any sense. And he sent it. And several months go by. And Kepler is thinking OK great. I am going to decode the anagram. And then he is having trouble. And he actually keeps asking Galileo like come on. I want to know what is in here. And Galileo refuses. And then Kepler decodes it himself and comes up with what he thinks the solution is and then publishes that solution. But he was wrong. I mean Galileo's message in Latin was . Meaning roughly I have observed the highest planet which was Saturn. That was the furthest planet they knew about at the time. And it is made of three bodies. Meaning he thought that there were actually two. He thought the rings were two little orbiting-- he did not quite see that they were rings yet. But then ultimately that is what they were discovered to be. And Kepler decoded it thinking with very sort of bad Latin-- he really had to kind of wrestle the Latin into place to make it work out. But he thought it was saying that Mars has two moons actually. . So that is kind of some-- And what is what mean? --half Latin. That means hail double knob children of Mars. You heard that right hail double knob children of Mars. Which Josh says even for the time even in Latin did not sound so great. You know the double knob the children are Mars's two moons. He sort of thought based on the way he viewed the universe which had this kind of mystical numerological sensibility that Mars ought to have two moons. So he thought well of course. That is what this must mean. And he sort of unscrambled the words to make Latin symbolic phrases that meant Mars had two moons. So he sort of interpreted it how we wanted essentially. But that was not what Galileo was trying to say at all. However it turned out to be correct. Mars does have two moons. Mars does have two moons. It was not known for another 200-some-odd years quite some time that Mars had two moons. But it does. These moons would be impossible for Kepler or anybody to see with the technology at the time. But Kepler just wanted them to be there. And he got lucky. And not long after Kepler gets this first anagram wrong though sort of weirdly right-- Galileo sent another anagram saying here's another great discovery. I have looked through my magical eye piece. And check this out. In that case what Galileo had seen was that Venus has phases. like the moon. In other words there is a quarter Venus and then half Venus and 34 Venus and full Venus. Which meant that it must probably be going around the Sun which was a really big deal. Galileo was in the process of gathering evidence that the Sun was at the center of the solar system and not the Earth which of course was not just in dispute at the time but actual heresy. So that was a big discovery. That one actually the anagram itself the words that Galileo sent did mean something. And they were sort of like oh I am not quite ready to say what I am saying here. In Latin. In Latin. Although it is funny because there were just a couple of extra letters. Like he made the anagram. And then there was O Y. And he is like I do not know what to do with these. And they are just hanging on the end. And it looks like he is saying I am not quite ready to say this oy. Like you know palm to the forehead sitting there with some matzo ball soup and a telescope. So in Latin this scramble message-- and you should write this down if you are trying to match wits with these guys at home-- was . Unscrambled it delivers the news that Venus has phases like the moon. But shocker Kepler does not figure that out. An he thinks that what Galileo is saying with that anagram is that Jupiter has a red spot that moves according to a mathematical-- there is a phrase that is like Jupiter's red spot moving mathematically or something. Which of course also is true and also unknown for another 200 years. Jupiter does have a red spot on it. And it moves around the planet. And so Kepler was right even though he was wrong sort of reading into this message something that he wanted to see. As Josh points out this is a crazy guess. For Kepler to think that that other anagram meant Mars has two moons well having two moons is kind of a normal thing. The Earth has one moon. They could see four moons around Jupiter at the time. Mars might have two moons. The red spot just sort of makes no sense. And that was as random a guess as you could imagine. Oh right. We do not think that planets will have just like a big red spot on them. Yeah. And I remember even when my dad was telling me about this I asked him if he knew. And he said no he could not have known unless he was an alien and he had visited Jupiter. Which is not likely. And then my dad who is a scientist they always say things are never impossible. He says it is not impossible. But it is also not very likely. . That is very rigorous. Yeah precision. This story stayed with Josh that a guy would send a message that he probably hopes will never be decoded. And then it gets decoded but incorrectly. And then the wrong message turns out to be right not once but two times. It makes you feel like communication between people can misfire in such totally random ways. And that is what today's show is about. We have people trying to send messages of various sorts including messages delivered through incredible means by questionable messengers messages from beyond the grave. There is a message delivered entirely by swapping one statue for another in a classroom. Some of these messages get through accurately some do not. Some transmit information not intended by anyone. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Motherhood of the Traveling Pants. We being today with a series of messages that have gone back and forth within one family for over 35 years. They are uncanny. They are mysterious. They are inexplicable in their accuracy. Brian Reed explains. A few weeks ago I talked to a woman named Melissa Salpietra. She is pregnant so she had a lot on her mind. But the thing she was obsessing over most-- more than baby names or strollers or the new house she and her husband recently bought-- was this package that had arrived in the mail with her name on it. I have not seen it yet. I have been away from home. And the package came to me at my house in North Carolina. And I have been in New England for the summer. But it probably is some sort of padded manila envelope that you get at like Staples or something. And my husband is going to bring it to me this weekend. And if I open it up and there is a pair of pants in it I am going to have a boy. But if I open it up and there is a little pink dress I am going to be having a girl. Now I have never been pregnant before. And I do not have kids. But it is my impression that this is not how an unborn baby's sex is normally determined. From what I understand there are these things called chromosomes and then some procedure known as a sonogram. But in Melissa's family they do not bother with that stuff. Instead-- You get sent the prediction of your sex in the mail. You get not even the prediction you get sent the foretelling of what you are going to have a boy or a girl. This is a longstanding tradition in Melissa's family. Three generations have participated in it more than 20 babies. Family legend is the prediction has been right every time. It all began more than 35 years ago with Melissa's great-grandmother Carmela Calanni AKA Nonna. Nonna had moved here from Sicily when she was a teenager. She made her living as a seamstress. She was quiet unassuming. She baked bread and made lasagna from scratch and went to church every day. But Melissa says there was more to Nonna than met the eye. The thought was Nonna had some sort of direct line to God. And her and God were like peas in a pod. And she could ask. And she would receive. So whenever you wanted something you would ask her. And she would go light a candle for you at the church. And then you would get it. Hoping to nail that job interview? Talk to Nonna. Trying to buy a new house? Go see Nonna. She did not even make you kiss her hand. So years before Melissa was born when one of Nonna's grandsons announced that his wife was expecting a baby he went to Nonna and asked for a little favor. He told her he wanted a boy. Here's Melissa's mom Mary Annette who was around at the time. And so Nonna decided she was going to make sure he has the boy. So she showed up at a family function with this little pair of pants and just said here. Make the first born be a boy. Nonna had sewn these pants herself. They were brown polyester with belt loops and a zipper. They looked like a pair of pants your great grandfather might wear if he was the size of a doll. Here's Mary Annette. You know we joke. We laughed and thought oh my God look at this little polyester pair of pants little old man pants. And at that time you did not do sonograms. You did not find out the sex of babies before you were born. So we just waited. And when the first born was born it was a boy. Did you guys have a moment where you said oh wow Nonna was right? Yes. We all said that. Oh hey she picked it. Great. Now just a heads up here. Nonna had this big Sicilian family. And their names are what one might call variations on a theme. There is Mary Annette Mary Anne Roseanne Joanne Melissa Anne. So the woman who had this first baby boy was Mary Anne. She named her son Tony and stitched his name on the tiny pair of pants. And then for some mysterious reason without even being instructed by Nonna when the next woman in the family got pregnant-- She just automatically when she found out I was pregnant she packaged it up and mailed it to me as a good luck charm. This is Roseanne the next of Nonna's grand-kids to have a baby. You know I just got the pants and assumed I was to have a boy. Why? That seems a little bit crazy. I know. When I think bad it is like I do not know kind of weird. Because honestly my husband and I never gave it a thought. I mean we truly did not have a girl's name picked out. Because you got a little pair of pants in the mail you just were sure you were having a boy? It was meant to be a boy. It was meant to be. It was going to be. And what did you have? I had my son Tommy. Meanwhile across the Atlantic Ocean Mary Annette was on the verge of having a baby. She was living in Italy at the time. And she was due just a few weeks after Roseanne. So . You swore? I did. I said oh no. I wanted the girl. A few days later Mary Annette had a son. After that we all looked at Nonna. Then we asked. We all looked at Nonna and said OK how about a dress now? Nonna abided. She sewed a miniature pink satin dress and gave it to Mary Anne who was pregnant with her second baby. And the rest was like clockwork. Mary Anne had a girl. She sent Roseanne the dress. Roseanne had a girl. She sent Mary Annette the dress. Mary Annette had a girl and then another girl. Nonna was not directing this. But everyone knew where the power originated. Nonna was batting seven for seven. A few years passed. And then Nonna's prediction powers reached a turning point. Because Mary Annette was the last one to have a boy and the last one to have a girl which means she had possession of both the pants and the dress. So when Mary Annette's sister-in-law announced that she was having a baby it was up to Mary Annette alone to decide which one to send. The power to determine the sex of this woman's baby was in Mary Annette's hands. And I am sitting in my family room getting the pants getting the dress getting the envelope ready with her address her name and address to send. And then sitting there looking at these two items I said I have a choice to make. And I do not know how many times in and out that envelope went the dress or the pants the dress or the pants the dress or the pants. And I said I cannot play God. I am going to have to let her choose. So I put the dress and the pants in the envelope mailed them to her. I called Mary Annette's sister-in-law Joanne. She vividly remembers tearing open the envelope the pants falling onto her kitchen counter the dress tumbling out right after it. A couple months later the doctor told her she was having twins. Joanne waited until she delivered her twins to find out what sex they were. Though really she knew all along. First off he says you have a son. And he handed me the baby. And I was like oh my God my boy. I got my boy. And then I think they were only born one minute apart. He immediately then said and you have a daughter. And it was just of course. It was not a surprise to me. . And were you just blown away? Actually Mary Annette I think was more blown away. Because she freaked when I called her. Oh my God a boy and a girl. Oh my God what did I do? . And I apologized. I did. I said I am so sorry. I said I know they are cute. I do not know if you wanted two at a time. . Now Nonna was nine for nine. The statistical odds of getting the prediction right that many times are less than 1 in 500. Not to mention the fact that she predicted a boy girl set of twins. And all of this rocketed Nonna from regular old clairvoyant grandma status to legend. The pants and the dress became an institution. Even after Nonna died in 1999 they kept working. Kids who'd been predicted themselves the first time around were now having kids of their own. And Nonna kept getting it right. As the years went on pantsdress protocol was codified. For instance if someone else got pregnant while you were pregnant you could not send them your garment until you had your baby. You had to wait until you stitched your child's name onto the pants or the dress. It is just the way it was done. And there were some close calls. There was one rogue baby where the parents received neither the pants nor the dress. They had a boy. And the dress was misplaced for a couple of years. Though naturally only boys were born during that period. It then miraculously resurfaced just in time for the next girl. I went through the family tree. And it turns out that of 21 predictions Nonna was wrong two times. Most family members were vague about this. They kind of had a sense that something might have gone awry a couple times. But they were hazy on the details. But when I talked to Rick Salpietra who lives out in California he was clear about it. He had two kids for whom Nonna's prediction was not right. It happened 18 years ago. Rick's twin brother Ron sent him the dress. And it predicted Rick's first daughter correctly. But then his brother sent him the pants. And despite that Rick's second child was a girl. When Rick's wife got pregnant a third time and they had sent the dress away but still had the pants in their possession they had another girl. The family has theories about what went wrong here. Maybe it was geography the fact that Rick lives in California so far away from the rest of the family. Or maybe it was because these two girls were the last kids in their generation. Nonna was at the end of her life when they were born and died not long after. It is possible her powers were diminished. Still the odds of Nonna predicting the sex correctly as many times as she did-- 19 of 21 babies-- are remarkable. I ran her record by several statisticians. And they said the odds are roughly 1 in 10000. Whatever the reason for her being wrong those two times while lots of people in the family are still really into the pants and the dress Rick the father of the girls who were incorrectly predicted says he purposely avoids talking to his daughters about the tradition even though they are teenagers now. My middle daughter is sort of the more quiet sensitive one. And I think she might be a little upset if she actually thought that the whole thing sort of broke down when it came to us getting the pants or the dress on her pregnancy. And I do not know if I would want to do that to her. Yeah it is a weird thing to have to tell your kid. It is. I mean I do not know what to say. I would not want her to feel bad. I really would not. I had no clue up until I got pregnant that this would weigh so heavily on me. Melissa the woman who is pregnant right now is desperately hoping that she never needs to sit down with her kid one day and say you were inaccurately predicted. You were a weak link. At first she was really excited to get the pants or the dress to take part in the tradition. After all Melissa was predicted herself. Her name is on the dress. But now she is just really worried that it will be wrong. I mean I am embarrassed to actually say how much anxiety that it kind of has caused. Melissa's due in about three months. Remember the situation right now is that her husband has received the package with the pants or the dress in it. But they are waiting to see each other before they open it. Melissa really wants a boy. So she requested the pants from her sister-in-law. And she is guessing that is what is in the package the pants. Though it is possible that some people in the family conspired to send her the dress against her will. That has happened before. To add to the pressure when Melissa and her husband went for their last ultrasound they asked the doctor to write down the baby's sex and seal in an envelope for them to open later if they want to. I do not know. It is like this we put ourselves in this situation now where we have two envelopes to open. Not just one but two. And they can conflict. Would you rather have a boy but have the prediction be wrong? Or would you rather have a girl and have the prediction be right? I would rather have the prediction be right. You did not even hesitate with that question. No. I want the prediction. I want the prediction to be right.  A few days after I interviewed Melissa I went to her baby shower in Ohio. She had the ultrasound prediction with her. And she and her husband were thinking about looking at it at some point during the day. The night before they would opened the package with Nonna's prediction. And drumroll please. I got the pants. Opened up the package and the pants were inside. Which should have been great news right? Melissa wants a boy. Are you excited? Yeah. Yeah. Yes I am. I am glad to have them. I thought I was going to feel a lot more confident that it would be a boy. But I still do not.  Put a onesie on a onesie on a onesie on a onesie. Throughout the day Melissa tried to just enjoy her baby shower and keep her mind off the very obvious question at hand. But it was hard to ignore the fact that many of the activities were aggressively gender neutral like the designs that women ironed onto outfits for the new baby. There were giraffes zebras hats umbrellas but no pink ponies or blue dump trucks. There was the name game led by Melissa's mom Mary Annette Which had both a girls' round-- The beginning of the day. Dawn. Correct. This month is the first one of summer. June. The night before a holiday. Eve. And a boys' round. Though the boys' round was harder. Some people need ropes to climate it. Cliff. Cliff! Cliff! Cliff. Certain cut of beef. Chuck. Chuck beef. Oh what about Angus? Angus? Angus is a name. That is not a cut of beef. That is the name of the cow. Finally later that night after most of the shower guests went home it was time to tear off the Bandaid. Go get Mom and Domenic. It was time for the moment of truth. Melissa and her husband went into a bedroom with the ultrasound envelope and shut the door behind them. The family huddled anxiously outside. Is it freaky that we are all just outside the door waiting. Quietly talking. I feel like the baby's actually being born right now. I feel like I am waiting for the smoke and the pope and the whole thing. . Minutes passed. Then slowly the door opened. Melissa emerged. It is a boy!  Melissa went around hugging everyone. Her brother Nonna prediction number three. Her cousin Nonna prediction number five. Her sister Nonna prediction number seven. Finally she could wipe the sweat off her brow and breathe a sigh of relief. Not only was she getting the boy she wanted she could call Nonna's relatives all over the country without shame or disappointment and tell them that number 23 was right.  Laura. Yeah. I am calling to tell you that Nonna was right again. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh. That is so crazy. I have goosebumps. Do you? . Brian Reed is one of the producers of our program. Act Two Message In a Bottle. This is another story of people communicating not with words but with an inanimate object. Dave Hill has been on our show from time to time. He is a comedian and a musician. He told this story onstage at Cameo Gallery in Brooklyn. A warning for the squeamish he mentions pee in here. This is something that happened to me a few weeks ago right here in town. But backing things up a little bit. I moved here to New York in 2003 from Cleveland. Thank you!  Thank you. Anyway the time that I have been here-- maybe you guys can relate to this too-- all I ever hear is New York used to be so edgy. But now it is lost its edge. It is not edgy anymore. Because I understand that there was a time in New York when you could walk down the street and just crack open a beer and just suck it down and throw the bottle on the ground.  And you might get like a little raped or whatever.  But it did not matter. It was like a give and take. You took the good with the bad. And everyone was fine with it. And now you cannot really get away with any of that stuff. But you can get a really nice brunch at a lot of places. Just go with your friends free refills on mimosas. It is great for everybody. And the reason I bring this up is a few weeks ago I was doing a show out here in Brooklyn. It was a very classy show with all these people and a sold out show. So I put on a fancy suit. And I spent like six to eight hours on my hair. And the people putting the show on were like oh Dave you have got to get out here on time. So I am rushing to get out there. And I am at 28th and Broadway. And the R train's right there. So I am like oh I will take the R train. That is like a reputable train. And right before I am going to go on the subway I realize oh I am so hungry. And then I look. And there is a gyro car right there. So I go to the gyro guy. I am like give my a gyro. And then he is got all the sauces like the yogurt sauce and the chili sauce and the garlic sauce. And I am just like sauce the  out of that thing. And do not hold back on me. And he just starts just hosing down the gyro. Like calm down. And then finally he gives me the gyro. And I go down into the subway. And the train comes right away. I get on it with the gyro. I start eating the gyro. And the sauces just start dripping all over my hands and on the ground and on my shoes and everything. And it is rush hour. And the train's like super crowded and everything. And I am realizing oh I am probably stinking up the whole car with this gyro. And people are probably looking at me thinking that guy looks incredible. But it is not very cool what he is doing with that gyro. So I am thinking the best thing that I can do for everyone on the train and for the city of New York in general is just get off the subway at the next stop finish the gyro get back on go out to Brooklyn. And so I get off at the next stop 23rd Street. Lightning quick decision. And then I walk all the way to the end of the platform to eat my gyro. Because I do not even want to bother anyone on the platform with my gyro. I do cool  like this all the time.  And so I go all the way down to the end of the platform. And you know how at the end of the subway they have the black metal storage bins? Not like a Norwegian black metal storage which would be so cool. It is just like a regular black metal storage almost like a dumpster or something. So I am stand next to it. And I have finished my gyro. And then I have the wrapper. And I am looking around for a trash can to throw it out. And there is no trash can anywhere on the whole platform. And it is too messy to put in my pocket. And I am like oh I do not want to throw it on the ground. I do not want to throw it on the track. So I think the best thing that I can do in this scenario is just set it down on the black metal storage bin. That way whoever has to clean it up later they do not have to bend over. They can just kind of swoop it into the satchel. I might be kind of fun for them. I do not even know. And so I set it down. And as soon as I do I start to hear this rustling and rumbling and . And it turns out there is this homeless guy sort of camped out on the other side of the storage bin. And I woke him up. And he is like this sleeping giant just like . And he gets up. And his bones are creaking. And his hair is like all crazy all over the place. And he looks at me. And he just starts yelling. And he is like back up! Back up! And I move like a little bit. But I am like what is this guy going to do? So I do not really move that much. But then he is like back up! And get this trash out of here. And he smacks the trash out at me. And I am like that is rude. And then he screams again. He is like back up! Back up! And this guy like he was seriously homeless. It was not like a phase he was going through where he is like oh that is Don. I am sure he will be back up in his place any day now. He is like this seriously crazy caveman homeless guy. So it occurs to me. It is like this might not even be about me. He might be yelling at some other guy imaginary guy who is just like standing exactly where I am standing. So I am still not really moving. So I am like oh the train's coming whatever. And then he goes back up or I will throw this bottle of piss on you! And then from out of nowhere like a ninja all of a sudden he is got this Gatorade bottle. And it is a huge Gatorade bottle. It is not like the size you get like oh hang on I am just going to the store to get some Gatorade. It is like the giantest size. The kind you drink if you are like I only drink Gatorade. It is like huge the hugest size. Only instead of being full of delicious and refreshing Gatorade it is full of pee of urine. And just real quick has anyone here ever peed in a bottle before?  Oh yeah. Of course. But yeah I was just doing it before.  But the reason I bring it up is if you have not peed in a bottle before you think when you have to go really bad you are like oh my God I just went like nine gallons. It was crazy. But we do not as humans-- and you know this if you have peed in a bottle-- we actually do not pee that much. Now the reason I bring it up is because to fill a huge Gatorade bottle that is like a week or two's worth of urine. Now if you factor in that the homeless are a historically dehydrated people this is like three or four weeks of pee saved up. And he is just like back up or I will throw this bottle of piss on you! And the way I am saying it it sounds like he is like back up. That is the first option. And if you choose not to do that I will throw this bottle of urine that I just happen to have. I will throw it on you. But he does not say it like that at all. He is just like back up or I will throw this bottle of piss on you. And before he even finishes his sentence he cocks his arm back and just launches it at me.  I know!  And oh my God homeless or not like not a drop wasted. His aim was incredible. It was just coming right at me. The first blow nails me right in the head. Like all my hair all that work for nothing. My hair is totally ruined. It is going down my back and down my jacket. And it is soaking my pants. It soaks through my pants soaks my underwear. He had effectively wet my pants with his pee. And at this point in the story I am getting a bit irritated right? And I am thinking to myself well Dave what would you do if a total stranger drenched you in his own pee? And up to that point in my life I would have thought like oh I would kill that guy and hurt his feelings and really give him a real stern talking to. But that was not my reaction at all. I was just like I am getting the  out of here immediately. Because if you figure if your opponent's first move in a confrontation is to just drench you in his own pee like what is next? At the very least he is got a couple more bottles of pee back there you figure. So I am just like all right touche. You won this round well played. I am getting out of here. And so I walk out of the subway station. And I walk up onto the street. And it is still light outside. And I am walking down Fifth Avenue. And I start thrashing around to get the pee off of me. And I am like Jennifer Beals in hit movie Flashdance. And it is flying all over. And then the sort of rivulets of hobo pee are running down my face and neck and down my chest and everything. And I am looking up. And I see that. And the sun is kind of going through the droplets of pee. And it is forming these beautiful prisms and rainbows. And I am just transfixed by them. And all of a sudden all that pain and anger just fell away. Because it was in that moment I realized this mother  town is back.  Thank you.  Dave Hill he is the author of the book Tasteful Nudes and Other Misguided Attempts at Personal Growth and Validation. Coming up our program has been on the radio for over a decade. And finally finally we have somebody in the second half of today's program for the first time ever who actually has a great voice for radio. I know you have been wondering if this would ever happen. And yes it is not one of our contributors. It is one of their dads. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program Send a Message stories of messages sent and received many of them not using words or words that mean something different than what they are saying. We have arrived at Act Three of our program. Act Three Soul Sister. Sometimes the impressiveness of the messenger is part of what makes a message so powerful. Sonari Glinton has an example of that. In the late 1970s my family moved to a Chicago neighborhood called South Shore. Black families had been moving there for decades. And of course as we moved in all the white families moved out. Which was not so bad partly because when all those white families fled they left behind all kinds of cool stuff-- golf courses a few marinas a gigantic country club mansions. Mostly though they left behind their churches and synagogues. One of those churches was my own Saint Philip Neri Parish. It is a huge church. And it was also my grade school. Right there on 72nd Street Saint Philip Neri was the beginning and end of my little Catholic u