Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad this is Radiolab. To start things off today a couple months ago. You want some coffee? Too small? Simon Adler I am going to need an Americano. Jad In that magical forgotten time before the Coronavirus our reporter Simon Adler somewhat mysteriously walked me a few blocks from our office mic in hand to a coffee shop. Simon Okay with our coffee purchased let us go stand in the corner where it is maybe a little less loud. Jad Sort of a fancy one exposed brick bare Edison bulbs. Simon Let us gaze out upon the hipsters of Lower Manhattan. Jad Let us survey and count the number of laptops. Simon How many laptops do you think are in here? Jad Starting from the left we are going to circle around. We got one two three four five six. Simon Two more on the bar. Jad Two more on the bar. Simon They are all typing the same way. They are all using a QWERTY keyboard. Jad Yes. The reason he dragged me there as I now know- Simon Now let us imagine we are in Shenzhen in a Chinese Starbucks. Jad -was to point out a massive cultural difference hidden in plain sight and to propose a bit of a reporting trip. Simon Are you going to send somebody to Starbucks in Shenzhen? Well that is my hope that I will be the one sent to a Starbucks in Shenzhen. Jad  We will played Adler. Simon Now you did not bite on that reporting trip. Jad No. Simon Plus pretty soon thereafter traveling to China became a lot more difficult. Yang Yang I am in this big Starbucks shop here in Hong Kong. Simon To play out this comparison I had in mind instead we hired and sent local reporter Yang Yang to scope it out for us. Yang There are about 50 people here maybe 30 laptops or tablets open- Simon Because and here is where we get to the point everyone in this Starbucks- Yang -typing and writing and browsing on the internet. Simon -were all using their keyboards in a different way. Jad What do you mean? Using it in different ways in the way that they use the keyboard or that the keyboard that they are using themselves are different? Simon The physical keyboard is going to be the exact same thing. They are Qwerty keyboards just like here in New York. Jad Oh okay. I did not know that. Simon Even if everybody in this Chinese Starbucks was really into dogs it was a dog convention and so they were all typing the word  which is dog in Mandarin. No two people would be typing the word dog the same way. Jad That is right. There could be 50 different ways that that keyboard is being used to type the Chinese language. Simon This is Professor Tom Mullaney. Tom Mullaney I am Professor of Chinese history at Stanford University. Simon This is the doorway into the grand mystery it would seem. Tom Yes in theory there are an infinite number of different ways to type Chinese with the QWERTY keyboard. Jad I do not even know what that means. How is that possible? Simon Well it turns out that figuring out how to type in Chinese on a keyboard- Jad -was one of the most complex engineering linguistic and conceptual puzzles of its time. It is a puzzle that threatened to erase an entire culture nearly prevented China from becoming the technological superpower that it is today and says a whole lot about where all of our communication is headed. Simon All right. Before we get into why typing in Chinese is such a crazy difficult problem to solve let me introduce you to one of the guys who actually set out to solve it. Professor Wang Yongmin Hello  Yang Hello Simon Hi. Simon Hello. Is everybody here? Can you all hear us? Professor Wang Yongmin? Yang Yes. Professor Wang is here. You can talk to him. Simon My interpreter fixer and really co-reporter on the China side of this Yang Yang and I spoke with him a couple of months back. Professor Wang I think of you as almost like the Chinese Steve Jobs. Is that a fair way to think of you? Professor Wang  Yang He says that he is nowhere close to the wealth Steve Jobs held but in terms of his fame and reputation yes it is a fair comparison. Simon Professor Wang was born in the 1940s in a small rural village. Professor Wang  Yang Growing up in this village they had wheat and corn. Simon His family farmed and his dad was also a carpenter but it was a hardscrabble existence. Yang His family was so poor that they could not afford any clothes for him and because they were dirt poor he understood at a very young age that going to school was not a small thing. So he studied extremely hard. He said that from the first grade all the way to university I am always the number one. Simon All that hard work paid off. He was selected to attend the University of Science and Technology of China which is basically the equivalent to MIT. Yang After graduating from college he was assigned by the government to a research institute located in this remote district. Simon This was not just any research institute. Professor Wang  Yang It was a top secret highly classified National Defense Research Institute. Even the locals did not know what these people were doing there. Simon The top secret highly classified work that was going on there was building computers which in China was not just an engineering question it was much deeper. Keep in mind this was the early 1970s. Tom Everyone that was paying attention knew that computing was going to change the fabric of economy warfare- Simon Again historian Tom Mullaney- Tom -communication everything. Professor Wang  Yang At that time China was just starting to enter this field and was lagging behind. Simon The best estimates I could find say that around that time in the entire country with a population of nearly a billion people there were only 3000 computers in use. Tom Why is that? Well the simple reason is the Chinese language could not fit inside a computer. Jad Meaning what? Simon In English we put our words onto the page or the screen by shuffling around these 26 letters right? Unnamed Speaker Say on with me A B C. Simon Each one representing a sound in the word. The writing in fact tells you how to say the word. Unnamed Speaker B-I-G. Big. Simon Chinese writing is completely different. Unnamed Speaker The person character is placed next to a tree to convey the idea of resting. Simon When you write in Chinese you are not writing down the sounds of the words so much as you are drawing a picture of each word. Unnamed Speaker Three trees here are combined in the character  to mean a forest. Simon This Chinese writing goes back at least 3000 years. In fact some of the earliest known examples of it were found on artifacts in Professor Wang's home province. Professor Wang  Simon In this writing system these characters grew out of an attempt to represent the actual things in the world around us water stars animals actions feelings. Female You can see a thing see a picture a long history in a Chinese character. Simon So that today there are more than 70000 of these Chinese characters. Each a unique visual representation of a word or an idea. The problem was in the 1970s computers had only a few bytes of memory. Not even enough to store a single email message. Unnamed Speaker The available memory on most of these-- On all of these computers commercially available computers could not even store the Chinese character set. Simon Or display them on a screen or even print them. Again back in the day the 1970s the way we were printing things is with dot matrix printers right? Jad I remember yes. Unnamed Speaker Where these tiny needles strike the paper composing letters out of its set of little dots. Simon Paper pixels. Unnamed Speaker Paper pixels exactly. It takes way more pixels to produce a Chinese character than it does to produce a letter of the Latin alphabet. Simon Inside these printers those little needles were not packed densely enough to tattoo a legible character onto the page. Unnamed Speaker If you take those pins and shrink them to get more paper pixels in a pinhead well what happens is they bend and break because they are not tuned metallurgically they are not tuned to being that size. It is not as if China could simply just buy these computers wholesale because the English language or the Latin alphabet was in effect being baked into the architecture. In some cases the very matter and materiality of these machines. Unnamed Speaker Wow. That is funny we talk sometimes about algorithm bias but I had never realized there was this huge cultural barrier in the basic hardware of the computer. Simon Totally. I mean for China this was seen as an existential threat. Consider the fact that because of these limitations into the 80s they were forced to conduct and tabulate their census with pencil and paper. Unnamed Speaker No  Unnamed Speaker By Lord if China could not figure out a way to computerize Chinese or to Chinesise computers then it was going to be on the outside looking in. Simon This was the problem they were trying to solve at that top-secret research Institute. Professor Wang  Simon The full magnitude of this problem really smacked professor Wang in the face when he saw his first fully formed Western computer which amazingly because he would been focused on such hyper-specific electrical problems did not happen until about eight years into his research. Professor Wang  Simon He remembers seeing it in a local printing shop. Yang The first ever in real life. Professor Wang  Yang He was totally amazed. Professor Wang  Yang That was incredible. Simon Then he says he looked down at the keyboard attached to the computer and saw the Latin letters and he thought like Wait how am I supposed to type 70000 characters with just those 70 keys? Like How are we going to fit the Chinese language on this thing? Unnamed Speaker That would be the equivalent of trying to get all 26 letters of the Latin alphabet onto less than one key. Professor Wang  Simon As professor Wang began looking into this he found that the consensus at the time was it simply could not be done. Professor Wang  Yang At that time there was the saying that- Professor Wang  Yang -computers are the gravediggers of Chinese characters. Jad Gravediggers. Tom Oh totally. People were making very loud calls for absolute abolition of character-based writing. Jad You mean like throw out Chinese characters all together? Simon Yes. Professor Wang  Yang It was like a doom day. Jad Because of this very thing. Simon It was a big part of it and so tons of folks in the field of computing were arguing We have got to replace Chinese with Esperanto or with English or with something else so that we can participate in global modernity. Unnamed Speaker Behind the plans is the realization that China must modernize her style. Simon There was even a government body the state commission on language reform that was looking into how to do this. However-- Professor Wang  Yang Wang was not convinced. Professor Wang  Simon He thought there has to be a way to type in Chinese and save the Chinese character. Professor Wang  Yang He called it destiny. He felt like it was fate. Simon He was convinced that if he could not do it if he could not find a way to save the character-- Professor Wang  Yang Chinese culture would it be over with it too. Professor Wang  Yang So I did not know if I would succeed. I did not know if I would fail. There was no return regardless of life and death. Simon Whoa. It is so dramatic. Yang It was really pressing for him. Yes. Simon For a good reason because in fact Chinese writing had nearly been wiped out once before. To set the scene it is the 19 teens China is emerging as a nation out onto the world stage and they are noticing technological advancements in the West. Martin Howard A Chinese visitor to the US let us say he goes to the Ford company corporate headquarters- Simon Historian and collector Martin Howard. Martin -walking in through the front door and down the halls to the administrative area what they are going to hear is a cacophony of sound. It is going to get louder and louder and then he is going to turn the corner and he is going to be faced with rows and rows of hundreds of typists typing away. Simon In these typewriters in businesses across the United States were literally remaking English communication. Martin Simon It was a revolutionary machine a paradigm shift. Announcer Typewriter Speed Queens are lined up to show the world how fast they are. Simon For three basic reasons. Martin Number one- Announcer Then there are- Martin -speed. Announcer -tap tappers setting the keyboards on fire. Martin One could type four times faster than a clerk could write with a pen. Simon Number two- Martin Do you know what it is like reading other people's handwriting? Some people's handwriting is goddamn awful. Simon -legibility. Martin Awful to read. Announcer Such a tremendous step forward in business efficiency. Martin The third reason. Simon Making copies. Martin Think about that. If it is four times faster and you are producing 10 copies at the same time one could argue that is 40 times faster. I think my math is right there. Simon I think so. Martin If it is 20 copies then it is 80 times faster. That is mind tingling right? Simon China's like We have to have that speed that efficiency. Jad We have to have these machines. Simon Some 50 years prior to Professor Wang's problem you had people saying. Martin We have got to get rid of Chinese. Simon Mao himself advocated for either throwing the Chinese character out completely or at a bare minimum adopting an alphabet so that they could spell out the way characters sound. Tom Yes he was one of the chorus. Jad The thought there was that if you alphabetize the Chinese characters you could then lay it out on a keyboard and the problem goes away? Simon Exactly. Now obviously Chinese writing did not disappear. There was actually a Chinese character typewriter. Several of them in fact and what is striking about it the model that won the day is just how untypewritery it is. Martin This is a typewriter with no keyboard. Simon It is this clunky yet eloquent device with just two levers one for your left hand one for your right then this big tray bed full of metal characters. Using those levers you move the tray bed vertically and horizontally to line up the character you want. Martin Then press down on the lever that your right hand is holding and in one fell swoop sort of bup bup bup the metal character gets sucked into the type chamber. Simon The character swings further up towards the page on this metal arm. Jad Like a jukebox the way it reaches in and lift up a record? Simon Exactly and on its way up- Martin Rubs against an ink spool and then strikes the paper printing the character onto the page. Simon Before finally- Martin The arm swings back down and the force of it doing so- Simon Spits that metal character back into the tray bed. Jad Dang. Simon While you could only type about half as fast on one of these as you could on a QWERTY English typewriter it worked. It was enough to stave off the death of the character. Professor Wang  Simon For Professor Wang 50 years later it was a sign. A sign that instead of forcing the Chinese language to bend to the will of technology technology could be bent to the will of the Chinese language the Chinese character. To do that he actually started by breaking down the Chinese characters themselves. Martin Because let us face it even though Chinese does not have an alphabet that does not mean that every character in Chinese is absolutely unique and singular and a snowflake. There are pieces and components and shapes that reappear over and over in these different characters. Professor Wang  Yang Just imagine this is chemistry. There are tens of thousands of molecules in chemistry but there are only 100 or so atoms. Simon Professor Wang believed that if he could just figure out what the atoms of Chinese characters were-- Martin The components of characters like a shape alphabet. Simon -that he could put those on the keyboard and that people could then-- Martin Spell Chinese characters not by sound but by shape. Simon Now to help visualize this let us take the character for river Jiang which looks like a capital I with three dashes to its left. Two near the top and one near the bottom. Jad Got it. Simon Now this character Jiang contains two components. The first is that capital letter I and the second is those three dashes. Now on its own that capital letter I is actually the character for work and those three dashes actually represent water. Jad Work plus water equals river? Simon Correct. Just as with this character Jiang these work and water components often appear in combination with other components. For example those three dashes the water component are present in the characters for juice and sweat and soup. Anyhow what we just did taking a character and breaking it into its parts- Professor Wang  Simon -is what Professor Wang began to do as he searched for the most common and fundamental of these components. He got himself a room emptied it out of everything but a couple of desks. With a small staff he would assembled he took 10000 characters and began breaking them apart and making notecards. Yang Yes notecards. Simon One notecard for each component of each of the 10000 characters he was dissecting. Like Jiang river would get two notecards. One with the I on it one with the three dashes on it. When this was all said and done what he had laying out on these various desks- Yang Were 120000 cards. If you stack them all together they were like 12 meters tall. Simon About the height of a three storey building. Of these 120000 cards many of them were duplicates or triplicates or quadruplicates. There would be at least four cards with the same water component on them like one from the character for river another from soup and two more from sweat and juice. Professor Wang  Simon From there what he did was sorted all of the common components together. All of the water components on that table the work components over there leaving him now with just several thousand piles several thousand components. Professor Wang  Simon Clearly still way too many to put onto a keyboard so he did it again. Broke each of those components apart and made more notecards and regrouped and re-piled the new common components. Professor Wang  Simon He did this again. Yang Boiling down lower. Simon And again. Yang And lower. Simon And again and again. Professor Wang  Yang Lower and lower. Simon Re-stacking pieces of paper. Yang Yes just passing cards. Unnamed Speaker Wow. Simon Professor Wang did this for five years until he had it down to 125 components. Professor Wang  Simon The periodic table of Chinese as he referred to it. Unnamed Speaker Then how would you type with this periodic table? Simon Well just like texting on a flip phone. You remember texting on a flip phone where each number key represents three different letters so that to type say the word dad you just type three two three? Just like that- Professor Wang  Simon Professor Wang placed five or so of these components on each key of the QWERTY keyboard so that by typing in the component pieces of a character the computer would sum them up for you and generate it on the screen. He named his creation the Wubi method. Yang And described the Wubi as a sacred invention. Simon All he had to do now was convince the rest of the world. He got that opportunity in 1984. Unnamed Speaker Mr. Secretary General thank you for granting me the honor of speaking on this first day of the 38th session of the General Assembly. Yang He was invited to the United Nations to present his invention. Simon When he arrived he sat down set up his computer to demo it. With a bunch of people watching him he took a deep breath and started typing and immediately- Yang The Deputy Secretary- Simon -who was standing over his shoulder watching- Yang -was astonished to see Chinese characters rapidly appearing on the screen. Simon In fact she was incredulous. Yang They thought Wang had played a trick on them. Simon They asked him to stand up and step away from the computer. Yang They flipped the keyboard. Simon Looking for some hidden piece of hardware. Yang Another time Wang replied What? It is just your keyboard. It is the same keyboard. After this he and Wubi went viral. He became one of the top 10 biggest names in China. Simon He and Wubi were on the front page of newspapers. He was licensing Wubi all over the world. The sound is actually from an infomercial for Wubi filled with flying photos of Professor Wang sitting next to important people. I mean for China's version of July 4th. Yang China's National Day. He was chosen as the head of ceremonies of Huainan Province. Simon I am imagining him as the leader of the parade with his baton in hand matching down the street.  Yang Totally. Totally. Yes. Simon Then that same year his crowning achievement. Reporter Dramatic political and economic changes are taking place in the world's most populous country. Yang April the 4th 1984. Reporter A new leader Hu Yaobang. Yang Hu Yaobang the head of the communist party came to visit Professor Wang. Simon Sitting down with him the most powerful man in China at the time. Yang After Wang explained his invention Hu Yaobang stood up and asked Comrade Yongmin do we still need to forsake Chinese characters? Wang replied No no. Chinese characters do not need to be replaced. They can be efficiently input just like English. Simon Hu Yaobang went back to Beijing and according to Professor Wang not long after- Yang The state commissioned for language reform. Simon That government body looking into how to do away with the Chinese character- Yang -was closed shut down. Simon -in no small part. Yang -because of Wang's invention. Companies were using Wubi. Students were taught to use Wubi. Learning Wubi became synonymous with learning how to use the computer. Simon He had saved thousands of years of the Chinese language and given it a place in the modern world. As far as Professor Wang was concerned to be this person was to be placed alongside I do not know Ford Thomas Edison Steve Jobs perhaps. Steve Jobs yes the sort of singular genius inventor. He sort of at this point has slayed the dragon. He is the victor. Yang He was or he thought he was. The battle has not finished.  Simon In fact it was only beginning. Jad When we come back from break Chinese typing gets predictive and the keyboards start directing us. Rachel Hi my name is Rachel Muluva and I am calling from Alice Springs Northern Territory Australia. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. For more information about sloan at www.sloan.org. Jad Science reporting on Radiolab is supported in part by science sandbox a Simons Foundation initiative dedicated to engaging everyone with the process of science. Jad Radiolab. Back to producer Simon Adler. Simon Before the break Professor Wang had seemingly solved this massive technological linguistic challenge and saved the Chinese character. He would found a way to type Chinese with a plain old QWERTY keyboard. Jad Thinking back to the beginning when you took me to that cafe Simon and we heard about all the different ways people were using the keyboard in that Hong Kong Starbucks. How did we get from Wang making his method to suddenly infinite ways of typing? Simon First of all while Professor Wang really cracked this thing open he was not alone. There were others who had been hammering and chipping away at this problem as well. From the beginning you had a few variations a few different ways to type. However after Wubi things do really explode because underlying Wubi was this subtle but spectacular departure. Tom The keyboard changed from something where what you typed was what you got to a system where you were telling the machine certain features or characteristics of the Chinese character that you wanted on the page or I guess on the screen. Simon Again historian Tom Mullaney. Tom It seems like a minor distinction when you say it but once you do that once you have entered into a reality in which A is not equal to A-- I pushed a button that has a little symbol A on it and I no longer expect that symbol to appear on the paper or the screen. Effectively I can set the letter A equal to any property of the Chinese character that I want. Simon A could equal that water component or that work component or something far more abstract. Tom Anything goes and so in the early 1980s different ideas about how to do this started to flood in. Jad You mean beyond Wubi? Tom Yes. Zhou Ming At that time many people and companies developed their own means . Simon This is Zhou Ming. Zhou Zhou Ming computer scientist i n methods research in Asia. Simon He was really on the front line of this development. Zhou Immediately there are over 1000 methods developed and put into use. Simon Just a couple of quick examples here. Some of these broke the characters into components that looked like English letters. Jad Does that mean you could look at the characters and be like I think there is a D in that picture. Simon Exactly. Then placed those components on their English look-alike key. A represented a mountain peak looking component. Others looked to English spelling. The component for tree was represented by the letter T. Others had you input just what was present in the four corners of the character. Then going even further afield some of these do not even use letters at all they just use the numeral bank of the keyboard. You know that square number pad on the right side of most keyboards? In essence every character was given its own numeric code that you would tap in there 4303 dog 9080 fire almost like a clerk ringing up vegetables at a grocery store checkout. We are just scratching the surface here. Jad It started to dawn on me what you mean when you say if we go to that Starbucks. Everybody would have their own preferred way of going from those 26 Roman letters to the thousands of different Chinese characters. Simon Right. I will say the competition between these methods got heated. Zhou Yes people are actually fighting each other. Jad Really? Zhou Ming Really. Simon Ming says at one conference he attended someone actually had to be thrown out because of a fight. Zhou Ming This kind of thing happens. Simon What they were fighting and arguing over was just like with the typewriter way back when speed. Every single new input system the inventor claimed we have not achieved maximum speed yet and that my system it is easier to use and faster. One way they went about this pushing the limits of the speed was by trying to predict what it was the typist was trying to say. Tom Both predictive text and auto completion were anticipated in Chinese information technology decades before they were in English language computing and new media. To get to the character you want faster and faster. Simon The way this began was you will be typing in the components of the character but before you would finished typing them all in it would guess what it thought you were going for and offer you a couple of options. Tom They would give you those options ranked by the probability that this is the one you want. Simon Even that was not fast enough. Tom Almost immediately people started to think about next character suggestions. Simon Predicting and suggesting not just the character you were trying to type but also the next character the next word you were going to type. Tom If someone types in the character bei meaning north it is a very high likelihood that the very next character is going to be jing for Beijing or maybe beifang for northern. I will give you that as a suggestion. Simon Keep in mind this is the 1980s a full decade before we had anything comparable here in the United States. Anyhow right as all these technological changes were taking place the Chinese language itself changed. Reporter Tomorrow ABC News will begin conforming to the Chinese standardization of its languages spelling and pronunciation. Pinyin it is called. Simon China went all in on Pinyin. Jad Pinyin? Simon Pinyin. Tom Pinyin is a way of using the Latin alphabet to spell out the sound or the pronunciation of Chinese characters and words. Jad Interesting. It is an aural A-U? Simon Yes. A-U. Jad It is an aural translation? Simon Correct. Reporter The big advantage of Pinyin is that it more accurately reflects the actual Chinese pronunciation of a name or a place. Simon For example Beijing B-E-I-J-I-N-G is pinyin for the two characters Bei and Jing. Pinyin had been around for awhile but in the 1980s right around the time professor Wang saved the Chinese character from the threat of computers the Chinese government started to prioritize Pinyin in the classroom. Tom So that when a Chinese kindergartner begins developing literacy and reading and writing they learn Pinyin at the same time or even earlier than they start to learn Chinese characters. Simon Really? Tom Yes. Simon These computer scientists who had spent years trying to figure out how to visually relate Chinese characters to the letters on a keyboard- Tom -they think to themselves basically we have the Chinese educational system teaching a way of relating the Latin alphabet to Chinese characters. It would be kind of foolish not to exploit that. Simon We should start inputting characters by typing their sounds in Pinyin. Now of course professor Wang was staunchly opposed to this. Yang When we use Pinyin to type we lose sight of the Chinese characters form and the form is the soul of a character. It is like you are grabbing hold of a person and doing a way with their flesh. You cannot express the meaning of a Chinese character by its sound. The more people use Pinyin the more screwed Chinese characters are. Simon Nonetheless beginning in the early 1990s- Tom Chinese input moved to phonetic Pinyin input. Simon Replacing character shaped systems like professor Wang's. Yang Actually at the moment I do not know if you can hear me clearly. Simon To the point that as Yang Yang told me if you go into a Starbucks in China today yes people will be typing using different methods but- Yang Most chances are they are typing with Pinyin. Simon Some sort of pinyin editor. Yang That is one of the things that actually saddens me after this interview and because by all means professor Wang he is right about it that you do forget how to write Chinese if you are so used to typing in pinyin and that happens to me. Throughout our interviews that lasted so long I did not have the heart to tell him that I could not type in Wubi which just to confirm that young generation has no hope in preserving the Chinese culture anyhow. Simon Even as young Chinese people I do not know as they sit down at their computers or stare down at their phones are being drawn away from this long rich history of Chinese characters towards this Pinyin phonetic future. The allure of speed and the search for the fastest way to type continues. Tom Absolutely. The question still remains what is the best fastest way to do this? What you have today in China are these typing competitions. Jad Yes. There are typing competitions in Chinese. Simon Where these different methods and different typists face off. These things are a big deal. Tom They take place at the local level at the national level. Simon They are sometimes even televised. Tom In a certain sense it is like America's Got Talent for input. Simon This audio is from the finals of a competition back in 2016 took place at China's e-sports hall in Beijing. The broadcast opens with the audience looking down towards a young lady MC who is standing in front of 10 or so desks each with a computer on them. Before the race can begin she invites the contestants out to stand with her on the front of the stage this crew of lanky glasses and t-shirt wearing Han Chinese folks. They introduce themselves one by one and then also- Tom This is a little bit like sponsoring race car drivers for your brand. Simon They declare which input method they will be using because oftentimes the folks who designed the input methods have actually hired and trained these super speedy typists to use their input method. With the introductions done the MC sends the typists back to their keyboards some of which are interestingly blank. They have no script on them at all. Tom In essence what happens is a text appears on the screen that no one in the competition has seen the same text for everyone in the competition. Then the stopwatch starts and the race is on. Just like  . It is unbelievable the speed at which they are going. Simon The room is totally silent other than the clacking of Keys. The cameras cutting between contestants capturing these over the shoulder shots of their screens just filling with text. When they do linger on one typist's screen long enough and really you would need to almost go frame by frame to catch this. What you see is a typist inputting a string of nonsense letters which prompts a little tiny box to pop up with five or so options which they then select from with one final keystroke. Tom How many characters per minute can they type? Simon 244 was the winning. Tom What? That is insane. I did not understand. I did not understand Simon. That is so fast. Oh my God. My dad who is the fastest typist I know he could only do like 80. That is wild. Simon While they are still in this competition the Winning typist was using Wubi. Tom Really? Simon Yes the guy who typed 244 characters a minute was using Professor Wang's Wubi. Tom Wow whoa. They are clobbering us for speed but also able to do that in a way that preserves character writing. Unnamed Speaker This is not uncommon. Oftentimes in these competitions it is these older Wubi-like input methods that win. Simon Ironically by all accounts their top speeds are faster than the top possible speeds of phonetic input. Tom Wow. Wait but then he is made this thing that is so blazingly fast and also is able to preserve Chinese way of writing goes back thousands of years why is it that these other input methods these phonetic based methods are winning in terms of usage? Simon Right well the reason there is pretty much the Chinese government. The Chinese state promotes the idea of phonetic based input systems really for one major reason. One of the same reasons they prioritize teaching Pinyin in school. Jad The unification of the Chinese language. Simon Because although when we think of the Chinese language we think oh there is Mandarin and Cantonese. In reality when it comes to speaking there are dozens of different Chinese languages Cantonese Shanghainese Fujianese. Languages that sound totally different but on the page look the exact same because they are all using the same characters. Now with a structure shape-based input like Wubi where you are describing what the character looks like. You can type and still maintain your spoken language. Jad It does not care if you speak Cantonese or Fujianese or something or so forth because you are typing it based on what the character looks like not how you pronounce it. If you get people having to learn phonetic based input systems they have no choice really but to learn to type and speak the standard pronunciation of every character. Simon Now in a sense the ubiquity of the QWERTY keyboard is being deployed to erase difference and quiet dissent. Look no further than Wubi. Yang The very commission that was closed down by Wubi- Simon -the Commission on language reform. Yang They came back to life and they kicked the Wubi method out of schools. Simon You can argue that which typing method you use how you type has a real impact that goes beyond the death of the Chinese character or beyond the government's desire for unification of the language beyond China itself. Let me give you an admittedly small example of this. There is this aptly named thing called the QWERTY effect. Have you heard of the QWERTY effect? Jad Go for it. Simon This is an English study. It was initially done here in the States in the early 2000s. They did a bunch of tests on people trying to find what feelings they associated with words. What they found was that people like words that have more letters in them typed from the right hand of QWERTY keyboard than not. Jad No way. The Us and the L's and the Ps and the K's and the M's and the J's those are having more positive associations than the Qs Ws Xs Zs R's. Simon Yes. People like O more than they like E. This has been found in English and Spanish and German and in Dutch both for right-handed people and left-handed people. Jad It could not just be that the keyboard was designed so that the letters that we like happen to just be on the right side. Do you know what I mean? Is it a chicken or the egg type of situation? Simon It likely is not that. It is likely not that those letters were intentionally placed there. There are a variety of stories about how the layout of the QWERTY keyboard happened. One of the indisputed facts is if you look at the top row of your keyboard QWERTY row it has all of the letters of the word typewriter in it. Jad T-Y-P-E-R-I-T. Yes. Simon They are all there. The story goes that the reason it was laid out this way is because you had these salesmen who would show up and want to demo the product demo this typewriter but these guys did not know how to type. They put all the letters for typewriter on the top row so that they could very quickly punch out the word typewriter in their demo. Jad It is totally arbitrary. It was put in the order it was put for reasons that have nothing to do with anything we are talking about. Simon Yes. Correct. There is some evidence that the layout of the keyboard created those left-right preferences rather than the other way around. Just a couple of years ago research has asked okay has our feeling towards letters changed over time? What they did was they got social security records from the 1960s through 2012 and they looked at names of babies being born. They decided we are going to pick 1990 as our year that the QWERTY keyboard became ubiquitous. Let us look at the prevalence of names with more right-handed letters than left before 1990 and after and it spikes after 1990. It is crazy. Jad So suddenly a lot of Paul's and a lot of Leah starts to appear. That is bizarre. Simon Simon is four right hand one left-hand. Jad is one right hand to left hand. You and I bear out the idea. Jad It is funny. Was it Wittgenstein? I do not think it was Wittgenstein. Heidegger was it a Heidegger thing? Somebody one of those nihilistic German philosophers had this idea that the hammer is not just a tool the hammer actually feeds back. The hammer changes the hand. It is interesting to me that this arbitrary leftover arguably outdated QWERTY keyboard that we are all stuck with is actually influencing our preferences when it comes to naming our offspring. Who knows what else it is doing? It is probably doing all kinds of weird things to us. Sorry. Just to get back on track. Do we know if this QWERTY naming thing is influencing the way Chinese people name their kids? Simon Well with the QWERTY effect in general the lab that I spoke to looked into studying it in China. They had some Chinese grad students actually who wanted to see if it applied back in China but in part I think because there are so many different ways to type they were not methodologically able to figure out how to do it but I will say the idea you bring out or you bring up of the hammer changing the hand like where Chinese typing is going I think is the hammer changing the hand on steroids. Jad What do you mean? Tom Now we have got this new phase of this era of input which is cloud input. Simon Typing that uses artificial intelligence. Tom In the United States I would say the way that people are most familiar with this is the Google search bar that when you start to type it will give you suggestions not based on the absolute mathematical probability of the frequency of a word that you might be doing but really what is hot in the news and what other people are searching for. Simon However in China this goes way beyond search engine suggestions. Tom In Microsoft Word this is not a search field this is Microsoft Word and you say Okay in the news today some star has done something terrible and fallen from grace. So some input user is starting to enter the name of this befallen popstar. The system is smart enough to say Okay this user has never entered this person's name before but up in the cloud millions of people are entering this particular person's name. Let us give this local user that suggestion based upon what users elsewhere in the cloud are doing. Simon With this cloud-based input everything you write every keystroke every word is being in some way influenced by what everyone else is typing. Jad It is totally unparalleled in the Western world there is nothing even close to this. In fact now arguably over the last two decades there has been an inversion in which Chinese in the computational world is arguably the fastest language in the realm of typing. Simon We are the ones now looking East seeing these technologies and wondering like shit how do we catch up? In the course of 40 years China they have leapfrogged us. Tom That is what it is it feels like a crazy leapfrog. Simon But with this cloud input there is also a question of do we want to catch up to that? Tom It is both invigorating exciting strange and also eerie and post futuristic because right now it is guessing what the writer already wants to say but what happens when the speed of suggestion outstrips the speed of thought and the speed of intention? And what it says is Simon what if you did this? You say Wow actually that is a really good suggestion. Thank you. Yes I will do that. At that point we have co-writing and once we move further into the stage of suggested writing then it is like a writing partner that is giving you a good suggestion but of course it is a writing partner who is also the writing partner of thousands of other writers at that exact moment and that is from my way of standpoint a pretty terrifying scenario. Simon Well right because it is a writing partner with an agenda potentially. Jad It is a writing partner and not perhaps there is agenda. Absolutely. Simon I bet you will never type quite the same way again Jad Abumrad. Jad No I definitely am looking at my QWERTY right now and I am very I do not trust you. Got my eye on you QWERTY. Simon It is watching you too. Tom Apparently. Jad Producer Simon Adler. This story was reported and produced by Simon with reporting assistance by Yang Yang original music throughout the piece by Simon. Special thanks again to Yang Yang without her this story would not have happened. Also to Tom Mullaney for his years of research on this topic and for sending us down this path to begin with and through Daniel Costa Santo for teaching us about the QWERTY effect. Joshua Souter Marion Reneau David Mosher Chen Gao Ree Uncle Chang Martian Wickery and Ying Ying Liu. Next week we are going to stay international but in a very different part of the world. I am Jad Abumrad. Thanks for listening. Verity Hi this is Verity calling from Bristol in the UK. Radiolab is created by Jad Abumrad with Robert Krulwich and produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our Director of sound design. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachel Cusick David Gebel Bethel Habte Tracy Hunte Matt Kielty Tobin Low Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Sara Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster. With help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 