Male                                      You are listening to ... Female                                To Radiolab. Robert Krulwich              Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad                    I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich              This is Radiolab. In this hour we are going to examine a sense of moral justice. Everybody knows that sometimes you feel something is right sometimes you feel something is wrong. We want to know where does that feeling begin where does it come from how old is it. We are going to take you from play groups to prisons some brain scans in between. Jad Abumrad                    Can we get started please? Robert Krulwich              Okay okay. Just going on a bit. Jad Abumrad                    Since this is an hour on morality why do not we start with two morality thought experiments. Are you with me? Robert Krulwich              Begrudgingly yes. Jad Abumrad                    This is a famous problem originally posed in 1967 by the philosopher Philippa Foot. There are two parts to this problem and you are going to have to make a choice at the end of each one. Robert Krulwich              Each one you are going to tell me a story. Jad Abumrad                    I am going to tell you a story and you are going to make a choice. Part one you ready? Robert Krulwich              Yeah. Jad Abumrad                    You are near some train tracks. Go there in your mind. There are five workers on the tracks working. They have got their backs turned to the trolley which is coming in the distance. Robert Krulwich              You mean they are repairing the tracks. Jad Abumrad                    They are repairing the tracks. Robert Krulwich              This is unbeknownst to them the trolley is approaching. Jad Abumrad                    They do not see it. You cannot shout to them. If you do nothing here's what will happen. Five workers will die. Robert Krulwich              Oh my god! That was a horrible experience. I do not want that to happen to them. Jad Abumrad                    No you do not but you have a choice. You can do A nothing or B it so happens next to you is a lever. Pull the lever and the trolley will jump onto some side tracks where there is only one person working. Robert Krulwich              If the trolley goes on the second track it will kill the one guy. Jad Abumrad                    Yeah so there is your choice. Do you kill one man by pulling a lever or do you kill five men by doing nothing? Robert Krulwich              I am going to pull the lever. Jad Abumrad                    Naturally. Here's part two. You are standing near some train tracks. Five guys are on the tracks just as before and there is the trolley. Robert Krulwich              I hear the train coming. Same five guys are working on the track? Jad Abumrad                    Same five guys. Robert Krulwich              Backs to the train they cannot see it. Jad Abumrad                    Yeah exactly. However I am going to make a couple changes. Now you are standing on a footbridge that passes over the tracks. You are looking down onto the tracks. There is no lever anywhere to be seen except next to you there is a guy. Robert Krulwich              What do you mean there is a guy? Jad Abumrad                    A large guy large individual standing next to you on the bridge looking down with you over the tracks and you realize Wait I can save those five workers if I push this man give him a little tap. He will land on the tracks. Robert Krulwich              He stops the train. Oh man I am not going to do that. I am not going to do that. Jad Abumrad                    Surely you realize the math is the same. Robert Krulwich              You mean I will save four people this way? Jad Abumrad                    Yeah. Robert Krulwich              Yeah but this time I am pushing the guy. Are you insane? No. Jad Abumrad                    Here's the thing. If you ask people these questions and we did starting with the first is it okay to kill one man to save five using a lever? Nine out of 10 people will say. Female                                Yes. Female                                Yes. Female                                Yes. Female                                Yes. Female                                Yeah. Jad Abumrad                    If you ask them is it okay to kill one man to save five by pushing the guy nine out of 10 people will say. Female                                No never. Female                                No. Male                                      No. Jad Abumrad                    It is practically universal. Marc Hauser                    Education level no effect. Male versus female no effect. Jad Abumrad                    That is Marc Hauser professor at Harvard. He actually posed the trolley scenarios to hundreds of thousands of people on the internet found the same thing. Everyone agrees. Then he took it a step further and asked them why. Why is murder because that is what it is why is murder okay when you are pulling a lever but not okay when you are pushing the guy. What he found is that consistently people have no clue. Marc Hauser                    People have no clue. They do not understand what drove their judgments which were completely spontaneous and automatic and immediate. Once they appreciate the dilemma they are now in of lack of consistency the whole thing basically begins to unravel. Female                                The pulling the lever to say the five that feels better than pushing the one to save the five but I do not really know why. There is a good moral quandary for you. Robert Krulwich              If as we said in the beginning having a moral sense is a unique and special human quality that maybe we us two humans anyway you and me should at least inquire as to why this happens. I happen to have met somebody who has a hunch. He is a young guy at Princeton University wild curly hair bit of mischief in this eye. His name is Josh Greene. He spent the last few years trying to figure out where this inconsistency comes from. Josh Greene                     How do people make this judgment? Forget whether or not these judgments are right or wrong just what is going on in the brain that makes people distinguished so naturally and intuitively between these two cases which from an actuarial point of view are very very very similar if not identical. Robert Krulwich              Josh is by the way a philosopher and a neuroscientist so this gives him special powers. He does not sit back in a chair smoke a pipe and think Now why do you have these differences? He said I would like to look inside people's heads because in our heads we may find clues as to where these feelings of revulsion or acceptance come from. In our brains. Josh Greene                     We are here in the control room. Robert Krulwich              Just so happens that in the basement of Princeton there was this big circular thing. Josh Greene                     Looks like an airplane engine. Robert Krulwich              180000-pound brain scanner. Josh Greene                     I will tell you a funny story. You cannot have any metal in there because the magnet. We have this long list of questions that we ask people to make sure they can go in do you have a pacemaker have you ever worked with metal blah blah blah blah blah. Robert Krulwich              Have you ever worked with metal? Josh Greene                     Yeah because you can have little flecks of metal in your eyes that you would never even know are there from having done metalworking. One of the questions is whether or not you wear a wig or anything like that because they often have metal wires in with that. There is this very nice woman who does brain research here who is Italian. She is asking her subjects over the phone all these screening questions. I have this person over to dinner she says Yeah I ended up doing this study but it was asking you the weirdest questions. This woman's like 'Do you have a hairpiece?' I am like 'What does it have to do if I have herpes or not?' She asked she said Do you have a hairpiece? Now she asks people if you wear a wig or whatever. Robert Krulwich              Anyhow what Josh does is he invites people into this room has them lie down on what is essentially a cot on rollers and he rolls them into the machine. Their heads are braced so they are stuck in there. Have you ever done this? Josh Greene                     Oh yeah several times. Robert Krulwich              Then he tells them stories. He tells them the same two trolley tales that you told before. Then at the very instant that they are deciding whether I should push the lever or whether I should push the man at that instant the scanner snaps pictures of their brains. What he found in those pictures was frankly a little startling. He showed us some. Josh Greene                     I will show you some stuff. Let me think. Robert Krulwich              The picture that I am looking at it is a brain looked I guess from the top down. Josh Greene                     Yeah it is top down and sliced like a deli slicer. Robert Krulwich              The first slide that he showed me was a human brain being asked the question Would you pull the lever? The answer in most cases was yes. Male                                      Yeah I would pull the lever. Robert Krulwich              When the brain's saying yes you would see little peanut-shaped spots of yellow. Josh Greene                     This little guy right here and these two guys right there. Robert Krulwich              The brain was being active in these places. Oddly enough whenever people said yes to the lever question the very same pattern lit up. Then he showed me another slide. This was a slide of a brain saying no. Female                                No I would not push the man. Robert Krulwich              I will not push the large man. In this picture ... Josh Greene                     This one we are looking at here this is- Robert Krulwich              It was a totally different constellation of regions that lit up. This is the no no no crowd. Josh Greene                     I think this is part of the no no no crowd. Jad Abumrad                    When people answer yes to the lever question there are places in their brain which glow? Robert Krulwich              Right but when they answered No I will not push the man then you get a completely different part of the brain lighting up. Jad Abumrad                    Even though the questions are basically the same? Robert Krulwich              Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad                    What does that mean? What does Josh make of this? Josh Greene                     He has a theory about this. A theory not proven but this is what I think the evidence suggests. Robert Krulwich              He suggests that the human brain does not hum along like one big unified system. He says maybe in your brain and every brain you will find little warring tribes little subgroups. One that is doing the logical accounting kind of thing. Josh Greene                     You have got one part of the brain that says Huh five lives versus one life? Would not it be better to save five versus one? Robert Krulwich              That is the part that would glow when you answer Yes I would pull the lever. Male                                      Yeah I would pull the lever. Robert Krulwich              There is this other part of the brain which really really does not like personally killing another human being gets very upset at the fat man case and shouts in effect. Male                                      No! Male                                      No! Jad Abumrad                    It understands it on that level and says ... Male                                      No! Male                                      No! Jad Abumrad                    ... no bad do not do. Female                                Never I do not think I could push. Female                                No. Female                                No never a person. Female                                No. Josh Greene                     Instead of having one system that just churns out the answer and bing we have multiple systems that give different answers and they duke it out and hopefully out of that competition comes morality. Robert Krulwich              This is not a trivial discovery that you struggle to find right and wrong depending upon what part of your brain is shouting the loudest. It is like bleachers morality. Jad Abumrad                    Do you buy this? Robert Krulwich              I just do not know. I have always suspected that a sense of right and wrong is mostly stuff that you get from your mom and your dad and from experience that it is culturally learned for the most part. Josh is a radical in this respect. He thinks is biological. Deeply biological. Somehow we inherit from the deep past a sense of right and wrong that is already in our brains from the get-go before mom and dad. Josh Greene                     Our primate ancestors before we were full-blown humans had intensely social lives. They have social mechanisms that prevent them from doing all the nasty things that they might otherwise be interested in doing. Deep in our brain we have what you might call basic primate morality. Basic primate morality does not understand things like tax evasion but it does understand things like pushing your buddy off of a cliff. Robert Krulwich              You are thinking then that the man on the bridge that I am on the bridge next to the large man and that I have hundreds of thousands of years of training in my brain that says Do not murder the large man. Even if I am thinking if I murder the large man I am going to save five lives and only kill the one man but there is something deeper down that says Do not murder the large man. Josh Greene                     That case I think it is a pretty easy case. Even though it is five versus one in that case people just go with what we might call the inner chimp. Robert Krulwich              The inner chimp is an unfortunate way of describing an act of deep goodness. Josh Greene                     That is what is interesting. Robert Krulwich              10 Commandments for ... Inner chimp. Josh Greene                     What is interesting is that we think of basic human morality as being handed down from on high and it is probably better to say that it was handed up from below that our most basic core moral values are not the things that we humans have invented but the things that we have actually inherited from other people. The stuff that we have humans have invented are the things that seem more peripheral and variable. Robert Krulwich              Something as basic as thou shalt not kill which many people think was handed down in tablet form from a mountaintop from God directly to humans no chimps involved you are suggesting that hundreds of thousands of years of on-the-ground training have gotten our brains to think Do not kill your kin. Josh Greene                     Right or at least that should be your default response. Certainly chimpanzees are extremely violent and they do kill each other but they do not do it as a matter of course. They so to speak have to have some context-sensitive reason for doing so. Robert Krulwich              Now we are getting to the rub of it. You think that profound moral positions may be somehow embedded in brain chemistry? Josh Greene                     Yeah. Jad Abumrad                    That is a cool idea though that when you have these gut feelings and we talk about our gut I know in my gut this is right or this is wrong really in that moment that is evolution talking. Robert Krulwich              Yeah he calls it our inner chimp. Jad Abumrad                    That phrase bothers you? Robert Krulwich              Yeah. Frans de Waal                Inner chimp that is an interesting way. Jad Abumrad                    You will be glad to know it was a phrase that was not too familiar to a guy who specializes in chimps. Frans de Waal                My name is Frans de Waal and I am a professor at Emory University. I also work at the Yerkes Primate Center in Atlanta Georgia. We will see maybe they make some noise without food. Jad Abumrad                    Frans de Waal he knows chimps he is observed chimps in some cases the same chimps for the last three decades. Though he does not use the phrase inner chimp he would agree that human morality is not special. All you have to do is watch chimps do their thing for five minutes to see that which we did. He took us on a little walk around his office. Frans de Waal                115 acres of land here in the middle of Atlanta with 2000 primates. Jad Abumrad                    Some bonobos gorillas. Frans de Waal                Mostly monkeys. Jad Abumrad                    He keeps his chimps in big stadium-type enclosures. They are like gladiator rings with high walls and no roof. Off to one side there is an observation tower. On the way to one of these big things we had to pass through some woods and we crossed a blackberry bush at which point Frans stopped. Frans de Waal                I am going to cut a few branches of blackberry. They like blackberry a lot. Jad Abumrad                    This is him cutting the branches. Frans de Waal                They love the young shoots. You will see. Pull this one out. Not bad at all. Jad Abumrad                    Anyhow a few minutes later we climbed the ladder to the observation tower so we could see the chimps down below. 15 chimps were milling around in the heat and then ... Frans de Waal                All right guys. Jad Abumrad                    ... this is a cool part with big smile on his face Frans drops the branch into the enclosure. Frans de Waal                Oops. Jad Abumrad                    There it goes. Lands 20 feet below right in front of a female. Frans de Waal                That is a young female Katie who takes it. She has the enormous branches of blackberry. There is one female coming over. They are not going to be happy to share. See there is a fight. Jad Abumrad                    There is a fight but do you hear how it stops like that on a dime? Robert Krulwich              Look did not you edit the tape? Jad Abumrad                    No I did not. Robert Krulwich              Really it stopped like that? Jad Abumrad                    Unedited tape. Raw tape. Robert Krulwich              What happened? What happened? Jad Abumrad                    What happened was that the alpha male number one chimp comes out and then everyone shuts up. Frans de Waal                The alpha male is coming over. He is here. Jad Abumrad                    Then after him comes number two. Frans de Waal                Now the second male has taken the food. Jad Abumrad                    Then the two of them stand together for a while. Who knows what they are doing? Eventually number two takes the branch and walks toward the back of the enclosure. Frans de Waal                You see he is being followed by females. Jad Abumrad                    At the back of the enclosure is a hut a little building. One by one all 15 chimps file in after him. Frans de Waal                Now they are going in the building with the branch which is bad for us because we may not hear a lot. Robert Krulwich              Can we see what they are doing? Jad Abumrad                    Mm-mm . Unfortunately not. There is no need to wonder because Frans told us what they were doing. He is seen it a million times. This is how they share. Frans de Waal                They will probably divide the thing and then some individuals will have a large branch and then they will start sharing with the rest. Robert Krulwich              Wow. Jad Abumrad                    See they have the system. Anytime some food lands in the enclosure and the juveniles get it and they cannot decide who gets what the adults will take it lead everyone into the hut where they will divide the branch into pieces. Frans de Waal                Usually in the end everybody gets something. We have this wonderful word. If we do something nice we call it humane behavior meaning that we borrow from our species name to describe it but it is actually a very ancient tendency. Jad Abumrad                    Ancient Frans says because the only way our primate ancestors made it this far was through cooperation. Frans de Waal                That is the key. Of course if you fall and stumble and bleed and are in trouble I should respond to that because my survival also depends on how you are doing. That does not mean that there is no nastiness. Jad Abumrad                    Chimps do fight. They do kill each other but on the whole they get along. They have gotten along for so long that evolution he says has etched some really basic instincts into our brains sharing reciprocity and the most basic one of all. Frans de Waal                If you were remain the capacity for empathy ... Jad Abumrad                    Empathy. Frans de Waal                ... for morality the whole thing falls apart. Then it just becomes a bunch of rules. Jad Abumrad                    People disagree about this what is the real essence of morality. Is it thoughts is it feelings? Frans says it is empathy. Frans de Waal                You can see very striking instances of empathy in the apes. Jad Abumrad                    He literally has a hundred different examples but here's a really good one that you may remember. Frans de Waal                There is this famous case in the Brookfield Zoo where a gorilla rescued a boy who had fallen into the enclosure. This happened 10 years ago. Newscaster                      It was a parent's nightmare. A three-year-old boy had climbed over a railing and fallen 18 feet into the gorilla pit. Robert Krulwich              What did the gorilla in that case do? Frans de Waal                She went over to pick up the boy. Newscaster                      As he lay injured and unconscious on the concrete Binti gently scooped him up. Frans de Waal                She sat down with the boy. She patted him on the back and she seemed to calm him down. Newscaster                      Then she did something amazing. Male                                      She carried him probably about 50 or 60 feet. Frans de Waal                Then she brought him to a place where people could get to him. Newscaster                      Paramedics quickly removed the boy from the pit. Frans de Waal                All of this was videotaped because there were people there videotaping it. Male                                      Just incredible. Child                                      I never thought a gorilla would do that. Frans de Waal                A big deal was made of it in the media but actually the response of that gorilla to the boy who had fallen in was a very common typical ape response. Jad Abumrad                    There you go. Robert Krulwich              Look I will concede the point that when Mount Sinai happened that was not the beginning of creatures learning to do good or knowing the difference between good and bad. I will say that I still think there is a difference between human beings and apes and monkeys. It is a tangible difference. Let me do one more story. This is a Josh Greene story. I do not think you could handle this one if you were a monkey. It is even hard to handle if you are a human. Josh Greene                     The situation is somewhat similar to the last episode of MASH for people who are familiar with that. The way we tell the story it goes like this. It is wartime. Male                                      There is an enemy patrol coming down the road. Josh Greene                     You are hiding in the basement with some of your fellow villagers. Male                                      Let us kill those lights. Josh Greene                     The enemy soldiers are outside. They have orders to kill anyone that they find. Male                                      Quiet! Nobody make a sound until they have passed us. Robert Krulwich              There you are you are huddled in the basement. All around you are enemy troops and you are holding your baby in your arms. Your baby with a cold a bit of a sniffle. You know that your baby could cough at any moment. Josh Greene                     If they hear your baby they are going to find you and the baby and everyone else and they are going to kill everybody. The only way you can stop this from happening is cover the baby's mouth but if you do that the baby's going to smother and die. If you do not cover the baby's mouth the soldiers are going to find everybody and everybody's going to be killed including you including your baby. Robert Krulwich              You have the choice. Would you smother your own baby to save the village or would you let your baby cough knowing the consequences? Josh Greene                     This is a very tough question. People take a long time to think about it. Some people say yes and some people say no. Female                                Children are a blessing and a gift from God and we do not do that to children. Female                                Yes I think I would kill my baby to save everyone else and myself. Male                                      No I would not kill the baby. Female                                I feel because it is my baby I have the right to terminate the life. Male                                      I would like to say that I would kill the baby but I do not know if I would have the inner strength. Male                                      No. If it comes down to killing my own child my own daughter or my own son then I would choose death. Male                                      Yeah if you have to. Of course it was done in World War II. When the Germans were coming around there was a mother that had a baby that was crying and rather than be found she actually suffocated the baby but the other people lived. Female                                Sounds like an old MASH thing. No you do not kill your baby. Robert Krulwich              In the final MASH episode the Korean woman who is a character in this piece she murders her baby. Male                                      She killed it! She killed it! Oh my god! Oh my god! I did not mean for her to kill it! I just wanted it to be quiet! It was a baby! She smothered her own baby! Robert Krulwich              What Josh did is he asked people the question would you murder your own child while they were in the brain scanner. At just the moment when they were trying to decide what they would do he took pictures of their brains. What he saw the contest we described before was global in the brain. It was like a world war. That gang of accountants that part of the brain was busy calculating calculating a whole village could die a whole village could die but the older and deeper reflex also was lit up shouting Do not kill the baby! No no do not kill the baby! Male                                      No! Robert Krulwich              Inside the brain was literally divided. Male                                      Do the calculations. Male                                      Do not kill the baby. Male                                      Do the calculations. Male                                      Do not. Robert Krulwich              Two different tribes in the brain literally tried to shout each other out. Jad this was a different kind of contest than the ones we talked about before. Remember before when people were pushing the man off of the bridge overwhelmingly their brains yelled No no do not push the man! When people were pulling the level overwhelmingly Yeah yeah pull the lever. There it was distinct. Here I do not think really anybody wins. Jad Abumrad                    Who breaks the tie? They had to answer something right? Robert Krulwich              That is a good question. What happens? Is it just two cries that fight each other out or is there a judge? Josh Greene                     That is an interesting question. That is one of the things that we are looking at. Robert Krulwich              When you are in this moment with parts of your brain contesting there are two brain regions. Josh Greene                     These two areas here towards the front. Robert Krulwich              Right behind your eyebrows left and right that light up. This is particular to us. He showed me a slide. Josh Greene                     It is those areas that are very highly developed in humans as compared to other species. Robert Krulwich              When we have a problem that we need to deliberate over the front of the brain this is above my eyebrow? Josh Greene                     Yeah right about there. Robert Krulwich              There is two of them one on the left and one on the right. Josh Greene                     Bilateral. Robert Krulwich              They are the things that monkeys do not have as much of that we have? Josh Greene                     Certainly these parts of the brain are more highly developed in humans. Robert Krulwich              Looking at these two flashes of light at the front of a human brain you could say we are looking at what makes us special. Josh Greene                     That is a fair statement. Robert Krulwich              A human being wrestling with a problem that is what that is. Josh Greene                     Yeah where it is both emotional but there is also a rational attempt to sort through those emotions. Those are the cases that are showing more activity in that area. Jad Abumrad                    In those cases when these dots above our eyebrows become active what are they doing? Robert Krulwich              He does not know for sure but what he found is in these close contests whenever those nodes are very very active it appears that the calculating section of the brain gets a bit of a boost and the visceral inner chimp section of the brain is muffled. Male                                      No! No! No! Robert Krulwich              The people who chose to kill their children who made what is essentially a logical decision over and over those subjects had brighter glows in these two areas and longer glows in these two areas. There is a definite association between these two dots above the eyebrow and the power of the logical brain over the inner chimp or the visceral brain. Josh Greene                     That is the hypothesis. It is going to take a lot more research to tease apart what these different parts of the brain are doing or if some of these are just activated in an incidental kind of way. We really do not know. This is all very new. Jad Abumrad                    How many people chose to kill their baby? Robert Krulwich              About half. Jad Abumrad                    Wow that is not bad. Robert Krulwich              What do you mean it is not bad? You are in favor of killing the baby? Jad Abumrad                    What would you do? Robert Krulwich              Me? I must have a very noisy chimp because it would not even consider- Jad Abumrad                    I would kill the baby. Robert Krulwich              You would? Jad Abumrad                    The village will go on to have a hundred babies. Your baby is just one. Robert Krulwich              My baby is my world. My baby is my universe. Jad Abumrad                    You are going to erase all those people based on your one child? Robert Krulwich              First of all we all need you to know that Jad Abumrad does not have a child of his own yet. Jad Abumrad                    True. Robert Krulwich              What you cannot know is you cannot know what it would be like to look into your own daughter's face your own son's face and end that life. Jad Abumrad                    Yeah you are right. Robert Krulwich              I know you. You could not do that. Jad Abumrad                    Agreed I do not know what I would do really but if you are just asking me right now in the abstract which is more right I could not live with myself if I did not act on behalf of the greater good. Robert Krulwich              Look you know what I think? I think the real essence of a moral sense if we want to bring this discussion to its real end you say what is it about human beings that the animals still do not have and me never hope and I hope we will never have guilt. Jad Abumrad                    Guilt? Robert Krulwich              Yeah guilt. The ability to blush. Frans de Waal                That is the one expression that the apes do not have as far as I know shame and guilt. I am not sure that they are particular well developed in the chimpanzee. Jad Abumrad                    Wow so shame. We should embrace our shame which is good because I actually spend most of my life feeling ashamed. Robert Krulwich              In that we are exactly the same. Jad Abumrad                    For more information on neuroscientist and philosopher Josh Greene and primatologist Frans de Waal who you just heard visit our website Radiolab.org. Female                                You are listening to Radiolab. Male                                      Radiolab. Female                                From New York Public Radio. Male                                      WNYC. Female                                NPR. pat walters                       Hey everybody Pat Walters here. I am a producer at Radiolab. I am here because I need your help. This summer I am hosting a series of stories on the show. I have requests for those of you who spend a lot of time with kids parents aunts and uncles teachers. We are looking for stories about what we are calling tiny moments of childhood brilliance. Basically I want to hear about those times when a kid you know did something that just made you lean back and say Whoa how did they do that? Maybe it was the moment that a kid you would been reading to for months started reading back to you or maybe the kid was at piano lessons and you suddenly noticed they were doing advanced math on the margin of their musical score or maybe the kid was in math class and you noticed they were writing music in the margin of their geometry homework. We are interested in those small specific moments where a kid does something super smart but it does not have anything to do with a test. If you have a story please share it with us. You can go to Radiolab.orgbrilliance and record a short audio message for us. Again that is Radiolab.orgbrilliance. Thank you so much. Dana Thompson            This is Dana Thompson from Muncie Indiana. Radiolab is supported by Luminary the only place where you can listen to Bill Simmon's new podcast the Rewatchables 1999. A spin-off of the Rewatchables the Rewatchables 1999 dissects the most iconic movies from 1999 an all-time great year in film. Listen to the Rewatchables 1999 along with other original shows only on Luminary. Visit Luminary.linkRL for your first two months of Luminary's premium content for free. After that it is 7.99 per month. Cancel anytime. Terms apply. Robert Krulwich              Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radiolab is supported by Delta. Delta flies to 300 cities around the world. That is 300 cities where people miss someone in one of our other 299 cities where people think that they are the only ones who know about that one place 300 cities where people sing in the car or in the shower or both poorly. Delta does not fly just merely to bring us together but to show us we are not that far apart in the first place. Delta keep climbing. Jad Abumrad                    This is Radiolab. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich              I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad                    Today on our program the science of morality of right and wrong and good and bad. Robert Krulwich              If we have now at least an argument in our heads about where moral sense might lie in the brain now let us ask when does it get turned on when do you think that humans begin to get a sense of right and wrong. Jad Abumrad                    I actually asked that question to an expert. Judy Smetana                 My name is Judy Smetana. Jad Abumrad                    Judy Smetana is her name. Judy Smetana                 I am a professor at the University of Rochester. Kids clearly know more than they can say. It is clear from both observations and anecdotes that children really are beginning to develop a moral sense in the second year of life. Of course that experience increases as they move into the threes but they are also beginning to form a much more complex or developed understanding of moral rules which they can share with us a little bit in our interviews. Male                                      Who makes the rules at your school? Child                                      My teachers. Jad Abumrad                    When you do the interviews with kids directly what kind of questions are you asking them? Male                                      Can they change the rules if they want to? Child                                      They are the teachers. They can do whatever they want. Judy Smetana                 We try to ask them really some very complex ideas in a simple form. Male                                      Is there a rule about hitting at your school? Child                                      Yes. Judy Smetana                 Such as would it be okay to hit if your teacher did not see you or would it be okay to hit if there was no rule about it in your school. Male                                      Suppose the teachers at school agree that they will not have any rule about hitting at school there is no rule anymore. Then would it be okay for a boy to hit another kid hard? Child                                      No. Male                                      No? How come? Child                                      Because that would make somebody feel bad. Male                                      It would. What is wrong with hitting somebody anyway? Child                                      It is made out of the skin because their skin can get cut or get a bruise. Judy Smetana                 What we found is that young children beginning at about three but really much more reliably by age four will say that things like hitting or hurting or teasing would be wrong even if the teacher did not see them or did not have a rule whereas other things like sitting in the circle in circle time ... Male                                      Is there a rule at your school about sitting down while you eat your lunch? Child                                      Yes. Judy Smetana                 ... would be okay if there was no rule about it. Male                                      Is that a rule the teacher could change? Child                                      Yes if she says Okay you could stand up you could do that. You have to listen to the teacher. Judy Smetana                 It is clear that the moral universe begins very early for young children. Female                                Hello. Female                                Fay who is hosting today got this idea to start a play group. Female                                All of our kids are out in the living room playing together as they usually do trying not to kill each other. Female                                I am finding the threes a little bit easier on Dana than the twos because my son has no fear. We call him the red tornado. Female                                Hey there what is your name? Alex                                        Alex. Female                                Once he turned three ... Female                                Hold old are you? Alex                                        Three. Female                                I find that we are able to explain things to him easier. Jad Abumrad                    What kind of things like rules? Female                                Rules oh yeah. Rules. Female                                Can you tell me what the rules are? You are nodding yes. Female                                If you ask him the rules of the house he says no hitting no pushing no banging heads. Alex                                        No hitting no pushing no banging heads. Female                                Those are the rules. He knows. Female                                No pushing no hitting and what is the other one? Alex                                        No banging heads. Female                                No banging heads. Female                                Does not always follow them though. Alex do it gentle. Judy Smetana                 One of the things that we see is that young children can tell you that things are wrong that it is wrong to hit because it hurts wrong to take toys. At the same time kids do take other kids' toys they do hit each other. You have to wonder why is it if they know it is wrong why are they doing this. Jad Abumrad                    Because it feels good right? Judy Smetana                 Yeah it feels good because they got what they wanted. Some researchers have called that the happy victimizer effect. Jad Abumrad                    To hit another kid or to take another kid's toys feels good but to have your toys taken by another kid feels bad. Is that the basic information that a child uses to start forming their moral universe? Judy Smetana                 Right. The task of a young child's development is to be able to coordinate those two perspectives that of the victim and that of the transgressor and weight it toward the way that the victim feels. Jad Abumrad                    What we are really talking about is a happy victimizer versus empathy. Judy Smetana                 Yeah. Gavin                                    Hello. Male                                      I would say that the absence of empathy is one of the characteristics of really young kids. Gavin                                    What is this? Jad Abumrad                    It is a microphone. Gavin                                    My name is Gavin. Male                                      Gavin make sure you do not have any yogurt on your fingers. Gavin                                    I am two years old. Male                                      You say to them Do you see how you do not like being teased but then you teased your brother and see how it made him feel you might as well be speaking in Farsi to them. They are a little bit like sociopaths. Jad Abumrad                    Do you think that is overstating it? Female                                I think so. I guess in a very general way that is true but I think we are born with some very rudimentary sense of empathy hardwired in. People are very persuaded for instance by the primate evidence that that is something that you see in other species. Female                                I do think that kids are born with different innate levels of empathy. I happened to be going to school early one day. I am never early. They have an observation closet where you can watch the classroom. I would not ever observed because I am never early so I went into the closet. At that moment I saw Jack tackle his best friend drop behind a bookcase the rest of the classroom gather round. Then I saw Jack stand up and just look down with this very startled frightened look on his face. Then I saw his friend stand up with his lip bleeding. I thought I cannot believe I am watching this happen. The only time I have ever watched my son through the window at school and I think he just gave someone a bloody lip. He was mortified by the whole thing. He was mortified I think scared about his own actions. In some ways I said to my sister at that moment I regretted that I did not run in the classroom. My sister said The best thing you did was stay out of it. Jack                                        Jack and I am four. Female                                Jack had to see the consequences of his own actions on his own terms. Jack                                         Male                                      I love that song. Jad Abumrad                    I love that song too. Thank you Jack and also Jack's parents William and Tori . Thanks also to Dana Missy Ana and Fay for letting us eavesdrop on their playgroup. Thanks also to our experts Judy Smetana professor of psychology at the University of Rochester and to the Larry Nucci professor at the University of Illinois in Chicago. Robert Krulwich              If this moral sense gets turned on when you are three or four there are some moments in your life where you get so embarrassed by something that you did that your moral sense never turns off. That is the next story. Jad Abumrad                    It comes from producer Amy O'Leary. For her that moment came in the 4th grade during a game her class played called Homestead a cross between Dungeons and Dragons and Monopoly. It was supposed to teach kids about pioneer history. Amy felt so bad about how she acted in this game that many years later she wrote her teacher a letter and he never responded so she went to see him. Amy O'Leary                     Where is your classroom? Mr. Riggs                             Down this way. Amy O'Leary                     The kids are off in? Mr. Riggs                             PE. Amy O'Leary                     As we walk through the hallway I realize why I am feeling so disoriented. I am a grownup with a 401k and the doorknobs in the school come up to my knees. When we sit down for the interview part of the interview where I am supposed to ask Mr. Riggs about this game we played frankly all I could think of was the most obvious question. How are you? Mr. Riggs                             Older balder grayer fatter. Still teaching probably have still six or seven years left to go. Amy O'Leary                     How many- Mr. Riggs                             34. Amy O'Leary                     34 years. Mr. Riggs                             Yeah I have been teaching probably longer than half the staff's been alive. Amy O'Leary                     You still play Homestead? Mr. Riggs                             Yes we are still trying to do it. Amy O'Leary                     You just grabbed your forehead and had this look of anguish. What was that for? Mr. Riggs                             This class this has been a difficult class. Some of them will do it. Some of them will not. Some of them will remember it. You remembered it. Did everyone in the class remember it? Amy O'Leary                     I already knew the answer to that because I would checked. Jeff                                          Hello? Amy O'Leary                     I found Jeff in L.A. Jeff do you remember Homestead? Jeff                                          Vaguely. Amy O'Leary                     Dale in Phoenix. Dale do you remember the Homestead game that we played? Dale                                       Vaguely. Amy O'Leary                      who I met at a bar in Brooklyn where she works. Do you remember Homestead the game? Steffa                                    No not as much as you do obviously. Once you start talking about it I may remember it. Amy O'Leary                     It was this simulation game that we were supposed to be prairie settlers. There was this big plywood map at the front of the classroom. We had these little booklets that were black-and-white booklets. Mr. Riggs                             These are the booklets you used. Amy O'Leary                     Wow. Standing in this classroom I remember everything about the game. I hold this and I have a flood of memories. I remember the power and the slum-lording the price gauging. I think the purpose of the game was to teach us something about the history of the kinds of people who had to settle the West. You were assigned a character and a plot of land. Every day you played it each individual student would have a different fortune. You might roll a one and there would be a drought and you would not get any money off of your land or you would roll a six and that meant that there was a bumper crop. It was a lot like a Monopoly game. Mr. Riggs                             With that in mind I have got the board there. Amy O'Leary                     Is that the same board? Mr. Riggs                             Yeah it is the same board. Amy O'Leary                     Let us look at it. I remember this. Just as luck would have it one of the very first things that happened in the game is that Mr. Riggs announced that this land the square in the middle there land square 18 my land that is the piece of land that I had would be the center of town. Mr. Riggs                             You got to sell all the town property and everything and run the town. Jad Abumrad                    What did you think of this? Amy O'Leary                     I knew at the time it would help me win the game. I thought This is lucky. I have something that nobody else has. I thought it was further evidence that I was special. I was always a good student. I thought this is what good students you get rewarded with lucky things. Jad Abumrad                    Then what'd you do? Amy O'Leary                     I started by forming a company. We would go to a kid. We would say Hey do you want to join our company? They would be like What is that? We would say We are going to be a company and we are going to be all together. You give us your land and we will give you a place in the town to live. Everybody wants to move to the town. Do not you want to be in the town? Meanwhile I will take all the profits from your farmland. You could get 200 to 1000 a year on your crops on your land and then we would pay them 50 a year. It was a simulation game so nobody actually had to go out and work their fields to reap the profits off the land but these people basically sold themselves into a very low wage slavery situation. Jad Abumrad                    All the other nine-year-olds went for this? Amy O'Leary                     Yes. Jad Abumrad                    Why? Amy O'Leary                     Peer pressure. They thought we were the cool kids. They would all say yes. That is what I remember is almost no one turned us down. Once you have got 20 kids who are part of the company oh my god I can do whatever I want. Crazy total power. Anything. Any bullying tactic. There were things that would come up like the booklet would say your family's having a medical problem you need to pay the doctor. My baby's sick my baby's sick! The doctor worked for our company and the doctor would overcharge the people who were not in the company. If you were not part of the company it was going to cost you a lot of money. More money than any of these people had. Jad Abumrad                    Sheesh. Amy O'Leary                     That was not even the worst of it. Dale                                       I do somewhat remember that whole episode of ... Amy O'Leary                     That is Dale again. Dale                                       ... us having to actually stop the game early. Amy O'Leary                     He did not remember much but he remembered the money. It is hard to forget the money. Dale                                       You had flooded the whole game with counterfeit money and everybody else's was not worth anything anymore. Amy O'Leary                     The game used Monopoly money to begin with. Once we got big enough where we realized nobody could really track our finances we just started bringing it in from home. We actually brought in Life money and Monopoly money from home and flooded the classroom currency market. It was an absurd amount of money. In hindsight I have thought that you had to notice that. Mr. Riggs                             It was noticeable because I was stamping the money with a Groucho Marx stamp I had on the back and that was the real stuff and anything without the Groucho was the counterfeit. No class has taken it as far as you guys is. Jad Abumrad                    Did Mr. Riggs ever tell you this was wrong? Amy O'Leary                     No never. He never said it explicitly. He just one day called this meeting. I remember this meeting very clearly. You brought us all up to the front of the room. Six kids frustrated gathered around one side of Mr. Riggs's big teacher's desk. I stood on the other. You said We do not exactly think this is fair but you did not tell us it was wrong or that you are cheating or you are counterfeiting money and I know it. What I remember was that you raised the question. He asked me What are you going to do about this? A long pause. He was not punishing me or saying it was against the rules exactly. I could not figure out what was going on. We were winning. What was I going to do about it? Nothing I told him. That is when he gave me this look. It was almost like there was a quiet disappointment that you had. All the hope he would had for me as a human being just slid right off his face. Mr. Riggs                             Did that help develop a conscience in you? Has that ever come back so that you think about things differently? Amy O'Leary                     Utterly. That is exactly why I have remembered this for so long and so well. It stuck with me as this lesson of even if you are not going to get punished for something it still can be wrong. Mr. Riggs                             Then it was successful if that has happened. Amy O'Leary                     Do you do that on purpose? Mr. Riggs                             I think I did it on purpose then because it was one of those teachable moments that happens and you just revel in it how wonderful it is that this was presented. Amy O'Leary                     My classmate Dale put things into perspective. Dale                                       Everybody does things when they are that age that make you feel bad to learn what is right or wrong. Amy O'Leary                     Do you have things like that? What he told me next caught me off guard. Dale                                       Yeah. Travis Sherman was a friend of mine that lived in the neighborhood and we were the best of friends riding our bikes around town. We were coming home crossing a freeway off-ramp. I was in front of Travis. I made it across. The next thing I remember hearing is just squealing tires and I look around and Travis is half underneath this car out in the intersection. I remember him half standing up and his leg was folded up like origami almost just trashed. He just looked up at me and said Oh god Dale my leg and he fell back down. I could not have been more than six but for whatever reason I did not go back to him. I just turned around and I got on my bike and I just rode off. I do not even think I told my mom about it. He tried calling from the hospital several times and I just remember going No I do not want to talk to him. I do not want to talk to him. My mom finally says No you are going to talk to him whether you like it or not. When I finally did get on the phone I just clearly remember him asking Why did you do that? How come you did not come back for me? I did not have an answer for him. Dale                                       To this day it is one of those things that still bugs me about myself. Even though I was only that old that still bothers me that I would do that that I would turn around and leave somebody who needs help like that. Maybe that factors into how I am as a person today. I will help anybody I can just because I do not want to have that feeling again. Amy O'Leary                     I asked Dale if he could erase that day from his life would he? No he said Not in a million years. It is part of who he is now. Who he is now is the kind of guy who will come and pick you up in the middle of the desert when your car breaks down at 00 a.m. no questions asked. He is a really loyal friend a good person. I did not go back to see Mr. Riggs to resolve anything. I did not need him to say that deep down he always thought he was a good kid or that he is no longer disappointed in me. What matters is that once he was disappointed in me. I think about that all the time. Do you find that with kids this age that that particular lesson is one that they are sorting through right now that kids who are eight nine years old? Mr. Riggs                             Yeah they are sorting through that. Is there a right is there a wrong what is morality? Usually there is a sense of fairness. These kids have got fairness down to the nth degree. They can look at one of these cupcakes and tell you to the ounce which one's bigger and if somebody else gets it it is not fair and everything else. Is that morality? I think if people are left alone that they have a tendency to do the right thing. Kids have the tendency to do the right thing. There are several kids that I do not think will ever have a grasp of that and whether it is genetics or very early family background. Amy O'Leary                     How can you tell that so early? Mr. Riggs                             When you see a child that consistently pokes consistently cuts cheats steals lies whatever and I am saying at three at four at five not just in third grade I think that child's cursed doomed whatever for the rest of their lives. Amy O'Leary                     I spend the rest of the day with Mr. Riggs's class thinking about what he said watching his third-graders. Child                                      Why do not you just go ? Amy O'Leary                     I asked  a kid in the front row what the rules are. Could you tell me what the rules are in this room? Athan                                    You got three of them right up there. Amy O'Leary                     He points to a poster and I remember that too. Athan                                    Act safely respect others and their property. Amy O'Leary                     At the top rule number one. Athan                                    Do what you know is right. Amy O'Leary                     Do what you know is right. Those work pretty well? Athan                                    Yeah they actually sometimes do. Jad Abumrad                    Thanks Amy O'Leary for producing that story. One more story like it coming up on Radiolab. Stay with us. Male                                      You are listening ... Female                                To Radiolab. Male                                      Radiolab. Female                                From New York Public Radio. Male                                      WNYC. Female                                NPR. Jad Abumrad                    This is Radiolab. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich              I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad                    This hour we have been looking at morality good and bad right and wrong. Robert Krulwich              Now let us say that you are wrong you have done something bad and that the society around you says you are guilty. If you go back 250 years the city fathers of Philadelphia have an interesting way to make its citizens own up to their guilt. Jad Abumrad                    It is a giant gothic castle that still sits today in the middle of downtown Philadelphia except it is no longer occupied and it is falling apart. We sent producer Josh Braun to take a look. Sean Kelley                       Do you want to just walk over and look around a little bit? Josh Braun                        Can we look around a little bit and just get some ambiance and stuff like that? Sean Kelley                       Yeah you bet. The building is truly ruined. There used to be two huge oak doors here and they had iron studs all ... This building is based on a profoundly optimistic view of human nature. Imagine swinging this giant door open. That all people are inherently good. You being our new inmate first thing would be to have your head covered with a hood. That every human being in their heart had an instinct to behave right to do the right thing so they argued for a prison that would house every man and every woman in a profound isolation. They thought that isolation would encourage spiritual reflection and the prisoners would become penitent. This was the world's first true penitentiary a building designed to make someone penitent genuinely sorry for what they did. Sean Kelley                       We are going to walk down here. They called this the south corridor this big arched corridor here. Quaker prison reformers argued that inmates should be totally cut off from the outside world. They did not allow them to get letters from home. They did not allow them any books aside from a copy of the King James Bible. They were looking for near total sensory deprivation. They wanted you to see the four white walls of your 8x12 cell and not a whole lot else for years. Sean Kelley                       Here you are inside of your cell. You can see it has a cot in it with a simple mattress stuffed with straw. Those over there are tools for making shoes. The cell what always amazes me every time is how high the ceiling is. 16' vaulted ceilings. It is got this beautiful arch to it. Then they have that skylight. They called them the eye of God. Daylight that came down through this circular opening is supposed to mimic the look of an eye looking down at you. You are supposed to be going through a profound spiritual reflection while you are here and so they wanted all the light to come down from above. On a gray day like this you really get a sense for how gloomy the cell would have been. You stay here for one second I will be right back. I will see you in a few minutes. Sean Kelley                       We have a letter from an inmate. He wrote to his mother saying I have just received word that I will serve my sentence in the Eastern State Penitentiary in silence and incredible crushing isolation. Please endeavor to secure for me a pardon. Sean Kelley                       The people who ran this prison were fascinated by silence. They just fetishized the idea of total silence. They wanted the inmates' life back here in these cells to be almost completely silent. As they walked up and down the corridors the guards would put socks over there shoes so that you would not hear the footsteps. As they rolled carts of food to deliver meals here in the cells they covered the wheels of the cart with leather so they would roll in silence. Sean Kelley                       A friend of my mother's was telling me about his time in the Peace Corps. He was in Gabon Africa. He was in the jungle. He said the jungle was so dense they would only carve out chunks of jungle big enough for the exact spaces that they needed for little gathering spots for their houses. If they would left something for a couple of weeks it would be just jungle again. After two years of being in this village he went off to visit a friend in Kenya and went out to the plains and he said his eyes physically could not focus on distances further than about 10 feet out because they had not done it in two years. He said the entire time when he was out there he felt exposed like there was things behind him that he could not see. Sean Kelley                       All I could think about was Eastern State Penitentiary and being in these little cells about 8x12 for years. Then you walk out and the first thing you see is the prison itself extending 680 feet in either direction. Must have freaked people out. Sean Kelley                       There was this growing debate that prolonged isolation could cause insanity that it could cause emotional breakdown. What looked to be optimistic in the 1830s looked pretty cynical by the 1860s. By about the building's hundredth birthday they had given up the idea of solitary confinement and they were holding inmates here for life sentences. The walls were built with the idea that people are inherently good and by the end they were housing all these inmates who apparently they had assumed were inherently evil. We will lock up behind us. These days our major security concern is people getting in vandals all that kind of stuff. Jad Abumrad                    Josh Braun produced that audio tour with recording help from Sally Herships. The voice you heard was Sean Kelley. For more information on Eastern State Penitentiary or the science of morality or anything that you heard this hour visit our website. What is the address? Robert Krulwich              The address is ... Jad Abumrad                    Come on you should have it memorized by now. Robert Krulwich              Radiolab.org. Jad Abumrad                    Radiolab.org. While you are there let us know what you think. Our email address is radiolabwnyc.org. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich              I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad                    We are signing off. Dale Keyes                        Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad and Ellen Horne with help from Sarah Pellegrini Melissa  Amber  and  Tanner. Special thanks to David Martin and the Vanderbilt Television News Archive and to me Dale Keyes. Radiolab is produced by New York Public Radio WNYC and distributed by NPR. Trevor Weller                  This is Trevor Weller calling from Park City Utah. Radiolab is supported by the University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center where physicians see more types of cancer in a day than many will treat in their whole career providing expertise in cancer research and treatment. MD Anderson's dedicated team of nearly 21000 strong is solely focused on ending cancer and finding new ways to give more hope to patients and their families. More at MakingCancerHistory.com.