 We are going to start the Unspoken episode off with a story about notes passing notes only not in class. SNAP JUDGMENT's Joe Rosenberg has the story.   Avi Steinberg's mugging story takes place a few years ago when on his way back from a late night movie in Boston a man stepped out from behind and pressed a cold object to Avi's chest.  He told me that he had a gun but he actually did not have a gun. He had a knife. So I very warily took out the money gave him the money. I thought OK we are done here.  Except they were not done because instead of leaving the mugger just stood there not moving.  I am thinking what does this guy want from me? What is happening here? And then his tone changed. It changed from like mugger tone to like something else that I could not quite identify. And he says to me do you work at the Bay? And I said yeah I work at the Bay. And he said oh yeah I think I know you. Are you the book guy? And I said oh God yeah - because the Bay is Suffolk County House of Corrections - that is basically Boston County prison - and I am the librarian of that prison. So finally he walks away and then he stops and turns around to me and he says I still owe you guys two books and then just runs. It turns out that this guy had taken out books and he never returned them.  Avi was actually the assistant librarian at the prison. He worked the night shift. And he says that when he first started there...  I thought I would definitely be like cool you know I mean because I was like I get it. I get that this is kind of like all  you know. And that these guys whether guilty or not whatever they got some kind of raw deal. So I figured that they would get me right away I would get them. It would be great. And you know it was not exactly the case. I mean the second I walked into that space the library space I saw a rule that was on the door of the library. So everyone sees it as they are leaving because it was the rule. It says books are not mailboxes.  Did you know what that meant?  No I did not know but I found out very quickly because within the first week one of the guards came in and I saw that he was looking at the books and I thought oh guy's looking at the books. That is nice you know. But then he started like fishing in the books and pulling out papers.  Then he walked over to Avi and dropped a note on his desk a message from one prisoner to another.  And he was like I found this in the book. And I said oh that is interesting. And finally he said like this is something that happens here.  The officer said that these notes were actually a common way for prisoners to exchange illicit information.  And you actually are supposed to go through all the books and make sure that there are not notes being left inside. So my job ended up being mostly to be the guy who takes letters out of books.  And as it turns out it was a full-time job. It seemed to Avi sometimes like everyone was leaving notes.  I would see people furiously writing letters you know in the library. Like they came wrote the letter and stuck it in the book and I saw the whole thing just happen in front of me. And then I would see people you know casually walking up and down the aisle like just looking at the books. Like why - is this not really how you look at books you know what I mean? Like I could tell that look that they had on their face when they were looking for a letter because I had the same look on my face when I looked for a letter.  Then Avi realized that the savvier prisoners in order to avoid being caught were using case law books.  Because they are really well organized. So you could say like the 19th volume of the Federal Reporter you know? So that is their mailbox so they went straight to that book right away. Tons of letters I know got through because occasionally I would intercept a letter and it was clear that there was tons of correspondence beforehand that I had not seen. So whatever system I concocted to find these letters they concocted a better system to deliver them. But it was also my job to read these letters because we had to find out if something was happening if there was something of any kind of security importance and that is what the officers were the most interested in. They wanted to hear what was going on. But I would have this downtime. Like in the afternoon when the men were locked down I would have like an hour or so and the library would be really really quiet and I would sit there reading letters. And these voices would just sort of jump out at me.  Avi says that as a staffer he would always had to maintain a certain distance from the inmates. But through these letters he could start to understand how prison actually worked.  And people would say you know fly me a kite next week. And I was thinking what is that? And then I realized they were just talking about the letters themselves. They were referring to the letters as a kite. And then once I saw that I started to see it everywhere. And I would hear it also you know people talking about it. And that is just what these letters were called. They were called kites. And I did not realize this but most of these letters were written from men to women and from women to men because this facility had men and women in it. They never shared the same space ever. And the women were housed in the prison tower like 11 stories up like sort of Rapunzel style. But for a few hours every night the women would come down to the library. So a lot of the letters were romantic and they were pages long and people really took a lot of time to write them.  But what really surprised Avi was how many of these romances started in the prison even though most of these couples have never actually met.  Because they could see each other through the windows and they actually created this sort of language where they could signal to each other through the windows at night. So they would have these like you know sort of live-action conversations. Like I could only see them motioning. I could not read it. But then whatever dramas were happening in the windows would filter into the letters.  I was wondering then if we could have you read through some of these.  Sure OK. This is Mario writing to T-Baby .  My window writing skills suck so we must go slow and be patient with each other until we get better. On Wednesday we have a window date. Post up in your cell window. When I see you I am going to click my lights five times and then shape two hearts. A woman writing to Papa Duck .  One of my cellies just told me you were skywriting her in May. So know one thing my friend. I am on to you Mr. Loyal. Stay the  out the windows. I know everyone here.  I love that line.  It is a good one. Let us see.  Shahid  how can you question my fidelity? Like I told you already you do not understand or comprehend how what we have is very real. It as not window talk and just something to do. These are people who come to the library. I know everyone really well you know? So sometimes I could tell this was just such b.s. you know. Someone was just completely spinning themselves. Well and you know it is like a dating profile. Good for them you know. They are putting out their best foot or whatever. But sometimes people would just be super honest. So there was a couple letters from this older woman who - I knew her you know. I saw her in the library a lot. She was just really lonely. And this is a line from a note that she wrote and left in the library.  To whom it may concern I am a 36-year-old mother grandmother and addict the latter I am not proud of.  Who was she writing to?  Anyone. She was just looking to have a pen pal. And you know it is such a vulnerable position to put out a letter to nobody in particular and then to bury her soul in it. It takes a lot to do that. But you know in the end of the day I did not let those go through and that was just kind of sad because I was moved by that but I guess not moved enough.  How does it feel then when these people are yearning to communicate and you are the guy who is like foiling them at the last second? And not only - you are not only foiling them but you are getting to know the content of the message and the recipient is not.  Yeah it is terrible. I mean tampering with people's mail is a crime right? So it felt like I was committing a crime like I was doing something really wrong. But if I let them through then I am starting to compromise my authority which was so shaky - I mean so shaky from the beginning because when you start bending any kind of rules for someone they could say not only did you do this thing and now we are friends so you have to help me out but I know that you broke the rules and I can get you in trouble for that so now you better help me. And you do not know how it is going to end. So I took special solace in my second job which was to teach creative writing up in the prison tower and hoping that maybe you know I do not know maybe that would help me feel less bad about the fact that I was destroying their other writings. And it was in that class on the very first day that I first met Jessica. My first impression of her was her just sitting very very still and very straight and very sort of proud very good posture with her hands folded in her lap just looking out the window just kind of meditating. And I had no idea what was going on outside that window only that her attention was there not with me. But one of the readings I had assigned was a short story by Flannery O'Connor. And Jessica suddenly said you know let me see her. And I was like what? And she is like let me - I want to see a picture of Flannery O'Connor. So I said OK I mean is that important? She is like I want to - before I read this I want to see what she looks like. I said all right fine. So I rustled it out I showed her a picture of her and she looked at her very intently and said all right she is not too pretty you know. She looks kind of busted up. I trust her.  Then Jessica went back to gazing out the window and did not speak for the rest of the class. And after a while it became clear that that is all Jessica did. No matter what the discussion no matter how hard Avi tried to engage with her Jessica would just sit there her head turned to the right staring off into nothing.  So I pretty much said to her listen you cannot just sit there staring out the window. And over the course of the next few weeks she basically stopped showing up to the class. So I figured fine she does not want to come to the class. So be it. And then one day probably a couple weeks later I was in the library just sorting through some books and Martha  the gossip came into the library to chat with me. And she said you know your friend Jessica you know there is a reason why she does not come to your class anymore. And I said why you know because I was kind of curious. And she said because she cannot look out that window. And I said you know so what she cannot look out the window? It is not my problem. And she said no no you do not understand. Like she was coming to your class to look out that window because she wanted to look at her son.  You see the window did not really look out over nothing. It looked out over the prison yard the same yard where Jessica's son Chris who was also an inmate at the prison had yard time at the exact same time that Avi taught his creative writing class.  And she had abandoned this boy years earlier when he was almost a baby. And the first time she saw her son as an adult was when he came into the yard. And this is what was going on in my class. She was not just checked out. She was checked in to her son. I do not know whether he knew that she was there. I took the elevator up to the 11th floor where the women were housed. She was just in the corner you know minding her own business playing a game. And I sat down with her and I said listen I know why you look out the window. And she looked at me like what do you know? And I just said look I know that you were looking at your son. So I want you to come back to the class.  He had only one request participate a little bit more just enough to keep up appearances and he would let her look out the window as much as she wanted.  And then of course I like sighed and said please do not tell anyone that I am making this deal 'ecause then everyone's going to want to make deals with me. But I want to help you out here OK? And she looked at me like all right I will come to your class. Let us do this. And so at one day when the class was over and the other inmates had already left the room I asked Jessica so what are you seeing?  Jessica gestured to a group of men playing basketball down below. Then she pointed one out Chris. From 11 stories up it was hard for Avi to make out the details but he seemed happy healthy lost in the game.  And she had a whole take on him you know? She - you know when she was watching him out the window she was really studying him and trying to understand what kind of guy he was and who - how it matched with the little boy that she remembered from all those years ago. And the little boy was a very happy boy and very active and she still saw that but it gave her some sense of continuity or some sense of - I do not know something. And she just she told me this incredible dream that she had had.  In her dream she would see Chris on the court only this time he was alone.  But it was just sort of beautiful dance of him just sort of like skating around and shooting hoops in his very graceful way. And she just imagined him breathing and after many years remembered the dreams that she had had when she was pregnant with him of what it was like to have another breath inside of you. And you know she would go to sleep hoping that she would have this dream.  After that Jessica started coming down to the library and confiding in Avi more and more.  And she told me about the time that she abandoned him. This was after you know months and months of being seriously addicted and estranged from her family and she just could - felt like I cannot raise this child. And she had taken him to a playground that day so he would be really tired. She got on a train to go to the opposite side of town to a rich neighborhood so she would leave him in a place where there is money and there would be more opportunity for him. And she went into a church and she left a note that said he is a good boy. Please give him a good home. God bless. And she put this note in his shirt and just left and that was the last time she saw him. The way she put it to me is you know I committed all these crimes. I was always in trouble with the law but like this was the worst thing I had ever done and I was not even getting in any trouble for it. I would gotten away with it you know? And that was killing her. In the background I am hearing the prison guard come down yelling and saying it is time to go. And I watched her go out with the other inmates in the hallway. And particularly that day the guards were just really nasty and I am watching her through the library window. Everyone else was kind of you know engaged with the officer and yelling at him and trying to whatever and she was just like not there. Like she was like invisible and then she just disappeared. I am sure that night she tried to have her dream. I do not know.  Avi found himself hoping that one day he would find a kite from Jessica to Chris in the library letting him know that she was there and that she loved him. But Chris was not much of a library-goer. And when he did come in Avi noticed that he was not as happy as he seemed from 11 stories up. Then one day Jessica came to him with more bad news. She was being transferred to another prison. Within a month she would be gone.  And I said well what about Chris you know? And she said what about him? And it was true. What exactly was I even suggesting? I do not know. But then later before it really - when it got closer to her actually - her time to leave - she said to me I would like to write him a letter. Can you deliver it to him? And of course I thought no.  This was after all the opposite of what he was supposed to. His job was to intercept messages not pass them along. For all the reasons he talked about earlier it was just a bad idea.  But I just could not help but say something at that moment because in prison it is very hard to make things good happen and I thought you know this is something that I could do. So I said OK I will do this yes. And she said I also want to give him a gift. And I am like I cannot give him a gift you know what is that going to be? But she said the gift was a drawing of her. She wanted to have her portrait drawn and she wanted her son to have his picture of his mother.  So Avi reached out to Chris through a third party - a mutual friend who often came into the library - only he said Chris was not interested in anything his mother had to say.  But after - I do not know - maybe a couple days couple weeks he said that Chris actually was open to something. And when that letter came I should give it to him and he would give to Chris and you know he was waiting for it.  Now all he had to do was set up a space for Jessica to have that portrait drawn.  And she came so prepared for that moment. She walked in and she just looked completely different. Her eyebrows were plucked. Her lips and cheeks were rouged. Oh and she had this flower in her hair made out of construction paper and gum wrappers folded origami-style into like a dahlia flower. And at some point I said maybe you should stare off like in a distance like looking out that window. But this was dismissed as too artsy.  And when the portrait was finished Avi had to admit that Jessica's instinct was spot on. In the drawing she put her best face forward smiling for her son.  But just from every single moment onwards I felt nervous because Jessica really wanted to fuss over this letter really get it right you know? So you know I would say to her how is it going with the letter? And she said no I need more time. I need more time. And whenever Chris's friend would come into the library he would say to me hey how is it going? Do we have any progress? And I would keep saying to him I saw the portrait. It is happening. You know she is just working on the letter yes yes yes. It is in the mail. But the fact was I did not have the letter in my hand and a few days later I was at the circulation desk processing books. And Martha the Gossip came in. That is where all these stories started and ended and she said to me she is gone. Jessica has left. But I had been preparing myself for her leaving for a while. I knew that that was going to come. And the fact is that as long as she had the letter it could still happen. But then she said I want you to know also that Jessica trashed the letter. She ripped it up and threw it into the garbage and I saw it. And that kind of hit me hard you know because for me to think that I had raised Chris's hopes was just - it was just horrible.  What did you do to reach out to Chris? What did you say to him?  Yeah I - not much you can say. So I wrote him a really simple note. It said I tried Chris. I am really sorry. And then it must have been weeks or - I do not know - months later. Martha came in once again to the library but this time she was in tears. And she told me that - that Jessica had died. It happened not long after she had gotten out of prison. And she said she had overdosed alone in an abandoned house. And through her tears Martha said to me she was my friend. And I said I know. And she said you know she considered you a friend too which in prison that is like such a radical notion but it was the truth. And when you are about to leave the prison you have to kind of just wait in this little area between two doors while they check you out. There were a lot of prison guards and other people - staff - around. And for some reason that night the wait was longer than usual. And you are just waiting and waiting and waiting thinking this door is never going to open. And at that moment I started feeling like I was going to burst into tears in between the prison doors. But I pushed them down and the door opened and I escaped into the night. A few weeks later after all this I found myself wanting to find a book. And it was late at night so I rolled up to the prison flipped the light on back in the library went to the poetry section. And then I opened the book up and a note slipped out - a kite. And I looked at the note and it said dear Mother my life is - and that was it nothing else.  Did you even allow yourself to think that this might be something from Chris? Or is that just too outlandish?  It is not too outlandish for me. You know someone else who opened it would have had a totally different take on it. But one thing I knew about this letter - the only thing I really knew about it - was that it was wedged into a book about Sylvia Plath. And Jessica used to come into the library looking for books and never finding what she was looking for. She told me that she would probably read the back of every book in the library and had never found anything that was interesting for her. But Sylvia Plath - she was a big fan of hers. So everything sort of for me at that moment came together in that unfinished letter.   To learn more - a lot more - about Avi's time in the Suffolk County House of Correction go grab a copy of his memoir. It is called Running The Books. It is got some amazing stories. His latest book The Lost Book Of Mormon which is nominated for the Thurber Prize for American Humor will be out in paperback in November. We have links to both on our website snapjudgment.org. The original sound design for that piece was created by Renzo Gorrio and the story was produced by Joe Rosenberg.   When SNAP JUDGMENT returns we are going to find the most unlikely savior of all and you are not even going to believe it. When nspoken episode continues stay tuned. 