 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR. The Rage Against The Machine episode. My name is Glynn Washington. And for our next story a young Pat Mesiti-Miller. He had his own beef with the machine. You kids let this story be a good lesson to you. Pat tell us how it went down.  Back in junior high we were all like little skater punks - skater kids right? And when we used to go skate it was like 20 30 little kids. It was like a flood of skaters coming down the street. You could hear us from blocks away. It was like...   ...Every day after school until the sun went down. We were unruly. And we just kind of did whatever we wanted - did not care if the people yelled at us. We used to pull pranks on people - mess with their businesses. It was a bunch of dumb mischief all the time - mischief. So one day it was me Tommy and Jared. And Jared was the best skater. He ended up being pro. And so we were skating one day. And near the junior high there was a roller-skating rink. Behind it there was an alleyway that we used to skate through. And what they used to do is they would wax the floor of the roller-skating rink and then open the backdoors to air it out. We come through the alleyway and we see that the backdoor's open. And so I walk over peek my head in. And it is just glossy pristine hardwood floor. Fresh wax. And I am like oh fellas let us go skate. So we jump over the little guardrail. And we are floating on the rink. It is just like the smoothest cleanest slickest surface my skate wheels had ever touched before. We were like synchronized skating - carving around sliding laughing having all kinds of fun. And so we are coming around a lap curving the bend and I hear a door bust open.  What the hell are you little kids doing?  I look up and it was this pregnant woman screaming cussing us and stuff. And like she was like super pregnant. Like she was about to burst she was so pregnant. So I am thinking like OK she is not going to be able to catch us. And you cannot walk on the rink because it is just freshly waxed and it is all slick. And so the woman - she runs out the front. We jump out of the back door and book it going as fast as we can - pushing peddling hopping curbs jumping down driveways all that stuff. And we make it down like 10 blocks away from the rink to a skate spot that we used to frequent. It was like this ledge in front of this guy's house. And when we get to the skate spot we hear...   ...Come around and - I kid you not - a white Suburban comes like fishtailing around the corner. We were like oh damn. Like what is that about? And then it guns it towards us. This is a neighborhood - residential area you know? And it is going like 40 50 60 miles-an-hour slamming. And it comes right up and just - err - stops in front of us. And then boom - out pops the pregnant woman. And she is like I saw you doing that. You are the kids who have been skating in that roller rink. I got you stop. Do not move. Do not go anywhere. The cops are on their way. You are busted. I was like what do you mean? She is like oh I know what you did. I saw all three of you in there.   Cops come. There is three of us so they want to split us up so we do not talk to each other. Jared gets taken one way. And he looks back at me and gives me a nod. He knows the drill. Tommy gets taken the other way and we lock eyes and I am like OK we got this. We got this. So the cop starts questioning me. And I just start lying through my teeth right from the jump no wishy-washy about it. My story is this. I am like we have been here the whole time just skating the curb. This guy Greg this is his house. We skate here all the time after school. You can knock on the door. He will vouch for us. We have been here for hours. We did not do anything wrong. Like this lady's just a nut. She got in her car and started driving around found the first kids on skateboards and that is us. I had the cops wrapped up like a gift. They were like you are OK kid. Like it is just wrong place wrong time. And then the other cop comes up and he is like asking me a couple questions thinks he is slick. And then he says well what if I told you that next to the roller-skating rink there used to be a bank. And at the bank they used to have a camera. What if I told you that camera's still running? If I go back and get the tapes from that camera am I going to see you guys on it? And I was like go check them out man. You are not going to see us on there. That is for certain. Whoever it was - I do not know who it was - but it is not going to be us 'ecause we did not do that. We have been here. And I was like one - there did used to be a bank back there but it is an ice cream shop. And I am pretty sure the bank after it moved did not decide that they might as well just keep the surveillance camera in the parking lot or whatever. Like they are not - he was bluffing. Cops split us up. And so my one friend Tommy he was across the street. And when the cop is walking over there I am like oh no he is going to give him the camera trick. And so I kind of like waved at him. And like the cop looks back at me and I am like...   ...Hiding my hands like I was not trying to wave him down. And then when the cops have their back to me I started giving him the movie sign from charades right? And say no no do not do it. There is no camera. There is no camera. They are lying. There is no camera. And then I will never forget his face. He looks up at the cop and then looks over at me. Then looks up at the cop and then looks at me. And he looks up at the cop and then he bursts into tears. Just like full on crying tears running down his cheeks screaming high-pitched voice - the whole thing. And I am like man it is done. How are you just going to cry? And it was like - it was like at the age where it is like you are too old to be crying. You know what I mean? Cannot be crying. But he was wailing. He came clean. He told him that we were the kids who were in there. And so we were busted. He blew it. He blew it for all three of us. And they got him with the camera line. And they wrote us tickets for vandalism. And the pregnant woman grinning ear to ear. She like had her arms folded and was shifting her weight back and forth. And just like you little punks. That is what you get. Just super happy that we were getting in trouble. Part of the deal was we had to go back to the roller-skating rink and do like 40 hours of community service. Forty hours of that summer I spent scraping paint off the roller Palladium's walls. Skating rink is still there. Oh and I think I am permanently indefinitely forever banned from the skating rink. They told me that I am never allowed to go in there again for the rest of my life. They have like a little mug shot of me when I am a little kid or something behind the counter. Do not rent skates to this guy. It was stupid.   Thank you Pat. SNAP JUDGMENT legal insists that we note Pat no longer engages in wanton property damage obeys all local laws and regulations and is in fact a productive taxpaying member of society. Dually noted. 