 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT. From PRX and NPR The End Of The Line episode. My name is Glynn Washington and today on the show we are exploring what people do when they are all out of options. Our next story takes place at high speed at high altitude with high drama.  Hi I am Shirley Dygert. I am a mail carrier a rural mail carrier in Groesbeck Texas. I am not the kind of person that would naturally be drawn to skydiving. I am not one to take chances like that.  I am David Hartsock. I think for myself it is kind of like therapy almost. Because when you are skydiving you cannot be thinking about - did I leave the oven on? Oh my gosh I have got that paperwork that I have got to do for work.  My older son had gone skydiving on his 30th birthday so when my younger son two years later decided to celebrate his 30th birthday the same way he invited me along. At that time I just looked over at my husband and he is like very wide-eyed looking at me - you are really going to do this? I says oh my gosh. Yeah let us do it.  It was obvious she was nervous about it so I tried to make it as lighthearted as possible.  He just come walking straight up to me looking right in my eye and stuck his hand out there and he introduced himself.  One of the things I always tell my students to try to calm their nerves is that we are connected up there. There is no way a person's going to get away from me. So I told her that you can be sure that nothing's going to happen to you because I am going to make sure that nothing happens to me.  And so we go taxiing off. We are like above the clouds we are way up there. It looked like I was going to be doing this.  Yeah.  We got to the door. I crossed her hands in front of her tilted her head back against my shoulder and rocked forward back in the plane and out we go - one two three.  One two three - and we bailed out of the plane. We did a free fall for a while. You did not feel like you were really falling. You felt like you were in a wind tunnel almost or something like that. It is just very windy. And it was beautiful. I could not hardly wait until the parachute would open and then I could just really get a good view of everything.  I deployed the primary parachute and you are expecting to go into a nice smooth glide - and instead we got hit like a brick wall. The canopy was flapping very hard because half of it had not inflated.  We were going around so fast and so hard we were like laying out flat. We were going around like that. It just made me very dizzy.  I realized well I have got to cut this canopy away so it will get away from us and then I can deploy the reserve parachute. But the way the parachute had so violently opened it had jerked the harness that she was in and the harness I was in and the handle that should have been right - accessible on the right side of my body had folded underneath the harness I was wearing.  And I could hear him grunting and trying hard you could just hear him trying hard to reach something.  And so that is when she asked me if everything was OK. And I was honest with her and told her no it was not OK that we had a serious problem.  And it is like the world stopped. And all I could think about was my husband not really wanting me to go and why did I push for this? What is happening? I cannot believe this might happen.  I realized that we were in a very very serious situation and it was probably not going to end well.  I thought about my mom - I had just lost my mom not too long before that - and I thought about seeing my mom again and knew I was going to. And then when I thought about my mom I thought about my kids. My kids and my grandkids - three grandchildren - and my husband and my other son were on the ground watching this. And I just said God I did not want them to have to see this. I just knew this was my last day on earth.  Knowing that her two sons and her husband could see their mother and wife spinning into the ground thinking oh my God she is going to be dead. And I was not going to let that happen no matter what. At that point you know we are probably down to 3000 feet and I went ahead and deployed the reserve parachute but unfortunately all it did was get tangled up into the main parachute. I was looking down at the ground to see where we were headed and it is pretty much a farm area so there is houses barns barbed wire fences all kinds of things you can hit that it is going to kill you. I had a brief thought about well this is my fate oh well you know? The primary thing now is to make sure that at least one of us survives and that one person that needs to survive is the student. And I figured what I would do is swing my body underneath hers so that that way she would land on me. The last three seconds just as we were spinning and I told her to raise her legs...  He said get ready for a rough landing Shirley. I was laying right smack on top of David. He was on his back on the ground I was right on top of him. And I could hear him trying to breathe like let out a hard breath. All I could think about is oh my gosh we have got to help him get up. I did not think about all that could be wrong with him I just wanted him to get up.  When I woke up in the hospital I think the first time that I can actually remember waking up my mom was right there by my bedside and because of the collapsed lungs they had to do a tracheotomy - so I have a trach in my throat - so I could not speak. I could not move any of my limbs but my mom was there and she told me I was a quadriplegic. I had broken the bone in my neck and I was paralyzed from the chest down. I was thinking well that as not so bad you know? I am still alive which you know surprised the hell out of me.  So I went into the intensive care unit and I talked with him. He could not talk he had a deal in his mouth that he could not talk but his eyes told me everything. When he saw the neck brace on me he - tears just ran down his cheeks. He felt so bad that I had been hurt. I could not believe it that he could be so caring about everybody and he was hurting so bad. But I hugged him at that time and I kissed him on the side of his forehead and I told him that I loved him. You know I have always been the kind of person that kind of looked out for someone else too but this was so above and beyond anything you can imagine. Goodness what could have gone through his head when we were going down - and he knew what was going to happen and he was just trying to make sure that I got out of this OK. You know he was going to take the whole brunt of it. I mean for me. For me I mean - little old me. Ever since this happened there has not been one day that I have not thought about him.  David and Shirley's story comes to us from the amazing radio series Kind World produced by WBUR in Boston. It is a special project sharing stories of kindness and the profound effect one act can have on our lives. That piece was produced by Lisa Tobin and Michael May. To find out more about Kind World go to wbur.org. We will also have a link at snapjudgment.org.  You have almost reached the end of the line but not to fear. Subscribe to the SNAP JUDGMENT podcast for hours of SNAP storytelling available for you right now made with love at snapjudgment.org Facebook Twitter. Do you ever make fun of that goofball wearing a cummerbund to the office meeting? Well be sure you were not talking about the Corporation for Public Broadcasting - much love to the CPB prx.org the Public Radio Exchange WBEZ in Chicago the place to W-BE-Z when you are in Chicago. Now this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact you could put an apple on your head I could walk 40 paces away and agree to split half the winnings if my aim proves true - never mind that this is The End Of The Line episode - even as I pulled back the arrow on my bow you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 