 From PRX and NPR welcome back to nspoken episode. My name's Glynn Washington. And today on the show we are digging into the things that for one reason or another remain unsaid. And get ready because we have saved you the very best seat in the house from a recent SNAP JUDGMENT live show in San Francisco Calif. SNAP favorite Shannon Cason is about to rock the mic.   Shannon Cason.   One of our worst fights would have to be on our honeymoon. We went on a cruise and we went to the midnight buffet and we brought back desserts to the room. And she had more desserts on her tray than I had on my tray. So I said hey you been eating a lot of salads up till the wedding.   We married now. You as not going to eat all that is you? And she threw a piece of chocolate cake at me.   I am dodging. I was pretty athletic back then. And I had a strawberry shortcake with whipped cream on a plate in my hands. And I am a good aim.   Neither one of us want to lose a good fight so we are throwing key lime pie creme brulee tiramisu German chocolate cake - I love German chocolate cake.   Then we get tired we lay our  down in our mess and we make up. And that is the story of our relationship.   One time she asked to see my new iPhone and tossed it out the moving car.   She had an appointment for this exclusive spa treatment. We had an argument so I called and canceled.   But the thing is I did not tell her. She can find out when she gets there.   But we would always make up always. I am just being honest. Do not judge me. Some of you all was arguing on you all way here.   It is the storyteller's job to be real. Then we had a bright idea - let us have a baby.   A baby is the perfect solution right?   You cannot fight around a baby. You cannot argue with a baby in the house. Trying to have a baby starts out fun just based on how it works you know?   But after a few months it just gets to be a lot of work. And we were not good with all that keeping track of the ovulation and 14 days before the cycle starts and all that . We just figured if we do something every night cannot miss it right?   But no baby. We go to a doctor in a office in a tall glass building and the doctor says we may be good candidates for in vitro fertilization. The doctor explains IVF. This is what I hear. They are going to take some of her eggs some of my sperm and mix them in a laboratory.   This is what the doctor said. And they are going to take the fertilized egg and put it in the uterus her uterus. I do not have a uterus.   And nine months later - baby. The doctor gives her some pills some needles and some literature and the doctor hands me a cup.   Now instead of sex every night I cannot get any. My wife just points to the cup.   Months pass. We still fight. Sure we still fight. We had a argument in the kitchen. I am cooking some top ramen and I like to put some sweet corn in it doctor them up make them a little more healthy. And she likes to cook them with cut-up hot dogs. And we - this is the stupidest argument in the world.   But it turns into this big argument. It - because it is about something else you know? So arguing in the kitchen is stupid because that is where we keep the butcher knives.   So she chases me with the butcher knife but she could not catch me. I was a lot more athletic back then.   So we know this is going to end for us once we have the savior baby. I just want to be happy. Happiness is a home a wife and a baby. We go back to the doctor in the tall building. They have some fertilized eggs - embryos. And the doctors do what they do. And we wait and we wait and we wait for our modern scientific immaculate conception but no baby. It did not work. Our hope for a happy home did not work. We were tired. It was too expensive to continue so we quit. We were too disappointed to fight. We just held each other in the kitchen. I love her I do. I wanted us to have this. I just held her. Then I kissed her. Then we made up without even fighting beforehand.   Right there in the kitchen - kind of hot. One month later she came to me with a piece of plastic. She was pregnant. Eight months after that we had a beautiful baby girl. My wife named her Madison. I did not even argue about it. That is a beautiful name.   Things were already looking hopeful. Three months after Madison was born I come home from work. Hi honey I am home. Hi. Hello? Anybody home? She left with Madison all the way across the country. We divorced. And seeing my beautiful baby girl has been our worst fight. Madison was my hope too. Madison's 6 now. She knows I am her dad but sometimes I go and visit and my ex-wife cancels the visit. I just roam around the city with nothing to do. When I am able to see her she does not want to see me. When I call twice a week she tells me to stop calling and hangs up. I do not know what her mom tells her about me. I do not want to fight no more. If I tell you you win can we stop fighting? You win. I wish I were a better man. I wish I were a better husband to you. I did not say it when we were together but forgive me. Forgive me. Tell Madison I miss her and I love her and I will be out to see her soon.   Shannon Cason ladies and gentlemen. That score - original score - composed by Alex Mandel and performed by Alex and the Snap Players Tim Frick and David Brandt. And if you like what you have just heard you are going to love what you are about to see. Check it out at snapjudgment.org - the full video of Shannon Cason's performance ready for your viewing pleasure right now at snapjudgment.org. And what is more - Shannon Cason has a podcast. It is called Homemade Stories. Check out on iTunes or wherever you get great stuff for free.   Oh yes it looks like we have made it but it is not over. Full episodes pictures movies stuff - all this and more available right now at snapjudgment.org. Hit SNAP on Facebook Twitter Instagram. Many thanks to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange at PRX.org. And this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact you could lock yourself in the local jail throw the key out of the window sneak a note to the next cell over only to discover that there is no one there. The place has been closed down for 15 years. And you would still not be as far away from the news as this is but this is NPR. 