 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT - the reunion episode. Today on the show - that which is lost is found and people are reunited in ways they never thought possible. For our next story we sent SNAP producer Pat Mesiti-Miller to my hometown - Detroit Michigan.  Meet Jeff - he runs a record store out in Detroit.  I am Jeff Bubeck from UHF records. UHF is a 95 percent vinyl good old-fashioned record shop - we got soul rb blues soundtracks country classic rock '80s pop. I have collected my whole life. You know I started eight years old collecting records and now I have - I mean look around .  This place is covered.  Yeah.  In talking with Jeff I was asking him where he gets all his records. He told me he hunts them down. He will buy from collectors go to estate sales...  And you know I have gone to storage auctions before long before Storage Wars and Pickers or any of those shows that are on now. It is nothing like that really. I mean there is - for the most part there is garbage out there.  And then Jeff told me a story about one of his best finds in his decades of collecting. It started off when Jeff got a call from a woman who owned a storage locker. Apparently somebody was years behind on rent and left behind a unit filled with records. So Jeff went and checked it out.  There was probably 6000 records in there - tons of '70s jazz. Really a lot of just off-the-wall obscure stuff you know? And there was a little bit of everything in there boxes upon boxes stacked up. There was stuff that had gotten wet you know stuff that actually had black mold growing on it. I mean it was just - you know what I mean? It was - it was a mess.  But in looking through all the records he saw some stuff that was worth investing in and bought them and then paid to have them stored in the locker for a couple more months.   And one particular day I went to the storage bin to pick up some boxes and I noticed a tub in the back of the storage bin. And I open the tub and it was just full of cassettes. It was just you know mix-tapes homemade tapes you know? And then there was some junk mail in there. All of the junk mail had the name Yancey on it Maureen Yancey. And there were some pieces that said James Yancey - did not think twice of it. Another few days had passed and I have no idea why I did it but I googled James Yancey. The first thing that popped up was the Wikipedia page for J Dilla - producer extraordinaire.    Check it out check it out.  If you are not on up on J Dilla the man is a legend. He was a producer behind tons of classic songs for artists like The Pharcyde A Tribe Called Quest De La Soul Common Busta Rhymes Erykah Badu. In hip-hop circles he is thought of as one of the greatest of all time.    Cannot keep running away. Come on come on come on.  And basically I just turned to Tommy my partner who was sitting next to me and said get the hell out of here. Do you know who I think this stuff belongs to? Basically holy  you know what I mean? Wow what are we going to do?  In 2006 Dilla passed away from complications from lupus. He was only 32. And since his death people have been madly searching to find anything and everything Dilla related. So to find J's personal record collection - it was huge because in it would be the records that Dilla had sampled and turned into hits.   The phone started ringing. There were calls - it was like instant backlash. Everyone wanted it. But then they also had a problem with me - what business does he have selling J's stuff you know what I mean? That is what it was. Who the  are you?  People were going crazy over Dilla's record collection. But remember how Jeff said that there was a bunch of cassette tapes?   I opened the tub and it was just full of cassettes.  Some of those tapes Dilla had recorded on. They had titles like Beats and Rough Ideas hinting at unreleased music. A beat tape from Dilla? That is gold.    You all.  Private collectors fans - people were offering him tens of thousands of dollars to get a piece.  I am human and I seen dollar signs for a minute. Even if I did not take the offer from them I could have you know put a cassette at a time up on eBay and probably made you know loads of money.  A record label called him.  We understand that you found tapes containing J Dilla's music. That content of those tapes is our property. You will be compensated for it but we are coming to get it. It was not cool. I mean it was chaos. And I was like I want to do nothing but crawl under a rock you know what I mean? Step back. I am not taking calls. Leave me alone. The collection's gone. It is no longer on the premises. Go away.  And during all the madness Jeff had something else on his mind.  Honestly the first thing I thought of was that Wikipedia page. Due to Dilla's death the family receives no income from projects. Dilla's children are being supported by the Social Security from their mothers. Likewise Ms. Yancey still lives in the same Detroit ghetto also in tremendous debt. After reading that it says it right there - it is like OK where is the money? Here's Maureen and his family right in the same place they were back in the beginning you know?  But how? How could it be that the mother of a platinum-selling producer would be in debt? I mean he made hit. He was award-winning. So I called up Dilla's mom Maureen and she invited me over for a talk.   Come on in. Good to see you. I am Maureen Yancey. J Dilla is my son. He is the most genius beat maker that ever existed. Although he is passed on his work still lives.   Welcome to my humble abode.    Where we come from is a place we call Conant Gardens.  A visitor at her home - the same house that J grew up in deep in Detroit in Conant Gardens.   The neighborhood here is very very urban to say the least. It resembles in some place a war zone like Iraq  as you know. A lot of people have moved away because of the conditions and the city's lack of support in our area as you can see. But then there are those that are dedicated to the community that try to keep it moving and that are proud to be here.  Maureen told me that the last couple years of J's life were mostly spent in the hospital fighting his illness. Maureen stayed with him - helped nurse him. But while he was in the midst of all this treatment...   That a payment was late and the insurance company did not honor it. And even though it might have been a day late it did not matter. Being an insurance company that is in it for profit they dropped him.   Because it had been like four years' worth of this sickness going on you know he was so ill. Of course they did not want to pay for every hospital stay that he had. The last nine or 10 months everything was out-of-pocket. Every hospital stay each bill averaged a quarter of a million dollars. That was a bi-monthly bill.  That is 250000 twice a month. And that is not including flying out specialists or doctors or prescriptions. Dilla's illness was very expensive. And soon he fell into debt. And when Dilla's funds were gone Maureen stepped up.  I did not care what it was. I was going to sign my life away for them to give him all the care that he needed. And that is what I did in certain instances. Because when he did not have insurance I signed off on a lot of that. And they said you know you will be responsible. I did not care. I say well if I have to scrub hospital floors  to work it off you know.  So you went broke.  Oh yeah - had to. It is my son.  Maureen gave up near everything. She sold her house closed down her business - all the while hoping J could beat the sickness and get back to the work he loved. He lived for music. I mean the man was a powerhouse. Even when his health did not improve Maureen with some friends set up music equipment right in his hospital room. And he worked. It was there that he created his last album Donuts.    OK OK. There comes a time...  It was released three days before he passed.    People the times has come.  There to date has been no compensation from the estate to any of the heirs.   And six years after Dilla had been gone Maureen was still struggling.  And when Jeff who had found himself sitting on a potential gold mine of music heard about that -  That really you know that struck a chord with me. I just felt you know there is just such an injustice. I will be damned if I am giving it to any record company. In the moment I just was trying to do the right thing you know what I mean?  So Jeff got in touch with Maureen. She drove across the city. And they met at the storage facility.   And he unlocks this like a garage you know door.  I went back into the bin and pulled the tub out from the back.  And he just shows me the bins. They were too heavy to lift. And so I am looking. And I am like what in the world?  And I popped open the lid.   And it was silence for a few minutes.   In that moment it is like she is seeing him again you know what I mean? 'ecause there is the silence there and it was like - this is heavy.   When I saw my son's handwriting - god that was something profound. He wrote notes in there about things that he wants to do for me. To see those notes and hear his voice as I read them I could hear him saying it. It just touched me - my heart to no end.   It was her son's stuff you know?   I told her take it with you. It is yours. Take it. I gave her a hug and you know she was - she was thrilled. It felt really good that she had it again. I was like - yeah back in the right hands.   And though some of them looked like they would have some of Dilla's music on them most of the cassettes - well they were just regular tapes like you used to be able to buy at the store. Today you probably would not pay 10 cents for them at a flea market. But in talking with one of Dilla's close friends...  Freighton  had suggested - I think you better listen to them because your son hid a lot of music in his tapes.  Maureen sat down loaded up the tapes pressed play and...   They do something wrong they do not get sued you know.  I was blown away. My mouth dropped. From the very first one it was stuff on it that we had never heard before.    Yeah. Turn it up baby.  I did not expect to hear his voice in any of the music.    When you see me dewitt I do it. I do what you dewitt to do it.  He is not sick. He is not suffering. And he is just live to his fullest capacity.    Dewitt dewitt to do it. Dewitt dewitt to do it.  On the hundreds of cassettes that Maureen now has Dilla had left music - and lots of it.   The material is - oh my it was overwhelming.   There are in the high hundreds of tracks.  Hours and hours and hours of unreleased Dilla music was found on the cassettes. And along with some studio master reels Maureen says there is enough material for never before heard music to be coming out for years.   It is the lost scrolls. . It is the lost scrolls. The reason for titling it The Lost Scrolls is because it has a spiritual meaning. It is like the arc of the covenant for me. .  I was invited to hear the coveted Lost Scrolls. Now trust me these recordings are well-guarded. But Maureen let me record a small piece of our time listening together.   So how does it feel to be listening to this music?  I feel simply wonderful listening to my son's creations. It is none like it. He is the master. And my heart is happy. My ears are happy you know? And I feel - I can feel his soul in his music. Dilla was my backbone - my support - because we had a bond that was so special. With our love for music and our desire to help the other one get to where they wanted to be in this world we already were close. And then nursing him in California we were more one than ever. So when he left I was standing alone. I never mourned normally not knowing whether to be angry or to cry. I could not cry. I had not shed a tear. At his funeral I did not cry. People were waiting for me to break down which I did not even understand. Why no tears? I was in denial of everything and I just - I just had this void.   Then through the heart of a good man Jeff Bubeck God would open up a door and give me pieces of my son back.   It was held - held back before his time. It was not meant for me to have it before now. And it brought back what Dilla said to me in California. He was in a wheelchair. He grabbed my hands - both of them. And he said I want to thank you for all that you - all that you have done. And I want you to know you are going to be all right. I promise you. You are going to be all right you know.   Are you doing OK? Want to take a break?  I am fine. Just a first tear. It is been - I guess I needed that. I think it is the first one since he passed.   Thanks for that - letting me turn that water faucet on  because I always hold it back.   He has proven to me that he is looking out for me. And I am looking at him. He is looking at me right now saying lady I told you you would be all right.    Just because I really love you. Just because I really love you. I love you. I love you.  Maureen Yancey has begun releasing the music found on the tapes - the lost scrolls. She continues her work with the J Dilla Foundation to raise awareness about lupus and inspire young people around the world. Maureen is also working on a book and a film about Dilla's life and legacy. We will have links to all these great projects on our website snapjudgment.org. A huge thanks to Maureen Yancey and Jeff Bubeck for sharing their story. And special thanks as well to Jonathan Taylor and Tate McBroom for their help. And if you listen to this show at all you know we owe a debt to Dilla himself. That piece was produced by Pat Mesiti-Miller. When SNAP JUDGMENT returns we show you how to attend that high school reunion the way you always dreamed about - for real - when SNAP JUDGMENT - the reunion episode - continues. Stay tuned.   