 Now for our first story SNAP JUDGEMENT's Nancy Lopez is going to kick things off in the Republic of Texas.  When Yvonne Jackson gave birth to her youngest son Cole everything seemed to be normal.  A friend of mine had came over to see the new baby. We noticed that Cole had some little red dots all over him - it kind of almost looked like heat rash. I said I think I should probably call the pediatrician. For some reason something's telling me I need to get him in there.  Yvonne took Cole to the hospital where they ran a few blood tests. She was told to return in a couple of hours so she dropped off her two older kids and her mother-in-law's. Y.  And as I pulled back into the parking lot I saw Laura the nurse practitioner standing at the door. And I thought it was to unlock it and as soon as I walked up Dr. Horner said - I mean it was like simultaneously - she said Yvonne I am going to take you to the office and Dr. Horner grabbed Cole and just ran down this long hallway. I was little in shock because at that time I just thought - I mean I thought it was a heat rash - you know I just thought it was going to be something simple. There was never a thought in my head that Cole had this horrible disease.  Yvonne's husband Joe was a truck driver. She says Joe was out on the road and she did not want to give him the bad news over the phone. So she waited a couple of weeks until he got back. Y.  I had Cole with me. I said the baby's sick. He said well what do we have to do to get him fixed?  It took six months before the doctors were able to give the Jacksons an answer. Turns out Cole was born with the rare immunodeficiency disease known as Wiskott Aldrich syndrome. Y.  I was honestly relieved at that point thinking hey we know what this is we are going to get this fixed and that is that.  But the disease is life-threatening. The immune system is defenseless and even a cold can be fatal. The doctors told Yvonne and Joe that Cole needed a bone marrow transplant and he needed one fast. They told him... Y.  That he would never see his third birthday which would have been July. They said that is the only thing that could save him. That without that that Cole would die.  The problem now was money. The entire procedure cost 250000 and the Jacksons needed half of that just to get the baby into the hospital. There other problem - they lost Cole's health insurance when a monthly fee did not clear their bank account. They had no idea how they were going to come up with all that money. The doctors told them there was another option - they could send hospice in until the baby passed away. Y.  You do not tell a parent that you are going to keep their child as comfortable as possible just because they do not have the money. So you are saying that if I have got tons of money my child can live but if I do not have any money my child needs to die? That should not have been - that should not have even been the question.  They sold everything but their house. They sold Joe's second truck some trailers and tools. They organized fundraisers they had bake sales and car washes and rodeos. Y.  We called our Senators. We called everyone. I mean we seriously called everyone that we knew at that time that we thought might be able to help us.  But by the two-year deadline the doctors had given Yvonne and Joe to get Cole in the hospital they had only raised 52000. Then their prayers were answered. When word spread about their cause an organization stepped up and matched it. Now with 100000 the hospital agreed to go ahead with Cole's operation. But they still felt way too short. The hospital told them they still had to pay out the other 150000. Y.  I would probably say I panicked a little more than Joe because I was worried that you know what would happen if we did not get the money. And I remember one night he just said I am going to give in I am not going to let him die. And he said so do not worry. Your worry is to get Cole to the doctor make sure the kids are good and safe and take care of them and I will make sure we get the money to get him well. He said this is your worry and I will take care of the rest because it is my job to take care of you all.  Joe was on the road 247 hauling produce from Colorado back to Texas. Than hauling cattle to California and back again. And miraculously enough he was covering all of the family's expenses Cole's ever-increasing medical bills plus their mortgage. Y.  I think deep down maybe I knew that there was some - too much money coming in but I also knew that it was getting the bills paid and we were able to stay at the hospital with Cole.  Cole's transplant failed. As the doctors came up with the different treatment the medical bills kept racking up - almost 5000 a month. Joe kept assuring Yvonne that he was taking care of it. And somehow he was still getting everything paid. With time Cole's health got more stable. He lived to see his third birthday and then his fourth. Life seemed to be finally getting a bit easier for the Jacksons. That is until one morning. Y.  I was trying to get breakfast - get lunches packing and get the two kids ready for school and someone came over a loudspeaker and said we need everyone in the house to come out with their hands up. I looked out the door and I said what the heck is this? It went through my head that maybe they were at the wrong house. And so I told April - I said April get John and Cole and go get on my bed and do not get off until I come back in the house because you know they get a little gun happy or something - I do not want none of you all to get hurt. So stay in this house no matter what happens. Just stay in this house. I walked out the door with my arms up like they said. First they have like all these little red dot lasers on you. So I am holding my hands up and then this guy just comes running by me - like grabs me up like a sack of potatoes and runs me over to the other side of our - the driveway. He sat me down and this guy said are you Yvonne Jackson and I went yeah. Who is in the house? And I said my kids are in the house. So April Jackson Cole and John - he said their whole names - are the only ones in the house? I said yes sir. I said how did you know? And I am like how did you know us? What is going on here? They really was not talking. They were just you know like everybody was tons of people everywhere - the ATF coming to find out and the DA and all that were there. And he said we are looking for your husband. We have got a warrant for his arrest. I said for what? And then he starts telling me well he is been you know hauling drugs. What? I said have you lost your mind? And so I told the guy listen I am going in to get my kids. And he said no. You go in there and you know we will shoot you. And I said well I guess you are going to have to shoot me because I am going to go get the kids. They are scared I have got to go get my kids right now. I just took off for the house.  They did not shoot. Yvonne rushed to gather up her kids and try to figure out what to do next. She was told not to return to the house for the rest of the day. Y.  I am just like so confused at this point and scared and do not know what is going on. And so I actually dropped off my oldest son. I do not know why. I look back now and think I wish I had not done that. But I did drop him at school. And then my daughter says I am not going Mom. I am staying with you because I am scared. I said me too. I do not know what is going on. Let us go to Nanny's.  Yvonne spent the day just waiting for night to fall. That is usually when Joe called. Y.  He called me that night and I said these people came into the house that he was like what? So I told him what happened. He said do not worry I will take care of it. It is OK. Do not worry about nothing. It is OK. It is OK. You know I knew what had happened what was going on at that point. He ended up hauling some drugs and they paid him to do that. And he did it to come up with the money for Cole.  For two years Joe was transporting methamphetamine. He would get a grand for every pound of meth he carried from California to Texas. A typical load was up to 11000 worth of meth. Enough to pay for Cole's medical expenses. Joe turned himself in. The federal court in Fort Worth found him guilty of conspiracy to possess with intent to distribute methamphetamine. At trial the defense presented letters and evidence to show that the reason Joe did what he did was because it was his last resort. It was the only way to pay for his son's transplant. But the judge notorious for his harsh sentences did not bat an eye. He sentenced Joe to life. Y.  Hi Joe.  How are you doing? Y.  I am good how are you? J.  I am doing all right.  Joe has been locked up now for nearly 19 years. He is been moved around a lot and currently finds himself in a low security federal prison in Arkansas. He gets to talk on the phone five hours a month - but only in 15 minute increments.  Fifteen minutes right? J.  Yes madam.  OK. J.  But you know if you need more time we will have to wait 30 minutes and I will call you back.  Joe's days are pretty much on repeat. He talks with Yvonne and the kids on the phone every week. He works at the prison grocery store making 75 cents an hour. He gets off at five and that is when he calls me one Tuesday. Joe tells me that even after all this time he clearly remembers what he told the judge when he sentenced him to life. J.  I said you know when that boy right there was dying and we tried every way in the world asking all of you people for help every federal agency there was you would not help us. And I do not figure you are going to help me now. And that is exactly what I told the judge in my statement at sentencing. I done knew what I was fixing to get and it was over. My only regret was that he could not give me a death sentence. At least if I would have died or they would have put me to death my family could have got over it and got on with their lives. I hate it that my wife has sat out there by herself all these years. She works all day long and comes home to an empty house you know.  Joe has missed out on a lot - birthdays and graduations watching his daughter get married his grandchildren being born. Joe when you get look back is it something you would do again if faced with the same circumstance? J.  Well you are asking me if I would do anything different? I did not like what I had to do then and I would not like it if I had to do it now. I am telling you what. I am glad that I had that avenue to get big money fast other than say walking in a bank with the gun because I would have done whatever I had to do. Do you have kids miss Lopez?  I do not. I do not. J.  You will understand when you have them. Believe me. It is still a blessing to me to have my kids healthy.  Doctors never thought Cole would live past five and now he is 24. He has high blood pressure and takes a bunch of pills to boost his immune system. But overall he is pretty healthy. I talked to Cole and he says that growing up it took him a while to understand why his dad did what he did. Now that he is an adult he gets it. And actually he cannot help but live with some guilt about it. J.  I know it weighs on him. But I do not want Cole to feel guilty about it. It is not Cole's fault I am here. I will tell you if I am going to bring a child into this world then it is my duty to make sure he is got the best chance there is. And if he is sick like mine was I am a sorry son-of-a-bitch if I would not give my life to save his.  Thank you Joe and Yvonne for sharing your story. I keep thinking that if my kids were in trouble I might have a cell right next to Joe. If you are wondering Joe may be a candidate for a special presidential pardon given to nonviolent drug offenders with clean prison records. We wish you the best Joe. To learn more about Joe and his family's story check out reporter Malcolm Garcia's article at geurnicamag.com we will have a link as well at snapjudgment.org. That story was produced by Nancy Lopez with sound design by Renzo Gorrio. Now when SNAP JUDGMENT returns you do not need shoes to crash a plane. And sometimes nature is not your friend. When SNAP JUDGMENT'S Desperate Measures Episode continues. Stay Tuned. 