Saturday morning Chicago four days after the Department of Homeland Security officially released its new policies on deporting undocumented immigrants. This is a workshop for the people targeted by those policies at the Mexican consulate. And it is packed. They had over 100 seats in this room and when those filled they added a second room. And then a third. People stand in the back.  Good morning to all of you says an official from the consulate Carlos Valera Paulino.  Truth is we did not expect this many people.  But we understand the situation is worrisome and that is why you are here. The president has been saying over and over that his new deportation rules are targeted at drug dealers murderers gang members. But if you simply read the guidelines they say in black and white that is not what they do. The enforcement priorities now include all kinds of people who are not drug dealers gang members or serious criminals of any kind. Nearly anybody who is undocumented is covered. And it is been widely reported some of these non-criminals have been picked up already. Lots of people do not know this but Chicago is a very Mexican city. Over half a million people with Mexican roots a fourth of them undocumented. And the consulate sees itself as their ally. We care about you and your kids' future one official says to the crowd which is definitely not the message they have been getting lately from the American government. The consulate convened this panel explaining OK here's how to plan for the possibility that you will get detained and deported. Like OK if you are taken what will happen to your kids? How do you plan for that?  A lawyer explains how to sign over the power of attorney to somebody to take care of your kids. Or how to make somebody their temporary guardian. Another speaker explained what to do with your home and bank accounts if you are deported. Yet another-- what if you own a business here in the States? An organizer named Erendira Rendon told the crowd that if immigration shows up at their door do not let them in unless they have a signed and dated judge's warrant. Usually they do not. And she made the crowd practice in English what to say through the door. OK practica. I do not consent to your entry. I do not consent to your entry. I do not consent to your search of these premises. I do not consent to the search of these promises. The little girl sitting near me said that last one as I do not consent to your search of these promises.  I know it is hard the speaker says and that is why you have this. She holds up a packet everybody got. One page has all these same messages in English in big letters. She tells them that if immigration shows up hold this page against the window. Do not put it up right when you get home today she says.    Just put it on the fridge or leave it by the door. After nearly three hours of presenters and QA one of the last stragglers in the room was one of the moms Cuca. She talked to one of our producers Lilly Sullivan. Cuca says it is been hard watching how the possibility of deportation has affected her kids. She has two daughters. The older one is one of the DREAMer kids covered by DACA the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals so presumably she is safe for now. But that could change. She is 19 and a sophomore on a full scholarship at a prestigious college they asked us not to name here. The younger one is a citizen born here just 11.  And I have explained to her what could happen.  And she asks what am I going to do?  And I tell her you go with me. I will not leave you.  I will not leave you anywhere. You are my daughter and you go with your mom. That is Lilly translating. Cuca recorded the workshop to play for her husband later to help them plan. The family sat down and mapped out a few different scenarios.  What happens if they deport one of us? What does the other one do?  We have talked to our daughters and they know the plan. I think it was my mom who called my sister and I to the living room. We talked to Whitney Cuca's older daughter at their apartment. She said OK we need to talk. We had to figure out and agree on if somebody gets deported who will go back with them and who will stay. In their first conversation they all decided that if one of them was sent to Mexico all four of them would go. But then later Whitney's mom Cuca started thinking you know maybe Whitney should stay in America finish college. So that became the plan. The other three would go. And then Cuca realized oh to set up a life in Mexico they are going to need a lot of money. So she began to wonder if she were deported was it a good idea for Whitney's dad to leave with her and give up his American income?  So I said no. It cannot be that if I go back he goes back. He has to wait and get some money together--  --to at least get a bed and light and gas. Basic things that we need to live.  And in the situation where he is deported--  Jeez. It gets really complicated you know? For me personally it was devastating to have to have that kind of conversation and process the fact that we were having that conversation. Seems like it was even harder for her little sister Naomi the 11-year-old who kind of zones out in video games or just cracks jokes whenever the family starts talking about this stuff. The reality of having to relocate to Mexico a country she is never set foot in? Hoo boy was I freaked out because I thought that I could not take anything over there. Yeah so at first I was worried about not having any snacks not having any computers not having any LEGOs not having anything fun. So yeah. Some of those LEGOs they do not even make anymore like the SpongeBob LEGOs. I am a big fan of SpongeBob. So yeah that was the part that I was mostly freaked out about. Yeah. And school. I mean would I continue? Yeah. She said actually she could barely remember anything anyone said in these family discussions about their plans. Could not remember how she felt. When her mom prodded her a little she is said-- Ehh  yeah OK so my dad was serious. And like I do not know. My mom also-- yeah. I think I am starting to remember now. Some of us actually were crying. Yeah. Yeah and I am just thinking about stuff like is there going to be a snow day? And I am praying to God please be a snow day. She means like the next day in Chicago. That is what she was thinking about during this tense family sit-down. And this is pretty much how she talked about her feelings with us until Lilly started asking about this one conversation that Naomi had with her mom just the two of them talking about being deported. Then I heard about the plans which I kind of feel now worried. What would happen to my sister? Yeah. So that is something that I worry about. You worry about what would happen to your sister? What do you worry about?   I would not see her for like two years or more. We are-- we are a fam-- we are a family. I want to stay together not be separated.   Yeah that is-- that is the part that right now I am worrying most about. Yeah. For now the family is preparing just in case. Getting the last few official documents in hand getting Naomi Mexican citizenship in addition to her American citizenship so it will be easier to move her to Mexico if needs be. And they have this system that when one of them leaves the house when they get to where they are going they call to say that they safely got there. Cuca worries most about her husband. He goes to work in the suburbs.  When the phone rings and I see his number I am like oh OK. He arrived. For all these things the family is doing to prepare for the worst the truth is it is still not clear how much danger they are actually in. It is still not clear how aggressively the Trump administration is going to be deporting people under the new rules that they have just adopted. So much is still in the air. And one place you can see that is this hotline that a church set up in West Chicago the Faith Life and Hope Mission. Erica Velasquez is one of the volunteers who answers calls-- on her personal cell phone by the way. She told me she is getting 60 to 70 a day and that it is driving her husband nuts. Some questions that she gets are totally random. One green card holder who is in the process of becoming a citizen wondered if having a tattoo could endanger his chances.  And they ask me Erica I heard that now if you have a tattoo they are going to interpret that as if I am a criminal or like I am in some kind of gang. So am I not going to be able to work it out?  It surprised me. I did not know what to say. People call asking about the food stamps. The new guidelines say you can get prioritized for deportation if you receive government benefits you should not have. So if the parents are not citizens but the kids are citizens can they argue that the kids are the ones getting the food stamps? Are they OK? The guidelines also say you can get prioritized for removal if you committed or just been charged with any crimes at all. And people call asking about what they thought of as minor offenses on their records-- traffic tickets DUIs-- would they now be prioritized for removal? I talked to one of the lawyers who spoke at the consulate Salvador Cicero. He is a green card holder himself. He says one of the new guidelines he finds most chilling is the one that says to prioritize for removal anyone who quote in the judgment of an immigration officer poses a risk to public safety or national security. Yeah that is the scariest thing I think. If in his discretion you pose a threat to public safety. What does that mean? Does that mean that if I am loitering you are a threat to public safety. You are out. I mean how wide is that power? It is incredibly vague and that is a problem. I mean as it reads it has not been further defined as of yet. So for the moment green card holders undocumented immigrants-- nobody knows what to expect. And that uncertainty has led to a lot of fear. Cuca's husband Ignacio told me he is become paranoid. He will see a truck with weird lights on the highway and worry that it is immigration. Well today on our show we have a program about rules and what happens when they are vague and randomly enforced and you cannot predict what is going to happen to you-- even if you are in a tropical paradise. That is the first half of the show. We are going to Hawaii. In the second half of the show we have the rules in a very different sort of paradise. We are talking about the New Jersey suburbs. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One That is Just How I Rule. I remember once visiting Hawaii and hearing about this island that as outsiders and as white people we were not allowed to go to. It was just for native Hawaiians I remember being told. People sometimes call it the Forbidden Island. It is real name is Niihau. And even if you are from Hawaii apparently it is a mysterious place. I pretty much knew nothing about Niihau. This is Adia White a public radio reporter who grew up on Maui. In school we learned a lot about all of the other islands. A little bit about that history. But for Niihau they pretty much told us nothing.   The little I knew about it was that it is a piece of the original Hawaii. That is what everyone kind of thought about it right? Like on Niihau people live as they did before Hawaii was colonized. It is what it is supposed to be like. So for instance it predates the kind of Hawaiian music that you are hearing right now. You can see Niihau on a map. It is to the west of Kauai. About 70 square miles or so. A lot smaller than Maui or Oahu or anyplace in Hawaii you normally hear about. Growing up Adia did not know what to picture it was like there. But she figured-- Like an original-- a traditional Hawaiian village where it was governed by native Hawaiians. They decided who could come and who could go. They decided who they wanted to invite and how they wanted to live. So about a year ago she started looking into what happens on Niihau. And she learned that it is not that at all. It is basically a family of white people who own everything and run the place even though they do not live there. They set the rules which seem to be unwritten. And some of the rules are administered in an unpredictable sort of ad hoc way. One of our producers Sean Cole joined Adia in reporting the story this fall. You cannot just go to Niihau and interview the islanders. And even the ones who leave Niihau and move to the other Hawaiian Islands they are pretty tight-lipped about life there. But Sean and Adia found a handful of people who were willing to talk to them. Here's what they learned. How Niihau got this way is not a secret at all. Basically back in the 1860s when Hawaii was still a kingdom the king sold the island to a white family for 10000 in gold. They wanted to ranch cattle on it. And there was a community of about a thousand native Hawaiians living there. According to the family before the ink was even dry on the contract handing over the land the king looked at them and said the day may come when Hawaiians are not as strong in Hawaii as they are now. And if that day comes please do what you can to help them. That day of course did come and the family has tried to keep their promise to the king all these years. And the way they interpreted helping the villagers was let us preserve this place to be just as it was in 1864 when we bought it. So this is the last place on Earth where the language everybody uses every day is Hawaiian. They learn it as their first language and they speak an older form of Hawaiian than you hear anywhere else. Also the lifestyle there is pretty spartan. No running water no electricity no bathrooms. So it is outhouses that we use yeah. This is Tuti Sanborn. She lives on Oahu now but her family's from Niihau and she lived there every summer as a kid. She is the kind of person who uses phrases like feel the aloha in earnest and gets away with it. So as the evening approached we would gather all of the lanterns and refuel them with kerosene. I remember my mom's kitchen. There was a kerosene stove in it. I remember doing that kind of stuff. I remember going to the wells to gather water. Tuti and the other Niihauans we talked to all described the same thing. No paved roads no streetlights one-floor houses with tin roofs big yards horses in the yards peacocks and wild turkeys and pigs roaming around. And they fish and hunt for their food a lot of the time. There is a church in the center of the village and a kind of meeting hall. A little school. But no stores or anything. In fact no one uses money on Niihau. There is no formal medical care there either. No law enforcement. The pastor of the church settles any disputes that flare up. These days they have solar panels to charge their phones and iPads and a few trucks to drive around the island. But mostly it is Hawaii circa 1864. Christian missionaries had been in the islands for decades by then. People told us that church attendance on Niihau is mandatory. Also the family that owns Niihau the Robinsons are famous abstainers from all vice and they have always required the residents of the island to live by those same values. No alcohol is allowed. No smoking. No drugs. No guns. And if you are caught say drinking or doing drugs you can get kicked off the island which feels like a weird phrase to be saying out loud about real people. The Robinsons insist that they are simply protecting the villagers from all the awfulness of the modern world just like they promised the king. The oldest members of the Robinson family are Keith and Bruce. They are brothers both in their 70s. There was a documentary made about Keith in 2005 called Robinson Crusader about his work to preserve endangered plant species. And he talks a little about Niihau in it. I have not seen any aircraft crashing into skyscrapers here. I have not seen any plagues of AIDS here. As far as I know there is not one case of AIDS on the island. We have no drug problem. If there is any kind of a social problem here the elders of the village sort it out by themselves. And if they cannot handle it they come to us. If this sounds like an oddly colonialist sort of project to have lasted into the 21st century with white people setting the rules for native Hawaiians I want to be clear. The villagers on Niihau are American citizens. They just happen to live on an island that is privately owned by this family. They can move away anytime they want. But if they want to stay they have to respect the rules that this is a regulated paradise. And people do want to stay. Everyone we spoke to who lived there including people who have plenty of criticisms of the Robinsons they all said they loved it. Did everybody really go to church on Sunday or do they try to-- Yes. --sneak out of it? That was the only only social event of the island besides parties if they had parties. What were the parties like? Were they drinking juice?  You know the parties were two weeks long. What? Two weeks-- every day. And on Sunday. And on Sunday. It is an island full of aloha. So they would have the parties for two weeks. So when they ordered food they ordered a lot. They have canned goods and other foods shipped over from Kauai to supplement the fishing and hunting. Or they go to Kauai and shop themselves sometimes. A couple of the rules on Niihau seem a little more arbitrary than the others. Pulani Kahokuloa says his dad was kicked off the island when Pulani was 13 and Pulani left with him. That was 30 years ago. He could go back today except for one thing. I have to cut my hair and shave. What? CHUCKLING Yeah. That is kind of ridiculous. No beards are allowed on the island. And no long hair on the guys. Pulani's a real ponytail backwards-ball-cap kind of dude. And his sons have long hair too. They would all have to get haircuts if they want to go back. I do not know what is the reason because I had uncles that showed me older pictures when they were young. They had like Elvis hair like whoosh like long hair. So it is a new rule. Yeah it is a new rule. It is a silly rule. Pulani has a really hard time with the haircut thing. He kept coming back to it during our interview. We would be talking about the rules in general and his distaste for them and then he would say something like this. Especially the silly one of cutting hair. That one. That is the mean one that blows everybody's mind away when they ask me how come you cannot go back to Niihau ? Oh he is got to cut his hair. What? No way. Hawaiians had long hair back in the days. We looked like cavemen. I would say yeah. Well not today. You gotta cut the hair. It really bothers you.  It does. And there is a rule that Tuti Sanborn violated. It is a little more nuanced.   She wanted to document what life was like on the island. She was worried those traditions would be forgotten. So she writes about the island sometimes. And she did a series of TV interviews with her family asking them what they remembered. Just innocuous stuff. I did one with my dad on saddle making.  I did one with my sister. I did a few. In a way she was doing the same thing the Robinsons were doing-- trying to preserve native Hawaiianness. Capture it in video amber. But the Robinsons did not see it that way and now she is not allowed back on the island. To them the interviews the articles all of that violated what you could call the first rule of Niihau. You do not talk about Niihau. This punishment-- barring some people from the island even people who left by choice-- this was the thing the Niihauans we talked to were the most bitter about. Tuti's sister Doreen-- everybody calls her Auntie Deer-- has been barred from moving back to Niihau because she spent too much time away. She lived on the island until she was about 30 but then she moved to Kauai to take care of her mom who had a stroke. After her parents died she wanted to move back but she could not she says because of Leiana. Leiana is a matriarch of the Robinson family and she is the one you have to call when you want to go back to visit or to live full-time again. She said when we come here and stay here like one year or two years we are considered outsiders. That hurt me. In my heart it was like-- it was broken. My heart broke. I said how can she say that? Because I was raised there. When I was born I was raised there. She said that we belonged here not there. I broke down cried and said oh how can that be? Because it is like the island is calling me to go back there. And it does not help that you can see Niihau from Kauai. Driving up and down the road that runs along the ocean Niihau is a clear mountainous hump just a hop across the water. It feels so reachable like you could just take a boat there yourself. But of course you cannot. It is private property. The younger of the two Robinson brothers Bruce Robinson is considered the main boss of the island. But as he is gotten older the day-to-day management of Niihau has shifted to his wife Leiana which was really exciting for the villagers because Leiana's one of them. She is native Hawaiian. She was actually the daughter of the pastor on Niihau 30 years or so younger than Bruce. Tuti Sanborn remembers when they got together. Honestly I thought oh great. Now we have our own that is in a place where she can make changes and make good changes and do not have to rule over our people so strictly yeah? But no. She is just like the Robinsons. She treats the people just like the Robinsons have treated the people. Which is? Strict. I thought it would change where she would allow me to go. It did not change at all. It got worse. Yeah. Tuti says she is asked Leiana a bunch of times if she can go back to the island. The way it works is that the Robinsons have a military surplus barge like in Saving Private Ryan-- the kind where the front drops down. They ferry livestock with it and fuel and other supplies. And people who want to go back to Niihau can ride over on the barge. Only 20 or 25 people can fit on board. The trip takes a couple of hours. And they run pretty frequently maybe three times a week. You just have to call and schedule it in advance. And I remember calling on one occasion and she just said oh sorry not at the moment. We cannot accommodate you right now. Their usual comment or response is the barge is full.  Like of other people going? Right. And things. Sorry the barge is full. There is no room. There is no space. You are laughing because that does not seem true. Yeah because I know who goes. We all talk to each other and let each other know. How many times did you ask and how often? Like three four years consecutively I tried and was denied. So I just kind of stopped after that. Actually no. I tried going to someone else. I would ask someone that is influential in my family can you go ask Leiana that I want to go to Niihau? Still got denied. And I am like whatever. You are still my cousin. You cannot change that. This is something we had not thought of but it was so obvious once people pointed it out. On an island this small everyone's going to be related in some way. So this dynamic between Tuti and Leiana it is a family dynamic. They are cousins. In fact people use the word ohana family to describe the whole community of Niihauans both on the island and off. But while Tuti is technically a member of the ohana Leiana does not really consider her that anymore. And there is no court of appeals. No due process. Leiana and the Robinson brothers had the last word. Contrary to what Auntie Deer told us there are people who move away from Niihau to Kauai for a couple of years who are allowed to return but those folks are more tied into Leiana's inner circle. And as a result they are really hard to interview. This is an important point. The people that you are hearing from in this story they are a pretty self-selecting group. They talk to us because they either felt like they had nothing to lose or because they have some sort of issue with how the island is run if not with Leiana herself. With all this policing of who can come and go on the island and all the people banned from moving back we wondered how many folks are left living on Niihau. Again the whole point of this project is to try to preserve a place for native Hawaiians-- their culture and their language. But even this most basic fact-- the population of Niihau-- was hard to pin down. Right before the Robinson's ancestors bought the island in 1864 again there were about a thousand people living on Niihau. That is according to the census. And they were worried what was going to happen when the haoles the white people took over. In fact the villagers wrote two letters to the Hawaiian government begging to buy or lease the island themselves but nobody listened to them. Over the next four years 700 people moved off of Niihau. The latest census from 2010 says there are 170 residents on Niihau. But Pulani Kahokuloa told us the community has really dwindled since then. Let us just see. Right now there is 1 2 3-- at least five families are left on Niihau. So how many people is that? About 21 25 people? Wait what? There is only 25 people left on Niihau? Yep. Just about. But you can try and confirm it with Leiana first. She might give you another different number. I should say by this point we had already started trying to get a hold of Leiana. I left a voicemail at her office. And then a retired reporter I got in touch with on Kauai told her we were working on this story so I left a second voicemail. In any case we have asked several people how many villagers are left on the island of Niihau and the range that keeps coming up is between 35 and 50. Even a grocery store clerk on Kauai who grew up on Niihau said there is almost nobody left there. He would not go on tape but when we told him what we were doing he said does this mean people will get to go back now? Is that what the story's about?   This is Ira Glass This American Life. Leave a message.   Hi Ira. It is Sean. Contrary to popular belief there is cell service on Niihau. I am on Niihau. I am standing on just the wildest beach that I have ever been to. By wild I mean kind of like wilderness. It is like this weird untamed beach with these lava outcroppings in it. And the water is this unreal multicolored organism. It is just fantastic here. So I thought I should call you from Niihau. And I will see you soon. All right bye. Adia! There is one way outsiders can set foot on Niihau. Oop. Animal poop. Just like everywhere. Back in the '80s the Robinsons bought a helicopter partly so they could respond to medical emergencies on the island. And to offset the cost of it they started offering tourist trips to Niihau. Not to the village. You still really cannot get anywhere near the village. But anyone with 440 who is not afraid to ride in a helicopter can take this half-day tour where you soar above the island and then land for a few hours on its northernmost beach. It is a beach the villagers use themselves though they stay away when tourists are around. So there were no people. Not a single building in sight except this one weather-beaten pavilion with a storage hut across from it. So miles of empty beach. And then behind us this baking landscape that is not beach but red dirt also vast dotted with scrubby brush and dry grasses. It was like a piece of a foreign planet had fallen into the middle of the Pacific. Adia and I agreed it was unlike any place either of us had ever seen. It was kind of like we had discovered an island. On the flight over the helicopter pilot acted as a tour guide pointing out sights talking about the wildlife on the island. He told us that Niihau had been deemed by some the quietest place in the world. Although as he pointed out it is not clear how they measure those things. I would not call this the quietest place in the world at all. It is not quiet. It is really loud here. It is very loud here. We spent four hours roaming around on the beach which did not give us any more understanding of what life was like there. So here's some other stuff we learned. First and foremost it is been hard for the Robinsons to keep this place going. The ranching business is mostly unprofitable. They have tried other sources of revenue-- making honey manufacturing charcoal neither of which worked. They also run hunting safaris where people pay to shoot the wild pigs and other game. And there are the helicopter tours of course. But really the most stable source of income on the island thus far is one that will not sound traditional nor Hawaiian. Military contracts. There is a Navy radar facility on the island and a recent contract provides for 19 full-time-equivalent jobs. Also various Navy exercises have been carried out on the island. The Robinsons seem to be proud of their contracts with the military. Keith the older brother talked with the villagers about working with the Navy at a public hearing that was held on Niihau back in 2015. Without that money frankly your community your jobs would not have survived. It is just that simple. For the time being US Navy is your source of income that keeps all of you going here and which keeps us going and allows us to pay the taxes on this place. The villagers are paid to maintain the radar facility-- and the ranch for that matter. They live rent-free. We heard that some receive food stamps and other public benefits. As to the question of whether military contracts are compatible with the mission of preserving native Hawaiianness Keith has said it is a lot more compatible than tourism. The military is stealth he said and it does not leave litter behind. We tried a couple more times to reach Leiana to get her take on everything we would heard and it started to seem like a dead end. And then on our last full day on Kauai a little before 900 AM my phone rang. It was her. I know what your name is she said but I do not know what your mission is. I explained as best I could but I was nervous. In our minds Leiana had been built up into this towering intimidator. But finally she agreed to speak with us. Meet me at the helicopter office in an hour she said. Somehow both of our voices became very high when we got there. Hi. Good morning. Aloha. How are you? Leiana's decidedly not a towering intimidator. She is maybe 5' 4 with long dark hair plaid shirt jeans and boots. She was very gracious and pleasant with us. Do you want to join us over here? Sure. Uh-- But as soon as she saw the microphone her eyes widened. She said she did not want to go on tape. So you are not going to hear her voice in this story. She said she tries to stay out of the media if possible. She does not feel like she should be speaking for the whole community. And she clearly does not have a lot of time for sit-downs like this. During our visit her cell phone would not stop ringing-- and the office phone too. She is the point person for everyone now she said. But she said she would try to answer any questions we had. And then she said you can phrase the answers however you want. We told Leiana who else we would talked to and as soon as we said the first name Tuti Sanborn she did a kind of epic eye roll. Well Tuti. I mean she said but she stopped herself. OK OK she said. Who else? Pulani Kahokuloa I said and she got tense again. You are all the way over here she said gesturing away from herself. She said our story was clearly one-sided. And that is why we came to you I said. And so we got into it. Leiana said there is a limit to how long you can be away out of the community and still be let back on Niihau. She can only accommodate so many people and she has to make choices. She said I do not know what Tuti's purpose is for going home. She is crossed a lot of lines. What lines I said. She said people of the village do not want her being the voice of the people meaning all the ways that Tuti documents life on Niihau for the rest of the world. And then she gave us this one example that really stuck in her craw that Tuti had not mentioned. She said Tuti had worked as a consultant on an episode of Hawaii Five-O the new rebooted version that is on TV now. In the episode a college professor is murdered after sneaking onto Niihau to steal a rare plant. There are aerial shots of Niihau in the show although the scenes in the actual village looked like they were filmed somewhere else. Tuti herself plays a village elder.  Leiana said it is not her right to be their point person on Niihau especially a big production like that. They should have come to us. I have worked with Jurassic Park she said. Which is true. There is a scene in one of the movies of the Robinson