A couple years ago a guy named Lanail Hudson-- Lanail Thaddeus Hudson actually-- goes to a government office in Jacksonville Florida to get a new Florida state ID and they ask him to wait. And then they call out a state trooper because a man in Miami with the exact same name Lanail Thaddeus Hudson had gone to the authorities and flagged the name. Said there had been identity theft. Said somebody's got a fake driver's license under this name. So the trooper shows up and he is got to figure out what is going on. And the guy walks up to him in the lobby and says well maybe we can straighten this out now. Great. So the trooper asks the guy for any proof of who he is. Here's the trooper Richard Blanco. And he opens the backpack and he starts pulling out all these identifications. Just numerous IDs. The passport social security card 20 to 30 pieces of identification on him. There is a government-issued ID that lets him walk around the port in Jacksonville unescorted. There are two naval IDs that allow him onto Navy vessels. There is a birth certificate. You know he is slinging all these identifications on the desk. This is me. This is who I am. These documents these IDs depicted his photograph. So then I had a little doubt in my mind. Your doubt meaning what? This could be the true Lanail Hudson. He could be the victim. So he fingerprints the guy and runs it through the system and sure enough the fingerprints match the fingerprints on file for Lanail Hudson. Whoever this is standing in front of them has been arrested all the way back in 1989 as Lanail Hudson. He is actually served in prison as Lanail Hudson. But then Trooper Blanco gets the other Lanail Hudson on the phone-- the guy in Miami. That Lanail Hudson turns out to be a corrections officer down in Dade County and that Lanail Hudson said that ever since his wallet was stolen back in 1989 with his driver's license and his social security card inside he would had problems. He tells them-- This guy's taken my identity. He is lived in my identity for 23 years since 1989. He is caused me all kind of grief. My driver's license is suspended. He is cashed checks in my name. He has children in my name. On and on. At this point Trooper Blanco strongly suspected the guy standing in front of him in Jacksonville was probably a fake living under a stolen name. But vexingly the guy would not admit this even after he was arrested. At his job with his wife and kids-- he had an 8-year-old and a 15-year-old at the time-- everybody knew him as Lanail Hudson. In fact when this went to trial the guy from Jacksonville still insisted he was Lanail Hudson. His version was that he was Lanail Hudson and that is all he is ever known himself to be is Lanail Hudson. And in his version of the story the other guy is the criminal. No no. He did not accuse the other guy of being a criminal. He just insisted that he was the real Lanail Hudson. Today we still do not know who he is and he is been incarcerated since September 30 2011. Well today on our radio show It Says So Right Here. We have stories where what is written on official papers in black and white can determine the rest of your life. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. And this case right here is a good case in point about that. After his trial the man from Jacksonville-- he could no longer be Lanail Hudson right? All of his IDs his birth certificate-- all of that stuff was seized by the government. He became basically a man with no paper trail at all. No documentation. He is like a man without a country. He had no identity. So who was he? Well we found his wife Rosemary and she told us that she believes him when he says that Lanail Hudson is the only name he is ever known. She is always known him that way since 1996. Has never met his family says he rarely talks about his past. When they had kids she said she suggested that he might take the kids down from Jacksonville to Miami where he used to live to meet his people and he told her no. It is too much heartache down there. But she did not know the details. Trooper Blanco meanwhile says there is one clue about what could be his real name. There is a good possibility that it was Leroy Mayer or Meyer. Those names show up on police paperwork on September 29 1989 when he was arrested for four charges including attempted murder and aggravated battery. He is identified as Lanail Hudson in those police reports but the paperwork also says that he sometimes goes by the name of Leroy Meyers or Leroy Mayers and his nickname today is Leroy. That is the name his wife calls him. During his trial he explained that this way. He says well when I was a young man I got involved in a fight and I licked the guy pretty good. I whipped him. And when I got done all my friends call me Bad Bad Leroy. Like the Jim Croce song? Bad Bad Leroy Brown?  Yeah. And what is your read on this? Like what do you think is his real story? You know I do not have proof but I think he is a foreign national. He could be wanted for a crime could be a fugitive from his country. Even his wife thought he was from another country but I could not prove that he was from another country so he cannot be deported unless you have proof. And when you run Leroy Meyer or Leroy Mayer-- when you run down who that might be do you see someone of his age with a criminal record or anything like that? Nothing came back to Leroy Meyer or Mayer. We could find nothing. He went to prison as John Doe so he never told us who he was. And the real trick is once he is released from his 10-year sentence who is he going to be when he gets out of jail or out of prison? That was a concern of the judge. Who will you be when you are released from prison? What will be your identity? You think if I ran him down now and asked him he would still insist that he is Lanail? You know what? I would like to invite you to do that. I would like to invite you to go and interview him and see if he would grant an interview and see what he would say. Hello? Yes hi. Is this John Doe? Um yes. I guess according to the state I am. I reached the man that I suppose I am going to call John Doe at the Federal Correctional Institution in Jesup Georgia. I asked him what his real name was the one he was born to. Lanail Hudson and this is the only name I have ever had the only name I have ever known. I am dubbed John Doe at this point. I hate when people call me. They do not have the decency to say well call me Mr. Doe. John Doe. To me it represents a nobody and this seems unreal. Now the other Lanail Hudson the man in Miami he has family members. He has school records from when he was a little boy. If this was your name why not bring those to your trial to prove it? I could not really-- you know I did not have a case. He had a mother that came in and said this is my son and a dad that said that. And I had no one to say that and I think that was the turning point. I do not know who my parents are. I do not know if I have any siblings. At his trial he said he was homeschooled. That is why there were no school records. He said he was raised by a woman who is now deceased named Gertrude Hudson who told him when he was 12 that she was not his real mom. And he said in court and also on our phone call that all the other paperwork and photos from his childhood were burned by a girlfriend in 1985 after they had a fight. And that was the last time that I really had anything really tangible to reflect of my past. I still do not have any of those things. Can you see how when the prosecution looks at that they say well that looks very convenient. That looks very suspicious. Well I do not know how it would. I am telling the truth as it is what had happened. My perception of how it looked did not conceive in my mind. I am just explaining what had happened in my past. I came out of that conversation still wondering who he was. So here at our radio show we set out on a search. We called the church where he said he would been baptized in Miami. Found nothing. Looked for the woman who he said burned his stuff in 1985. Zilch on that one too. Then we saw in his police records that the attempted murder and a bunch of other incidents in 1989 all happened at one house. And it named one of the people who lived there and we found her. He used to date my sister but she is dead now. Used to date my sister. This is Martha Rolle. She says she knew him for a year year and a half. Did you ever hear the name Lanail Hudson? Did he ever call himself Lanail Hudson? No. I do not remember that. What name did you know him by? Leroy. Leroy May-- Meyers. I do not know which one it is but Leroy was Mayers. I knew him by that. I do not know any other name. And where was he from? I do not know. I think he was from some kind of island. I do not know if it is Barbados or somewhere but he is not from here. He is not from here. He had an accent. I have to say 10 years later his accent's pretty faint. He is gotten rid of his accent. Oh he has? Mostly yeah. Oh my goodness. He sounded to me almost like Jamaican but not Jamaican.  Leroy he was from Trinidad. That is where he said he was from Trinidad. This is Martha's brother Jonathan Marshall. He also never heard Leroy use the name Lanail Hudson. I used to talk to him all the time. He was staying at the church right in the back of my house. He used to go with my sister and him and my sister used to fight a lot. My sister was on drugs and everything and we all tried to tell him not to deal with my sister because she was HIV-positive and everything like that. He really was not a bad guy. My sister hit him in the top of the head one time with a clawed hammer and busted his head open. I took him out to the hospital and he laid his head all on my shoulder and we were just crying and all that type of stuff and I just was constantly telling him to leave the girl alone. But he would not do it. Two weeks after his sister hit Leroy with a hammer after she told him not to come around anymore Leroy was lurking outside the house looking in the windows and Jonathan went outside to shoo him away and Leroy shot him. Four or five bullets missed. One hit him in the back. That bullet is still inside him. That shooting is the attempted murder charge that Leroy racked up. And when the police arrested him for it this is one of the first times that they booked and processed this guy who everybody called Leroy as Lanail Hudson. This is the moment where it seems like he is making the transition from one name to the other. Jonathan said that if I wanted more information about the guy I should call the pastor at the church near his house-- the one where Leroy lived. Reverend Scott. Elder Scott. He will be able to give you all the information that you need. When I reached Pastor Selwyn Scott and his wife Thomasina they did not want to record a conversation for the radio but they totally remembered Leroy. They said a member of their church found him living on the street when he was 19 or 20. They put him up in the trailer behind the church for maybe a year. Pastor Scott talked to Leroy a lot and say that Leroy told him that he was from Guyana. Conveniently for us Pastor Scott has lived in Trinidad Barbados and Guyana and said that Leroy's accent was definitely from Guyana. And in fact though most of his arrest records do not list a country of origin or list the United States as the country of origin one of them from September 21 1989 lists his country of origin as Guyana. Without any prompting Mrs. Scott brought up the name Lanail Hudson. Actually she was not sure if it was Lionel or Leonard or Lanail but she said that Leroy found a wallet with the ID in it-- a name like Lanail Hudson-- and she said they told him to mail it back. And after Leroy left the neighborhood she said that she heard that the young man whose ID it was was dead and that Leroy had assumed the young man's identity. I let her know that the young man is still very much alive-- no longer perhaps so young-- and I talked to him. How much money has he cost me? Yeah. It was not too much. I would say maybe 6000 or 7000 he cost me. This is Lanail Hudson the one that I think is the real one. The one who lives in Miami and works for the Department of Corrections. If the price tag on 23 years of identity theft seems shockingly low-- just 6000 after all-- you should know that that price does not count endless hours on the phone straightening out his credit. He says it took years to convince the IRS that he did not owe them money. They wanted to garnish his wages for a while. He says that Leroy or John Doe or whatever it is that we are calling him would buy cars and not make payments rent cars and not return them leave hospital bills unpaid. The real Lanail was careful to pay his bills on time and play by the rules. But he could not buy a house because his credit was ruined. I believe the most frustrating one-- I believe-- let us see. Let me think. I believe the companies like Sprint and the hospital. These are the companies that are so hard to prove because they just want their money. And even though they know this person is a criminal they know this person stole your identity but I just want the money. I am like well that is not me. I do not have a phone. I am proving to you that. They do not care about that. On top of all that he had an attempted murder charge on his name which was kind of a problem whenever he got pulled over by a cop or applied for a job. Here's what I think we can accurately say about LeroyJohn Doe. It seems clear he had some kind of rough childhood lived on the streets. Went to prison for shooting his girlfriend's brother and when he got out in the early '90s he used Lanail Hudson's good name to start a new life. Moved to Jacksonville found a church met his wife Rosemary there and told her that he wanted to start over. She says she could see that he would been broken and thrown away by other people and fell in love with him. She said he was sweet quiet a good dad. They had a house. Trooper Blanco saw his pay stubs. Said he made good money. As best as we can tell from police records his violent criminal behavior mostly stops by 1993. That said it does seem that if he thought he could get away with not paying a bill he would try. That seems to have continued as he built his new life. Talking to him I think the way that he sees it is he did not steal. He did not run up bills on someone else's credit card. I do not think he ever considered how he might be hurting the Lanail Hudson who lived down in Miami. I do believe that he wants to get back to his family and kids when he gets out of prison. And so he is stuck as John Doe because admitting that he is Leroy or somebody else probably does get him deported. Act Two. What are you doing for the test of your life? The woman in this next story is waiting on a piece of paper that-- I think it is not an exaggeration to put it this way-- is going to determine how she will spend the rest of her life. The paper that she is waiting on is a test result-- a genetic test-- for Huntington's disease. Huntington's disease is a progressive brain disorder. There is a wide range of symptoms but in the worst cases people who have it can end up losing physical control of their bodies sort of like Parkinson's disease. They can also have mental symptoms that are like Alzheimer's or schizophrenia. If you have a parent with Huntington's disease you have a 5050 chance of getting it yourself. That is the situation in this story. A woman named Kelly-- her mom has Huntington's. Kelly is the youngest of six sisters and she decided to get tested. She kept an audio diary about what happened. It is 830 in the morning. I have an hour and a half until my results and I am getting ready. I feel nervous. I am nervous today. I was a little nervous last night. It started to kick in about midnight and today I am like-- I cannot explain it. It is like butterflies. Like Kayla said it is like Christmas almost except when you open your present it is like the  present you ever got. Or it could be the best. So I guess it is kind of like that ugh in your stomach. I am holding us up. I am holding us up. I am cooking breakfast and we have got to leave. I am 28 years old. I live in Levittown PA. I live here with my fiancee Kyle. I am trying to avoid this. My mom has Huntington's disease. Her father had Huntington's disease. I have five sisters. I would say right now there is at least two of them that show signs. And I have decided to get tested now. I am here with my sister and we are going to ask her a few questions. My oldest sister Cathy who is 42 years old was the one that took care of my mother when she started to get very sick. She is showing symptoms of the disease. How are you feeling now? Good. How did you feel before? We will say a month ago. A month ago? Horrible. It feels like your mind is going. It is just you try to think and your body does not allow it to think. It is like you cannot remember. And you look at something and you are like OK I know how to do this. Like I know it I know it I know it I know it. And you cannot do it. Your brain is just not working. And you feel like you are dying as someone would describe it. Like you are panicking almost? Yeah yeah. And then it is kind of like you wake up confused and try to-- you know you have to go to the bathroom but you cannot make it fast enough. So then you would pee yourself when that happened? That happened. Yeah. That happened recently. My biggest fear is like what if your mind is trapped inside this body that cannot move? That is why I kept telling everybody. I was doing the one word thing and it was kind of-- What was your one word? Because Mommy's was funny funny funny. Funny yeah. Mine was do not know what to do. Like do not know do not know I do not know. That is-- do not know. Do not know. That is why I cannot go see Mommy. Remember? I just cannot go because I just get-- Psychologically messed up. Yeah. It just kills me. I mean from what I hear my mom was actually getting sick when she was pregnant with me. So she was pretty much sick from when I was born. I think I was 15 when she went to the nursing home. So it is been a while. And she is-- I cannot even explain it. It is like she is very atrophied. Her arms are stuck up. Her legs are basically stuck. Like she does not move at all. She does nothing. Like the best thing you could say is just a shell sitting there. No kid should ever have to see the  that went down in my house when we were kids. Like crazy stuff. I came home one day and everything was in plastic bags. Everything was contaminated and disgusting and she was allergic to everything. I would come home and be like what the hell? She is nuts again. My friends would come over and say to me like your mom's nuts. What is going on? Yeah I know. And I was embarrassed. I was actually mad at her. I had terrible feelings towards her. Even when she went to assisted living she would call like 80 times a day. Stop calling! And I would hang up on her. And I was so mean to her. But I did not have that understanding of what it was at all. So now another question I want to ask. Why have not you ever gotten tested? Why did not you think even now-- what was your biggest fear? The insurance aspect of it? Insurance. The denial of wasting my life. Like you feel like you did not do what you should have done. Yeah. Like I should have lived more. Lived. Yeah. For me it is I do not know if I will be liberated if they tell me I have it because like you said you think about it every day. And if you know you have it like you said I am going to live balls to the wall. I am going to do everything. I am going to make a list and do everything I want to do. Uh-huh. None of us should be having kids. For me it is moreso the care of the child. Now I do not want my kid to go through what I went through. I had you to raise me thank God but with Mommy I saw the most terrible part of someone that was supposed to be my mother. That is why I did not want Kayla taking care of me because I did it with Mommy. Yeah it is so hard. Like with Kayla-- so if Kayla has it what would you feel? Like . Yeah I would feel guilty. I do not feel like you have it Kel. I hope not. I do not. I do not think you do. My niece Kayla's here with me today because she is going to come with me to come get my results. I hope I am right. It is a flattering thought. My name is Kayla. I am 21 years old. My mom is Cathy. I recently got tested for Huntington's and I was told that I definitely have the gene just not displaying signs yet. Like physical signs. I decided not to tell my mom because I do not want her to feel guilty for me having it. She is already depressed and on edge and I would not want to push her over. I literally do not have any family support besides Kelly. Like Mom or Dad's side. Kelly is the only person I have who understands it that is behind me on it. I have not told anybody really in my family besides Kelly. We have talked about it our whole lives and I do not want her to have it. But it is like one part of me that if Kelly has it I am not alone. So I have really mixed feelings on it. OK we are in the backyard just hanging out. Kayla's on her fifth cigarette. Clearly she is more nervous than me. Actually since I found out my results I feel like I smoke more. I really do because now I am like screw it. Before people were always like oh it is so unhealthy. You will get cancer. And what more can happen you know what I mean? The first thing I wanted to do after I got my test results was I wanted to order food and watch stand-up. And that is what I did the whole night. Ate pizza. But I just treated it as another night you know? I booked the day because I knew that I would not be sitting around. And I have a wedding shower Saturday at church because now we have to start going to the church for the wedding. And then dinner plans with his mom so I kind of booked the entire weekend to make sure that I do not have a second by myself to cry. All right here we go. We are getting in the car and getting ready to leave. Do you want me to brush your hair? That is another thing. If I do get sick just make sure you do my hair. Like brush my hair and do not cut it short. I do not want short hair like my mom. They did that to my mom. I hate short hair. You do not have to do the makeup thing. Unless you want to. Like when you take me out to dinner. See I am cool. Just stick me in a nursing home. I will be fine. We will put you in one of those nice homes down there. Yeah. We will settle you in nicely. We will make-- I will make friends. I will make friends. My mom made friends. She loved the assisted living place. Remember she had a boyfriend there? Yeah. That is what I am saying. I get to just chill out and play checkers all day. Sounds good. Probably you are gonna be a little shaky. Nobody's gonna want to play with you. Probably should not play Jenga.  That is terrible. All right. I have got to go in there. What time is it? Wait.  It is getting real now. OK it is 1030 and we are about to go into Shayna's office for my results. Have you been nervous or pretty chill or-- Yeah. I feel like I might throw up. You do? OK. Do you want me to just cut right to the chase? I do not know about that. OK. Well I am happy to do that. Unless you guys wanted to talk a little bit-- No I want to get to it. No we just want to know. You just want to know. OK I was going to say some people want to have a conversation about what would happen. OK great. Your results were normal. You are not going to have Huntington's disease. So it is not what you were expecting I know. See I told you.  Oh my god.  Oh my god. I am sorry. It is OK. I cannot even believe this. Like are you sure? I will show you the paper. I can show you the words. But yes you inherited both normal alleles. Right there the negatives. So negative is normal.  Can we have that? Absolutely. I do need to make photocopies but you can absolutely have it.  You mind if I just step outside? No go ahead. That is fine. If you go to the right a little bit you can have some privacy in that space. I am just going to go to the lobby. OK. It is hard. It is hard for her. Yeah. And a lot of people think that just normal is easy and everything's good but it is complicated you know? It is really complicated. The good thing is at least I will be able to take care of her. Yeah. That is the good part of it. Yeah. But I do not want her to be alone. It probably was not a good idea for her to be here now that I think about it. Like I wanted her for her support but then it seems like she is probably going to be upset about it. Yeah. It says result negative. This patient is predicted to be unaffected by Huntington's disease caused by the expansion of the CAG repeat in the HD gene. Laboratory results and submitted clinical information reviewed by Franklin Quan Ph.D. Like you have to keep looking at it to make sure that they did not screw up somewhere. Like are you sure? Are you sure? Kelly's audio diary was produced by Paige Cowett of WNYC. Coming up how your life can change because of something that happens with your parents in the parking lot of a Kohl's department store. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme. Today's theme It Says So Right Here. Stories where what is written on paper in black and white has enormous power over somebody's life. We have arrived at Act Three of our show. Act Three-- There is A Signed Line Between Love and Hate. Ben Calhoun has this story of politics and one very particular piece of paperwork. If you took a wholesome storybook version of the state of Wisconsin and you turned it into a person you might get a college student named Josh Inglett. Josh grew up in Portage this small city near the middle of the state. His dad a Lutheran minister. His mom a substitute kindergarten teacher. Josh got good grades in high school where he played quarterback for his school's mostly losing football team. For college he only looked at Wisconsin state schools. And listen to how he is paying for it. Well originally my parents helped me out a little bit but I kind of rejected the idea. I noticed some of my friends whose parents were paying for school or were assisting them in school did not really take ownership I guess of their education and they did some extracurricular activities that were not as fruitful I guess towards their education and would not help them along the way get the full learning experience at school. OK I just want to note how he is so politely trying not to slag his friends for partying instead of studying and that he is being so earnest and trying to live by principles. This is what it is like to talk to Josh. I have actually turned away-- last year I did not even accept any financial aid. I decided I wanted to try paying for everything and graduate from college debt-free and relatively unassisted from my parents. Our story with Josh actually starts right here once Josh is at college. He ended up going to the University of Wisconsin at Platteville and his sophomore year to pay his tuition bills he became an RA. And because of that he ended up going to the statewide convention for RAs throughout the whole UW system. And this is key because this RA conference kind of blew Josh's mind a little. When he was there he started hearing about students at other UW schools who were helping to make their schools better. They were getting money and starting programs. And Josh was just like I want to do that for my school. Almost on cue he hears about a student position with the Board of Regents for the University of Wisconsin system. Now the Board of Regents might sound like some obscure meaningless hunk of bureaucracy but it is actually the governing board for Wisconsin's entire 5 billion a year university system. It is got two seats for students. So Josh applies. Soon he gets a call from the governor's office. That is what a big deal the Board of Regents is. The governor actually appoints the student regents. So Josh goes to the state capital Madison to interview with Governor Scott Walker's staff. He is a little nervous at first but he hits it off with the guy who is running the selection process. Josh is telling him about playing quarterback in Portage and as it turns out the guy running the interview actually grew up in a nearby town called Waunakee. We had shared a joke actually that he went to Waunakee High School which is a big time rival of Portage in sports and things. And they always beat us too so that was a good laugh. I felt like it was probably the best interview that I had ever had. Josh goes through weeks of interviewing and vetting and then it happens. Governor Walker's office puts out a press release announcing Josh's nomination. This is what Governor Walker says about Josh in it. I am pleased to appoint Joshua and I know he will serve the UW system and his fellow students well. A couple days later Walker's staff calls Josh back to Madison for this big day of official stuff. They coach him and introduce him to lawmakers who have to approve his nomination. There is meeting and greeting. There is a big long day of that. And then Josh goes home. I got a call 530 so it must have been about an hour probably once I got back. I got a call from the governor's office-- the adviser on education to the governor. He told me that I had done a good job. That is kind of how he started the conversation and then continued to ask me if I had signed the recall petition. The recall petition. Maybe you remember this whole political bloodbath Wisconsin went through a little while ago. Maybe you do not. But quick synopsis. Scott Walker conservative Republican gets elected in 2010. And almost immediately he announces a ton of really controversial things-- dramatic budget cuts or more inflammatory eliminating collective bargaining rights for most public sector employees-- nurses teachers et cetera et cetera. The state goes bananas. A year later people organize an attempt to recall Walker and kick him out of office. And they collect about a million signatures for that. More than a quarter of all the registered voters in the state signed to have Walker recalled. And so they do it. They have a vote and the organizers fail. Walker wins. Stays in office. OK all of that happened before all this. The recall petition happened when Josh Inglett was barely out of high school. And yet that is what this person from the governor's office was asking Josh about on the phone. Had he signed a petition to have Walker recalled? And I asked him why I guess. And he said I just need to know. And I did not even remember I guess at that point. It was something I guess that I had kind of forgotten about-- something that was not a big point in my life. Not something that I marked on my calendar by any sense of the imagination. Had it been something that Josh marked on his calendar the date on the entry would have been December 26 2011. Josh was home from college for the holidays and he was out with his family after Christmas sale shopping. Josh says he remembers they were in the parking lot of a Kohl's department store and there was this guy collecting signatures. And Josh says while he was at home he would been hearing what Walker's collective bargaining legislation and budget cutting-- what this was going to do in his hometown of Portage. His parents were talking about it and so were his old teachers. We were preparing ourselves I guess for teachers in my district to be fired and to lose their jobs. There was going to be a downsize I guess of 20 or 30 teachers who were going to get fired or dismissed because of Governor Walker's policy against the unions. All of this was bad news for Josh's mom. Again she was a substitute teacher. Mostly taught kindergarten. And around this time with Josh off at college she was looking for a full-time teaching job. She had not been able to find one though and with Walker's budget cuts and union legislation Josh knew her chances would only get worse. So he is there in the parking lot standing there with his mom and there is the guy with the clipboard who is like sign here kid. And so I signed it. It sounds like it was mostly out of support for your mom actually. Oh very much so yeah. I knew that she would not be able to get a full-time position if Governor Walker's policies came to fruition. It seemed like a violent situation for the people who were my role models-- my parents my teache