Graeme grew up in a working class town north of England. And when he was 11 or 12 his family moved into one of the first houses in a new development that was being built. It was kind of hitting the jackpot for him at that age. Because all around everywhere were homes under construction which-- I remember this from construction sites in our neighborhood when I was a kid-- was so incredibly fun. This became my new playground. This is Graeme. So I would climb on the scaffolding do a bit of kind of amateur gymnastics but also build stuff. And the big thing amongst us kids was lighting fires. And there was tar paper was one thing that burned very nicely. There was actually all kinds of trouble get into. Bricks and boards to play with and wet concrete to write in. They would find food the workers left and cigarettes which they would smoke. Once they found a porn magazine. And one day Graeme was there alone and he had this great idea. He put together a little makeshift seesaw-- or as he calls it a teeter totter-- with a plank of wood balanced on a brick at the center. He put another brick on one end of the plank. And his idea was to drop something really heavy-- really really heavy-- onto the other end of the plank from a great height to find out just how far he could send that brick catapulting into space. So to accomplish this he set up his teeter totter by some scaffolding. So I climbed up on the scaffolding. And I carried up this kind of massive piece of curbing stone. I am guessing around 25 pounds. So you are how high up? Probably at the sort of second floor window level. So what? 15 feet 12 feet. He carefully tries to line up the stone directly above the near end of the seesaw below down on the ground. And then he dropped the stone. It landed perfectly. I really had lined this up pretty well. And the brick launched. And the following few moments are probably the most vivid memory I have of my childhood. I was obviously watching to see what the brick would do because that was the experiment really to sort of follow that in its journey. But the brick it did not move at all like he thought. He thought it was going to arc into the air like a rocket. Instead it just seemed to be getting bigger and bigger. I now have an image in my head of this brick just getting larger and larger as it headed right towards my face. I even remember very vividly that the construction of the brick had three circular holes in it. And I can still picture them now as they headed towards me. In a kind of slow motion way? Yes very much so. I feel like that memory is minutes when obviously it was just not even a second. So I I believe instinctively jerked my head back as this brick came directly towards my face. And I have a very clear memory of the kind of sound and the wind. And even I believe the brick as it flew past me flicked my fringe. The fringe of your hair? Yeah and it sort of whistled as it went. Even when I throw my dog's ball now which has a little whistle device in it that memory comes back to me. This moment was stunning. Like nothing like this had ever happened to him. And I remember having to sit down for actually quite a few minutes to recover. I really felt like probably for the first time that I was inches away from death. And I remember walking home in some state of shock afterwards. I used to wonder if the brick had actually hit me and killed me maybe I would fallen off the scaffolding or something. I used to wonder whether the crime scene investigators came to look what would they make of the whole setup? Would they even understand what had happened?  You know? LAUGHING Right. Like you got hit by a brick. Like where did it come from? Yeah. This dead child who laying in a building site-- there was the teeter totter there but I even had this sort of vision of what if my body fell forward and destroyed the little structure that I had made down there? And how did I get hit under the chin with a brick? And where is the brick? What the forensics would have made of the whole set up. That is the thing right? Your own death that is not bad enough on its own. There is the whole question of the forensics afterwards what people will make of it. It is weird to think that they will stare at the scene of your death look at the objects scattered around you and get it all wrong and get you wrong. That is the bigger thing right? The bigger question after you are gone is not just how it happened but you your motives your state of mind what to make of you and your whole life your good qualities your bad ones. Today on our program we have three stories of people who embark on this kind of forensics for beginners trying to understand somebody's death bumbling their way through whatever scraps of evidence they can get their hands on old text messages handwritten notes stuff that frankly seems so puny compared to the task at hand. WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  So we begin today with a woman whose sister has died and she has questions. The woman's name is Nadia Bowers and she wrote this to somebody who she thinks might be of help. Quick warning for people listening to the podcast of our show we have unbeeped some curse words in here. If you prefer a beeped version of today's program it is at our website. Anyway here's Nadia. Dear Dealer. Hey man. What is up? I am saying man because that is my guess as to what you are. All the people blowing up my sister's phone offering and seeking drugs were men-- Brian Jerry Eric and my personal favorite baby Jesus. I can make a graph charting the meeting of particular men with misfortune for my sister. It is a safe bet you are just another data point one among many part of a pattern. But distinguished because you are the last data point. You are the one who killed her. And Dealer-- it just seemed like the right title for you since I do not know your name. We can be informal here right? You do not have to call me Miss or Mrs. Definitely do not call me Madam. My sister called me Nad. My sister's Sasha who I believe you knew. What did you call her? I hope you did not call her Sash because that is what a lot of people who loved her called her and I find it hard to believe that you loved her. Did you know her well enough to care for her or did you hardly know her? When we were little we sometimes called one another after the food we give our cats. She was Tender Vittle and I was Chef's Blend. Did you even call her by her name? Or was it Lady? Or maybe you had a nickname for her like purple the color of her car the one she was found in. Keeping with our informal tone I will not call you Mr. I will just call you my man because that is what you are. You are my man the one I want to talk to the one I am seeking the only one who knows some very important things about how my sister died. You are quite possibly the last person who saw her alive and I am a little jealous. As for me you do not have to call me by my name. You can just call me The Sister.  I think about you all the time almost every day. I feel like I deserve to know you like I deserve the have at least five minutes of your time five minutes alone with you. This is me tying you to a chair so we can think about some things together. Are you still alive? I feel like you are and I am angry about that. But then if I learned who you were and that you were dead I might be angry about that too. I think about hurting you. And when I imagine the violence I could commit it alarms me. It is important to me that you know some things. I want you to see who you messed with know who you destroyed. Sasha was the valedictorian of her high school class. She studied psychology at Yale. She was bold. I was her apprentice. She gave me my taste in music. Riding around in her Ford Escort she would slip in a cassette explaining the difference between Funkadelic and Parliament. One of my most prized possessions is a cassette tape where we taped ourselves on mushrooms sitting in my room. I was a senior in high school. She was home from college for Christmas vacation. Stop it. What are laughing at? Nothing.  That is Sasha asking me what I am laughing at. Nothing I tell her. We stared as my grandmother's watercolors on my wall started to blur. Oh my God. It is like-- you know what it looks like right now? It really looks like it is like all these different planes like these different  We burned Nag Champa incense and cracked ourselves up about things we called social experiments. These were basically fantasies about ways we could be completely inappropriate in situations where certain contained behavior was expected like the public library. And if you  like the library and I pulled all the books off the shelves. I  like--  That is me screaming. Strange they are like weirding out or something. Like what are doing? What are you doing? What do you mean? Huh? Huh?  When I listen to the tape I hear a self-assured Sasha. She is in control. I am her little sister overjoyed to have her full attention trying to impress her with my wisdom and also be her court jester. Sasha tells me a story about this horse she knew that she called a total bitch. She is just full of snot. --not safe to have around people. And then this girl from the Special Olympics showed up in the barn and threw her arms around the horse's neck and the horse stayed calm. It was like right on her shoulder and everybody was like  waiting for it to take a bite out of this chick. And it was like she knew. She just like sat there. Did she bite people? Yes. Oh yeah. That is why it was so cool that she did not. Right!  You idiot.  Oh. That is so-- I bet she did kind know that this was not the right time to be an asshole. Is there ever a good time?  No I did not-- Is there ever a good time to be an asshole? I am asking her.   I have done the math. And as of March 11 2018 at 649 PM I have lived longer than my sister. I have walked the earth more seconds than my big sister who was born 2 and 12 years before me. This does not make sense. You have knocked the universe off course.  My husband would say Take it easy Encyclopedia Brown as he watched me walk around with her phone trying to reconstruct her last days reading texts listening to messages making notes. Trying to figure out who you are my man. I was hoping to finally understand the part of her life that she refused to share with me at the end. It infuriated me that she kept getting texts after she died like this one from Brian. Hey any of the shirts around? My hand shaking I responded You should fuck off. This is Sasha's sister and she died. Go get your drugs somewhere else you piece of shit. Or this one from Franky Any news? Got Sleepies. When there was no response he wrote Must be dead. I wrote back to Franky. Actually she is dead. Fuck off. This is her sister. You will have to fucking get your drugs somewhere else. So my man are you one of the guys she talked to and texted with on her last day? Are you the ex-boyfriend who kept harassing her the one who introduced her to Oxycontin? That guy? Are you the friend who told me how sorry he was that Sasha died and that it was a hot day and maybe her windows were rolled up and she suffocated during a nap in her car? Are you one of those friends I ran into who did not have the decency to show up for her memorial? One of those people? Were you feeling guilty about something? Here's something that is been eating at me for a while. I read that you actually do not mind when people die from something you were selling because it tells the hardcore users that the high is really powerful. The high of heroin mixed with fentanyl-- fentanyl which is up to 100 times more potent than morphine 100 times more potent than the drug given to my father when he was dying from cancer. So a death from this stuff is like a calling card is that true? Did my sister's obituary bring in business for you?  I have a friend who is a Jehovah's Witness. And she told me that in the Resurrection I will be able to hold my sister like I used to and speak to her like nothing happened. I like this idea but I cannot get myself to believe it. Her body was burned cremated at 1800 degrees. I do not like picturing that but I do. Aside from my own body hers is probably the other female body I knew the best. Lean taut muscular. She rode horses. She was fearless always wanting to ride the ones that were trouble. She could lose her saddle and gallop at a flat run like a wild woman gripping the horse's mane with her hand. Her leg muscles were iron cables. She used to put me in the vise a move inspired by our love of the WWF wrestlers. She would wrap her brawny legs around me and squeeze until I almost could not breathe. My mother always called Sasha the daughter with a bleeding heart. At one point when she was working in New Haven you would walk down the street with her and she knew all the homeless people by name. If you were driving with her she would jerk the car to the side of the road get out leaving the car door swinging open and call to the man or woman to see if they were OK if they needed anything. That was her life's work. She was actually a clinical social worker with two master's degrees in social work and public health. For the last five or so years of her life she had trouble keeping jobs. She had trouble committing to anything.  The daughter with a bleeding heart. Her autopsy report says that her heart weighed 360 grams. When I had to identify her body the edges of the sheet she lay on were pink from her watered down blood the watered down blood of her compassionate bleeding heart. They should have cleaned up better cleaned her up better. Though I caught myself thinking how perfect her eyebrows were.  How old are you? Were you my sisters age? Younger? Did you know she was 44? Maybe that seems old to you but it is not. She looked older since she started using. But before before my man she was gorgeous sexy. She probably met you at your place or the Taco Bell parking lot in her filthy car baseball cap picked at skin too much eyeliner. So maybe you could never imagine that but she was. Ask anyone who knew her. Ask the multitude of men who knew her. Ask the ones I would like to line up against a wall execution style and actually execute. Ask her first mind fuck of a boyfriend at age 14 and the obsessive one that followed in high school. Ask the professors married men random men apparent friends the one who first gave her crack then Oxycontin. Ask her coach who slept with the young women on his team and pulled her into a coke-fueled party scene while she was still a teenager. He denies all this today. I find myself fixated on the men. They circle her memory like these loser dead beat ghosts or something. How dare they have the nerve to be alive.  A year after Sasha died after visiting her grave on a summer day I drove through the center of our hometown. By the town green there was a cluster of boys and girls not yet high school age. The boys were on their BMX's doing tricks riding down a little hill. The girls were all clumped together watching these young peacocks strut their stuff knowing their job was to sit there and be impressed. They were nearly silent whispering among themselves while the boys were having all the fun. I drove by them and shocked myself by rolling down the window and yelling Girls get a backbone. They are not that cool. I worried what my sister's death was doing to me. What was your day like today your day as a dealer? There is so much heroin and fentanyl on the streets these days I am pretty sure you are crushing it as the kids say. On the radio I heard the chief medical examiner for Connecticut actually get choked up about how they need to build new buildings just to keep up with all the dead bodies from overdoses. A grown man who sees dead bodies for a living cried. You my man are powerful. Is that how you feel?  A few days before she died Sasha sent me a silly text. There had been an incident about a week and a half before at my mother's house where she had been hosting a cookout for friends. Sasha showed up in bad shape slurring her words fighting off drowsiness. I forbade her to use some combination charcoal gas grill because I thought she was going to blow us all up. There was a fight. She felt wrongly accused and was crying a lot. I tried to get her to talk to me about what was really going on and that went nowhere. My mom confronted her with some hard evidence a text I saw ding on to her phone. Sasha did this thing when she knew she was caught. She would stare hard into your eyes while she sized you up. What did you know for sure? What could she convince you of? What could she get away with admitting without completely throwing herself under the bus? Eventually she just sort of faded away into the next room trying to clear the table but knocking things over instead. I was still holding a grudge about it but I was happy to get her innocuous text asking if I remember the drawing in our middle school French books that went with the word faible meaning weak. It looked like a man with no bones making a face like he had just eaten something distastefully bland. Growing up my sister delighted in imitating the man Faible and making me crack up. She did it so often it was such a staple in our repertoire that I thought it was odd that she would even have to ask if I remembered. But this was our pattern. There would be an incident. Then after things subsided she would reach out and we would both be happy to not have to deal with the larger issue. But each time I knew I was being roped into denial. I was less willing this time and I held out on writing her back. I wanted to punish her a little more show her I was not a pushover. But this thought came to me strongly. You do not want that to be the last text she ever sends you. Read the subtext. She may need you. And you need to let her know that you love her. I never texted Sasha back. I waited too long.  After she died I looked at the texts in her phone from the night of that cookout the night we fought about whether she was on drugs. She wrote a friend How do I not hate my sister? My family truly hates me. I do not want to talk anymore. Her friend wrote back Damn. Nadia the fucking narc. Seeing the word hate in association with me knocked the wind out of me. I wanted to yell at her No you have got it all wrong. I am the one who loves you not those people. But by the time I read that she was already dead. On July 31 2015 the day she died she had just seen her drug counselor. After our dad died and her addiction blossomed he became the father figure in her life. She was working in his garden. Toward the end of her life she created gardens for people just because she loved it. It gave her a place to put her anxiety her manic tendencies. He called to her saying he had to go and was she OK. She waved him on I am fine. I am fine. This was maybe 330 PM. I am glad that she saw her counselor that day. They loved one another very much. At 4 oclock she has a 47 second outgoing call to Alan. At 402 there is an incoming call from Alan for 54 seconds. At 408 she calls Gary for one minute then Gary calls her back at 420 and they talk for 42 seconds. At 427 she calls Gary again and they talk for 41 seconds. At 439 she has an outgoing call to Tim for one second. At 440 she has a call out to Jerry for one minute. Are you Alan Gary Tim Jerry? Were you the last one to talk to her? Did you see her too? Were you with her? Both her windows were rolled down. Had someone been in her passenger seat? Were you with her when she died and you got scared and ran? Tell me what were her last moments like? What was she saying before? Did you watch her die?  My mother worries that she wanted to die but I do not think so. How long have you been cutting heroin with fentanyl? I do not think Sasha saw it coming. You sucker punch people you know? She had meetings coming up written in her day book about possible work. She was trying. In an email reconnecting with a beloved former colleague two days before she died she said Hi. Surprise surprise. Rumors of my death have been greatly exaggerated. LOL. Her autopsy says 654 PM as the time of death. Sometime between 440 and 654 Sasha inhaled the drugs that killed her. She hated needles. She was found in her car in the parking lot of a seafood restaurant off I-95. The detective on the scene happened to be an old high school friend. He told me that he thought she had probably used felt sleepy and needed to pull over. The restaurant is on the water. I was happy that maybe she was seeing water in those last moments. There is an off track betting place next to the restaurant with galloping horses painted on it two stories high. Maybe she saw the horses. I just wonder if she knew what was happening or did she really just think she was going to take a little nap? I do not want her to have known what was happening. I do not want her to have been scared. If I am going to be honest here-- am I going to be honest here? Maybe I do not want to believe that you deserve my empathy. I do not want to look you in the eye because you may not look much different than my sister. You may be like her someone who cannot be around their family that much anymore because pretending is so hard. Seeing Sasha trying to dry the wineglasses we used for Thanksgiving while she nodded out pretending that she still had one foot in our world was one of the most heartbreaking things I have seen. You may look like that. You may be sick needing to get high just to maintain some equilibrium. You may have been her friend. I may have even met you. You may have called her Sash. You may have loved her. God help you if you loved her. To be fair my sister dealt too. As I was writing this to you my husband offered me a gentle reminder of this fact. It was mainly so she could use. There is long hand addition and subtraction in the back of her day book with people's initials how much they owed or paid her how much she owed and paid in return. It is chump change really written a few times as Me free. Drugs were her pay. This was not high rolling dealing. This was survival. When my husband reminded me that my sister was dealing too I quickly defended her. Yeah but she never killed anyone. He said again gently You do not know that. I was stunned. It is true. I did not know that. And the fact is she could have killed someone. My worst fear when she was alive was that she would be driving around high and kill someone. The idea of her killing someone kept me up at night. I often thought about having her followed so curious I was about what her days were like where she would go. I was once driving to visit her and my mother thinking about how I could spy on her when there was a traffic slowdown on I-95 a few exits away from our hometown. On the radio they said there was an accident up ahead. My mind went to my sister. Had she caused it? I pulled up in the traffic jam right behind a purple car. I gasped. It was Sasha. Here was my chance to play detective. She moved to the right lane and the middle one I was in began to pull forward. I was at risk of being seen so I decided to not try to hide. I pulled up next to her ready to make a stupid face and stare at her until she felt my presence. To my horror she looked half asleep. Her head was back her eyes at half mast. I could not believe she was able to drive a car. My heart started racing and I pulled in behind her as if that might shield other cars from her. I followed her all the way home to her house trying to steer her car with my body like a bowling ball headed for the gutter. She was still living in her own place with an ex-boyfriend turned best buddy not yet evicted and forced to live with my mother during the last year of her life. I pulled into her street and watched her drive into her driveway. I wanted to follow her in barge into the apartment that she never let me enter. But I froze because I did not know what I would do once I was inside. Deliver some Joan of Arc Oprah Hulk Hogan speech? Like she would go for that? So I did nothing. I told myself She is going to an outpatient clinic. She has a therapist a drug counselor all these professionals helping her. But unfortunately she also had you. And here's the thing my man. I need you too. I know that. I know what I am doing here. Because of you I get to say If it were not for that guy. Because of you I do not have to blame her. Because of you I can nod my head when people tell me there is nothing I could have done. But I do not know if that is true. I did try. My family tried interventions honesty confrontation rejection love. She once told my parents that out of anyone in the world she cared most about what I thought of her. I ache at the possibility that if anyone in the world could have saved her it was me. But to save her I would have had to go to her live with her make it my life. I would have had to physically remove her from her life and stand guard at the door holding a shotgun. I would have had to somehow wrestle her denial get her to finally go to her knees and raise the white flag. But I got engaged. I got pregnant. Today whenever I tell somewhere about my violent feelings towards you they inevitably say Well if it was not him it would have been someone else. If it was not him it would have been some other guy. But my question is why did it have to be anyone at all? Why should my comfort be that there would have been another one? That all we can expect from life is a game of whack-a-mole but with shitty people? I cannot accept that because you know what man? It was you. And yeah I am raging at you so I do not have to rage at myself or my sister to save myself from falling into a sad heap on the ground. So yeah I am using you. I do not care. None of this is fair my man. So fuck you. Fuck you because you are still here and there will never be another her. Fuck you because I will always think about you. You are my dealer now man. You dealt me a life without Sasha. Because of you I am going out to do this alone. And I will never let you forget that. Yours forever The Sister.  Nadia Bowers she is writing a memoir about her sister. Coming up the problem with having a Facebook account after you are dead that you have never ever ever thought about? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This is American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program The Secret of My Death stories of people who die and the stuff about them that is hidden and the stuff about them that is uncovered after their deaths by people on a mission to figure them out. We have arrived at Act 2 of our program Act 2 Commento mori. Is that act title too obscure? I was hoping it would be a kind of a play on Momento mori which is like a moment of awareness of one's own death. But even I know maybe that is too obscure. But anyway a lot of this story happens in the comments section of Facebook. So you know commento mori? Anyway Stephanie Foo explains. After someone you love dies suddenly even their most annoying traits in retrospect seem endearing. Blake Burkhart's friend was this guy Dave Maher. They were both comedians in Chicago met in their 20s in the comedy scene. Blake was drawn to Dave because he was this extroverted weirdo loud and absurd. He was also a problem drinker and constantly high. He even had a bit about being so stoned he could not order food at the movies. And he had this laugh. I remember that kind of bugging me. Like he  he would just start talking real fast like Oh hoo hoo hoo!  It is hard to do an impression. But he would be like Come on Blakey boy! Oh hoo hoo hoo hoo come on! And he would grab me and shake my shoulders and stuff if he was excited about just the dumbest thing like a new joke he wrote.  Dave saw himself as this in your face brutally honest iconoclast. But Blake says thinking about it now he cannot really remember any actual instances of Dave being much of a rebel. He just remembers Dave as being disarmingly nice. To me it was almost a little bit annoying how kind he was because it made me look bad in comparison. And we were always together.  But yeah he would go up to people that he had only met once or twice and say like Hey how is it going? How are you today? And you could tell he really meant it. On stage you could often hear this earnestness in Dave's comedy this almost childlike excitement about ridiculous stuff. I heard a song played on church bells recently you guys. And it just was like-- you know when you just hear something you are like oh! Something shifts inside you you know? And I heard this song and I just want to do my best to replicate it to see if it affects you guys in the same way OK? Cool. Ding dong ding dong. Ding ding ding ding bong bong bong bong bing-- That is a recording of a set Dave did on October 10 2014.  Twelve days later Blake got a call that said Dave was in a coma. It was sudden. Dave had been a diabetic and somehow his blood sugar had gotten so high that his body shut down. His kidneys were failing. Blake visited him in the hospital. It was jarring. Then after three weeks of doctors trying to jump start Dave's body they told his family it was probably best to take him off life support. They invited his friends to the hospital to say goodbye. When I found out he was not going to be coming out of the coma and was going to be taken off life support I just said I cannot go. There is no way I can see him like that knowing that I will never be able to talk to him again. So instead I went to my house where at the time I was living with four other comedians and all friends with Dave. And I said I am going to go home and everyone should just come over tonight after you go see Dave. We just made a whole night out of it and just kind of made basically a wake for Dave and just kind of waited for the news of him officially passing. How many people came? Oh it was at least 50 60 people. Oh wow. That is a lot. Everyone knew Dave was going to be taken off life support that night. And finally a Facebook post confirmed it. Rest in peace Dave Maher. Then his 1700 Facebook friends began to post eulogies of him to his Facebook wall. Thoughts and prayers. I had a gigantic crush on Dave one admitted. Another said Let us all be the most Dave Maher versions of ourselves. Blake's post kept it simple. I wrote I love you dude. Had you ever told Dave I love you to his face?  I do not know. I do not think so. When you are faced with actually losing them you kind of realize it more. Unfortunately that is how it works so--  Two weeks later on Thanksgiving Day there was a post on Dave's Facebook page from Dave. Oh man. It was this-- it was-- it is so hard to explain. This is Dave Maher. Spoiler alert. You are alive? Yeah. Spoiler alert I am here. His friends all whipped out their phones in the middle of their Thanksgiving dinners and started shouting in joy on his Facebook page. People are saying No one celebrates Thanksgiving the way Dave celebrates Thanksgiving. Dave turned Thanksgiving into Easter.  It turned out Dave's parents never did wind up taking him off life support. They transferred him to another hospital instead. And a couple days later his dad walked into his room and started talking to him like he had countless times since he would fallen into the coma. And at some point perhaps I recognized his voice. My eyes popped open. And I was still intubated at this point so I had a whole mess of tubes sticking out of my face and attempted to scream. But because I was intubated it came out silently. But I just mouthed the words WHISPERING What the fuck? Dave had been in the coma for a month. He is a type 1 diabetic who had just done an awful job caring for himself. He had not paid much attention to what he was eating drank too much and he had no way of monitoring his blood sugar because he sold all his test strips for weed money. So he had no idea his blood sugar was skyrocketing eventually sending him into a coma. The last thing he remembered was puking into a bucket and figuring he must have food poisoning. And then after a month he woke up in a hospital bed completely bewildered by the entire situation. But the upshot of all that was that he was in this weird situation that some of us fantasize about that Tom Sawyer thing of being at your own funeral where you get to hear all the things people say about you. You get to finally find out how you are seen what people will remember about you. Dave did not get a chance to look at Facebook for a while. He was still recovering. His hands would not stop shaking so he could not even use his phone. It took another month or so for him to be discha