Well it is been a week of gloating. Some very emphatic gloating and I-told-you-sos after Robert Mueller delivered his report saying that he could not establish collusion between the president and the Russians. As you have probably seen the president and his supporters have been saying that is right. No conspiracy with Russia. In fact the real conspiracy is one where the Democrats and the media hyped this Russian stuff for two years. They are gleefully circulating videos of people like this guy-- You know you have to take seriously the possibility that-- --New York Magazine writer Jonathan Chait. He went onto MSNBC last year to connect the dots about whether the president has basically been a secret Russian operative all the way back since 1987. That is probably not true. But it might be that 1987 is when he went to Moscow. And he is feted by the Russians and tours Moscow. And then he comes back. Then he starts talking about running for president for the first time. And then he starts talking for the first time about how our allies are a bunch of freeloaders and we should kick them to the curb. It is more or less a Fox News Republican Party talking point now that the fact that there even was a Mueller investigation the fact that it even occurred was a result of a deep-state media-led Obama-Hillary-FBI conspiracy. Here's how President Trump described it this week to Sean Hannity. You look at how did this start? How did it start? You had dirty cops. You had people that are bad FBI folks. I know so many. They are incredible people. But at the top they were not clean to put it mildly. And then the money that was spent-- the millions and millions on the phony dossier and paid for by Hillary Clinton and paid for by the Democrats at the DNC-- it is hard to believe. If you wrote this as a novel nobody would buy it. It would be a failure because it would be too unbelievable. Of course it is no surprise that the president has spun the Mueller report into a conspiracy theory of his own because he is peddled lots of conspiracy theories from the idea that George Soros is funding the caravans all the way back to birtherism. Joe Uscinski a professor at the University of Miami who studies conspiracy theories and the people who believe them says this is actually an unusual thing about today. It used to be people with no power in this country who were the ones pushing conspiracy theories. Now it is the President of the United States doing it all the time. Uscinski says that from the start it seems like Donald Trump identified conspiracy-minded voters as a possible constituency. So when he got into the Republican primary there was 25 other candidates vying for Republican votes. He went after the underserved market of Republicans which were conspiracy-minded Republicans. But he keeps them motivated. And he is got to keep going with this. He is dancing with the one who brought him to the prom. In fact one of my coworkers Zoe Chace went to a couple of Trump rallies this fall in Chattanooga Tennessee and Fort Wayne Indiana. And she found lots of people who believed in the deep state and in other conspiracies. Zoe? Hi IRA. So? So basically I would ask people a general and vague question like do you trust the government? And then almost everyone I talked to all these conspiracy theories would come spilling out like about George Soros. --a Wizard of Oz behind the curtain you know? People like that they are behind the scenes pushing this agenda. The president tweeted this theory that Soros pays protesters. There is no evidence of that. Absolutely. You can go on the website and he will pay you 17. I wanted to ask these people holding signs where do they get their check? All these people they are getting paid. What if-- what if they are getting paid? Old classics came up like the Clintons are serial murderers. And now this may be conspiracy theorist type stuff. But how many bodyguards that Clinton had in Arkansas are still alive? Vince Foster. Vince Foster? Supposed to have been killed in the park. I mean he committed suicide. But you do not think so? Well I do not think he did no. Pizzagate came up. I do not believe there is like a basement in comet Ping Pong. But I do believe that there was a hacker that actually hacked into the system. And I think that the shooter going in was a false flag because he shot one bullet right through the hard drive destroying the evidence so to speak. So I think-- I got this book recommendation that made a big impression on me from Paula. She and her partner Steve drove three hours from Pigeon Forge Tennessee. What is the name of that book? Oh I cannot remember. Baby look for it on my-- It is an older book. --Amazon. It is an old old book. But it is about how they have been trying to do this for many years in America. Yeah since the middle 1800s. Yes. They have been-- Who is they though? The Illuminati whatever you want to call them-- the World Order. The World Order? Basically the idea that a cabal of rich guys is trying to take over the world and create one world government-- like one currency one army no national borders. And these rich guys-- are these Jews not to name a specific ethnic group? Not necessarily. It is not necessarily the Jews. This is an old theory. Its roots are totally anti-Semitic. But to be honest the people I talked to I asked them about that. It just seemed like it was not about Jews anymore. It was just elites. OK then. Eventually Paula finds the name of the book. It is The Unseen Hand There you go. You read that girl. And I have not read all of it. But I have a friend that is read it from front to back. But it is like really well read in it. And we talked about the Illuminati and all of these so-called higher-ups that think that they are over all of us. I got news for them-- Did you read the book? I tried. It is really hard to follow the book. I got through like 100 pages. I did talk to their friend who is read the whole thing Jim. And his experience illustrates that thing the professor Uscinski said at the beginning of this about how Donald Trump mobilized conspiracy theorists during the campaign. Hm. Like take Jim. He had not voted for a while before 2016 because he believed both parties were basically working together for a secret cabal of elites. So he believed this conspiracy. Yeah the New World Order-- like just rich guys the Bilderberg group George Soros the Bush dynasty the Clinton dynasty-- like that they were all-- All working together? --to push this one world government New World Order agenda in secret. OK. And Jim believes Donald Trump ran for president in order to stop them. I did not have to read between the lines of what he was saying. He was openly saying I am not a globalist. I am America first. And see? Unless you know a lot of the stuff I know most-- a lot of what he said would just go pshew. And I knew he knew. I knew he knew about what he said. He knew who they were and what they were up to. Talking to Jim it was like seeing Trump all new. Huh. Like seeing him through Jim's eyes seriously everything kind of lined up for me. What do you mean? So no borders-- Trump wants to build a border wall right? Because the New World Order wants to erase all the borders. Trump wants to blow up all the trade deals. Like trade deals lead to you know one world currency. Right. They are breaking down trade borders between nations. Yes it is another kind of erasing-the-barriers thing. Trump wants to blow up NATO. You can kind of think of that as one world army with these different countries coming together. The NATO military OK. Right the NATO alliance. Trump kind of alienates our allies does not like to talk to Europe because Europe-- that is the European Union. The European Union is the first step towards a global union one big state. Oh where all-- right we are all one big country. Yeah one world government. And if you listen to Trump it does sound like he believes in a cabal of elites behind the scenes like Soros obviously Hillary Clinton lately the FBI. Right. All the dots line up so neatly if you just think of them as part of Trump's battle against the New World Order. And do you think Jim is right that the president sees it this way? No. But you can see how Jim would draw these conclusions. It makes sense. Well today on our program in this moment when conspiracy theories seem to be right in the center of mainstream political everything-- like for years there was this idea that the president conspired with the Russians. Now there is this idea that the Democrats conspired to create a phony investigation. When are we supposed to be connecting the dots? When are we not supposed to be connecting the dots? Because friends there are a lot of dots. And they are so close together. And we want to connect them because we want something to explain the world that we are in. Today on our program we have stories of people struggling with whether they should be connecting the dots or not and as you might expect coming to very different conclusions. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Show-Me State of Mind. So many people who believe in conspiracy theories you know they are talking about secretive groups that are basically far away-- rich and powerful people they are never going to run into. But what about when the conspiracy looks like it is happening all around you-- like has an impact on your actual city on your actual neighborhood? And you are worried that you could be its next victim. New Yorker writer Jelani Cobb heard about a conspiracy theory that is more along those lines. It is been more than four years now since Michael Brown was shot by a police officer in Ferguson Missouri outside St. Louis. You probably know the basic facts of the case. He was 18 black unarmed. The officer who shot him Darren Wilson is white. Of course the shooting and a grand jury's decision not to indict Officer Wilson led to waves of chaotic protests in Ferguson-- tear gas arrests fires looting. It was the first time you heard the chant hands up do not shoot. But here's something you might not know. In the five years since Michael Brown's death about a half dozen people connected to the shooting and its aftermath have themselves turned up dead including high-profile protesters and activists. And in at least a few cases the circumstances under which they have died have been questionable if not eerie which has led to the belief that those deaths are part of a larger coordinated effort-- in short a conspiracy. I had already visited Ferguson about a half dozen times met a lot of people and wrote several articles. But that was three years ago. I decided to go back and ask some of them whether they believed in the conspiracy. I was interested in who did and who did not and why. One place that I spent a lot of time was Cathy's Kitchen-- sort of a hub for reporters as it was only about 100 feet from the police department and a few miles down the road from where the shooting happened. One of the co-owners Jerome Jenkins was wiping down the counter when I walked in. Hey how you been? How you doing? How you doing? You been doing good? Yeah just I did not know if you were gonna remember me. Of course. How would I forget? You came at a never-forgetful time in our lives Jerome said. --a never-forgetful time in our life. Yeah that is true. Just then his wife the Cathy in Cathy's Kitchen came over. There is Miss Cathy. How are you doing? How you doing? How are you doing? Good to see you. How you been? Good to see you. Good good. Pleasure pleasure. How are you? The place has a vintage feel-- a long bar with leather and chrome stools and a checkerboard tile pattern on the floor. It did not surprise me when Jerome said that customers sometimes discuss whether they think the deaths are connected. He suspects they are. It is hard to say it is a coincidence. And it does not seem like there is a big investigation into it. At this point to me it seems like you know raised eyebrows. And-- Raised eyebrows. Almost all the people we talked to who gave credence to the conspiracy used that phrase. It is perfect because it does not commit you to tinfoil-hat-level conspiracy. But it does point you in the direction of something being afoot. You got a suicide. You got a burning in a car. You got a homicide. You have all these strange things coming from one thing that all these people have in common you know? You know they are all people that are activists that are standing up you know trying to say hey we want to make this better. We want this. And they all are dying in some weird form. Just does not add up. To me-- But do you think is it something that is coordinated? Is it the fact that we have like homicide rates that are terrible in many of the cities? Like how do we distinguish between those two? I understand our community. I understand our suicide homicide. I understand those rates. But let us look at it a different way. If five African-Americans die in the NBA and they all have one thing in common they all play for the Lakers it would be an investigation. It would be because you had this one thing in common we would all go it is too many. And these are people-- do not live that far from each other. That is a large number. So that is what makes it enter into the world of-- It raises an eyebrow uh-huh. It raises an eyebrow you know? Uh-huh. Here are the six deaths that raise suspicions in and around Ferguson. In September of 2016 Darren Seals a very visible activist in Ferguson was found shot in the head inside a burning vehicle. He was 29 outspoken and had mentioned he was being harassed by police in the months before his death. Pictures from the murder scene went up on Twitter shortly afterward apparently showing that after police investigated there were still bullet casings littering the parking lot. The suggestion was that police were incompetent and possibly even complicit in Seals' death. One person replied You better believe those KKKops were involved. The word KKKops is spelled with three Ks. A spokesman for the St. Louis County Police Department says all evidence pertinent to the case was processed. Two years earlier Deandre Joshua 20 years old was reportedly found the same way inside a burnt-out vehicle with a gunshot wound to the head. Joshua was friends with someone who'd witnessed Michael Brown's shooting. And his death is also often linked to the death of Shawn Gray a 23-year-old who disappeared that same week and was later found drowned in a branch of the Mississippi River. The rumor was that they would both been killed for testifying before the grand jury in Michael Brown's case. But the list of grand jury witnesses has never been released. And with both men their friends and family insist that they had nothing to do with the case. The county prosecutor confirmed that Joshua had not been a witness. And then there is Edward Crawford possibly the most visible person associated with the protests. You may have seen a famous photo of him wearing an American flag t-shirt and hurling a tear gas canister back in the direction of police. In 2017 he died from a gunshot wound while sitting in a vehicle with two women one of whom was his sister. Police concluded it was a suicide. Crawford's father thinks it was an accident. Crawford was 27. The most recent death that is gotten a lot of attention is that of Danye Jones. Last year Jones was found hanging from a tree in his backyard. He was 24. Police have investigated Jones' death as a suicide too. But Danye's mother Melissa McKinnies had been prominent in organizing the protests. She believes he was lynched to send her a message. She says she found his packed bag nearby suggesting he was going somewhere with someone he trusted. Also she said the sheet he was hanging from did not come from the house. And he did not know how to tie those particular knots. The deaths have become something of a set piece not simply in the minds of people who live in the area but in the media as well. You will see headlines like Ferguson Missouri Activists Are Dying And It is Time to Ask Questions and Are Ferguson Protesters Being Killed? People in those articles and in our interviews and online have pondered all kinds of possible culprits from white supremacists to local and federal law enforcement to armed militia members who were seen standing on the tops of buildings during the protests. The articles did not come to any conclusions or investigate the deaths. And you are not going to hear me do that either. But I was interested in the narrative that had attached itself to those deaths and what it could tell me about how people were processing what was happening around them. I talked with five people who believed the conspiracy to some degree including Jerome and Cathy Jenkins at the restaurant. And again nobody I talked to went full NASA faked the moon landing conspiratorial. But what you did get were clusters of suspicion brushfires of doubt about the official narratives of what was happening around them. The conspiracy was not present in the words they spoke. It was tucked into the ellipses between them. The sixth thing that tends to come up in these discussions is Bassem Masri. He was a Palestinian-American activist and close to many of the organizers in Ferguson. He died of an apparent heart attack aboard a city bus. A 31 year old dying of a heart attack is the kind of thing that might raise suspicions and yes eyebrows even outside the context of other people dying in quick succession except we got a copy of the medical examiner's report. And while yes Masri was in cardiac arrest when he got to the hospital the official cause of death was a fentanyl overdose. He had struggled with heroin addiction prior to this and was open about it. And there are other ways in which the conspiracy narrative does not hold up. St. Louis proper has one of the most alarming homicide rates in the country. In 2017 it was the most alarming having the highest murder rate according to an analysis of FBI data. By comparison Chicago was number nine. So lots of people get shot in St. Louis. Also neither Deandre Joshua nor Shawn Gray was an activist. And even if they did testify before the grand jury Joshua and Gray were both found dead after the decision not to indict Officer Wilson meaning they would have been killed for testimony that had not even convinced a grand jury to issue an indictment I talked about all of this with Ashley Yates a prominent figure in the Ferguson protests. Of all the people I spoke with for this story she most epitomized the equivocal belief in the idea of a conspiracy parsing the difference between what is provable and what is likely. Can I say that right now in this moment there is a conspiracy against activists? No because again I do not have the hard concrete evidence. Can I say that it is likely? When I take into account my experiences the experiences of people around me and those before absolutely. Even at the same time I wonder if it is possible with Mr. Joshua and Mr. Gray if they are-- it is possible do you think that there really is a conspiracy but they are just not part of it? I mean anything's possible. Again I do not have-- you know I do not have thorough investigations. I do not have the answers. I did not murder them. I was not there you know? So only the people that were there can tell us completely what happened. So of course it is possible that there is a conspiracy and that they are not a part. It is possible that there is not a conspiracy and all of these deaths are unrelated. Like again I hold all possibilities. And I try to go towards the most likely one. Mm-hm. But I would say that to-- to say that there is something normal about a person being shot and found in a burned-out car one time let alone two three times-- you know I do not want to accept that and say that that is just a likely outcome for anybody. And I should say technically it was not the outcome for Deandre Joshua. I only learned this after talking to Ashley and the others. But according to the St. Louis County Medical Examiner's Office Joshua was not found in a burned-out car the way everyone thinks. His body was partly burned but the car was not. This may sound like a small point except the supposed similarity between Darren Seals' death and Deandre Joshua's death is a load-bearing pillar in the structure of the conspiracy. And it was not just spread word of mouth. It is been widely reported in the media as fact. Though of course even though it is not true the deaths could still be connected. Do you have ideas about who might be responsible for the-- for these deaths? Other than like the government and the police? I understood why someone could suspect the police. I have covered a lot of protests over the years. But the cops in and around Ferguson were notably casual about violence. I saw an officer point an assault weapon mounted on a tripod at a group of demonstrators that included elderly people and small children. Before another demonstration one that I did not cover one cop texted another quote It is going to be a lot of fun beating the hell out of these shitheads once the sun goes down and nobody can tell us apart. He was later charged with assaulting a protester who was actually an undercover cop. When This American Life reached out to the St. Louis County Police Department for comment the spokesman emailed back saying that there were roughly 52 police departments in the St. Louis area which employ about 2700 officers essentially saying that you cannot categorize all of them the same way. And he said the officer with the assault weapon on a tripod was trying to locate an SUV that reportedly had several assault weapons in it and that the people in the vehicle were threatening to kill law enforcement. But there is a broader context to this conversation. When I taught African-American history courses I would often begin with a series of questions. What if I told you that a person was killed in front of hundreds of witnesses but no one raised a finger to stop it or even report it? And what if I told you that crowd viewed the murder as entertainment and packed lunches to watch the spectacle? And what if they ritually cut body parts from the deceased to keep as souvenirs? And that this happened not dozens or hundreds of times but thousands? Each question is like plotting a point on a probability graph. And the likelihood of all of them happening together seems vanishingly small. But all this really happened. Talking to people in Ferguson the history of outlandish truths like the Tuskegee experiment in which physicians in Alabama failed to treat a group of black men infected with syphilis essentially to see what would happen or the FBI's counterintelligence program which surveilled and harassed black leaders in the 1960s none of this was ever far from the surface. How do you sift between plausible and paranoid when the past looks like this? As Ashley Yates told me it would be ahistorical for her not to think that there is something larger at play something coordinated. Apart from that history though there are much more personal reasons that some people in Ferguson suspect a conspiracy. Those people who believe someone wants to kill them-- they have been regularly getting messages from people who apparently want to kill them. Everyone I spoke with still receives death threats or some sort of hate-filled communication more than four years after Michael Brown's death. Jerome Jenkins of Cathy's Kitchen showed me a fake ticket someone mailed him offering free passage back to Africa. In 2017 Reverend Darryl Gray who is been involved in social justice efforts in Ferguson learned of a suspicious package left on the floor of his locked rental truck. It contained a live 6-foot-long python. There were no arrests made in the case. I also spoke with an activist named Ohun Ashe about what is been going on. She told me she is always hypervigilant these days moving around in St. Louis. She says the people threatening her are not subtle about it. I have been told that they want to slit my throat and throw me in the Mississippi River. I have read that one several times that-- On social media? Yes. I have read on social media as well that back in the '60s they would have just threw us in the Mississippi River by now. Ohun's a small woman but stands out in a crowd. She wears her hair in braids that go past her shoulders and shirts with slogans like black men smile too and black girls are the purest form of art. I have been followed by white vans. I have had letters that said that I was an atrocity to the city I deserve to be dealt with that they want to silence me for good. So when you have a list of names of people who are known and they are dying in this mysterious way as an activist or as a person that people deem active you wonder are you next? You wonder who really is around me? You wonder am I crazy for thinking that why is this car parked outside at the same time every day? Or who is this new person that is on the block that I did not recognize before? I noticed something else when I started talking to people in Ferguson again. Many of the people I met when I first went there no longer live there. Ashley Yates told me she left St. Louis partly because she needed to heal. And another activist told me she moved to Washington DC after getting what she took to be credible threats on her life. That sense of alarm is clearly what the people making death threats are after. Whether there is an actual conspiracy or not there are certainly people who want the activists to believe there is one. Of all the activists I spoke to about the conspiracy there was one whose position was not ambivalent at all-- a rapper named Tef Poe. When I arrived in Ferguson four years ago person after person directed me to Tef saying he was the guy to talk to if I really wanted to understand what was going on there. In the years since Michael Brown's death he is become a more prominent voice nationally. He is currently a fellow at Harvard University. We did a panel there together. Anyhow his perspective on the idea of a conspiracy was a little different. The conspiracy theory to me is some unicorn stuff. Meaning he does not believe it. Bassem the Palestinian activist who died on the bus had formerly been Tef's roommate. And Danye Jones who was found hanging in his backyard was Tef's cousin. He knew Darren Seals one of the activists shot in a car just not through activist circles. --we never know what could happen. That soft clinking you might hear as he is talking-- Tef wears a necklace with three charms that spell out the name Allah in Arabic. So I cannot connect what happened to Seals with what happened to Bassem. I cannot connect what happened to Danye with what happened to Bassem. I have to look at each situation for what it is. And somebody like Darren was not an activist. He was-- I would consider him a street revolutionary. So his constituency is a lot deeper than just folks who are going to go to the next rally. We are talking about from rival rappers to people who did not like-- do not like the fact that he survived his original shooting and so forth. And so he would been shot prior to the time that was fatal. Yeah and he survived. Yeah yeah. That shooting had nothing to do with the protests or Michael Brown. It was street stuff. We live in a city where guns are everywhere. Violence is at large in our city. And I think a lot of people that seek to add a conspiracy to it are not really living in the circumstances where they have to see the violence and interact with the violence. So they have to create a Puff the Magic Dragon theory about what happened. And is that really true though? I mean from the very point of like Ferguson or St. Louis or Chicago Gary Philadelphia New York any of the cities we talk about nobody who lives in a black community is really isolated from violence. It is one of those things that can happen to anyone anywhere. That is true. That is true. And I do agree with that. But while it does affect everyone all of us do not have the same experience. Mm-hm. I am talking about the reality of the stone-cold streets. And a lot of the individuals-- for example my friend Bassem who I loved dearly a brother of mine-- I helped bury him when he passed away. I know-- and I can say this because Bass is like blood to me-- we refuse to attach a conspiracy theory narrative to Bassem's death. When he passed away people said well what happened? Well what happened was he was still in the ghetto. Like this is the reality of the circumstances. And I am pissed off about the fact that I keep having to bury people. And people are acting like Santa Claus is coming down here killing folks. So like if I walked outside the studio right now and somebody shoots me it is going to be all over the internet. Another Ferguson activist killed another da-da-da-da-da avoiding the fact that I come from a family of gangbangers avoiding the fact that prior to this I had some enemies. And you mean enemies who are not connected to your work as an activist. As an activist yeah yeah. It did not surprise me when Tef pointed out that he keeps a firearm nearby when he is back home. Missouri is an open carry state. I also asked him about the militia group who stood on the roofs with guns during the protests. I wondered what Tef thought about the idea that they might be involved in the conspiracy. He laughed at that. They had their guns he said. But so did a lot of his friends. And that is where I am going with this. This is not a city of sitting ducks where like-- like if this was going down like the conspiracy aspect of this was really truly a thing on that level I just believe that a lot of us would be rocking out a hell of a lot different man. Mm-hm mm-hm. I mean you all saw Ferguson man. I mean--  They do not have to send a firing squad into the apartment to kill you. Now all they gotta do is leave you in North St. Louis to die. And that serves the same purpose. You are silenced and ostracized from the rest of the world. You are shadow banned on Twitter. And you are still there with the killers thieves dealers and the rapists and the murderers. And the odds are that you will be a victim of that same fate. I mean for me that is where the conspiracy comes into play here. It is not with the boogie man that is going to get me when I leave from this interview. This brings me back to something that had begun rattling around in my mind when I first started talking to people in Ferguson again. What do we actually mean by the word conspiracy? Need it be hatched in a dark room hazy with cigar smoke? Or can it be the slow accretion of small decisions each of which makes life a little bit more difficult a little bit more dangerous and opportunities that much more scarce? The problems Tef talked about exist to some degree or another in thousands of communities across the country most of them far from the site of protests about an unarmed black 18-year-old fatally shot by a white police officer. Conspiracy theories typically explain actions that have been taken. But what kinds of theories explain the failure to act? Those are the questions that the skeptical journalist in me raises. The numbers fluctuate. But maybe 70 of me dismisses the idea of the deaths being orchestrated by a single individual or group. But there is another part of me the 30 part that remembers when I first went to Ferguson and thought I have no idea what the people on the other side of these protests are capable of. Skepticism is fundamental to journalism. But it only works if you can recognize the times when you need to be skeptical of your skepticism too. Jelani Cobb-- he is a staff writer for the New Yorker magazine. Coming up a guy who believes in conspiracies follows him closely and then decides to sign up. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Anything Can Be Anything. In this very conspiracy-minded moment in our country where even the President of the United States is spreading conspiracy theories like all the time we have stories of people who see the dots and cannot help but connect the dots and then have to figure out what to do with their conclusions. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two-- The Red Menace Hits the Crimson Tide. So now we turn to a guy who is upset about the conspiracies to tamper with the US elections in 2016 the stuff the Russians did. He was outraged about that. But he had a strange way of dealing with it. He decided I am going to try that myself in