For so many people now it is not a theoretical thing. It is here this new virus. And they are having to deal with that fact. Lots of people are trying to do the right thing. But it is not so clear what the right thing is-- like Luis who works in construction in Long Island. When he got tested and learned he had coronavirus he went back to where he was living. He shared a house with several other migrants. He is an asylum seeker here from Central America. And he immediately told his landlady because she is pregnant. He did not want to put her or anybody at risk. She said he had to leave. So he decided to isolate in the only place he had-- his car. He parked outside of a 7-Eleven. He did not even want to go inside to get water because he did not want to infect anybody. This is a voicemail message he left for the woman handling his immigration case.   At this moment I feel like I do not know what to do.  I have isolated in my car because I do not want to contaminate more people.  I do not want people to go through what I am going through.  It hurts to tell the truth. It hurts.  You have no idea how much. He says I have not left my car. I have been cooped up here. If I did not have a conscience I would be out there. But no I do not have that kind of heart.  Zora heard this message and she also tried to do the right thing. She found him housing to ride out the illness. Among other things an epidemic a plague a contagion is a time that we are tested. And we rise to the occasion or we do not or we cannot. Anthony Almojera very much wants his team to rise to the occasion. He is the vice president of local 3621 of the EMS Officers Union in New York City. EMS emergency medical services-- it is part of the fire department. His job title is lieutenant paramedic. And besides the stuff he does for the union he manages a crew of 50 EMS workers. Even before the coronavirus outbreak they were short hundreds of EMS workers in the city. So they were overworked before. And it is even more so now. Like this past Tuesday Anthony worked a 16 hour shift at a station in Brooklyn watching 911 calls come in. He talked to my co-worker Miki Meek. A typical day before the coronavirus outbreak was around 4000 calls. This past week saw the first big spike. I worked last night at 100 in the morning-- after we had just clocked in 6500 plus calls at midnight. At 100 in the morning there were still 274 jobs holding. That is 274 jobs in the system that at the moment do not have an ambulance to get to them. So these are people that have called 911 but-- Right. --no one's been able to be dispatched. Right. And how does that make you feel when you see that you have that many call still in the queue? It is a little frightening because you know to have been many calls holding-- just to give you some perspective-- yesterday it was 6500 calls-- it was the most we have ever done. Ever? Ever yeah even including 911. Later that morning he was in an ambulance and went on a call near Coney Island. A man had phoned in about his wife. He came home and found her on the floor. Call type said fever cardiac arrest COVID case. And the husband is outside. And they are both health care workers. The patient was somebody who worked in a nursing home and the husband works in the hospital. And she was sent home Friday with fever and remained feverish throughout. So I am sitting there talking to the husband. And he stated to me yesterday he called where he works to say he wanted to stay home and take care of his wife. And they told him he could not because he is an essential employee that the hospital is short staffed and he needed to come in. And at the moment he judged that his wife was not critical. You know she was feverish and stuff. But OK she will make it through the night. Then he came home and found her dead. Found her dead he is saying.  For 17 years I have been going on these calls of cardiac arrests or other traumatic things. And it is never been an issue for me to go up to the family member when we cannot do any more and say I am sorry. And then I put my arm around the patient's family member. You know I let them cry into my shoulder I have hugged them anything along those lines to provide a moment of empathy and sympathy. Yesterday when I went outside because he happened to be outside and I saw this man's grief in his face and I saw him just break down and how he felt guilty about not being there and I had to stay six feet away-- Hmm. I could not kneel next to him like I have with other patients in the past. I could not put my arm around him because I am concerned about my health because there is a high potentiality that he has it as well. And I just watched him. And it is the first time in 17 years that I actually got back in the truck and I cried. I am sorry Anthony. No-- thank you.  It is-- I am sorry again. No what is-- That was the crew members. Yeah I have about 60 messages that are unopened at the moment. Anthony I tested positive. What do I do? Anthony my wife tested positive. What do I do? They are all in that general nature. He is worried. How many of his crew will not be available soon? Going by numbers he is seen in other places he figures half of them will end up quarantined. Right now in Anthony's crew of 50 six people are already out. The entire crew all 50 of them have been exposed to somebody with COVID-19 at this point. In the past the policy for New York Fire Department EMS workers was when you are exposed to a contagious virus like that you were not supposed to come to work. But the policy changed about a week and a half ago. Now you stay home only if you are actually showing symptoms. Anthony thinks it is because the city is so desperate for EMS workers right now. So if they can squeeze another five or six days out of you before you become symptomatic I think that is what their motivation is. It is not said explicitly. But the crews are short. They need workers. You guys are essential. It feels we are expendable. Now listen I do not believe that chief of EMS feels we are expendable. I do not want to put that on her. Mm-hmm. But it feels overall by the department and the city that we are just going to keep putting you out there because we do not have any other options because we did not properly prepare for this. Spokesperson for the fire department told us that EMS workers are expected to show up if they have been exposed to the virus because at this point in New York all EMS personnel have likely been exposed to the virus. Right now EMS workers do not even have a way to get tested to see if they have the virus just like the rest of us. And Anthony estimates they are going to run out of N95 masks in less than a week this coming Friday April 3. What are you telling your workers right now? Well the tough thing about this is we all signed up for this you know? In a pandemic that is EMS' time to shine right? Treating viruses is what we do all day long. You name it you know HIV hepatitis meningitis. This is what we do. But in order to do it effectively we have to believe that when we are out there with the potential of dying getting hurt or seriously ill that if something happens to us we are going to be taken care of. And the consensus among the membership is that is not going to happen. The feeling is we are not going to be taken care of. Yes. What do you think the next couple weeks are going to be like? Oh we are not even to the halfway point here. You know how they keep talking about flattening the curve? Mm-hmm. We are on the upward tick of that curve still. Do you have any workers who are wanting to quit? No I have not had any workers that wanted to quit. I have not heard that. Because like the virus is here now. It is testing us all of us EMS workers and doctors and nurses who are now risking their lives but also delivery people postal workers politicians those of us who are suddenly out of work parents who have no talent for homeschooling at all even those of us who are just on lockdown worried for older relatives. We are all being tested. So today in our program we are going to hear from people who are right in the middle of it now being tested in pretty extreme ways. Plus before the hour's out a call from the future from somebody in China who is kind of on the other side of this thing. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  Throughout this episode we are featuring original songs that we heard on Instagram created by the British musician and producer MNEK while he is been home alone and social distancing. He is jokingly calling these songs his Corona EP and they are all him no backing band looping his own voice. The songs are part PSA part pure pop just a man bringing some light in a dark moment. Now we turn to Act One. Act One The Inside Game-- OK so this virus is out there. And so many of us are scared to get it and wonder what would happen if we did get it. And honestly for all the coverage of the illness we have not heard the people that it is happened to talk at length about that experience very much. One thing that came up here is-- we have all talked about this-- is what is going on in the homes where both parents get the virus like how do they manage? And just coincidentally one of our co-workers Ben Calhoun has been worried about his brother-in-law Elia Einhorn and Elia's wife Amy who are in that exact situation. They were among the first wave of COVID-19 patients in New York City. Their daughter whose name is Conwy is just a toddler. So she is in that period of parenting when a kid needs constant vigilance. Ben recorded a call with them. Amy who got sick first was too sick to actually get out of bed. Elia could drag himself around. But it was pretty rough going. He was sicker than he had ever been in his life he said. One other detail-- Elia has a history of asthma so he is at elevated risk. He would also developed GI symptoms throwing up a possible warning sign that a COVID patient is in more danger. All this is playing out in a 500 square foot New York City apartment. So picture like three rooms and a bathroom. Ben called them in the afternoon. Elia had just gotten Conwy to nap so you will hear Elia trying to keep his voice down trying not to wake her. What is just like the logistics of your situation in the apartment right now? Like where are you? And where is Amy? And how much are you able to either be around each other or not be around each other or? I have not seen Amy in like a week. Amy has just been in our room the whole time. So since there is one bathroom she comes out to use the bathroom. And otherwise like I just do not see her. And we usually talk for like one or two minutes. But yeah Amy is just in our room. And she is really really sick. Her fever goes up and down and up and down. And just when we think it is gone it comes back worse and it is-- But she is just 100 like locked in the room? Yeah locked in the room. Literally I told her lock the door so Conwy cannot come in. But you got to-- you got Conwy down though. She is asleep. She is asleep. I am going to-- I just saw Amy. I get to see her like three times a day for two minutes. And I said to her we are going to have to do such a strict regimen to get this kid back to normal life after this because I am like-- you know I am trying to keep her life as normal as possible. So because she already cannot see Amy she cannot go outside-- so I am just like-- I have become the biggest fucking pushover. I said to Amy she had like a tasting menu before bed. We usually let her have a little snack if she wants it. She is adding things having me get up and go to the kitchen and get more stuff. And I like can hardly handle getting up to go get her something. It is just like oh dude. So she must have had bites of like seven snacks. And it is ridiculous. But I just wanted her to-- And I can imagine that as a parent you are just like-- you are having all these needs that are unmet right now. And right now you are having a need that I can meet. So let me just throw whatever I can in there. Exactly exactly. I looked-- I looked at us. We were reading one of those Mo Willems books you know that like-- Yeah like Piggy and the Elephant. Yeah we were reading-- I do not know why. But she wanted to read the baby one. And there is two pages that are mirrors. And I looked at us and I was like we look so blazed. We look like college freshmen who just discovered weed and smoked half an ounce you know.  Me and the two and a half year old look terrible. And I am wearing my mask you know because there is this theory about the viral load getting bigger you know I mean? With more exposure. So just to give you sort of a scene report here it looks like-- think about a normal Brooklyn-sized apartment. It looks like there was 50 toddlers who had an unsupervised birthday party here. So like from my vantage point on the couch I am looking out. The first layer is like a peg's game where you push buttons into colors. The second layer is all these 3x2 foot huge Paw Patrol pages to color. The next level is a farm that seems to have exploded. The next level are all the Play-Dohs strewn around the ground because I just cannot pick it up. Do you have all your logistics covered like groceries? How you doing groceries? How are you like-- I do not know like laundry. Laundry has been a problem. I am waiting for Amy to get better because we have to wash it in the bathtub. And I just cannot physically do it right now. I cannot stress to you how tired I am. I am like-- You are just too tired. I am just too tired man. I cannot sit up that long. And so I am waiting for Amy to either get better so that she can watch Conwy and I can take longer and do it slowly-- or because by the end of the day when Conwy goes to sleep I am like fried totally fried. I cannot even stand up. Because you are the only person doing Conwy right? You are like-- Oh yeah 100. Yeah Amy has not seen her in a week. It is like I am just with her like now 247. Do you feel like you have-- I feel like if I were you I would keep waiting to feel like bottomed out-- be like is this-- is this the bottom? Is this the bottom? Yeah man. Just like waiting for that upswing you know. I keep waiting for it. And I think it comes. I thought it came like four times. And then like today I am the most tired I have been the whole time. So I just do not know. And it is like on the one hand I mean we have food. We have water. We have electricity. I mean we have everything we need. If this is all that ever happens it will be a triumph. It seriously will if this is all that happens. It is just the scariest part is is it going to go into our lungs you know? Yeah. Right when I start to feel better I think you know there is these-- it sort of shows it is these ground glass sort of deposits in people's lungs. And I have started thinking of it as like your lungs turning to glass. And I keep reading these stories out of Wuhan about these young physicians that are like my age I mean relatively young physicians that are dying from this. And I had to stop reading them because it is like I just cannot keep reading about people's lungs metaphorically turning to glass. And it is just making me worry too much that it is going to happen to our family. It is so scary to not be able to protect your family against this insidious element of it. And that is why I-- that is why I emailed you guys that stuff. I do not know if anything's going to happen. And if it does happen it is going to happen so quick. I do not have time to deal with anything. I do not have time to deal with getting my affairs in order you know. So I emailed you and Katherine very perfunctory like here's-- how to-- what me and Amy want here's our financial stuff. Here's like-- because I just have no fucking clue. And that is the worst part. If we could be guaranteed that that was not going to happen-- this would just be uncomfortable and fine. We can laugh about it in a different way. But it is the fear that at any second one of us could just take really ill and maybe worse. We are so worried about you. Yeah. How do you think that Conwy's doing? Physically she is doing fine. But she is showing all of these behaviors about being upset. And she is actively talking about it. Now like every bed time she wants me to tell her stories about everybody getting sick me getting sick her getting sick Amy getting sick you getting sick and Katherine and your kids. Everyone in our family getting sick is now part of our story. Yeah-- We are calling it-- --she is just trying to process it. --is what we are playing. Yeah exactly. We tell her it is the inside game. Everybody's playing the inside game right now. And soon it is going to end. But for now this is what is happening. And these are the rules of the inside game. But she keeps saying like daddy I am so tired. I am so tired. And we are snuggling a lot. The pediatrician even said look if you both get tested positive you can both just come out. And you can just take off your mask and be around Conwy. But with all this research about the viral load buildup we have had an infectious disease doctor that we have been talking to that said you know do not do that. You can snuggle her if you need to because she is a toddler. You cannot control that. But like as little as possible so I try to put her between my legs or have my foot on her just to touch her a little bit you know. But it is been sad. I mean she said to me like I so sad. I so sad. None of my friends want to come to my house.  Oh. Aw man. That is hard. Like everything that she draws she is like this is for my friends. Or I made this for my mommy. This is for mommy. On the one hand she is doing fine. And on the other hand she is really feeling her age equivalent of like really lonely and cut off. She keeps talking to me about how sick Amy is. And I tell her like you know mom is sick. But mom's getting better. And I did not even tell her I was sick but she somehow figured it out. And I do not know if it is the mask or what. So she says daddy's sick. And I said daddy's a little bit sick but he is OK. I mean I feel traumatic feeling so upset about it. But again it is like-- like are these the last conversations that I am ever going to have with her? Oh Els-- Oh man. You are getting the ugly cry.  Oh dude. You are getting the ugly cry. I have only let myself cry about it a little bit. I wish I could do something for you guys. Oh. You are a regular Barbara Walters Ben. You are getting it out of me.   Should we have the kids FaceTime tonight? Would that-- would that be helpful? Yeah that would be just for her and for me to just sit down for a minute honestly. It is like one of the only times I can rest when she is awake. We can do more of that too like if the kids can keep her occupied on FaceTime. Oh man. Honestly you guys are great.  Now she is waking up. That is the peril of making any noise in this environment. But hopefully she will go back to sleep. You guys have been amazing. Just FaceTiming with your kids has been amazing. Yeah we are just going to have to ride it the fuck out. Elia Einhorn with Ben Calhoun who is a producer on our show. That was recorded a little over a week ago. At this point today Amy is much better. She is actually up and around. Elia got a lot worse after that call. But now he is also feeling better. Conwy is presumed to have had a mild case of the virus. She is doing fine.  Act Two The View From the Park-- so one of the producers here at our show Emanuele Berry got to know reporter Jiayang Fan back when were doing our Hong Kong show this past fall. Jiayang's a staff writer at The New Yorker. Emanuele and she have stayed in touch since then. Emanuele was the editor for a story that Jiayang did here a few weeks ago. Jiayang has a mom who is in a medical facility in New York City. Jiayang tweets about her all the time. And right now Jiayang's in the situation that a lot of us are in worried for our parents but a much more extreme version of that than most of us are dealing with. Like already so much has happened with her mom. Emanuele checked in with her. How are you? I am trying to hang in there I guess is the most optimistic way of putting it. Yeah yeah. I mean I follow you on Twitter. I see that you tweet a lot about your mom. But I do not actually exactly know what your mother's ailment is. I just know she is hospitalized. Can you-- what is going on there? My mother does not have control of any part of her body at this point except for her eyeballs the movement of her eyeballs. So she is completely cognitively intact and as sharp as she ever has been. But she is imprisoned in a body that refuses to cooperate in any way. She has not left her bed her hospital bed except to go to the ICU for the last six years. The only time she is ever seen any sliver of the sky is in those few minutes when paramedics push her from the hospital entrance into an ambulance. So when I visit her I feel like I am bringing the world to her. Her mother Yao Li has ALS. She is lived in a facility for the past six years. She always has an aid by her side. Jiayang's apartment is just a three minute walk away. She visits every day sometimes twice a day unless she is traveling for work. When Jiayang visits they talk. Well mostly Jiayang talks. Yao Li spells things out using her eyes and an alphabet chart. It is slow. But that does not stop Yao Li from expressing herself. Sometimes she tries to tell me bawdy jokes over the alphabet chart that she spells with her eyes. And it will take me an hour. And I will think that she is requesting--  --a medication or that some part of her-- like she will mention butt and I will be like oh is her butt hurting? You know what-- do you have an infection? And it is she is trying to tell me a butt joke. So that is--  So-- so that gives you a little bit of a sense of my mom. She is someone who  who is relentlessly truthful. Whenever a piece comes out of mine her first question is read me all the negative tweets about it. What is the criticism like? What are your trolls sayings? And I know that sounds absurd and funny. But I think that comes from an immigrant's survival mentality. She wants to know what I need to prepare myself for in order to survive. So what happened last week? Take me through what happened last week. Remember my mother is always-- in the best of times my mother is a mild infection away from death in the best of times. The doctors have told me again and again she will die of pneumonia. It is just a matter of time. She is already on a respirator a machine that breathes for her. There is not that much that can be done. So when I hear news about viruses entering nursing homes every nerve in my body is on full alarm. Jiayang once told me that her mother lives for her. But the reverse is also true. Jiayang lives for her mom. They are each other's only family which means Jiayang is a very active family member at her mom's facility. The staff knows her. They know how protective she is. So in early March when she heard about the virus spreading in nursing homes she called said hey I know it is a stressful time. But could you ask doctors and nurses to wear gloves and masks before getting too close to my mom? She says she could hear the tone in her own voice anxious and demanding. This is not a tone I have ever taken with any member of my mom's facility for as long as she would been there. But I was-- I was unnerved enough-- You were freaked out. Yeah. Yeah. I was unnerved enough about what I was reading that I called first thing in the morning to say that. And I think the staff who picked up was very annoyed with me and just said-- and basically said I cannot do that. Like I cannot-- I do not-- I cannot tell other people here what to do. And then I think she thought she hung up. She did not actually hang up. And she said yeah Yao Li's daughter just called. And she thinks that like we have to wear gloves and you know masks like around every patient at the hospital. And there was-- I heard laughter all around. And then really unfortunately I heard her say-- I still to this day do not know who that staff member was. But she said you know and they are the ones who are Chinese. To be frank I was not offended. I was not like oh my God. This is so racist. I was just worried. I was worried about having offended her. I was worried about offending people who are the first line of defense. So she put her coat on over her pajamas and ran over to the facility. But when she got there there were security guards up front and big signs. Jiayang was so flustered she does not actually remember exactly what the sign said. But the message was clear. She was not getting in to see her mom. How could she be sure her mom was OK if she could not see her? I became crazed. I was calling my best friend who were telling me that I was not being a rational functional person. I had a dream about moving my mother to a different planet. I know that sounds absurd. And it is my subconscious-- I mean it is my unconscious. So I am not totally responsible for it. But I think some part of me knew that there was no corner on earth that was safe. How would that even-- how would that even work with a move? She is on a feeding tube. She is on a ventilator. She is hooked up on so many different whirling machines. In the best of times a move would be-- would require six people not including the transport. Talking to Jiayang I noticed she could not help herself going down these thought spirals far fetched ways to save her mom all the things that could go wrong. And I think that is because she cannot do anything and she wants to badly. But there is not a way out. Where could she possibly go? Not in my apartment my tiny almost studio-sized apartment would not be able to fit all the equipment that she needs. And I would not be-- I would not be fit to care for her by myself. Then what other facility is safe? Like what other facility in New York City is safe? What other facility in America is safe? And so you are basically at a point where you are like there-- I cannot-- there is nothing I can-- there is nothing I can do. I am basically at the point where my unconscious is dreaming up plants to take my mother to Mars. My mind goes to very strange places where I think about being told that my mother's ventilator has to be-- that my mother's ventilator is better-- I am sorry. It is hard for me to even come up the grammar for this because it is so hard. That my mother's ventilator could better serve someone who is younger and healthier. This has not happened. Nobody's suggested her mom give up her ventilator. But she cannot stop thinking of the possibility of it. And then my mind goes down a rabbit hole. I start looking up surgeries where I could give up half my lung maybe so that this healthy person can still be saved because-- because it is about lungs filling with fluids right? And I think well if I could save that other person then my mother gets to keep her ventilator. And your mind just spends hours in those rabbit holes which are completely-- it is completely useless right? Because it is not-- I mean these are not my decisions. What I am suggesting is probably totally insane and scientifically medically impractical. Jiayang did get a small bit of relief. She managed to get in for one last visit. That was two weeks ago. What did you guys say to each other? Because I am her daughter I am her caregiver. I am her conduit to the world. I have a responsibility to soothe her panic not to stoke it. I said things to her that I think I would have wanted someone else to say to me which is this is going to be OK. We will get through this. VOICE CRACKING I will see you again very soon. I do not know when but it is going to be very soon. And we will get through this together. But they were not words that I necessarily believed if I were to be totally honest. She talked with senior hospital staff. And they told her there is a significant chance that coronavirus will enter the facility that she should be mentally prepared for what that means. Jiayang thought about staying with her mom just never leaving that visit becoming her mom's caretaker. But her mother's longtime aide convinced Jiayang she would be more help to her mom outside and promised that she would stay with Yao Li as long as she could manage. At the time they were hopeful it would only be a few weeks. VOICE CRACKING I mean I doubt myself. I do not know if I made the right decision. I think that if my mom is going to-- if she is not going to survive the illness then I should be the one in there. And then I mean-- and then my mind goes to dark places. I think well who cares if I do not pay the rent? Who cares if just everything else goes into absolute madness? All I want to be is with my mom. Yeah I mean what do you think your mom would want you to do in this situation? It was-- it was really hard to leave her. She began crying just hysterically crying because I think she knew that despite my assurances that it would be a long time before I saw her again. And I think-- I think she would-- I think she would want me to stay safe. I think she would want me to find a way of coping through this crisis without succumbing to it without being crushed by it. At the end of February Jiayang did a story for this show about a Chinese man reporting on the virus in Wuhan. In one of the videos this journalist makes he introduces us to this guy he calls Ah Ming. His father recently died because of coronavirus. Ah Ming talks about being with his father in the last hours of his life about holding his hand as his heartbeat drops to zero. For Jiayang it was one of the most emotional moments in this story for obvious reasons. His story was one that I thought just contained such pain and terror. That was unimaginable to me at the time. And now I realize that last Tuesday might be the last time I-- I-- last Tuesday might be the last time I will ever-- I mean that might have been the last time I saw my mother. I cannot even get the tenses straight. The grammar does not compute in my mind. And I thought that Ah Ming's experience was absolutely the most devastating. And then I think about how lucky Ah Ming was. I know that if my mother contracts COVID-19 she will almost certainly die. And I-- and I also know that-- I also know that when I get the call from the hospital letting me know that she is been infected I will not be permitted to go in there. And I can see my mother's window every day. There is a little park that separates my apartment building from my mom's hospital. And when I stand in the park I can see her window. I can almost see the orchid that me and my friend brought her a couple of weeks ago. Or at least I think I can see it. And I think about-- I think about the fact that when she is dying if she contracts the virus those last hours that Ah Ming held his father's hand maybe-- that maybe I will be standing in the park just looking up at her window. Maybe that is the closest-- maybe that is the closest I will be able to get to her in her last hours. Emanuele Berry is a producer on our show. Coming up a tiny tiny virus breaks open a jail cell. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today's program the test-- the coronavirus is here. There are people who right now are forced to deal with it. We hear stories of how they face that challenge. We have arrived at act three of our show. Act Three Outbreak Breakout. So another way that the coronavirus outbreak has had a huge impact on people's lives-- prisons and jails around the country are starting to release inmates they would not have otherwise or would not have released as early anyway to try to protect prisoners behind bars from getting sick. Correctional institutions as you can imagine are Petri dishes of germs and microbes. The latest number that I am seeing as I am recording this more than 50 inmates at Rikers Island in New York City-- that is just one jail here-- correctional officers there and elsewhere also have the virus now. So the city is letting 300 inmates go. Right next door New Jersey ordered 1000 inmates to be released this past week. You are seeing similar decisions like that-- they are not as widespread-- in Ohio Illinois Oklahoma California and Texas since the crisis hit. In San Francisco the public defender's office urged the release of quote All people who are immunocompromised or over the age of 60. Producer Sean Cole talked with somebody who made that cut. They are really two factors under consideration when figuring out who to release from jail or pris