Nikole Hannah Jones is an investigative reporter these days at The New York Times. We have had her here on This American Life before too. But her first big reporting job was back in 2003. She was reporting on the schools in Durham North Carolina. And like most places there were good schools and there were bad schools. And at the time it was the heyday of No Child Left Behind. Durham was working really hard to improve the bad schools. And I would go to schools and they would just always be trying these new things that actually sounded like they might work. They would do things like We will put a great magnet program here. Or we are going to really focus on literacy. We are going to start an early college high school which kids would earn college credit in high school. We are going to improve teacher quality. We are going to replace the principal. More testing. They are always talking really about the same things. I mean you could take these conversations and go from district to district to district and you will always hear the same things. And what she noticed was that it never worked. I mean like never. The bad schools never caught up to the good schools. And the bad schools were mostly black and Latino the good schools mostly white. And sure there might be a principal here or a charter school there who might do a good job improving student scores. But even there they were just improving the students' scores. The minority kids in their programs were still not performing on par with white kids. They had not closed the achievement gap between black kids and white kids. And my question is all of these different ways that we say we are going to address this issue are not working. So what actually works? And that is what I really began to look at. And I find this one thing that really worked that cut the achievement gap between black and white students by half. By half? By half. But it is the one thing that we are not really talking about and that very few places are doing anymore. That thing that is so effective but never discussed? That is not one of the tools that educators reach for normally? Can you guess? Integration. You mean just integrated schools? Just getting black kids and white kids together in the same schools? Yes. Old fashioned Brown versus Board of Education 1954 technology little kids on buses? That is right. Actually what the statistics show is that between 1971 which is where the nation really started doing massive desegregation and 1988 which was the peak of integration in the United States 1988 was the peak. School integration. School integration yes. Well the data shows that at the start of real desegregation the achievement gap between black and white students was about 40 points. In other words on standardized reading tests in 1971 black 13 year olds tested 39 points worse than white kids. That dropped to just 18 points by 1988 at the height of desegregation. The improvement in math scores was close to that though not quite as good. And these scores are not just the scores of the specific kids who got bused into white schools. That is the overall score for the entire country. That is all black children in America. Halved in just 17 years. When I asked Nikole if that was fast she was all like Well black people first arrived on this continent as slaves in 1619. So it was 352 years to create the problem. So yeah another 17 to cut that school achievement gap in half? Pretty fast. And so if you picture that out if we had kept going when we had cut it by half I do not know that we would have eliminated it totally because there is a long history here. But you could see where we would be. We would have been so close to eliminating it. Nikole why does it work? I think it is important to point out that it is not that something magical happens when black kids sit in a classroom next to white kids. It is not that suddenly a switch turns on and they get intelligence or wanting the desire to learn when they are with white kids. What integration does is it gets black kids in the same facilities as white kids and therefore it gets them access to the same things that those kids get-- quality teachers and quality instruction. The US Department of Education put out data in 2014 showing that black and Latino kids in segregated schools have the least qualified teachers the least experienced teachers. They also get the worst course offerings the least access to AP and upper level courses the worst facilities. The other thing about most segregated black schools Nikole says is that they have high concentrations of children who grew up in poverty. Those kids have greater educational needs. They are more stressed out. They have a bunch of disadvantages. And when you put a lot of kids like that together in one classroom studies show it does not go well. If you are surrounded by a bunch of kids who are all behind you stay behind. But if you are in a classroom that has some kids behind and some kids advanced the kids who are behind tend to catch up. These kids in these classes in schools of concentrated poverty do not have that. They do not have that effect of kids who can help boost them. Everyone's behind. And then they are getting the worst teacher. So it is not even like they are getting the same quality teachers as kids who are advanced. They are getting worse teachers. When you combine those two things it is almost impossible to undo that harm. You have to break that up. This is why after years of studying this Nikole thinks segregated schools full of poor kids are probably never going to catch up to other schools. The job is simply too hard. But integration-- before I talked to Nikole about this I had this vague sense about integration-- maybe you had this too-- that we tried that. It did not go so well. Which Nikole has heard before. Yeah that is a pretty common thought. People say Well we tried to force it and it just did not work out. And typically what people are thinking of are places like Boston where busing was used and where it was violent and ugly and white people just left and did not want to deal with it. White people fled the school systems and basically they resegregated the school systems by fleeing. Right. And I should be clear. I am a product of busing myself. And I rode a bus two hours a day. Where did you grow up? I grew up in Waterloo Iowa. And yes there are black people in Iowa. I get that question all the time. Nikole says that her parents sent her and her sister to a school across town which was all white except for five black kids which included the two of them. And at the time I did not realize that it was a bussing or integration program. My parents told me to get on the bus and go to school and I went where the bus took me. Right. But I did not really understand until I started covering education that we were part of a desegregation program. And one of the things that has been challenging as I write these stories is knowing that bussing for me was actually very hard. We had to get up really early but also we were being taken out of our community into someone else's community where not only was it a white community but it was a wealthy community and I was coming from a very black working class community. And so socially it was very difficult. You just never felt like you belonged or it was your school. I had friends and I could go to their house but they could not come to mine. And there was this time when I was in middle school there was a pool on our side of town. And then there was another pool on the other side of town. And we used to always go to the pool on the white side of town. And one day I was like Hey guys why do not you come to my house and we can go to the pool on my side of town? And all my white friends were like Yeah we are going to do it. And then that morning one by one they called and said they could not come. And to this day that devastates me. I will never forget how that felt. Because I knew why. I knew why they did that. What did they say? They just said Oh our mom said we cannot come but you can come over here. Every last one of them. I mean that is the thing. We somehow want this to have been easy and we gave up really fast. I mean there was really one generation of school desegregation. There is a lot of data that shows that black students going through court-ordered integration it changed their whole lives. They were less likely to be poor. They were less likely to have health problems. They lived longer. And the opposite is true for black kids who remained in segregated schools. It is so funny the way you say that-- Well how do we know that integration works? You are saying well you know from the evidence of your own life. I know from my own life and now being able to look at the longitudinal data on it realizing that yes I am living the life that that data says you live when you have the opportunity to go to an integrated school. So integration works. And yet we do not discuss it usually as the logical way to fix schools. And I think I am so obsessed with this because we have this thing that we know works that the data shows works that we know is best for kids. And we will not talk about it. And it is not even on the table. And so today we thought we would put it on the table and talk about it. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today after years where very few communities were launching new desegregation programs Nikole found a place that just three years ago unintentionally started school desegregation. Seriously nobody in charge planned this. A school system got integration and Nikole got to see what happens to the kids what happens with the parents which is not pretty and what happens with the politics in modern day America when school desegregation shows up uninvited to the table by any of the usual people in charge. Stay with us. And with that I will turn things over to Nikole. A quick heads up somebody uses a racial slur in this first part of the story. I stumbled on this place by accident. I was watching the coverage of Michael Brown almost a year ago like the rest of America. There was one moment that I could not get out of my head. It is news footage of his mother Leslie Mcspadden right after he was killed. This was wrong and that was cold-hearted. It was. It was! No justice no peace! She is standing in a crowd of onlookers a few feet from where her son was shot down where he would lie face down on the concrete for four hours dead. And this is what she says. You took my son away from me. You know how hard it was for me to get him to stay in school and graduate? You know how many black men graduate? Not many! I watched this over and over. A police officer has just killed her oldest child. It has to be the worst moment of her life but of all the ways she could have expressed her grief and outrage this is what was on her mind-- school getting her son through school. Michael Brown became a national symbol of the police violence against black youth but when I looked into his education I realized he is also a symbol of something else something much more common. Most black kids will not be shot by the police but many of them will go to a school like Michael Brown's. It took me all of five minutes on the internet to find out that the school district he attended is almost completely black almost completely poor and failing badly. The district is called Normandy. It is made up of one high school the one that Michael Brown attended a middle school and five elementary schools. It is in a town also called Normandy that borders on Ferguson. Each year the Missouri Department of Elementary and Secondary Education puts out a report that shows how each of its 520 school districts is doing. It is a numeric snapshot of the type of education students are receiving. Districts get points for academic achievement for how many students graduate for how well they are prepared for college. In 2014 Michael Brown's senior year here's how the Normandy School District was performing. Points for academic achievement in English-- 0 math-- 0 social studies-- 0 science-- 0 points for college placement-- 0. It seems impossible but in 11 of 13 measures the district did not earn a single point. 10 out of 140 points that was its score. It is like how they say you get points on the SAT just for writing your name. It is like they got 10 points just for existing. Normandy is the worst district in the state of Missouri. Maybe Michael Brown's mom knew these scores. Or maybe she just knew her son's school did not graduate about half of its black boys. I do not know. I reached out to her several times and she did not want to talk. But in the Normandy district mothers who are worried about the quality of the schools are not hard to find. Over the last couple of months I spent a lot of time with one of them a Normandy mother named Nedra Martin. And it was through her that I learned the story of something that happened in this district something that almost never happens anymore. Nedra grew up in Normandy and works in human resources. Her daughter Mah'Ria is a star student. Still Nedra found herself worrying about Mah'Ria's education all the time. Mah'Ria to be honest with you she was not having a problem. I am just going to say she is an awesome child OK? I love her. When you ask them questions Nedra Mah'Ria their eyes fix on each other. I have got a daughter and I kept wondering what magic parenting spell Nedra has cast to get her teenage daughter to like her so much. Nedra's older daughter went to Normandy too. She almost did not graduate on time because the school lost track of her credits. By the time Mah'Ria got to middle school little things started happening that begin to worry Nedra even more. Mah'Ria usually brought home As but when she got a C Nedra asked the teacher why she had not been notified. The teacher told her that she had too many kids in her class to call all their parents. Nedra said teachers did not seem to care. Classes were dumbed down and often unorganized and unruly. And even things that should have been good news turned to bad news. In seventh grade Mah'Ria was invited to a special breakfast. It was to celebrate kids who made the honor roll. They began calling kids up one by one to get their certificates. I am like OK I am next. And then another name gets called. And I had to remind myself A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P. And I am like my name is Pruitt-Martin. You guys skipped Pruitt. They never called her name. When Mah'Ria asked the school counselor about it the counselor told Mah'Ria maybe she was not supposed to be there. Nedra who had taken off of work to come was watching from the side. She looked at me and I looked at her. Then I was like Something's wrong. Something is wrong. I almost started crying really. Because I felt not embarrassed but really really disappointed. Mah'Ria had the invitation to the breakfast in her bag. She would brought it just in case something like this happened. Think about that. This is a 12 year old girl who is so used to the school screwing things up that she knew enough to bring proof. It was a small thing but for Nedra and Mah'Ria it was the last straw. Nedra knew that the district had been performing poorly for years. In fact it had been on probation for 15 years. Schools in Missouri get accredited by the state. Almost every district is accredited. But if you are doing really bad you get put on notice. That is called provisional accreditation. That is supposed to be like a warning. But Normandy had provisional accreditation for 15 years. That means there are entire classes of students nearly all of them black who came in as kindergartners and graduated 12 years later without ever having attended a school that met state standards. In the St. Louis area nearly one in two black children attend schools in districts that performed so poorly the state has stripped them of full accreditation. Only 1 in 25 white children are in a district like that. That is one in two black kids 1 in 25 white kids. Nedra Decided she had to get Mah'Ria out of Normandy. She made a list of nearby school districts and private schools. Then she turned her car into a mobile situation room. The mission-- get Mah'Ria into a better school. Obviously when I am at work these offices are open. When I get off they are closed. So what I would do is take later lunches on my job go to my car sit in my car after I have written down telephone numbers and names the night before and I would spend my whole lunch hour calling these offices. The nearby districts told Nedra they would enroll Mah'Ria but since she lived outside of their boundaries Nedra would have to pay tuition upwards of 15000 a year. She could not afford that. If I would be required to pay for her get a public education then I might as well try to send her to a private school. She checked into those but even with financial aid she could not afford private school either. I was at a point of desperation. I was literally desperate to just pull my daughter out of a district that I felt failed me and my children. I was at a point of desperation. We had to do better. In most of the thousands of poor segregated schools in America that would be it. Your zip code is the anchor that traps you. That would have been it for Nedra too if it were not for what happened next. New tonight a major blow to a school district in the metro area. The Missouri State Board of Education is pulling accreditation from the Normandy School District. In January of 2013 just a few months after that breakfast Normandy lost its accreditation from the state. No one really explained why they would lost it after all this time. Remember they would been on probation for 15 years. The school stayed open but this rare event triggered a little known Missouri law called the transfer law. The transfer law gives students in unaccredited districts the right to transfer to a nearby accredited one for free. Any student in Normandy was now allowed out. I was elated. I was just so excited like God had of truly answered my prayers. Because that sense of desperation it was a burden. It was honestly a weight lifted off my shoulders. She told me and I was like What? What does that mean? And she was like That means you get to go to a different school district. I was like What? Say that again? Really? I so happy. I was just excited. I think Mah'Ria and I got together and just did a swing dance of some kind. Do you remember that conversation at home? We were so happy. Under the law while Normandy students can enroll in any nearby accredited district Normandy has to provide transportation to just one. Normandy officials chose a district called Francis Howell. Francis Howell was 85 white. It sits across a river in another county roughly 30 miles away from Normandy. One of the best districts in Missouri was just five miles away. It would have been very easy for Normandy students to get there. Why not send them there? Well if you do not want students to leave your district one way to keep them is to make leaving inconvenient. Make them ride a long distance to school every day. Though Normandy officials deny that is why they chose Francis Howell. Douglas Carr was a teacher in the Normandy district. He says when they first heard about the transfer option on the news a lot of the Normandy teachers did not expect many kids would take it. Well honestly I thought Well how many parents are going to want to get their kids up early and send them to a school 30 miles down the highway? That to me was a little extreme. 1000. That is how many kids wanted to do that. That fall fully one quarter of Normandy students chose the evacuation plan the law created even though many of them would have to get on a bus at 500 in the morning and travel a good 30 miles away. The word integration does not appear in Missouri's transfer law. When the law was passed no one thought an entire district would lose accreditation. Integration was not the law's intent. But the Normandy kids are almost all black the Francis Howell kids nearly all white. And that is how Missouri accidentally launched a school integration plan in what was an unfashionably late year for such a thing-- 2013. Though Normandy chose to provide free transportation to the Francis Howell school district Francis Howell was not part of that decision. By law they had no say in the matter. So a week after the announcement that Normandy would bus kids to Francis Howell officials there held a town meeting to talk about it. Nedra and Mah'Ria decided to go. That night it was a traffic jam getting there. I mean because it was packed. To get up in this town hall meeting you would think it was a celebrity in town or something. That is how crowded it was. They parked and walked in. Mah'Ria looked around surveying the gym-- a sea of 3000 mostly white faces. Bleachers on each side those were filled. Then you had chairs that were in two columns and people were filling up those seats to say something in the mic. Hello my name is Rebecca and I have children in the district. And I am concerned. St. Louis Public Radio recorded the meeting. One by one parents tick off concerns. There are questions about class sizes money how this will affect special ed fire safety. Once Normandy comes in here will that lower our accreditation?   A woman says she was an education professor and warned Francis Howell officials not to be naive about the type of students they would be receiving. So I am hoping that their discipline records come with them like their health records come with them.   The elected school board was sitting at tables in the front of the gym. Now and then one of them jumped in. I just want to remind everybody that this timeline nor this solution are solutions that Francis Howell would have chosen either. We are doing the best that we can. It has not even been two weeks ago that we have been notified. We did find out yesterday that those student scores will become our scores.   One mother asked why residents did not get to vote on letting in Normandy kids like they vote on public transportation. Years ago when the MetroLink was being very popular St. Charles County put to a vote whether or not we wanted the MetroLink to come across into our community. And we said no. And the reason we said no is because we do not want the different areas  coming across on our side of the bridge bringing with it everything that we are fighting today against. A mother named Beth Cirami approaches the microphone. This is what I want to know from you. In one month I send my three small children to you and I want to know is there going to be metal detectors?  Because I want to be clear. I am no expert. I am not you guys. I do not have an accreditation. But I have read. I have read and I have read and I have read. So we are not talking about the Normandy School District losing their accreditation because of their buildings or their structures or their teachers. We are talking about violent behavior that is coming in with my first-grader my third-grader and my middle schooler that I am very worried about. And I want to know. You have no choice like me. I want to know where the metal detectors are going to be and I want to know whether your drug sniffing dogs are going to be. And I want-- this is what I want. I want the same security that Normandy gets when they walk through their school doors and I want it here.  And I want that security before my children walk into Francis Howell. Because I shopped for a school district. I deserve to not have to worry about my children getting stabbed or taking a drug or getting robbed. Because that is the issue. I do not care about the taxes. To be clear Normandy did not lose its accreditation because of violence. It is easy to judge these parents but I think part of what makes this scene so startling is that we rarely fight these battles anymore. The reaction to large numbers of black children moving into white schools would probably sound no different in New York or Chicago or Boston. It is just that in most of the country no one is even trying. These parents do not want to try either. So one of them offered a helpful solution. Yeah you are absolutely right. We have to do this. We have to follow the laws. We do not have to like it and we do not have to make it easy. Has anyone considered changing our school start times? Moving start times up 20 minutes maybe 40 minutes? Making it a little less appealing?   I knew that there would be negative opinions but not that negative. I did not think it would be like that. Mah'Ria was watching it all on the monitors in an overflow room. At a certain point she grabbed her mom's hand and told her she wanted to speak at the mic. Because I felt that I needed to represent what if your kid was in a Normandy high school and they were just offered this opportunity and other parents are saying We do not want you here. How are you going to feel? Your kid's going to cry because parents are saying how awful your kid is when really they are being put in a box because they are not like that. We are just stuck there because we are not open to the opportunities. And now we are open to them and now you want to be all mean talking about how you are afraid of how big the class is going to be the violence in the schools. And so--  That is what she planned to say. So I had to walk out go to the big gym. And we were standing by the door me and my mom were walking towards the  and I had hesitated. I did not even get halfway to the microphone because of what the parents were saying. I stopped the second to last row of chairs because I did not want to say anything anymore. And then this lady I do not remember who she was. She was like I will hold your hand. Because I started getting a little teary eyed. But I just could not do it. Nedra saw her daughter freeze. She said she thought about Ruby Bridges the first black child to attend an all white elementary school in the South. She is the little girl guarded by US marshals in the famous Norman Rockwell painting called The Problem We All Live With. We are still dealing with that today. We are still dealing with that today. I kept telling myself as if I was talking to those parents who were not embracing this decision my child may be the doctor that saves your life one day. My child may be the lawyer that defends your child one day. How dare you. The conversation in the gym is taking place in one of the most segregated metropolitan areas in the country. Of course there are poor white children in the St. Louis area but they live in mostly middle class areas so they are not attending schools as terrible as Normandy's. In St. Louis poor white children are twice as likely to go to good schools than black children of all incomes. But race barely comes up that night except when white parents insist it is not the issue. We have both-- my husband and I both have worked and lived in underprivileged areas in our jobs. This is not a race issue. And I just want to say to-- if she is even still here-- the first woman who came up here and cried that it was a race issue I am sorry that is her prejudice calling me a racist because my skin is white and I am concerned about my children's education and safety.  This is not a race issue. This is a commitment to education issue. The year the Supreme Court handed down the Brown versus Board of Education ruling banning school segregation St. Louis was the second largest segregated school district in the country. It was 1954. After a lot of resistance many school districts went through desegregation battles but St. Louis came to it extraordinarily late. Real desegregation did not get going in St. Louis until the 1980s. Even then it was only because black families sued. But by that point there were hardly any white kids left to integrate with. That is why a federal judge ordered white suburban schools to take thousands of black students from the city to the suburbs. He did that because he said St. Louis's white suburbs shared the blame for the segregation in the city schools. This was 30 years a full generation after Brown. And the students who went through that some of them anyway grew up to be the parents in the Francis Howell gym. So when they got to the mic they are not just talking about the current situation. A lot of what they are saying is a referendum on what happened to them when they were kids. For instance here's how Beth Cirami the mother of three who was asking for metal detectors began her remarks. Being from Jennings I have watched the dismantling of an award-winning school district. I have watched it. I went to Catholic school because I had to. Not because I wanted to but because I had to. So I know the routine. This is how white parents in the gym frame the story that schools failed in the past because black children were forced in. That is what went wrong not the other part of the equation that white families chose to leave. But the few black parents who stand up to speak have a remarkably different memory of the exact same period of time. I am a native of St. Louisan was part of the deseg program. Very great opportunity for me. I was a great student. Worked out for me. And my question is that what are we doing as far as helping with the transition of these students coming into Normandy? A generation of black St. Louis residents tens of thousands of them remember the St. Louis desegregation program just as she does as a great opportunity. They will be the first to tell you it was hard but also that it was necessary. And for the most part it worked. In the schools where white families chose to stay test scores for black transfer students rose. They were more likely to graduate and to go to college. After years of resistance St. Louis had created the largest and most successful metro-wide desegregation program in the country. But from the moment it started state officials worked to kill it. In 1999 just 16 years after real desegregation came to St. Louis the desegregation order ended. Just a much smaller voluntary desegregation program remains. Michael Brown's mother by the way was part of that brief 16 year window. She was one of the students who was bussed out of St. Louis when she was a kid. But her own son Michael went to one of the most segregated districts in the state. This is what happened in cities all over. With Brown versus Board of Education we as a nation decided that segregated schooling violated the constitutional rights of black children. We promised that we would fix this wrong. And when it proved difficult as we knew it would be we said integration failed instead of the truth which is that it was working but we decided it was not worth the trouble. I do not care about everything else that falls by the wayside because it will two to three years when we all move out of the district. I care about-- It is not an empty threat. If you let those children in we will leave-- again. And let me assure you. I personally know a family in the Fox School District that was shopping for houses in our school district. They were negotiating on a home. And when this came on the news they ended negotiations. So--   On the ride home Mah'Ria felt intimidated but she was determined to go to Francis Howell. I actually kept telling myself The parents are not the one that is going to the schools. It is the kids. Keep reminding yourself that. And so though she did not think about it this way that fall Mah'Ria joined an old American tradition-- black children headed on buses to heavily white schools that had been forced by the courts to take them. She had not ridden the school bus since she was little. On the first day of school she rose to catch the bus at 545 AM. She found a seat rode the 30 miles to Francis Howell and as the bus pulled into the school parking lot she peered nervously through the window. And what she saw surprised her. It was great. Because when I got there they had their little cheerleading squad cheering for us when we walked through the door-- Welcome to Francis Howell cheers like that. I am not a cheerleader so I do not know exactly what they were saying but just cheering doing high kicks and everything like that. It was great. I loved it. Francis Howell administrators would not talk to me but best as I can tell some teachers at the school were horrified by what happened at the parents meeting. And they wanted to make sure the new students felt welcomed. Here's Nedra. I mean they celebrated that the transfer students were there. Were you there? I was there. So you followed the bus? I did I did I did. Can I just say that