Recently I was talking to this guy who told me how years ago because of a medical condition he had to give up beer. He had only been a casual beer drinker before this. He would never really given beer much thought. But now that he could not have a beer he was thinking of beer all the time. He had a fantasy that went like this. He goes into a bar and he orders a beer. That was the whole thing. It is hard giving things up. Walter was three and it was time for him to give up the pacifier. The pacifier was impairing his speech and so it was time to give it up. And his mom and dad weaned him from it slowly. First he could only use the pacifier upstairs. Then only upstairs in his room. Then only upstairs in his room in the bed though enforcement on the whole bed thing was actually kind of spotty. Anyway finally came the big day. Walter announced he was ready to get rid of the pacifier and he threw it into the trash himself. And everybody clapped and everybody hugged him and then they drove to a toy store and they got him some special presents. A toy tree house a teddy bear. And that first night when it was time to sleep Walter was brave. He was stoic. He went right to bed. And maybe-- I do not know-- five minutes passed before he was out of the bedroom and downstairs crying. I am really sad he said. His mom and dad asked him if he wanted to play with his new toys for a while. And he tried that and then went back to bed. More sobbing. An hour passes. Two hours. It breaks his parents' hearts. Frankly if they still had had the pacifier in the house they would have caved and given it to him it was so upsetting. But he had thrown it into the trash at his grandparents' house. It was gone. And that night for the first time in his life Walter slept in his parents' bed. It was the only way that he could actually get to sleep. The next night was a little easier. The next a little easier than that. Anyway after a couple of days Walter announced the special request that he had for all the grown-ups in his life. Grandmas and grandpas uncles and aunts the lady next door. He wanted to hear their stories about when they gave up their pacifiers. I told this to a friend of mine who gave up drinking a decade ago how this little boy Walter wanted to hear these stories. And she said man that is just like AA. Though the problem for Walter of course was that no adult really remembers giving up their own pacifier. It is just too long ago right? So everybody either talked about giving up other stuff that they did remember like giving up their blankets as little kids. One auntie offered to talk to him about how she quit smoking. But she was warned off that. Or they just made up stories dramatic stories about giving up their pacifiers to tell Walter. It is comforting to hear other people's stories of kicking the habit. It is just comforting at any age. It makes it feel like it is possible. And so this week we bring you four stories of people giving things up living without some of them voluntarily some not. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Act One of our program today Do You Hear What I Hear? In that act one man one teenage daughter and many many fish. Act Two Yerrrrr Out! The baseball story that no baseball player wants to tell. Act Three The Call of the Great Indoors in which we hear a defense of living inside from somebody who can speak authoritatively about the pros and cons. Act Four Tin Man. In that act life without a heart. Stay with us. Act One Do You Hear What I Hear? This is a story of being forced to give up one thing and then giving up another by choice. Nubar Alexanian put it together with his daughter Abby. You know I did not talk about it for a long time because it is so abstract. It is like people cannot imagine it.  But then I will be in a restaurant. There is a loud din of people talking and dishes and all that stuff going on in a restaurant. And somebody will ask me how loud is it right now? And I will often say it is the loudest thing in the room. And people cannot-- it is just incomprehensible to people that you could get used to a tone like that in your head all the time. See like I am talking about it right now? It is really loud.  The very first doctor I saw was this young ear nose and throat guy. And he examined me. But he was examining me as if he were just going through the motions. He already knew what he was going to tell me. So after all the examinations he said well you have tinnitus and there is no cure for it. You are just going to have to learn to live with it. And I thought what are you talking about? I cannot learn to live with this. And I went through 10 years of five other doctors going to the high priests in Boston hospitals to every alternative-- psychics-- you can possibly imagine. I mean there is almost-- I do not think there is anything-- four or five different acupuncturists-- this one dentist said well I am going to make you a mouth guard. He said well I am sure this will work. It is going to cost 19000. I did some muscle body work and some homeopathic remedies-- I had my entire jaw realigned by a dentist over a two year period. And then we had things like this guy come in who spread these Petri dishes all over our house. So we had to install all these filtering systems in our house and fans and air cleaners and dehumidifiers-- so I have spent probably over 10 years 7000. I am a photographer and the first tone appeared around the same time that I started working on this book about musicians called Where Music Comes From. And I travelled around the world with 25 different musicians. And all of a sudden I had to stop. First tone appeared at the beginning of the project and then the second tone came and the whole thing got so bad that my career just came to a stop. I just could not travel. I was completely disabled by these tones. I am going to try on the piano. I think what I have on my right ear is a D flat. And in my left ear a C one octave lower. The right ear is a D flat and the left ear is a C. The most maddening part of this was when I was with this friend of mine this jazz musician. And I described it to him. And he threw his head down in his hands on the table. We were having lunch. And I could see in him that he completely understood how maddening it was. Because he understood that the D flat was always trying to resolve itself into the C. So can you play both of them at the same time? I might be able to. Let us see. Let me try this for a second.  Dad? Test. OK what were you saying? That well as we have been doing this piece I have been thinking. It must-- I could not imagine having a tone in my ear-- especially like a pure tone-- tones that do not stop like that. So I can not even imagine what it must be like to have it all the time. So what is it about having the tone? Like you are trapped inside your own head. You are in a room with no doors and no windows and just a speaker of that sound driving you literally up the walls. I swear I would cut my head off or something. I would follow van Gogh's path and cut my ears off. Is this is an odd thing to say you think? I am somewhat grateful for the tone. Of course I do not feel grateful on bad days. But you know before you were born I used to travel constantly on assignment all over the world. And on good days when I think about it I think about the tone being a warning that I needed to slow down. And then you were born and I thought not only did I need to slow down but I wanted to slow down. And on bad days I feel like oh OK I have learned this lesson. I have slowed down. Now the tone can go away. But it does not go away.  I am reading through this outline of all the tapes that we have. And you say I could not imagine losing my hearing. And I was like well wait a minute. It is not that bad. And then I realize it is sort of the reverse. I have not really lived with perfect hearing ever so I cannot compare. But I just thought it was interesting that you could not imagine losing your hearing and I could not imagine having tinnitus. Do you remember when you got your hearing aid? No. Do you want to hear what happened? OK. I mean because for Mom and I it was like a huge event. Because you would gone through all of the tests. And we had discovered that you indeed had a hearing loss and that they were going to fit you with a hearing aid. And before that you kept saying what all the time. And there were certain words that you could not pronounce or certain sounds that you obviously were missing. And that is what the audiologist and the doctors described to us. So we went down to Beverly Hospital. And Mom and I were sitting in the room. And she put the hearing aid in your ear and turned it on and made all the adjustments. And then you slid off the chair and said Oh my god! I can hear. But sometimes I wonder what it would be like to hear everything perfectly. You know? Like to have that entire sound every like aspect of someone's voice. Or music. Every note to hear every single one. Would be incredible to me. And I do not know what that would be like. I have never known what that would be like. Let us just talk about-- you transcribed my hearing test where you got to actually hear the sound that is in my ear? I cannot hear one of the tones that you hear. So you did not hear the tone in my right ear? No. I could not hear the high one. Because I am missing that in my-- that is part of my hearing loss. I am missing that particular frequency in both my ears. So you cannot hear the sound-- I cannot hear the sound that you hear all the time. At all? At all. That is incredible do not you think? I know. It is too much of a coincidence. I cannot be in quiet places. It can be really maddening to be in quiet places. It is the thing though that I think is responsible for me taking up fly fishing because it is the closest I can get to quiet. You know I am out there it is early morning it is dark. I am in my boat. I push off into the current. Do not start the engine. The river is waking up and there are little sounds of birds and stuff going on. And then there is me with my fly line going back and forth and back and forth. And I am focusing on the fly line trying to get it out 100 feet. And there is a sound that it makes that I can sort of attach to. And so I am really focused on that and it takes me away from the sound in my head. And that is what quiet is to me. That is the most quiet that I can have. Anything else you want to say about it? Just that I think maybe it is taught you patience. Because I did not know you before you had this so I would not know. But I would think that it might have taught you something about settling or acceptance. Because I remember you told us this story about how you went to all these doctors. But the first doctor you went to told you there is no cure. You could not do anything. And so you spent tons of money seeing a whole bunch of other doctors who tried a whole bunch of other things. And finally you just realized that the first doctor was right. And I guess that was probably your acceptance part of it. And it is also that you were working so frantically before and then you got tinnitus and you had to stop. And I got more of you. Because I do you remember you traveling a lot. And I remember how much you were gone. And I remember asking Mom when you would come home. But then you came and you stayed home and you played with me and you took me to school every day. And I think that was really good for the family. Nubar and Abby Alexanian. They put together that story with Jay Allison for the website Transom.org. If you want to learn how to put together a radio story they explain how to do it at Transom.org. This story got funding from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Act Two Yerrrrr Out! At first you do not really think about it Bobby says. He got drafted to play professional baseball for the Cubs was sent to the minor leagues like most players are. And for the first two years he says you do not wonder if you are going to make it. You know you are going to make it. For one thing the evidence is everywhere. You see it all the time. You are in double A or even in A ball and somebody does get the call. We had a shortstop when I was with the Reds. His name was Travis Dawkins. His nickname was Gookie Dawkins. And Barry Larkin got hurt in the big leagues. And the phone call came in to the manager's office. And the buzz-- all of a sudden this buzz started taking over the clubhouse. And it was about Gookie. Gookie is going to the show. And I remember him cleaning out his locker getting ready to get on the next flight to Cincinnati. So he is your buddy. And you are watching him clean out his locker to go. Yeah. And that has happened quite a bit. Quite a bit. By his third year out of the 52 guys Bobby was drafted with only 15 were still playing ball. In his fourth year he was traded. By his seventh year he was sitting on the bench a lot. And then he broke his wrist had a hard time finding a team who would pick him up. And I think I was pretty rusty. And I was pretty discouraged. I really thought that the time might be sooner than later than I was out of the game. There were quite a bit of people that said is this it? Can you go back? And the questions started coming and more regularly as I continued to play. How would people say it? Were they sheepish about it or they just did not even know to be sheepish about it? I wish they were sheepish about it frankly. It is frustrating when people would ask-- I was always very uncomfortable when people would ask me those type of questions. But then his season improved. He actually went on a kind of streak. I had a few games in particular where I thought I can do this. I am a major league ballplayer. I can swing a baseball bat with anybody who plays the game. I had one game in particular I think I was four for five and hit two home runs and knocked in seven runs. And when you get on those hot streaks those are times when you really think I am right there. You know? Somebody goes down. They need a good left-handed hitter off the bench. I have got a phone call tomorrow. And that is what keeps somebody going in this situation. There had always been so much proof you know? He had been a high school star an all-state and a college star and all Big Ten. And his brother Hal Morris was playing for the Reds. And it is like what happens in a casino. You win enough of the time to keep you going to keep you in the game. It feels like the big win is right around the corner. What got Bobby to finally quit was that that vision of his future was replaced with a different vision of who he might become. At the beginning of his 10th year he could not get onto an affiliated team. He went to the independent leagues a step down. And when he showed up for spring training and looked around at the other guys he thought to himself he was seeing a lot of guys who had hung on for too long. And he wondered if that is who he was becoming. And during one of their very first practice games he suddenly found he would decided. My last at bat. I know I got three at bats. I ground it out to second base and I did know. I knew that was it. Certainly. I think the moment the ball was off my bat I had a thought that this might be the last one. And I ran by. The throw beat me by a couple of steps. And I kept running as far as I can through the bag. And I just kind of kept going out to the outfield a little bit. I remember thinking after as I am decelerating down the baseline just thinking well if this is my last one it is kind of apropos because I gave it everything I had. I ran down to first with everything I had. And it just was not enough to get me there in time. For years he had been wrestling with his decision. And then it was done. He went to the batting cage he hit for a while and then he told his coaches. What was it like for you after you decided? It was very difficult. I would say that there was a prolonged grieving process. It was tough. For years I still wanted to tell people-- when they asked what do you do-- I would say I am a baseball player. That was just how I identified myself. And when all that was done when that final realization was there it was like the amputated leg. I still felt it afterwards for a long time. Were you able to watch baseball? No. I would not watch any baseball for a good year and a half after I left. I did not watch any in 2002. And frankly I do not think I watched any in 2003. I went back and my dad still liked to watch baseball. And we would put the Cubs game on. And after about a half an inning or an inning I would see a lot of guys I played with or played against. And I stopped. Go downstairs and do something else. It was very difficult. You see these players. You want to play the if game and the if-then. And this guy is not as good as I am and why is he there? Now I am absolutely fine with it. But for years I did not want anything to do with baseball. See I think one of the things that would be hard in your situation is if you have this dream and this identity that is driving you for so long and from such a young age it is sort of like you cannot replace something with nothing. You have got to replace something with something else. Absolutely. You know I am a commodities trader. And one of the things I love about what I do is the day in day out process is the same. You fall into routines. You get up early. I watch Bloomberg every morning for 15 minutes before I go take a shower. And then I have got a routine that I read the newspaper on the way to the office. When I am in the office I prepare for the day in the same way. And then it is another highly competitive dog-eat-dog world. And I like that. And also you know when you have won. You know when you have lost. There is a tally at the end of the day. You have your stats. Absolutely. Absolutely. And I just am able to have that same tunnel vision like I did when I played. Guys are always amazed that when I first got into the trading business I would come in at 200 in the morning when the European markets closed. And I would sometimes trade until 300 400 in the afternoon. I would sit down there for 14 straight hours and trade. I love the concentration. I love having to focus and having to be on top of your game every day. Because I had to do something like that. I had to do something where there were stakes at hand and that there was winning and there was losing. Bobby Morris. He and I recorded that interview back in 2005. He spent another few years after that as a full-time commodities trader in Chicago. Then in 2007 he left the city and moved back to his home state of Indiana. He still works as a trader part-time. But a few years ago Bobby went back to baseball this time in a new way working with kids. He is a teacher at the White Sox Youth Academy and a coach for competitive travel teams. Focusing on the young players he says on helping them improve watching them improve helped him remember what he loved about baseball in the first place. He says he is enjoying the game for the first time in years. Act Three The Call of the Great Indoors. There are some kinds of living without that is really hard for most of us to fathom. In Boston Chelsea Merz has been talking with somebody about one of those. The first thing I noticed about Matthew were his fingernails. They are so clean much cleaner than mine. And I am humbled. I have no excuse. Unlike Matthew I have not been living on the streets for seven years. Every Saturday we meet for lunch at Bertucci's which is this family style Italian restaurant. Every week we sit at the same table. And every time our waitress assures us that we have made it in time for the lunch special. We will get free refills on soft drinks a complimentary garden salad and a basket of rolls. One time Matthew showed up 20 minutes late. And the manager was giving him a hard time. He was saying you better make it up to her and buy lunch today. And when we got to our table Matthew was laughing. And he said he does not know I am homeless. He has no idea. And even though Matthew is carrying a large cardboard box a messenger bag and two bookbags he looks more like a college professor. He is clean. He is tidy. He is organized. He is incredibly polite. Every week Matthew tells these stories. So every week I record him. There was this time. It rained nonstop. And when that happens the shelters just fill up. And there were like 10 of us waiting for two hours. Eventually people start talking. Oh where were you yesterday when it started raining? Oh I was over here. Did you get in somewhere last night? No I was outside. Or I went under a bridge. So everybody's talking about these things. And one guy in the room was very quiet. Someone started talking to him. What did you do? What did you do yesterday? He has this very thick Spanish accent and does not speak English very well. He told us he did not know Boston at all. He had just arrived from New York. He did not know the streets. He did not know where to go. And when it came time-- what about you? Where did you stay? Alley. The alley? Oh just the next block? Yeah one block. One block. You only got as far as one block and then you went into the alley. Si si. Oh wow. So where did you sleep in the alley? Was there any place you could sleep underneath or something? He said something like box. Box? You slept in a box? Si si. Well a cardboard box? Would not it be soaking wet? Not cardboard. Metal. Metal? You slept in a metal box? And someone said oh a dumpster. You slept in a dumpster. No no. Did you get any sleep? No no. No sleep. I was afraid. Afraid? You were afraid. Si si. What were you afraid of that somebody might come and beat you up mug you? No no. Button. Button? And all of a sudden it occurred to me. And I just said oh. You did not sleep in a dumpster. You slept in a trash compacter. Si si. You were afraid somebody was going to come and maybe push a button. Si si. And when I heard that I was like at a new level in my feelings and understanding of this whole thing. You are afraid somebody might come to push the button and you will die a horrible death. Once or twice a year he gets to housesit for an old friend. Around Christmas he got an offer to housesit for more than two weeks. I met him for lunch the day that ended and he was back on the street. I wanted to know what it was for him to have a comfortable place to sleep for a change. Usually he cannot count on any of his regular spots. And sometimes he has to stay up all night in a Kinko's or a Dunkin' Donuts. Sleep is such a large part of the whole experience of being homeless. I should say sleeplessness. You never get enough sleep. You are so tired so much of the time. So what was it like your first night indoors? What was it like to sleep? The first night is the best because you know you have got 16 consecutive nights of uninterrupted living indoors again. Of being able to come over to this apartment open the door unlock it with the key open the door go over to the sofa-- this nice huge comfortable soft sofa with like eight large pillows. In front of the TV set with a remote control and everything. It is like what Jean Valjean experienced in the 1935 version of the film Les Miserables with Fredric March as Jean Valjean. After all those years in the prison the galley slave prison system whatever he is released finally. I think it was 14 years or something in which he was sleeping on hard surfaces. And when he is finally shown the room where he is going to get to stay when it is time for him to go to sleep he looks at the bed. And in the years before I was homeless whenever I would see this film I never noticed this. He is looking at the bed. That bed it is like it is a soft surface a soft mattress. It is a bed. He has not slept in a bed for like 14 years. And when he plops down in it he leans back. He stretches out. If I remember correctly his eyes close as he is savoring the comfort. That is what it is like. That is what it feels like. That is what it felt like the first night I was in there for these 16 nights in a row. This is an excerpt from a radio project that Chelsea Merz and Matthew have worked on for years. When we first broadcast that story in 2004 Matthew had been on the street for seven years. He has now gotten off the streets and gives talks around the country about his experience. You can find more at his website openchurches.org. Coming up. Which is more dangerous to your health heart disease or your own family? Answers in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose some theme bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program two weeks into the new year stories of giving things up living without voluntarily or not. We have arrived at Act Four of our program. Act Four Tin Man. Sometimes you give up something and you are not sure if it is your own idea or not. As in this next story a short story by Judy Budnitz read for us by actor Matt Malloy. What kind of son are you? asks Aunt Fran. Aunt Nina says Your own flesh and blood. What your mother would not do for you Aunt Fran goes on. She would do anything for you. Anything in the world. And now you will not give just a little back. For shame! says Aunt Nina. The heat is stifling but she pulls her sweater closer. We are sitting in the hospital waiting room Aunt Fran and Aunt Nina and I. My mother suffered a heart attack this morning. We are waiting to see her the aunts and I. The doctor told us her heart will not last much longer. We cannot fix it the doctors said. She needs a new one. A transplant. Well then give her one! the aunts cried. It is not that easy said the doctors. We need a donor. The doctors went away. The aunts looked at me. Arnie? Nina said. What about your heart? My heart? I shouted. Are you crazy? That started them both off on what a bad son I was. It is impossible to argue with Nina especially with Fran to back her up. I sit in the middle. Aunt Fran clutches one arm Aunt Nina the other. They wept at first but now they sit grimly. A Styrofoam cup of coffee steams next to my foot but I cannot reach for it. The aunts do not care. They are amazed that I bought it amazed that I could even think of coffee at a time like this. Aunt Fran wears a bally sweater and sensible shoes. Her lips are pressed tight. She taps her feet nervously. On my other side Nina licks her lips again and again. I saw it on 60 Minutes Aunt Fran announces. They put the heart in a cooler a regular Igloo cooler like we have at home. And they rush it in a helicopter to the hospital. And they put it in connect up the pipes. It is just like plumbing. You must be your mother's tissue type too. I am sure you are Aunt Nina puts in. You are young. You are strong. You have a college education. Your heart is exactly what she needs. You should not have started smoking though Aunt Fran goes on. It is so bad for the heart. You should have thought of that when you started. But what about me? I blurt out finally. That is what we are talking about. We are talking about your heart Nina says. But what happens to me? I say again. I cannot believe he is thinking of himself at a time like this Aunt Fran sniffs. I need my heart. You want me to die so my mother can live? Of course we do not want that says Aunt Fran. Sylvie loves you so much. She would want to die herself if you died. We cannot both have my heart I say. Of course not says Nina. You can get one of those monkey hearts or that artificial heart they made such a fuss about in the news a while back. Why cannot mother get one of those? Or a transplant from someone else? Do you want your mother should have a stranger's heart? Or a monkey's heart? Your poor mother. Do you remember how she never used to take you to the zoo because she could not stand to see the filthy monkeys? And you want her to have a monkey's heart? It would kill her. Fran cries. She is so weak. She needs a heart that will agree with her Aunt Nina adds. Any heart but yours just would not do. But you you can handle anything. You are young. You are strong. You-- Have a college education? I finished for her. Aunt Nina glares and says Your mother worked herself to the bone for you so you could go to college and make something of yourself. And now what do you do? Out of college four years already all you do is sit in front of a typewriter all day call yourself a writer. Smoking those cigarettes never get a haircut. And the first time your mother needs you Aunt Fran finishes you turn your back on her. They both tighten their grips on my arm. I do things for Mother all the time I begin. One of the doctors appears at the end of the hall. As he approaches my aunts rise pulling me with them. Is she all right? demands Fran when he is still 20 feet away. We have found a donor Nina announces. The doctor greets us. He is a small man completely bald. The eyes behind thick glasses are sad. He strokes his scalp as he talks savoring the feel of it. She is all right. She is being monitored he says. We will look for a donor but there is a long waiting list. We have got a donor. Sylvie's son. He is in the prime of health Aunt Nina says. This is Arnie Fran explains. The doctor studies me carefully. Surely you do not do that sort of thing? I say incredulously. He gazes at me. It is very rare very rare indeed that a son will be so good as to donate his heart. In a few cases it has been done. But it is so rare to find such a son a rare and beautiful thing. He takes off his glasses and polishes them on his sleeve. Without them his eyes are small piggish. He puts them back on and his eyes are sad and soulful once more. You must love your mother very much he says. Oh he does Fran says. I shift my feet and knock over the cup of coffee and it spills on the floor a sudden ugly brownness spreading over the empty white. A nurse leads us to the intensive care unit where my mother is lying attached to machines and bags of fluid. Aunt Fran rushes to one side of the bed Aunt Nina the other. I shuffle awkwardly at the foot of the bed. I touch my mother's feet. Sylvie are you all right? The aunts cry. My mother opens her eyes. There are purple circles around them. She looks pale but not so different from usual. Hardly on the verge of death. She smiles dully at her sisters. Oh Sylvie. You look wonderful just the same they say. Then she raises her eyes to me. Oh Arnie. You look terrible she says. That jacket. I told you to throw it away. I will find you another. There is no reason to go around looking like a mess. Arnie has some good news Nina says. Then why does he look like a thundercloud? says my mother. Arnie is something bothering you? Fran says Arnie wants to give you his heart. I never said that I cry. There is a pause. Of course Arnie you should not. You do not need to do that for me. Really you do not my mother says. She looks terribly sad. The aunts' faces have gone stony. I never expected anything from you you know. Of course nothing like this. I look down at her feet two motionless humps under the blanket. I am considering it Mother. Really I am. I want to find out more about it before I decide. That is all. It is not as simple as changing a car battery or something. I force out a laugh. No one else laughs but the aunts' faces melt a little. My heart is is pounding. My mother closes her eyes. You are a good boy Arnie she says. Your father would be proud. A nurse comes in and tells us that we should let my mother rest for a while. Aunt Fran and Aunt Nina head back to the waiting room. I walk up and down the halls of dull white where patients shuffle in slow motion wheeling their IVs along beside them. I can feel in the floor the buzzing vibration of motors churning away somewhere in the heart of the building. I take the elevator and wander until I find a pay phone. I call up Mandy. She picks up on the first ring. Hi she says. Where have you been? My mother had a heart attack this morning I say. I am at the hospital. Oh I knew this would happen Mandy says. I burned my hand on the radiator this morning and right away I thought uh oh an omen. Something bad's going to happen. How old's your mother? 57 I say. Oh that is young for a heart attack. And she was not fat or anything. I feel like it is my fault. I should have warned you or something. Finally I ask her to come to the hospital. And she says all right and hangs up. I do not need to tell her where to go. Mandy never gets lost. She never has to wait in line