Zoe Chace? Yes Ira Glass? You brought some tape to play? Yeah. I brought some tape from this trip that I was on recently. Zoe Chace is one of the producers of our program. It is This American Life from WBEZ Chicago. So on this trip I was in an interesting room. A couple ground rules. There will be no safe spaces no trigger warnings no microaggressions.  We are going to have-- we are going to have some honest discussion here. We are in a huge auditorium surrounded by more than 2000 conservative college students. It is a bunch of young people in sports coats and ties and dresses and heels. And the media has said oh there is no young conservatives out there. You have to be liberal if you are in college. And every single one of you here today-- from all 50 states by the way-- are here to tell the media colleges and the elites that our generation will not embrace socialism. This is Charlie Kirk and this room is at a big conference he is throwing. Charlie Kirk's organization is called Turning Point USA-- kind of a pumped up version of the College Republicans is how I describe it. And they recruit and train conservative students to be conservative activists on their campuses. Charlie he is 24. He is preppy. He still technically lives in his parents' house outside Chicago. Technically means-- Means that is his domicile. But he is on the road more than 300 days out of the year. He founded this group something like five years ago. They have a ton of money from conservative donors. This year they are going to have a budget close to 14 to 15 million someone close to the organization told me. Took place in a really fancy hotel right near Mar-a-Lago actually. The son of the president of the United States Donald Trump Jr.  Wait Donald Trump Jr. was there? Yeah. Charlie Kirk the head of the organization and Donald Trump Jr. are friends. So this conference it is premised on the idea that there is an important battleground right now in America that conservatives are losing. They have been losing this battle for years. That is college campuses college campuses overrun by liberal bias. Conservatives feel embattled. They feel outnumbered. Now this is nothing new conservatives saying this. True. And the Koch brothers and other conservative donors are throwing millions of dollars at this. To change our politics they want to change our culture. To change the culture you have to change universities. And the speakers at this conference they make it sound like this is a life or death moment. We are in a nonviolent-- and I pray to God it remains nonviolent-- civil war. There are unbridgeable gaps between left and right. We are at war right? We are not debating Obamacare. We are not debating tax cuts. We are not debating the border. We are debating America. But all of you are now messengers. All of you are now part of the fight. All of you are the people who are going to go back to your campuses and convert 10 other people. You should always wear that target proudly on your back because they will come for you. And when they come for you the only way those bullets are going to bounce off is if you are made of steel. Thanks so much.  Well I have to say those are some very powerful speakers.  They are doing a good job for those kids. Yeah. Here's the new thing I learned at this conference is that there are now outside groups and a whole infrastructure fighting this war on American campuses. The tinder is there for the fire for sure. People are ready for a crazy fight on all sides. But now there are a number of relatively new big well-funded national organizations like this one like Turning Point USA which are fanning the flames and spreading the fire. And I would say that that is what our program is about today. We are going to see this play out on one campus and see just how easy it is for these things to blow up into a huge raging wildfire. But Zoe before we get to that what exactly happens at this conference? The conference is for tactical advice on how to fight this war on campus. So for example-- so invite a conservative speaker to campus. You do not just have a right to bring people to campus. You do not just have a right to stand up for yourself and speak out. I think you have an obligation. Now in some cases a college will try to stop the speaker. They will think they are too controversial or charge a big security fee for that speaker. And there is a panel for what to do if that happens. The panel is called Sue Your School 101 Knowing and Defending the First Amendment on Campus. Anybody here from Wisconsin?  Awesome. So we have sued your university system seven times. So thanks. You guys are great. There are panels like Socialism is for Suckers 48 Liberal Lies Was Jesus a Socialist? I am going to guess the answer to that is no? It is no. He was not. At night the nighttime activity was a protest. Basically anti-Trumpers of West Palm Beach came out to protest this conference. And honestly it seemed almost too perfect as though the conference had planned it. They did not. But it just felt like a way to get your conservative jollies out by yelling about some of the stuff they have been talking about all day. There were these super eclectic chants like taxation is theft. Taxation is theft! Taxation is theft! Taxation is theft! This one is hard to hear. This girl in the back yells out How many genders are there? How many genders are there? Two. How many genders are there? Two. This insistence from Turning Point kids that there are only two genders that gets brought up a lot and it feels kind of random. And I figured out it is kind of a battle cry for these kids on the right. They are just basically saying you are irrational to the left. Of course that dismissal of transgender and non-binary people can and often does come across as incredibly hateful. So they are chanting this stuff? Yeah. And making videos. In fact that was a big thing this conference seemed to be about was making videos. How to make videos to fight back against the left on their campuses. There were a bunch of panels about that-- the art of the click how to make political viral content things like that. The idea is even if you are isolated on your campus there is a huge network out there of conservative news that is hungry for the video and will tell your story. If you have a cell phone then you are now a reporter. If you are on a college campus you have things that are worth covering. This is Ben Shapiro a big name conservative speaker who also founded The Daily Wire. I run a publication. It has about 100 million page views a month. If you email me with your story and we can verify it and check it make sure it is true we will run with it. And this is true for Fox News this is true for Daily Caller this is true for Breitbart. This is true for all of the major right-wing publications. And so granting exposure is the easiest way to bring shame to a lot of these folks who deserve it. At this other panel called Fighting the PC Police this guy Cabot Phillips-- he is a clean cut 24-year-old guy. He is just adored. It seems like everyone in the session knows him. And both of his sessions were packed. He gave tips on exactly step by step how do you make an effective video on your phone? As far as video goes-- we all know this. How do we film our videos guys? Horizontal. Horizontal. Horizontal heck yeah. If you film your videos vertically you are not worthy of love.  You are not a good person. And Cabot is the media director with a news site whose entire purpose is to document and publicize liberalism run amok on campus. It is called Campus Reform. They pay conservative students at colleges across the country to be correspondents scouring their campuses for stories. Some are small like College Republicans email list used to quote 'identify the racists' or college turns gym into man-free space. I love that these sound like Onion headlines but from a right-wing perspective. I know. But these are real things that happen. One of them was about students demanding free tampons in both men and women's bathrooms. They did this by painting their pants with fake blood stains. It is called a bleed-in. That is a story. And so all of these are basically conservatives writing about how crazy liberals are on the campuses or how hard it is to be a conservative on campus. Right. One prime type of video that Cabot from Campus Reform talked about is one that you would take when say you are out with your little table and you are trying to sign people up for your Turning Point USA chapter on your campus. You are in the middle of the quad. And there is this thing that is come up on public universities lately that I just found out about recently. It is the free speech zone. The free speech zone is this area of campus where all political activity any protest or political advocacy it is confined to one area. A lot of times people do not realize it is completely unconstitutional. And if you are tabling outside of the free speech zone someone from the university may come up to you and tell you to move to the free speech zone. And that is your cue. Whip your phone out. Start filming. Stay calm. Be polite. There is no need to be a jerk. But just ask them. I am not saying I will not leave but what will happen if I choose not to leave? The very best video to get it seems the creme de la creme-- this is the impression I got-- it is filming triggered snowflakes. You know a snowflake? Yes of course. A snowflake is a liberal who is easily offended. Right. Like say a right-wing student group's posters are torn down. They may be torn down by snowflakes who are triggered by those posters. Cabot plays this one super viral video of a girl in an audience at an event screaming Get your hate speech off our campus. Get your hate speech off our campus. His point is that a snowflake can be triggered by your very existence on campus. And they do this thing where they will just throw out name calling. That is the first tactic they use where they will say you are a racist. You are a bigot homophobe. You are a part of the patriarchy whatever that means. You are all these things. And it kind of sucks getting called that. No matter how untrue it is-- which it is untrue. No matter how untrue it is it is still like I do not really want to get called that on campus. So maybe I will not speak up because I do not want to have to deal with this. They do not just want you guys to be quiet. OK? The left on your campus does not just want you to stop talking. They want you to completely be off of their campus because your ideas make them feel that unsafe. He is right. A lot of people on the left do say that ideas on the right make him feel unsafe. So things can explode and get out of hand really quickly. Well today on our program we see a brand new Turning Point recruit head out and try the things that Turning Point USA tells students to do and trains them to do. During this moment in our history where everybody assumes the absolute worst about each other we watch this newbie head right into the thick of it-- a sophomore 19 years old when this starts. Our reporter for this story is somebody who knows this world well. He is been covering these fights on campus for The Chronicle of Higher Education. His name Steve Kolowich. And let us just get right to it. Here he is. Katie Mullen knew she wanted to start a Turning Point chapter at her school after she went to her first conference the Young Women's Leadership Summit last summer. And it was just really empowering in the fact that the whole conference we were just talking about how there is no really glass ceiling. There is just skies above. There is nothing that we cannot do. And just being around that many women I think just as a whole was really empowering. The first time Katie remembers having a strong political feeling was in high school while listening to Rush Limbaugh with her grandmother. He was criticizing Obamacare in a way that really resonated with her. She became the kind of teenager who would write to her congressman. She arrived at the University of Nebraska-Lincoln UNL just as the 2016 presidential election was entering the home stretch. Most of her friends on campus were not that into politics. She liked the idea of being connected to other young people who were just as excited about it as she was. Turning Point looked fun. Its founder Charlie Kirk was not much older than she was. And he was really good at Twitter. Last summer she went to her second Turning Point conference. This one was for chapter leaders. She met Charlie Kirk. She made new friends. And she came back to campus in the fall fired up to spread the gospel of liberty and capitalism. On August 25 last year Katie tried tabling on campus for the first time on the plaza outside the student union. Turning Point had sent her a starter kit with stickers and buttons that said things like Socialism Sucks and I Heart Capitalism. Her club was not official yet so Katie wanted to do some recruiting. Can you sort of give me your pitch? If I were a student coming up to your table what would you say? OK. Well it was my first time out there so I was a little-- I do not think I was a really good saleswoman. I was more timid that day waiting for people to come up to me. But people passing by I would ask them how they felt about capitalism or what their belief on socialism was and just get a conversation started. Katie set up her table in the place where there is a lot of foot traffic just like Turning Point says to do. And sure enough along came a university employee. We are going to have to ask you guys to move this to the free speech zone or we will have to have UNLPD remove you. It is completely up to you. But is not this a public university? Not with propaganda. You can free speech all you want but you cannot hand out propaganda. But is not this a public university? Katie stood her ground. She recorded the interaction on her phone. We have always been told pics or it did not happen. So it is kind of the same thing-- videos or it did not happen. Free speech zone is over here on the other side of the Memorial Plaza sign. That video alone would have been a good get for Turning Point confirmation that yet another college campus wanted to silence conservative ideas. But then bigger game wandered onto the plaza a full-throated liberal zealot. I saw the table for Turning Point USA. And I was like oh hell no. I was like not on my campus. No no no no no. This is Courtney Lawton. She is 47. She is getting her PhD in English. And at the time she was also an instructor in the English department teaching freshman writing classes. They were out trolling for liberals. And they got a live one on the line with me. Courtney had read about Turning Point and believed it was far more sinister than Katie's table made it appear. She first learned about it because of the Professor Watchlist which is pretty much exactly what it sounds like. Turning Point publishes the names of professors who have said things that are offensive to its values and puts their photos on the website. Offenses that can land the professor on the Watchlist include sniping at Republicans being anti-Israel writing too urgently about white privilege or the patriarchy or saying the NRA is partly to blame for mass shootings. Courtney knew of professors who had been bombarded with violent or hateful messages and even placed on leave or fired after having their misdeeds trumpeted by conservative media outlets like Campus Reform. Courtney thinks Turning Point puts a target on professors' backs. They harass professors. They provoke them. They send agent provocateurs to college campuses. They also want to remove the humanities from the curriculum if that curriculum is not sufficiently conservative. Courtney left the plaza and rushed back to her office grabbed some poster board and a marker and scrawled a sign that said-- Just say no to neo-Fascism. When Courtney says neo-Fascism she basically means the platform of the current Republican Party-- anti-abortion pro-gun hard-line on immigration. My producer Dana Chivvis and I talked to Courtney together. Can you be pro-Trump and not a fascist? Nope I do not think so. Who did you write the sign for? People walking by. People who were thinking that oh this looks like a cool-- oh no. This is neo-Fascism. Whoa. You know?  She made the sign and went back to the plaza where Katie was. She was set up in this area where all of the crazy street preachers are the Jehovah's Witnesses come. She was in that area. She was on the mall OK? And I am like fair game. You are on the mall. Here we go. And I went to stand in front of the table maybe about a meter away walking back and forth in front of the table. And I had started chanting No KKK no neo-Nazi USA. CHANTING No KKK! No neo-Fascist USA! Fight white nationalism! Fight white supremacy! The student Katie was taken aback. She did not go out that day to make a video of a snowflake. It was her first day. She says she really just wanted to sign up some students and try out her patter. Of course she understood this kind of thing might happen. But now she was in the middle of it and it was kind of intense. And she was alone. And here was Courtney treating her like some kind of race warrior. It was humiliating. I mean I do not think anyone wants to be associated-- well any normal person would not want to be associated with the KKK or being racist. CHANTING No KKK! No NRA! No neo-Fascist USA! Fight white nationalism! I mean at first I almost laughed. It was like oh gosh. What is she doing? And that is when I actually first got just my Snapchat out I mean I Snapchat everything. She was screaming. So I just took a video. But then it started progressively getting more intense and worse. And I started getting a lot more nervous. When they are saying no KKK and they are saying you are racist were you like what the hell are you talking about? I just thought they were saying it because I was conservative. To some people who are on the way left I would say they want to say all conservatives are racist. Courtney says she was using KKK as shorthand for you are racist. She says Turning Point tries to provoke racial resentment in white people. And race is something they talk about a fair amount. Charlie Kirk the founder has called the concept of white privilege a quote myth and a lie. He says it is a racist idea. Turning Point also thinks affirmative action is racist a point it tries to make by encouraging its campus chapters to hold affirmative action bake sales. They sell cookies to black students for 0.50. White students have to pay 2. All that to Courtney is KKK-ish. I mean it is a loaded term but sometimes you have to use hyperbole to get people's attention too. It is a rhetorical thing. I have watched this one video Katie took a bunch of times and it always feels awkward. Usually campus protests involve large groups of people whose chanting and sign waving makes sense because they are in a crowd. But in Katie's video Courtney is mostly alone. She is pacing with her sign calling out like a carnival barker. The plaza is huge and mostly empty. Someone on a bike whizzes by tumbleweed style. Katie walked out from behind her table to get a better shot. She starts narrating. Tabling for Turning Point USA. And then Courtney starts shouting. Neo-fascist Becky right here. Becky the neo-fascist right here wants to destroy public schools public universities hates DACA kids. What is a neo-fascist Becky? A Becky is a white woman who weaponizes her whiteness and her white privilege. That is Courtney who is a white woman by the way. I wondered if Katie was familiar with the term. Did you know what that was? Yeah. I mean I knew what it was just because it is slang a lot of times what they call white girls Becky. So I knew what she was getting at when she was saying that. What was she getting at? Just I guess calling me a little white girl or whatever. She is neo-fascist Becky. Katie and Courtney circled each other one woman armed with a cell phone the other with a poster board. And then-- I flipped her off. The minute I did it I was like this is the kind of thing they are looking for. This is it. In fact I thought to myself well if you take a picture it will last longer. You liked doing it. They were there to be provocative and I am there to answer the provocation. On her first day all of these scenarios Turning Point talks about happened to Katie. Somebody had tried to kick her into a free speech zone. A triggered liberal who did not want her kind on campus had called her names and accused her of racism. And she reacted the way Turning Point teaches its soldiers to react by taking out her camera and filming. Courtney knew she was playing to type the liberal academic who cried racism. But she did not really care. She was there to make a scene. Did she react at all when you flipped her off? She laughed. She thought it was hilarious. And she got up in my face and she started walking with me to get me to film me and stuff. And I think at one point I told her you might get a better shot if you turn your camera landscape and not portrait. Hot tip.  I mean I was so indignant. She is around my mom's age from what I heard. So it was surprising behavior coming from someone who is a lot older than me. What was surprising about it? That a woman who I presumed to be a professor at the university who is in her 40s would act like that I guess. And then it started getting into-- we are saying the F-word and you racist eff you. It is my effing First Amendment and then now screaming at people passing by. So at this point I stopped recording. And I called one of my friends. And I was like I do not know what to do. Katie says that there were some F bombs thrown around at the protest things like it is my effing First Amendment or you racist eff. It is my effing First Amendment. It is my effing First Amendment. Did you say You racist eff? I do not remember saying that. But there were F-bombs bombs flying around? Oh there were F-bombs flying around. Eff Charlie Kirk? Oh yeah. Eff that guy. Things were getting ugly. Katie was feeling overwhelmed. She did not really want to be there anymore but she also did not want to leave. She did not want the liberal activist to think they would won. A woman walking by saw Katie surrounded by three protesters. One of them was being really aggressive. Katie looked upset. The woman who worked for the university mouthed the words are you OK? Katie shook her head no. Then she started crying. At this point I was just a complete mess. It was--  not the greatest situation. One of the other protesters was an English professor named Amanda Gailey. She was not chanting or swearing like Courtney. Instead she stood off to the side and quietly held a sign that said Turning Point Please put me on your watch list. It was a gesture of solidarity with the professors the group had singled out. But when Katie got upset Amanda decided to call a timeout. I thought this is not good. We do not want people to feel like this on campus. So I rolled up my sign. And I went over and asked her if she was OK. And I told her that I wanted her to know that I was not there to protest her and I had no hard feelings towards her. I was there to protest her organization. And I said I would like to talk to you sometime if you are up for it when we do not have all these people around in a non-hostile environment. And I said would that be OK? And she said yes. Katie gave Amanda a piece of paper and the professor wrote down her email address. Did it make you feel bad? Yeah. I think it did make me feel bad that she looked upset. Courtney felt differently. Oh please. I do not care because you have signed on with this group. If you are going to be politically active there is no crying. Courtney draws a line between her identity as an activist and her identity as a teacher. She says she does not push her politics on her students. Why did not you take that tact with Katie? Because I am not her teacher and it was not my classroom. When Courtney looked at Katie sitting at her Turning Point table she did not see a student who wanted to sign up classmates for a club. She did not see a student at all. She saw a professional operative from a powerful national organization that wanted to eradicate from public education the people and ideas she held dear. Turning Point was Fox News. It was the Koch brothers. It was President Trump. This was an invasion. And the soft spoken teenager handing out I Heart Capitalism stickers was the tip of the spear. The confrontation lasted about 20 minutes. Katie left the plaza still upset. The protesters dispersed. And in another world that would have been that. Maybe the student would have emailed the professor to clear the air. Maybe she would have lodged a complaint. Maybe an administrator or two would have gotten involved. In any case you and I would not have heard about it. But that is not the world we live in-- at least not anymore. Instead the outrage machine lurched into motion. That is what people in higher education sometimes call it the network of right-wing websites that have emerged to pounce on stories big and small about liberals behaving badly on campus. Student activists send up a bat signal so conservatives around the country can see it and come running. That afternoon Katie did interviews with Turning Point's news division and with Campus Reform that news site with the student correspondents on campuses. She also tweeted her photos including the one of Courtney giving her the middle finger. Her tweet said quote Tabling for TP USA today and UNL faculty came to protest screaming profanities. They will not silence me. I will continue to fight for freedom. Charlie Kirk saw her video and huddled with his team. They slapped a Turning Point logo on the video and Charlie tweeted it out with a note saying quote Intolerant left strikes again. That must have felt exciting. I guess it was if I look back just a year before. I was following him on Twitter. But I mean I think it was a big deal what did happen. I started the conversation in the state of Nebraska that this is happening here. And it is not just happening at Berkeley. It is happening in Nebraska. For conservatives who are anxious about campus politics the University of California at Berkeley is Gomorrah PC U the bottom of the slippery slope. The University of Nebraska on the other hand is not typically a hotbed of political activism. There have been a couple Black Lives Matter rallies and anti-abortion groups have marched there too. But Berkeley it is not. When I asked people if the student body was liberal or conservative they usually said neither. That a lot of the kids come from conservative backgrounds but that most are not very political one way or another. The protest was on a Friday. Turning Point sent up the bat signal and by Monday there were articles about Courtney and Amanda in the The Daily Wire The College Fix Gateway Pundit and Breitbart. University administrators got messages from furious Nebraskans. Hi Gail. My name is Bill Forbes. I am calling from out in Western Nebraska. Well furious for Nebraska. And I would like to recommend-- there needs to be an example I believe made of this professor. And I certainly would not insinuate that her livelihood should be removed from her. But I do believe that she needs to have an unpaid leave of absence. I would really appreciate hearing from you. Thank you so much madam. Bye bye. Others were more direct. A guy named Doug Kagan who runs a group called Nebraska Taxpayers for Freedom also wanted the university to do something about liberal bullies. And he wanted them to make some bigger changes while they were at it. He suggested they eliminate some line items from their budget including the women's studies program the ethnic studies program the LGBT programs English as a second language the diversity resources office and money set aside for affirmative action. This is a good example of what can happen when Turning Point publicizes these incidents on campuses. It brings conservatives out of the woodwork with ideas about what the public universities should and should not be doing. Katie never emailed Amanda Gailey the professor at the protest who had offered to talk. In fact in the week after the incident when the local talk radio host asked her if any of the protesters had tried to engage in dialogue she did not mention the email offer. She told them there was no dialogue. I stood there as they were hurling these insults at me. As the story was retold Courtney's behavior on the plaza was pluralized in a way that made it sound a bit like Katie had been accosted by a mob. They were shouting at her cussing at her calling her names. This is Hal Daub a prominent Nebraska Republican who is on the university's board of regents. He is describing the scene on local talk radio. And just really threatened her and bullied her to a point of tears. And now she is a marked person and has to some degree perhaps have further safety issues because of these employees. Katie was no longer just a young conservative who loved America and hated big government. She is now a free speech crusader. The right has taken up free speech on campus as a rallying cry pointing to speakers who had been shouted down or had their events canceled by universities. Katie was another conservative who had been silenced by a liberal bully. And so two weeks after the protest on another sunny Friday she returned to the plaza this time with a giant beach ball a free speech beach ball. It is just promoting free speech. It is a huge beach ball. And then anyone can sign it with anything they want to say. It is actually really cool. It is really fun. Why a beach ball? I think just because it is easy to sign. It is just something fun eye catching. She had gotten the gigantic beach ball-- it is 12 feet in diameter-- from the Leadership Institute the organization that runs Campus Reform. Page 39 of the Turning Point chapter handbook includes detailed instructions on how to run a free speech ball event beginning with how to inflate the ball with an electric pump and how many people you will need to hand out markers take pictures and help you roll it around campus. Nebraska state senator Steve Halloran walked the seven blocks up from the capital to pose for a photo with Katie. By the time he arrived the giant beach ball was covered in messages from UNL students-- fuck communists fuck Antifa terrorists fuck Hillary fuck Donald Trump fuck everyone who is funding this. The senator managed to find space for his own message-- Thank God for our freedom of speech. He and other senators had heard from constituents about Courtney's protest. They did not like what they heard. Senator Tom Brewer wrote to the university president directly quote This event is being watched very closely by the unicameral. In other words we have our eye on you. Do the right thing. The outrage machine had done its job. On Twitter people called Courtney unstable a loudmouth a clown a quote tormented individual with an addiction to ignorance. 11 days after the incident Courtney was called into a meeting with the university's executive vice chancellor who told her that she would not be teaching anymore at least not for the time being. Courtney was not being fired the vice chancellor said but the university was worried about her safety and the safety of her students. Courtney says the vice chancellor asked her if she would have done anything differently in retrospect. Courtney said no no regrets. I think that if I had said to her I apologize. I am sorry. I should not have done that. This is a terrible situation. But I did not feel that way. And I do not feel that way. And I am not going to apologize. Courtney's protest on the plaza was nothing out the ordinary for her. She is an activist mostly for gun control. And she is testified against bills in the Nebraska state capital before. It was her mother who taught her to protest. But it was her father a conservative who showed her how to never give an inch. Dad made talking politics a blood sport. It really was. I mean we would be in the car and he would pick a topic and we would debate it. So I was raised to do this. I was raised to talk politics. And my sister remembers it as being very abusive. She remembers it being like my father would back me into a rhetorical corner until I cried out of frustration and then would take us out for dinner. Courtney says her father's politics borders on fascism. Still she says they are very close. Inevitably news of her protest made it to his computer 