 Today we are featuring stories from people looking for themselves trying to find out who they are. And our next guest Chris Hoke - he has become a regular on the SNAP because Chris manages to see the good in people who often do not even see it in themselves. Chris Hoke.  I am not a person of great faith which is I think why I am a chaplain because I am wanting to get closer. I cannot just - like I need to see it. So I think I go to the jail and I accompany guys and I pray with guys because I need to see it over and over and over again to believe - to believe that something bigger is going on that it is not just accident and pain and entropy and destruction. This one night has haunted me. I have thought about it. I have thought about it for years. I got a call on my cell phone from some sergeants at the jail. And they said that there was an attempted suicide. And he asked for me by name. And he wanted to meet with me. Could I come in right now that night? I said yeah. They told me the name but I did not recognize the name - Edgar something. So I am driving through the dark and I am thinking what am I going to say to this guy? Man this guy who is just attempted suicide and failed. This is going to be awkward staring at each other and him thinking I am such a screw-up. I cannot even kill myself right. And what do I say? When I got to the facility the sergeant told me they could not remove this attempted suicide from the emergency isolation room. And I look in there and there is a young guy a migrant guy about 22 23 years old. He was saying you are the guy that comes in with your guitar and you sing with us. So I was just thinking while I was sitting here in this cell man that would be so cool if you could come in here and sing with me. He said do not you remember me? And you know I did not. He reminded me that about a week earlier he had been in one of our Bible study groups. And he said you let me sit in the middle and you all laid your hands on me because my back was really hurting. And I was miserable and you all prayed for me. A few days later though I tried to hang myself - last night actually. He was like I want to thank you and I wanted to sing but I am a - you just tried - wait how did you try to kill yourself? And so he backed up. And he tells me the story that basically he is in his cell and he is ripping up his bleach white bed sheets. But he made a long noose. And he is got it knotted around his neck. And he is waiting for his cell door to pop open for dinner. The door pops open. Edgar rushed out onto the second-tier balcony knotted his sheet to the railing and he threw himself over. Now somehow when he hit bottom his spine rippled from head to tailbone yanked into sudden alignment straight as a plumb line. Instead of pain he described the moment as a moment of sudden gusto or pleasure. Maybe you could translate that as relief. Edgar's back pain was totally gone cured. There he was hanging in his socks totally lined and alive. And even though the alarms are sounding and doors are clanging open and swing shift guards are rushing in picking him up and taking the weight off his neck he said he would never been so happy. Was he happy just because his back was fixed? I do not know. He just told me he had never been so happy. I have sat with a lot of liars and manipulators. And this guy's face was not lying or manipulating. I mean later on I tried to verify it with the guards and asked like did this really happen? They said we are not clear to discuss any of the situations of that incident. So I mean yeah. How did that happen? He attributed his miracle to us praying for him and laying hands on him. But I would not have given myself credit for that. We have prayed for a lot of inmates and laid hands on them. Well my first thought was not immediately hallelujah. I believe in science and I know that a lot of weird things happen. That is not proof of divine activity. I am kind of spacing out because all the stuff we are talking about this is where my mind's at. And that is probably why he reached his hands across and was like grabbing my shoulders. Like come on dude sing. Sing with me. And I thought it was time for me to do my part. So I finally started to sing. And honestly I do not remember what song it was. What I remember is just that sweet sound of my voice and his voice bouncing off those cinderblock walls in the suicide cell together both of us. The miracle was he did not look depressed pissed off or aggressive. He looked very much alive and peaceful like more peaceful and alive than I felt that night. So something very big and mysterious was going on here more than just his back. The fruit of the miracle to me is that he went from suicide to singing songs and inviting me into his life. I was part of what I want to see in the world. I want to see mystery. I want to see resurrection. I want to see dead people come to life and that I got to be part of that for me made me realize this is what I wanted to do - I mean something that brought me life. It is beautiful. That was the last time I saw Edgar. I asked for him two weeks later at the front desk. And the officers told me Mr. Lopez was no longer in their custody. I became more and more of a chaplain there. Music became a bigger part in one-on-one visitations. More and more guys started like kind of sharing their wraps and just sing them a cappella and forcing me to sing. Several years there - I would say three - there was this guy named Javier. He had just gotten out of prison. He landed in a good place and he wanted to rap about it. So he wanted to get down on a track and add some of my harmonies and classical guitar riffs. So I go up to his house and so while Javier was sitting up the mic I said did I ever tell you the story of that guy who tried to hang himself in county jail years ago the guy who survived the fall? It was Edgar Lopez I am pretty sure. You ever heard of him? And Javier says 'course man. I turned to him. I am surprised. I am excited. Maybe I can find this guy and catch up with him. But Javier said no. He is in Mexico. They deported him a long time ago probably right after you saw him Chris. He waited for me to say something more. I was shocked. He says you are asking me because you saw him in the news recently right? News? Yeah. He got caught up with the cartels down there in Tijuana. I mean he killed something like 14 people. No. I told Javier we are probably talking about different people. The young man I was thinking of would hurt himself long before going after someone else let alone 14. That is probably a common name too in a big city like Tijuana. No Javier said. I know the guy you are talking about. Edgar. I grew up with him. I know that guy man. This is a small town. No. Like this is not the conclusion to the story. That I would like to celebrate and remember as kind of one of my favorite stories of this as I became a chaplain. This guy's a killer now? So I go home and sure enough I put in his name. I type it in. And it had been in four or five Mexican periodicals for several days. On the first click Edgar's face just filled the screen. And he was handcuffed. And in all the pictures were from him being at a big press conference. And they are shoving those microphones in his face. Fourteen people? Why did you kill them? And his response was something like . Like I killed them like that just for the pleasure of it. And he used the word pleasure gusto the same word he used for when he hit bottom - that kind of ecstasy and epiphany and kind of resurrection beauty new life. Now he is using - it just felt so creepy. And my guts just went cold. Yeah I mean did this invalidate everything? So I remembered I went to the jail that night. Everything felt different. I waited between the automated doors at the entry bay with my guitar and the guitar felt stupid. It felt cumbersome in my hands. It made me maybe kind of cynical about these moments that I thought were beautiful there in the jail that maybe those are not really transformative at all. What good does it do? They are just going - if they get out might become a killer. The more I kept being troubled by the story keeping me up late at night he did not just get released the next day and decide to kill people. The Department of Homeland Security came for him. And they shackled him up and they flew him south. And they dumped them on the other side of the border where he was immediately scooped up by the cartels. And he was put to work. His hands were put to work by the economy there. And so I think my shame and my questioning of what I did and just if this was foolish really brought me back to a conviction that there was something I think maybe holy that happened in the cell that night that was real and that was beautiful but it was so fragile. You cannot take something like that and throw it into a kind of an economic wasteland. But I felt that might have killed my romanticism. If something wonderful happens in jail then that is the end of the story but it is not.  Chris Hoke is trying to continue his own story by opening a farm where prisoners can have a safe place to transition back into their communities. He has a book coming up next year called Wanted A Spiritual Pursuit Through Jail Among Outlaws And Across Borders. That piece it was produced by Stephanie Foo. You are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT. And up next how long should you pay for a mistake? When dentity Crisis episode continues. Stay tuned. 