 Now on the SNAP JUDGMENT Look Back Special we got stories that moved us. And a lot of these stories have to do with young love and people cannot accept no for an answer. SNAP JUDGMENT.   I had not seen him since graduation and I remembered telling my roommate do you remember that weird guy Derrick? He is going to come visit. He was a theater major and so he was  a little eccentric. He came out to San Francisco for the weekend and I just - I had the best time. I was starting to really really fall for him but he lived in New York and I lived in San Francisco.    I left my heart in San Francisco.  I do not remember how it came up but I had not known about his heart condition. Apparently he had his first heart attack our sophomore year. They did not really know what to make of it because most 20-year-olds do not have heart attacks. They did a bunch of tests and they could not figure out why it happened. And so he kept having heart attacks.   So he was telling me all about this and it was very surreal getting to know someone a second time. We started talking on the phone all the time. I just could not get this guy out of my head so I decided to fly out to New York for Valentine's Day and spend a long weekend out there. He had told me that he had a surprise for me that had something to do with me flying out. He said call me when you get to the airport. So I called him and he said well when you get through security go to your right and go sit down at the bar. And so I did and he was sitting there. And he had flown out from New York just to fly back with me because I am such a nervous flyer and he wanted to hold my hand. He went all out - took me out to an amazing restaurant. We went to this jazz club called Birdland which was really really strange 'ecause I would always said that my dream date was going to a jazz club. And I was pretty much butt-crazy about him by that point. I was there for three days and I got back on the plane to go back to San Francisco. And by the time I landed I had made the decision to move to New York.   It is my last night in San Francisco and I was eating dinner with a couple of friends and my mom. And my phone rang and I saw it was Derrick - sorry this is really hard. It is OK. It was Derrick and he was in the ambulance and he had a heart attack. And he asked me to call his dad to let him know what was going on. So I flew out the next day and I saw him. He had four IVs two in each arm. I am deathly deathly afraid of needles. I went to go give him a hug and I could just - I could feel the IVs on my back. He had a troponin level of 117 and troponin is a biomarker and it basically indicates levels of cardiac damage. Anything over 10 is considered life-threatening and him having a troponin level of 117 was terrifying. After about 48 hours the doctor came in and they said we do not know what is wrong with you. We have to send you home. And send him home with ibuprofen. To me it is just - was absolutely just absurd. After that he kept having really really bad chest pain on an almost daily basis to the point where a lot of times he could not get off the couch which I had to hold his hand while he was just in so much pain and it was really really hard to see the person that I loved being in that much pain and not being able to do anything.Derrick had given up hope. I kind of just started this journey with him and he was in his mind I think at the end. You know pretty much any day could have been his last day but it never even occurred to me to not move to New York or not stay or not love him because I just did not know how to not do that. And so I was going to fight tooth and nail doctors and nurses and the whole medical profession I did not care. I had met this amazing person that made me feel so happy. I could not accepted that that was not my forever. So I spent a lot of time reading medical journals. I would type in his symptoms online and I would read anything and everything that I could come across. And I would have a medical journal in one window and then I would have a medical dictionary in another window because I did not understand about 90 percent of what I was reading. I would drag him to doctor's appointments. I would force them to read the things that I found. And so I started contacting doctors. I was sending out all these e-mails and I was trying to sound as official and medically knowledgeable as I possibly be. I knew it was working because one doctor actually replied back and referred to me as Dr. McNair so - and actually the doctor that wrote me back was Dr. Bernard Mach in Germany. He had done a lot of research on a virus called parvo B19 and so he suggested that we get him tested for the this parvo. And they did a biopsy of his heart. We got a phone call from his doctor saying well you have parvo.That is the good news we have a diagnosis. The bad news is there is no treatment. So I once again decided that that was unacceptable so I went back to the doctor in Germany. And he said well I have been doing this experimental treatment with some patients here in Germany because about 50 percent of the population gets exposed to this virus. They build up immunity to it and so the idea was that if you could get the anti-bodies into his blood that his body would start fighting this virus. So it was actually supposed to be a one- day treatment but they ended up having to do it for over three or four days. Derrick's fever went up to 104 'ecause his body was really trying to fight this infusion. It was you know it was one of the things where they basically told us that we would not know if it worked until he did not have another heart attack. It was really turned into a wait-and-see game. So we got engaged. I remembered my mom at one point asking me what happens if he does not make it to the wedding? And I said I do not know. It does not matter. So we started planning our wedding and he kept going in for blood tests and we started seeing the troponin level dropping. And I started thinking what if it had actually worked?   It took about I would say five to six months afterwards - hold on a second my wife is shaking her head no.  You are telling them wrong.  This is my side of the story not your side of the story. You already gave your side of the story.  OK but you are just wrong. That is fine.  All right. Five to six months in I kind of lapsed on taking my Vicodin. I probably should not have but I did and the pain did not come back. I still did not believe it. It is too hard. It is too hard to get my hopes up. And I was just waiting for it to come back almost like the worst old friend. It had just been around for so long but I am OK. I have not had a heart attack in over two years now. I run five to eight miles a day. I can make plans for the future now and I could not before. I have pain sometimes but the pain now is my heart repairing itself.   It was hard to thank her because I had to admit that it was not going to come back and I had to kind let go of that fear 'ecause she had worked so hard. Here we go. Emma I just wanted to say thank you. You pushed when I could not have the strength when I did not have it. I am OK now and it is because of you so thank you. I love you. You are my funny face.  You do not have to say thank you because I get you that is my thanks. And the future I have with you is my thank you and the children I am going to have with you is my thank you. And I did not have any other choice 'ecause I love you and you can stop crying now.  It is OK.   Go on. Dab your eye. It is all right. What is love for if you cannot shed a tear from time to time? That is the snap right there. You crazy kids go live a good life and have lots of babies. That story was produced by Jamie DeWolfe.   When SNAP JUDGMENT returns the most ridiculous story we have ever aired the most big beautiful story you are going to hear and the most Michael Jackson-est story of all when SNAP JUDGMENT the Look Back Special continues. Stay tuned. 