Announcers You are listening to Radiolab from WNYC and NPR. Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad This is Radiolab. Robert The podcast. It is almost New Year's actually. We are recording this a few hours before New Year's Eve. Jad Well it is not a few. Today's Monday tomorrow night so- Robert 50 hours. We have 50 hours left to 20- Jad No less than that. 20- Robert Well whatever. Because it is that time of year I want to tell you a story about a discovery I made. Not me I just learned about it from other people but it has made me completely reconsider what a year means and specifically how big a year really is. Jad How big a year? It what? Robert How big a year really is. Jad I do not know how is a year-- How long a year is? Robert If you are confused now I think I can confuse you even more. I am going to begin this investigation by introducing you to a little creature in the sea called a coral. Neil Shubin Coral's a shelly animal. A little creature. There is- Robert That is Neil Shubin. Neil I am a paleontologist an evolutionary biologist at the University of Chicago. Just like a clamshell has an animal inside it so do corals. Robert A little fleshy wormy thing? Neil Exactly and it wears its skeleton on the outside and because they sit in the same place for their whole life they are really sensitive to local environmental changes. Robert Meaning what? Neil Think about it this way. Let us just think about what happens to a creature as it lives its life in the water which is what these things do. You know we live in a world of cycles of cycles on cycles temperature rises and falls. Light rises and falls. The tides rise and fall several times in the course of a day. You think about what that means for creatures living in water. Robert What it means for corals says Neil is that they are growing. Neil They are slapping on new skeleton if you will a new shell. Robert In time with these cycles of rise and fall of light and dark hot and cold and- Andy Mills Hello hello. Emily Graslie Hi. Robert -you can actually see these changes written onto their shells. Maybe into their shells. Andy Emily. Emily Andy. Robert That is why Andy Mills and I called up our pal Emily Graslie whose job is-- what is it? Emily I am the chief curiosity correspondent of the Field Museum in Chicago. Robert That is your actual title? Emily The chief curiosity correspondent yes. It is. Robert You brought some corals? Did you? Emily We have many corals. We have corals all over the studio desk right now. Robert All right. Emily All right. Let us cut it.  Robert Because when you cut into these shells- Emily It is warm. Andy A little bit of water we can spritz it on there to cool it off. Robert -right off you can see a pattern. You see these grey strips. Emily They are all different variations of grey but some are really dark grey and some are tan. Robert They are like bands running either through or across the shell. Emily They radiate out like the bands of a tree. Robert Between the bands there are spaces. You got a stripe then a space stripe then a space stripe then a space but- Emily When you hold it up close to your eye- Robert -if you look closer in between the strips you can see- Emily -wow you can see the lines wow. Robert -you can see that the spaces are filled with faint little lines. Neil That is where the piece of this story is just so fascinating. Robert Because in 1962 a paleontologist- Neil -Professor John Wells- Robert -was looking at some corals just like these. Neil He was just sitting there saying Okay well what can we figure out from coral shells? What he did is he did something really simple. He says Well golly gee- Robert -why do not I count the number of little lines between these bands just to see? He starts counting there is 100 200 lines 300 about 310 320 and every time he counted- Neil -he got a number- Robert -around- Neil -360 365. Jad Wait a second. Robert Familiar number no? Neil Does not take a lot of inference that Hey maybe those individual rings represent a daily pattern. Robert Meaning each of these little lines actually equaled a day. Jad They are not just making a grey mark after 365? Robert No. Jad What are the grey lines? Robert Well the thicker lines are the times of the year when the coral grows a lot but if you have got a summer coral then it grows a lot in one summer then it goes quiet4 then it grows a lot the next summer. Again that marks a year. Those big bands are like  Happy New Year.  Happy New Year.  Happy New Year. Neil They are actually calendars and clocks inside each of these things. You just have to know how to read them. Robert This guy Professor Wells- Neil -what he did was then this is the really dull bit I thought which is he then said Well okay that is a living coral let us look at some fossils. Robert He was after all a paleontologist. Neil He was at Cornell University. Cornell University is surrounded by rocks around 370 or so million years old and he collected some nice corals. There are a lot of nice coral fossils known from there. Robert He opened up these ancient skeletons- Neil -and he did the count. Robert 100 days 200 days- Neil He was expecting- Robert -300 days- Neil 360 to 365. Robert -368. Neil Lo and behold he found- Robert 400? Neil -between 400 and 410. Jad Really? Neil Yes he looked at lots of specimens. Robert That number the 400 number kept showing up. Jad What does that mean? Robert Well that means that it is now reasonable to think that back in the day 380 million years ago there were more days in a year.He published a paper saying more or less that and right away clam scientists said Well if that is true for corals then it is got to be true for my animal the clam. The oyster people said It is got to be true for oysters. Mussel folks said It is got to be true for mussels. Neil This paper set off a bit of a cottage industry of folks applying this technique to other species. In looking at these other species they found the general trend is absolutely correct. Robert That when you compare modern animals to ancient animals you will find they record the old ones more days in a year. Neil You go back to a time period called the Ordovician which is about 450 million years ago. A typical year had about 415-410 days in it. Jad Really? Neil If you go to the time period I work on in the Devonian about 360 million years probably about 400 or so. What you see is the number of days in the year has declined from over 400 to what we have now which is 365. Robert We have lost 40 days since the-- Neil Yes since creatures first started to walk on land. Robert Now comes the obvious question why? Why would there be more days then than there are now? Jad Wait a second. Wait a second. A year is a trip around the sun? Robert That is a trip. Jad Days are when we spin around into the-- we are going around the sun. Maybe if you want to squeeze more days into a year maybe it just means the trip around the sun took longer back then? Robert Well if you ask astronomers about that I asked Chis Impey at the University of Arizona and he says- Chris Impey There is no sense that the length of time it takes the Earth to orbit the sun is changing. Robert Because the Earth's orbit around the sun is basic physics and it has not really changed significantly. He is pretty sure of that. Jad Then what is it? Robert Well Chris says the answer takes us back about 4 and a half billion years to a time when the Earth was very young. Chris There was this crazy period of time lasting about 50 million years. Robert Which they called The Great Bombardment period. Chris There was still a lot of debris left over from the formation of the solar system so the meteor impact rate was thousands of times higher. The Earth was still a tacky magma. There was hail brimstone endless rain. A crazy time really and a bit of that mayhem of course we think gave birth to the Moon. Robert There was a huge collision and a rock about the size of Mars banged into us flung a hunk of Earth shrapnel into orbit and those pieces coalesced and became our Moon. Which is now parked right next to us. Chris It tugs us around in a hefty way. Jad Wait I thought we tugged the Moon? Chris It works both ways. We tug the Moon and the Moon tugs us and the force is actually equal. Jad It is like a dance. Chris It is a dance. Robert I tug the Moon and the Moon tugs me. Chris Exactly. It is a celestial waltz.  The Stargazers I see the Moon the Moon sees me Out through the leaves of the old oak tree. Robert It is that dance that waltz that explains why the Earth used to have 450 days in a year. Then 400 days in a year and now only 365. Jad Well I do not see how this explains anything. Robert First of all let us just remember what a day is. A day is a full spin of the planet from the sun coming up in the morning then going down and coming up the next morning. A total spin equals a day. Jad Yes. Robert We all know that. Now today we make 365 of these spins as we orbit the sun. That would be a year but back when the Earth was born when it was all by itself dancing alone in those days it spun faster. It was making more of these spins as it went around the sun so a year had more days in it. Then along comes the Moon to join the dance and now here's the key according to Chris. Chris Earth is spinning faster than the Moonis orbiting it. Robert A dance part it takes a month to get them around us we take 24 hours. You know how it is when you are dancing with a partner who is slower than you are then you have to tug them along which is what has happened here gravitationally. We are constantly tugging the Moon along it is constantly dragging us down. There is a transfer of energy here that over billions of years has caused the Earth spin to slow down just a little bit a teeny teeny bit. As the spin has slowed well our days have gotten longer. Chris If you do the math you calculate that the day is getting longer by 1.7 milliseconds each century. Jad 1.7 milliseconds each century. Robert What this means on a daily basis is that today was 54 billionths of a second longer than yesterday. The day before that was 54 billionths of a second longer than the day before. The day before that was 54 billionths of a second longer than the day before that which was 54-- Neil If you extrapolate that out over the millions of years people like me think about- Robert That is Neil Shubin again the paleontologist. Neil -that becomes quite significant. Andy You are telling me that today is the shortest day of the rest of my life? Neil Yes. Robert Andy worries about these things. Neil Well you are not going to live longer because of this. I am sorry to say. Robert Now so this Moon dance does not affect the ticking of time it just affects what we choose to call a day. By the way one of the consequences of this dance is4 we lose a little energy to our Moon every year and the Moon picks up a little energy from us because these things are always equal. Think about like when you throw a ball the more energy you use the further the ball is away from you. As we add a little more energy to the Moon the Moon very slyly moves a little further away from us. Every year it is about- Chris -a couple of inches. Robert According to Chris. Chris The length of a warm. Robert Really so the Moon is getting a worm's distance further away from us every year. Chris Yes. Robert He says if you go back about four billion years- Chris -the Moon was originally about 10 times closer than it is now. Robert 10 times closer. Chris Imagine a Moon looking 10 times bigger than it does now that would have been crazy. Also the days would have been six hours long. Jad Six hours long? Neil To me what this says is that everything that we take for granted as normal in our world and ice at the poles seas in certain places continents configured the way they are the number of days in a year all that is subject to change and all that has changed. All that has dramatically changed over the course of the history of our planet and that includes how we measure time itself. When I am sitting in a hole in the middle of the Arctic digging at a fish fossil every now and then I pinch myself and say here I am in the Arctic digging a fish that lived in an ancient subtropical environment. The juxtaposition between present and past sometimes is utterly mind blowing. It is very informative about our own age and that we think things are eternal they are not everything is subject to change. Changes is the way of the world.  Robert Special thanks to Neil Shubin University of Chicago. His new book is called The Universe Within and it describes how you and I are linked in oh so many ways to our bones our chemistry ourselves. Also to Chris Impey University of Arizona. His newest is called Shadow World. And to Emily Graslie and Paul Mayer of the Field Museum in Chicago. We called them Emily we said Find us a paleontologist and the saw and she did. Before we go because it is the end of the year and who wants to leave when you have had a good year and who knows what is going to happen next year? I just want to play you a little bit of-- Can we do this? Can we just add an end to the end? Jad Yes sure. Robert I was talking to Neil deGrasse Tyson who is an astrophysicist and who thinks about spin which we just thought about thinks about the inner solar system which we have just thought about. Here's him and I talking about holding on to time. It is a little goofy but here it is just for the fun of it. Robert If you are on Earth and you are walking around Quito on the equator if you are walking at four miles an hour your day will go the normal way. The sun will rise behind you go overhead and then go down on the other side. Neil deGrasse Tyson Well if you are stationary it will be the 24 hour day yes. If you started walking on the equator depending on which direction you walk your day will either last longer or shorter. If you walk west the faster you walk the longer your day will become. You could walk at a pace. We have a 25-hour a day a 27-hour a day. There is a speed with which you can walk on the equator in the Earth going west where your day lasts forever. That is the rotation rate of the Earth. You would have compensated--  Robert That would be a gerbil. Tyson A gerbil running on a beach ball or rotating beach ball. That would be on the top of a beach ball. That speed for the equator is about 1000 miles an hour. The equator moves 1000 miles an hour. That gives us the 24 hour day. If you want to go 1000 miles an hour to the opposite direction you will stop the day. The sun will never move in the sky and your day will last. Robert Superman did that once when he had this thing with . Tyson Superman would have so messed up everybody on Earth for having stopped the rotation of the Earth reversed it and then set it forward again. Robert Yes he did that. Tyson He would have scrambled all anything not bolted to the Earth would have been-- Robert Wait it would have flown off? Tyson Yes. Depending on your latitude and equatorial residence if you stop the Earth they will go in at 1000 miles an hour with the Earth. If you stop the Earth and you are not seatbelt it to the Earth you will fall over and roll due east 1000 miles an hour. In our mid-latitudes we are in New York you can do the math we are moving about 800 miles an hour due east. Stop the Earth we will roll 800 miles an hour due east and crash into buildings and other things that are attached to it. Robert Going back to Venus now. Tyson Well you want to go to Venus? Is not this enough for you? Robert No I want to-- That whole point was to go to Venus because it is so different there. Tyson Yes on every way.  Tyson No it is about the same size and about the same surface gravity. That is it. It is 900 degrees Fahrenheit it is a runaway greenhouse effect. It is heavy volcanic activity that repaves the surface periodically. The very few craters on Venus Robert Just unpleasant in general. Tyson Unpleasant rotates very slowly. Robert That is why I want to stop. How slowly does it rotate? Tyson I do not remember the exact number-- Robert Its like 4 miles an hour or something like that. Tyson It is some very slow rate at its equator slow enough so that you do not need airplanes to stop the sun. You do not need special speed devices you could probably trot and stop the sun on the horizon or wherever the sun is in the sky. Robert If you are that guy from Jamaica what is his name? Tyson Usain Bolt. Robert Usain Bolt and you happen to be on Venus for a little while and you decide to go for a run. What happens to Usain during the run? Tyson Normally the sun would rise in one direction and set in the other. Depending on which direction you chose to run in you could reverse your day and have the sunrise in the opposite side of the sky than it normally would. Venus is rotating slowly enough that you would not have to be Usain Bolt. I would have to check my numbers. Robert I do not think you would. Maybe in order to have the sun actually seem to go backwards-- That is what you are saying that the sun goes backwards? Tyson Yes yes. Robert You would be having lunch you are Usain Bolt and you are going to say Now I am going to run  and the sun's going backwards towards the mornings in the horizon. Tyson You can reverse the sun. That is correct. Robert In fact that is a really good reason to sprint I think. Tyson Well but who cares about the sun anymore? Robert Me. If I were Usain Bolt-- Tyson Is the sun telling you when to eat lunch? I do not think so. Your stomach is telling you when to eat lunch. You are saying Okay Usain you eat breakfast but you want to have lunch real soon? Run so that the sun is now at the top of the sky. Now you can legally have lunch. No. Robert You are not buying my poetic premise at all today. Tyson This is the 21st century Jack. We wake by alarm clocks not by roosters and sunlight. I am sorry. Robert I wish I could help you out by thinking let us suppose- Tyson I am not going to depend on running on Venus to get the sun in the middle of the sky at my command so that I can have lunch. Robert All right but let us suppose you are a rooster and you like to crow at dawn just a deep feeling. Tyson You could totally mess with a rooster in this. Robert Yes that is what I want to do. Tyson Usain Bolt carrying a rooster. Robert Usain Bolt carries a rooster on Venus. He does a remarkably fast sprint. The rooster having started the run in the middle of the day well past the crowing period feels a strange compulsion to crow two hours into the run. Tyson Because he ran backwards to the sunrise rather than to-- Robert Well he ran forward but the sun went backwards. Tyson Yes he ran the other way to reverse the sun back to sunrise. The rooster will need therapy.   Jad Well. Robert I think it is time for us to definitely go now. Jad We should definitely go. I am Jad. Robert Im Robert. Thanks for listening.   Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.