 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR the Behind The Curtain episode. My name is Glynn Washington. And Silvana de Faria - she thought she had it all until one fateful day when a conversation with a stranger changed everything. SNAP JUDGMENT.  It was the fall of 1990 Paris France. A huge storm was raging and Silvana who lived on the outskirts of the city rushed to get to Charles de Gaulle Airport in time. Her parents were flying in from Brazil and she did not want to as usual be late. When she finally gets there the airport is packed with stranded people.  I look for a place to sit and I found an empty chair. And I sat and I saw this man. I just said bonjour. And he smiled. And I remember I looked to him  - to his teeth because I am obsessed with teeth. I thought wow he has wonderful teeth. He has manicured nails. He must love himself and I love people who love themselves. He looked like a gentleman - that is it. He looked like a gentleman.  The man was a mature gentleman probably in his early 60s. And he was staring at Silvana.  And I looked at him and I say why are you staring at me? Oh I am not. I say you are. And I thought oh Silvana stop. And he said no no I am just - where are you from? The first thing he asked me. And I said and you where are you from? And he said I am from Colombia. Wow you are neighbors. I am from Brazil. What are you doing in Paris? And he said oh I am a journalist. And you? So I did not want to tell I was an actress. So at the beginning I started to say oh I am here to wait for my parents. I noticed he was staring at me. I did not like it in the beginning - I just say why he is staring at me? He was paying attention to me in a certain way I - at the first second I did not feel comfortable. He was looking to my shoes my legs my hands. I just told him look I am not a prostitute. He say why you say that? I did not say you were. I tell something. If someone to say you are Brazilian they think you are a travesti they think you are a prostitute. And he said I did not think that at all. And I say yeah I think you did because I can read your thoughts. And he started to laugh. And then I felt more comfortable.  The man asked Silvana if she would seen any good films lately. Actually she just watched one based on a story by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. She was the only person in the movie theater.  It is absolutely horrible film. And he looked at me and said why did you not like? I said I hate it. I did not read the book - I said I did not read the novel but you know it is very hard to do adaptation from Gabriel Garcia Marquez. The guy must be a genius to have a film done by Gabriel Garcia Marquez. And he was looking at me you know? And I am talking talking talking about the ties about the film about what I like what I did not like.  She noticed the man kind of taken aback by her comments. But his interest in her only seem to grow.  I open my bag and I say look it is my pill time now. Do you want to take a pill ? He say no no no what is this about? And I say look I had a car accident long - you know in the beginning of the year.  It was a near-fatal accident she told him. For months she could not step inside a car out of fear and then ended up in a therapist's office. Turning to the stranger she pointed to each little tablet in her pillbox.  This one is to sleep. This one is to wake up. This one is to have a poo. This one is to not have a poo. This one is to make love. This one is to not make love. This one is to not miss Brazil. This one is when I want to miss Brazil. I have a pill for everything. And he was laughing. He was nearly in tears. So do you think I am crazy? And he said no no no I do not think you are crazy. No no. Carry on carry on. Why do you take pills? And I said 'ecause I love them. And I told him look I have so many stories that you can write a book and he laughed too.  Silvana told him that when she was 22 she bought a one-way ticket to Paris - her dream to become a history professor but it got too expensive to study so she took to modeling and acting.  I just say the truth - I say look I am living a dream a dream a dream but I am just the girl who came from the Amazon and I am here. It was quite a loss of identity. He said are you happy here? And I just know and I say look the only way to stay in this country is if you are in love. And he said with France? And I said no of course not only France with a man of course a man. I fell in love at first sight and this is the only reason why I stay in Paris. It is the only way because sometimes it is hard.  She told him about her passionate yet turbulent relationship with her fiance this French film director. He recently gave her a parrot named Antoine you know so she would not miss Brazil so much.   I started to laugh I say Can you believe a parrot in a cage? But of course I never leave the parrot in the cage. I opened the cage so he  everywhere  making my partner crazy because the parrot goes and starting to bite the furniture. And during the night my partner arrived - he puts it in the cage. And I have friends - I have a few friends I kept it from when I was students. And when they visit me especially one of them says Silvana you see Antoine the parrot? It is you inside the cage. You live like in a golden cage. And I told him that I think I need to cry. He said you are sad. I said no I am not sad. How can I be sad? I am very happy . I tried my best to show him I was happy but I was not. I was very emotional and I was really thinking about what I was saying. And then I felt him very close to me. It is like we forgot time we forgot the place where we were. It was very intense. But there was a moment I felt curious why he wants to know about me. So what he want from me? I am no one. I am nobody. But I look at him and I said it is funny. I have a feeling I know this man - it was me now who started to stare at him . And he was embarrassed. And he say why are you looking? And I look and say I know you. I know you. Shhh quiet why are you screaming? What? What are you talking about? You are Gabriel Garcia Marquez. And I stand up to leave. And he stopped me - he said where you going? Where you going? I said I am leaving you. And he said why? Because you lied to me. He said no I did not lie. You did not tell me who you were and I know you are because my mom gave me Love In The Times Of Cholera. And there is a picture of you in the back. It is you. I felt betrayed. I felt why did not he tell me it was him? I spent my whole day talking to him. He asked me a hundred questions. I was angry. And it is crazy but at that moment that happened my parents were coming. I saw my mom. And he hold me - he was literally holding my arm. And I did not know what to do. I did not know what to do. And I said goodbye. He looked straight away in my eyes - into my eyes. He looked at me. He said for you I am Gabo. And he wrote down his name his address. You lied to me. How can I be sure this is your address? Maybe it is a fake address. Please write me. I want you to write me please. So I look at him and said only if you write me a story. And then I said no - I cannot take a piece of him like that. He is Gabriel Garcia Marquez for God's sakes. And he told me yes I will. And I said I have to go. I wanted to go. I wanted to disappear. So I walked towards my parents. And I was near at the gate I hugged him. He came towards me again and he said I do not know your name. You are never going to know my name. Did you tell me yours? When I read that Gabriel Garcia Marquez passed away the first reaction I had was tears because I felt so sad.  Gabriel Garcia Marquez the Nobel Prize-winning author passed away recently. He was 87. Silvana now a grandmother living in London still holds onto the piece of paper with this address and phone number.  I never called him. Why? Why I never call him? I think I wanted - I had intention but something stopped me. I think I was scared to call him.  Silvana started poking around the Internet to see if she could find a photo of him from that time long ago.  And what I found was the story - the novel Sleeping Beauty And The Airplane. I was curious and I printed and I read in French English Portuguese. And I could not believe.   She was dressed with subtle taste a lynx jacket a raw silk blouse with delicate flowers natural linen trousers and shoes with a narrow stripe the color of bougainvillea.  He described her wearing a silk top and a leather jacket. He described exactly the clothes I was wearing. It is too much coincidence.   She placed a cosmetics case with copper corners like a grandmother's trunk on her lap. And took two golden pills from a box that contained others of various colors.  So I go further. I read and he talks about love at first sight.   By way of an excuse I asked her if she believed in love at first sight. Of course she said the other kinds are impossible.  It was like a flashback and little by little I was very moved. I just felt like he was just next to me. It is very odd. I just felt him talking.  But it is fiction. Marquez changes the story. He and the beautiful woman never exchange a word. They simply sit next to each other on a red-eye to New York. She sleeps the whole way and he sits by willing her to wake up so they can talk. When she finally does it is too late. The plane has landed.   Then she put on her lynx jacket almost stepped over me with a conventional excuse in pure Latin American Spanish left without even saying goodbye. And disappeared into...   Into the sun of today in the Amazon jungle of New York.   ... Of New York.  I was lost. I just cried.  Thank you Silvana for sharing your story. For more details about that day and everything else Silvana and Marquez chatted about check out Nicholas Shakespeare's Newsweek article from our website snapjudgment.org. That story was produced by Nancy Lopez with sound design by Pat Mesiti-Miller. Do not be sad. Full episodes of SNAP are available for you right now. Subscribe to the podcast snap judgment.org. Join us on Facebook on Twitter Stitcher SoundCloud iTunes Android - get it your way. Did you ever play that game spin the bottle with a bunch of super-attractive people? Well not to fear. Neither did the Corporation for Public Broadcasting but much love to the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange tried to play spin the public radio but only the freaky people showed up - prx.org. WBEZ in Chicago also known as the freaky people and this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact you could go backstage at the Prince concert - have the purple one sing Darling Nikki just for you - accidentally say thanks Rick James and you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 