 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT. From PRX and NPR the 2014 Look Back Special. My name is Glynn Washington and we are going to put the icing on today's SNAP JUDGMENT special with a stunt - a stunt that every listener must vow never ever to try at home.   So I was interviewing at a specialty electronic repair store in Akron Ohio. It was called the Battery Hut. They had a hilarious logo. It was a humanoid battery and it looked like this insane battery. They made most of their money in custom batteries and I knew the assistant manager and she recommended me so the job's kind of in the bag. I know nothing about batteries. I am just lying throughout the whole job interview. And because the job's so much in the bag and he seems to be impressed with me he he starts showing me the inventory. And at one point he pulls out this drawer of boxy unmarked batteries and they all look like nine volts. And me and my brothers when we were growing up we would always lick nine-volt batteries. And it just feels like little droplets of rain are sort of dancing on your tongue. And he asked me like how would you describe your level of battery knowledge? And I go expert or above. And then I pick one up and ask him have you ever done this? And I just lick it - turns out each and every one of these is like a 20-volt or higher garage door opener custom battery and it shocks me. I collapse full on. It was sort of like at full speed you walk into a low ceiling and it - you are half in pain but also just half so confused by why you are on the ground all of a sudden. The store was in a mall kiosk. There was a customer waiting to have his watch battery who just ran away  when I licked it and fell down to the ground. And I always imagine that he ran off just thinking he saw me die. And from a distance it almost looked like I had just eaten the world's hottest slice of pizza because my tongue's sticking out and I am fanning air onto it. It felt like almost like a wasp stinging directly in the middle of my tongue. And I finally sort of regained my composure and we locked eyes and that is when we both realized that I had been completely lying about all of my battery knowledge. I got a call from the friend who recommended me the next day and she was livid 'ecause she is like I had told them you were the smartest person I know but I look like I hang out with morons. I have learned whenever something does not look mass-produced that is normally mass-produced do not just stick it in your mouth you know? But I think the most amazing thing about it is I got the job.  What?  Yeah I got the job. What I found out is he just hate - he was not the owner or the manager you know he just worked there and he just hated his job so much. And everyone he was interviewing was incompetent so he figured he may kill himself here but it will at least be interesting.   Big thanks to Sean Flannery. Sean was named the Best Stand-Up Comic by the Chicago Reader. He hosts a weekly show in Chicago called The Blackout Diaries. You should go see it. That piece - it was produced by Stephanie Foo. 