Jad Abumrad Uh wait you are listening ...   Okay.   All right.   Okay.   All right.   You are listening to Radio Lab Lab.   Radio Lab.   From...   WNYC.   C?   Yup.  Jad Abumrad Hey everybody. Chad here. This is Radio Lab. Happy holidays. This is the first of two releases we are gonna drop this week. Both uh come from the same dude. The irrepressible Latif Nasser. Uh. Latif has been working with Radio Lab for about nine years first as a contributor and then uh we brought him on staff full-time. And he has told you stories about the racial barriers and professional ice skating badminton um. He brought you the three part Border Trilogy a story about n-nuclear change of command uh. He is working on somethin' really cool for 2019 which we will be bringing you soon. And um... Yeah we have two Latifs for you uh for you uh this week. Uh in a couple days we are gonna actually send you a conversation that Latif had about how he finds the weird peculiar stories that he s-seems to always find. Uh he has a really interesting set of techniques that he goes through. Um. He wrote this article about it it went sort of viral. So we are gonna bring you a conversation uh were he goes through some of that stuff.  Jad Abumrad Uh but today I thought I would play you the very first story that Latif did for us. Um this goes back a ways. At the time he was a grad student at Harvard. And uh he would written us an email saying Hey are you guys into old robots? Like robots that are a few hundred years old? And then he had a whole list of them. Uh like for example picking up with the story I have heard rumors-  Latif Nasser Mm-hmm .  Jad Abumrad Whispered by Soren mostly-  Latif Nasser .  Jad Abumrad Uh about a pooping duck.  Latif Nasser A poo... Oh so the pooping duck is really famous actually. The b-duck was not really eating and pooping but they had like a store of like pre pre-pooped duck poop.  Jad Abumrad   Latif Nasser I do not know what it was. It looked like duck poop maybe.  Jad Abumrad And you would feed this robot duck and then watch it actually poop?  Latif Nasser Oh I mean all you see is you see sort of this in and this out and-  Jad Abumrad And people believed it?  Latif Nasser People thought this was a this was a pooping duck. Um. And-  Jad Abumrad So we talked about a bunch of these uh ancient robots and most of them are kind of funny. But then he told us about one in particular that was-  Robert Krulwich Actually it was kinda haunting.  Jad Abumrad Yeah it is not poopy at all.  Latif Nasser So the year is uh is 1562. This is 450 years ago.  Jad Abumrad Not so long after Columbus.  Robert Krulwich Yeah. Ferdinand and Isabella are dead and there is a new king of Spain.  Jad Abumrad Philip.  Robert Krulwich Philip. Yeah. And he has a son.  Latif Nasser The 17 year old crown prince. His name's Don Carlos.  Jad Abumrad And one day-  Latif Nasser He is in the royal lodgings uh he is walking down a flight of stairs he trips he falls he bashes his head against a door near the bottom of the stairs.  Jad Abumrad Mmm. This is the crown prince you say?  Latif Nasser The crown prince of Spain.  Jad Abumrad So this is a a national calamity.  Latif Nasser It is a national calamity 'ecause he is the heir apparent.  Jad Abumrad Mmm.  Latif Nasser Right? So so so wh... At first it does not look like it is such a bad injury. He is still conscious but then his head starts to swell to this kind of crazy size. He becomes delirious and feverish. He is struck blind.  Jad Abumrad Oo.  Latif Nasser And so at this point the the king comes. Right? This is King Philip the second so he is at this time he is the most powerful man in the world right? So he basically controls the all of the Americas he controls much of Europe. The Philippines is named after him.  Jad Abumrad He was tight with the pope.  Latif Nasser At this time the pope and the king were kind of like you know BFF.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Latif Nasser So so the whole Spanish court is going nuts. Um across the country people are uh seeing this reading this as a kind of sign that uh that God's very angry right?  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Latif Nasser And so they are they are fasting they are doing these kinds of uh prayer processions things like this.  Jad Abumrad And according to Latif the King calls all the best doctors in Europe to come to Spain to help his son. And these doctors are trying everything.  Latif Nasser They are drilling a hole in his skull...  Jad Abumrad To relieve the pressure?  Latif Nasser To relieve the pressure they are bleeding him and blistering him and they are purging him to the extent that he has like 20 bowel movements within just like a certain few hours.  Jad Abumrad .  Latif Nasser They are like smearing all over the wound. They are they are smearing like turpentine and honey-  Jad Abumrad Wow. Poor Don Carlos.  Latif Nasser But the... even after all of this um the they sort of l-look at each other they they look at him and it is kind of like this is... He is gonna die. It is it is it is-  Jad Abumrad So he is dying.  Latif Nasser Yeah. He is basically on his death bed.  Jad Abumrad So at this point according to Latif the king goes to his son-  Latif Nasser Legend goes that he kneels beside uh his son at his son's death bed and he makes a pact with God. The pact is if you if you help me if you heal my son if you do this miracle for me I will do a miracle for you.  Jad Abumrad Wow that is that is uh that is quite a hubristic of a of a human being to say to God.  Latif Nasser Oh let us also remember that he is the he is he is the most powerful man i-i-in the world at this point.  Jad Abumrad He is a God among men really.  Latif Nasser Yeah. Hubristic or not this is this is is what he says.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  Latif Nasser All of a sudden his son just gets better.  Jad Abumrad Really?  Latif Nasser Within a week he can see again within a month he i-it is as if he did not fall at all.  Jad Abumrad He just pops right back up?  Latif Nasser Yeah.  Robert Krulwich And King Philip must have thought Well my God this is this is amazing.  Jad Abumrad Exactly. My God is probably exactly what he thought.  Robert Krulwich  Yeah.  Jad Abumrad And when his son can finally speak he says to him Dad you know the weirdest thing happened when I was out. I had this dream.  ElizabethKing Oh that is a great story.  Jad Abumrad This is Elizabeth King.  ElizabethKing I am an artist and uh a professor in the sculpture department at Virginia Commonwealth University.  Jad Abumrad She is actually the one that hooked Latif on the story.  Latif Nasser Yep.  Jad Abumrad In any case the dream.  ElizabethKing There are documents of Don Carlo next morning saying that he had had a dream.  Latif Nasser This vision.  ElizabethKing That a that a figure-  Latif Nasser In a in a Franciscan habit-  ElizabethKing Shaved head-  Robert Krulwich Sharp nose.  ElizabethKing This marvelous monk-  Jad Abumrad Entered his room-  Latif Nasser And approached his death bed holding a cross and basically told him You are gonna be fine.  ElizabethKing And that is quite well documented.  Robert Krulwich Apparently there was a witness in the room.  ElizabethKing In the sick room with him that night.  Robert Krulwich Who overheard the prince talking to a ghost sort of mumbling things in his delirium.  Jad Abumrad So Don Carlos has this dream suddenly he is fine. And the natural question that people are asking is Who is this monk?  Latif Nasser Yeah.  ElizabethKing Yeah.  Robert Krulwich I mean is it just a generic monk or is it somebody specific? Some messenger from God.  Jad Abumrad And from his description-  Latif Nasser Physical description-  Jad Abumrad The shaved head the-  Robert Krulwich Pointy nose the monk's habit-  Jad Abumrad Piercing eyes even the kind of cross he was using. Everybody in town the king everyone was like Oh yeah.  Latif Nasser Like we know exactly who this guy is.  Jad Abumrad Can really only be one guy.  Latif Nasser Kind of local Friar who died 100 years before named uh Diego De Alcala.  Jad Abumrad Diego De Alcala.  Robert Krulwich Who is he?  ElizabethKing He is a a local holy figure whose corpse was associated with a number of documented miracles.  Jad Abumrad In fact this guy was so holy in this town.  Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm -  Jad Abumrad Actually not just in the town. You wanna know something?  Robert Krulwich What?  Jad Abumrad Here's a bit of trivia. Ever heard of San Diego?  Robert Krulwich California you mean?  Jad Abumrad Yeah as in the Padres?  Robert Krulwich Well is he have to... Is this the same guy?  Jad Abumrad Same guy!  He was the patron saint of the people who founded San Diego.  Robert Krulwich Oh my he is holy.  Latif Nasser All right so here you go.  Jad Abumrad There you go. So he was so holy in this town-  Latif Nasser .  Jad Abumrad ... that people believed his corpse his 100 year dead corpse had healing powers.  Latif Nasser And some people there are different stories but some people say that even they uh these-  Jad Abumrad That unbeknownst to Don Carlos that night that he had the dream...  ElizabethKing The priesthood and the king himself according to some stories went and they got this corpse out of the church out of the crypt. They carried it through the streets they brought it to the bedroom they-  Latif Nasser Literally put it... They sort of snuck it in bed with uh Don Carlos and that is how he healed.  Robert Krulwich They did not stick 'im in bed with his bones right?  Jad Abumrad Did they did they...  Robert Krulwich They just kind of they brought him into the room.  ElizabethKing There is different reports but there is  Jad Abumrad .  ElizabethKing ... but there is a picture of it in in this engraving.  Jad Abumrad Oh!  ElizabethKing Um and if you can you probably  cannot see it but look at this picture right here.  Robert Krulwich She had a a copy of a 16th... roughly a 16th century woodcut showing you this scene-  Jad Abumrad Where you could kind of see...  Jad Abumrad Oh wait. So there .  Robert Krulwich They are dunkin' him! They are dunkin' him over the bed!  Jad Abumrad He is in bed!  Jad Abumrad The two men in bed together.  Latif Nasser One guy who is alive barely and another guys whose been dead 100 years.  ElizabethKing  Well they could be you know they could be just laying him down.  Latif Nasser .  Robert Krulwich Okay. Yeah. He is caught in the middle.  ElizabethKing It could be we are seeing it we are seeing at a great dis-  Jad Abumrad Meanwhile back to our story you got Philip the second who has asked God for a miracle. God came through through this monk and now Philip the second is like Uh oh.  Latif Nasser I gotta deliver. King Philip the second always got a miracle.  Jad Abumrad That miracle after the break.  Bryan Hey this is Bryan in Red Bluff California. Radio Lab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Commercial With so many new podcasts how do you find your next obsession? Try Pocket Casts. The free podcast app designed by listeners for listeners with curated recommendations discovery is easy and seamless. When you find something you like just hit play. Find all your favorite shows old and new at pocketcast.com or find us in the Apple app or Google Play stores.  Jad Abumrad I am Jad Abumrad this is Radio Lab. Let us return now to our story from Latif Nasser where we left off. It is 1562ish King Philip is on the hook he knows he owes God a miracle.  Latif Nasser And he is he is acutely aware of this. So basically what he does is he enlists this really renowned clock maker.  Jad Abumrad A clock maker.  Latif Nasser Yep named uh Juanelo Turriano.  ElizabethKing A huge man. A big ox of a man described as always being filthy and blustery and not a lot of fun to be around but a great great clock maker.  Jad Abumrad Certainly among the best.  ElizabethKing In Spain.  Robert Krulwich Maybe the entire holy Roman Empire.  Latif Nasser So the king he goes to this guy and he says Look. I want you to make a mechanical version of Diego De Alcala.  Robert Krulwich What?  Jad Abumrad A mechanical version of this 100 year dead holy priest.  Latif Nasser Yes. Like a mechanical monk.  Robert Krulwich A robotic padre.  Latif Nasser Yeah! Which-  Jad Abumrad And this I did not expect... still exists!  Latif Nasser Now the monk-bot is in the Smithsonian perfect working order.  Jad Abumrad No way.  Latif Nasser I swear I swear. The... And since 1977.  Jad Abumrad No.  Latif Nasser Yeah!  Carlene Stevens The first time I saw this figure I was drawn to it and then repelled.  Jad Abumrad That is Carlene Stevens. She is a curator at the Smithsonian in DC. About a week after Latif and I spoke we ended up in DC meeting with her and she showed us...  Robert Krulwich Oh wow.  Wow.  Jad Abumrad The monk who lives in a little glass case.  Carlene Stevens What we have here is an automaton over 400 years old. Um and-  Jad Abumrad So... Fir... Is this the first robot that we know of?  Carlene Stevens No.  Jad Abumrad No. No no.  Carlene Stevens No.  Jad Abumrad No idiot.  Carlene Stevens The ancient greeks-  Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm -  Carlene Stevens ... had things that could be considered robots-  Jad Abumrad Okay back to our story. 450 some-odd years ago our clock maker... What is his name?  Robert Krulwich Uh Torriano.  Jad Abumrad Torriano.  Robert Krulwich He goes into his shop and he he does whatever he does.  Jad Abumrad Connects one gear to another to another-  Robert Krulwich For hours-  Jad Abumrad Weeks months.  Latif Nasser No idea how long it takes. And I do not think anybody does.  Jad Abumrad But he emerges one day into the bright sunshine-  Carlene Stevens So this is clockworks-  Jad Abumrad ...with... What did you call it?  Robert Krulwich A robotic padre.  Latif Nasser Yeah. It is a 15 inch high-  Carlene Stevens Figure-  Latif Nasser ... made of wood and iron. Has the sort of habit has the sandals has the rosary has the cross.  Jad Abumrad And poking out of the top of the habit is a little-  Carlene Stevens Bald hairless head.  Jad Abumrad With that sharp nose like a like a razor.  Carlene Stevens And the rather ferocious eyes.  Robert Krulwich Like intense? Or like uh doing business ferocious?  Jad Abumrad  Well like I am focused.  Robert Krulwich I am focused.  Jad Abumrad Like maybe I am only 15 inches tall but I am focused on something much bigger than you you human.  Robert Krulwich So did you like turn it on or push something or-?  Jad Abumrad Yeah. Why would I get on a train and go for three hours-  Robert Krulwich .  Jad Abumrad ... just to go look at it?  Robert Krulwich All right all right. Obvious question.  Carlene Stevens Okay do you want to wind it?  Latif Nasser Sure. Yeah.  Carlene Stevens Okay.  Latif Nasser Okay.  Jad Abumrad So Carlene takes us out into the hall we sit down on the floor she gives Latif a little brass key he sticks it into the secret slot in the monk's side-  Carlene Stevens And I think it goes counterclockw-  Latif Nasser Okay.  Carlene Stevens You would tend you would tend to wanna do it this way. Let me just-  Jad Abumrad And Latif winds up the monk.  Latif Nasser And I am turning it counterclockwise and it is surprisingly sort of taut. How much should I turn it?  Latif Nasser And so if you sort of wind up this sort of secret spring-  Carlene Stevens I think there is a stop and it will-  Latif Nasser Oh okay. All right I am goin'. I am goin'.  Jad Abumrad Put it on the ground.  Carlene Stevens Wanna just-  Latif Nasser All right.  Carlene Stevens Let him go?  Latif Nasser Yeah.  Carlene Stevens Give him a push.  Jad Abumrad It will walk very slowly-  ElizabethKing One foot after the other coming out from under the cassick. In fact there is actually little wheels under there. But yet you see the feet coming out the head is turning from right to left the eyes are rolling in the head the mouth is opening and closing.  Jad Abumrad As if it is sort of muttering like a prayer.  ElizabethKing The arms are in motion. One arm is raising and lowering across the other arm is beating the chest.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Carlene Stevens A symbolic gesture-  ElizabethKing ... to a Catholic-  Carlene Stevens That is called the mea culpa.  ElizabethKing After three or four steps the the arm holding the cross does something new. It moves two different new directions to bring the cross to the mouth and the figure kisses the cross.     Latif Nasser  it is oddly like uh mesmerizing.  Carlene Stevens Yes.  Latif Nasser Yeah.  Carlene Stevens Yeah.  ElizabethKing The next thing that it is doing is that it is turning and moving in a different direction and then walking its paces and kissing the cross.  Jad Abumrad As we watched it turn once then twice then three times four times then it got back to where it started.  ElizabethKing So if you imagine a table with a number of people sitting around it probably it is gonna sort of at one point or another head for you and then turn away and head for someone else-  Jad Abumrad Wow  ElizabethKing ... and then turn away.  Robert Krulwich Why would the king of Spain uh who could have you know I do not know built a church or or taken a crusade to Jerusalem or done something you know he coulda done anything. Why did he decide to commemorate his son's revival by making a little m... automatic doll? Like what was that for?  Jad Abumrad Yeah Latif what was he thinking?  Latif Nasser Yeah it is a it is a good qu-  ElizabethKing That is the 64 000 dollar question.  Latif Nasser It is a great question.  Carlene Stevens It is a really good question.  Jad Abumrad The truth is there is really no way to know for sure.  Carlene Stevens And as a historian I gotta I gotta rely on the documentation.  Jad Abumrad And there is not a whole lot of that in this case but one interpretation certainly could be that you know the king had this amazing miraculous thing happen to his son and now he had a way of sharing that with his subjects. 'ecause he is got this device where it is a it is an illusion like the machinery of it is completely hidden.  Latif Nasser There is no visible m-  Jad Abumrad That is the-  Latif Nasser Yeah. That is one of the craziest parts. That it is all sort of hidden underneath the the robe.  Jad Abumrad So when he put it down on a table or in a courtyard people would have seen it move on its own. They woulda been amazed as we were and he coulda said Look here is the miracle. Look what God did for our country.  Robert Krulwich God like Spaniards.  Jad Abumrad Yeah look at what God did for Spain-  Robert Krulwich Hmm.  Jad Abumrad ... which woulda been a useful thing for a king to be able to say right?  Robert Krulwich Yep.  Jad Abumrad That is so that is one possibility. The other is just that on a more utilitarian level this was a machine that was built to pray.  ElizabethKing And this was a period when you could buy prayer repetition.  Jad Abumrad So if you had the money-  ElizabethKing You could get someone to pray for you while you go do something out.  Jad Abumrad Oh that is so cool!  Robert Krulwich Oh so you are you are so you are covered.  ElizabethKing You are you are covered.  Jad Abumrad And if you think about it from Philip's perspective he needed to say thank you to God and he had had this thing where if he wound it up was an automated thank you machine.  Robert Krulwich Thank you thank you thank you thank you thank you-  Jad Abumrad Yeah it could be thank you thank you thank you.  Robert Krulwich Or it could be-  Jad Abumrad I love you I love you I love you I love you-  Robert Krulwich I love you I love you. Yeah.  ElizabethKing .  Latif Nasser It could also be um I am sorry I am sorry I am sorry I am sorry.  Jad Abumrad .  Robert Krulwich .  ElizabethKing Well yeah or it could be please please please please please.  Jad Abumrad What if you ? But if you think about it more expansively says Latif like what did it mean at that time to be a Catholic? Like what did it really mean? Well then this robot was maybe the best Catholic you could ever hope to be.  Latif Nasser What counted as prayer was was quite specific in the sense that if you say the right things and and do the right actions in the right order in the right time and in the right place sort of that is prayer. That is when God notices.  Jad Abumrad So it is about method.  Latif Nasser It is about method it is about-  Jad Abumrad And maybe this monk he says was like method embodied.  ElizabethKing That is a good one! I mean why not?  Robert Krulwich Right.  ElizabethKing I mean it is in fact perfect. W... It repeats itself-  Robert Krulwich Right.  ElizabethKing ... over and over and over it... and it replicates the ideal.  Jad Abumrad So it is basically what is it is-  Carlene Stevens A little a little teaching object.  Latif Nasser Like this is what you are aiming for.  ElizabethKing Here's how you do it.  Latif Nasser Like this is it. This is the perfect prayer.  Jad Abumrad The perfect prayer.  Latif Nasser This is doing it the perfect way every time and I because I am I am just this you know lowly imperfect human um I am not... I can only aspire to this perfect piety.  Jad Abumrad Are you making this up or do you think that this the monk might have actually been seen this way?  Latif Nasser It could be true.  Jad Abumrad .  Latif Nasser I do not think it is so crazy.  Jad Abumrad Especially if you think about what was happening at that moment. This is counter reformation Spain right?  Latif Nasser Not so long after Luther you know is nailing his thesis on the wall and-  Jad Abumrad And there is this big debate raging about how actually do you get closer to God?  Latif Nasser You have the kind of protesters with with Luther who are saying it is not about you know works it is not about saying something this many times it is about whether you feel it. And then you have the kind of Catholic argument which is to say you do these rituals because these are the rituals and these are the way you get... This is the way you get close to God. Uh this is the way you pray.  Jad Abumrad You pray like this thing.  Robert Krulwich Just like this thing. And if you are a Catholic king and God's a Catholic and you better hope he is.  Jad Abumrad And if you are Philip the second you look at the sky and you say God you and me are square.  Jad Abumrad There it is early Latif Nasser. Thanks to him and to you guys for listening and for making 2018 a year that as tumultuous as it was still contains a lot to be grateful for. And listen we are raising money to produce Radio Lab in 2019. This is gonna be our most ambitious year. We have a ton of new things planned. New series that we are gonna be bringing you but we need help getting them funded so if you dig Radio Lab if you want more of it go to radiolab.org. Click that donate button or text the word radio lab no space to 7-0-1-0-1 that is the word radio lab to 7-0-1-0-1. Thank you. We cannot do this without you.  Jad Abumrad In just a couple days we are gonna be sending you another uh Latif situation. Conversation that he and producer Rachael Cusick had about how Latif finds stories. A bunch of techniques that I think we could all use in our lives even if you are not doin' the thing that we are doin' but you just kinda wanna have more newness more interestingness in your life. That is comin' up soon. Until then I am Jad Abumrad. Thanks for listening and for supporting the show.   Hi this is Tom I am calling from Seattle Washington. Well Radio Lab was created by Jad Abumrad and produced by Soran Wheeler. And Dylan Keef is our director of sound as Anna Matasar-Padilla is our manager director. Our staff includes Simon Adler Becka Bressier and Rachael Cusick David Gabbel Bethel Habte and Tracy Hunt. Well Matt Kilty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwan and Latif Nasser Melissa O'Donnell and Arianne Wack Pat Walters Molly Webster. With help from Sheema  Cat Slazlo and Moe Asabayomo. Our fact checker is Michelle Harris.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.