 OK so my first real college girlfriend she grew up in a family something like the Cosby's right? Her people had all kinds of degrees. They listened to jazz. They had marched with Dr. Martin Luther King and they loved each other and were happy and stuff. It was seriously - it was ridiculous. And I am crazy intimidated - right? - because in my family it was against the rules to know anything and I just knew they were going to sniff me out as unworthy. That is why I started tripping right? Well my girlfriend invited me home to her place to meet her family. And she said I had to make a good impression with her father because he was not too sure about me given some of the reports that had trickled back. Well what am I supposed to do? What can I say to him? What is important to him? And she thought about it and she said well black community is important to him and politics. Politics - what is he? He is a Republican. All right all right cool. I did not know anything about politics but I could learn. You know so I started reading and getting some information together you know. So when we get to the house I had brought some flowers. Her mom was cool with me right from the jump. I meet her brother. We talk about basketball - Pistons Bulls Lakers. He is eating out of my hand. But I know and they know and everyone knows that this is but the opening gambit the preliminary niceties not even the first round. The real challenge will begin momentarily because girlfriend is daddy's girl and daddy is waiting. He steps out of his den. That is right his den. He looks at me kisses his daughter on the cheek still looking at me and tells me to come inside his den. I pull girlfriend along for moral support but Pops puts a quick end to that noise - no just you. We need to talk. All right all right that is OK man to man right on right on. I was ready. I was prepared. I had studied. I was going to let him know that I was a man about my business. He closes the door sits down at his desk. I sit down on his leather couch hard like a man. He looks at me examines me and he says tell me about yourself. Here it is - the moment I had practiced for. So I let him know well sir two things that are important to me are the black community and Republican politics. And he is kind of nodding his head. I continue - because you know if there was one thing Ronald Reagan wanted to do it was to help black people you know with the trickle-down economics. And we should take all the money and spend it on fighter planes and bombs where it can do some good for a change am I right? And you know Social Security is for Communists. He looks at me and he says boy have you lost your mind? And he starts shouting and yelling and hollering and saying all kinds of stuff. And of course I do not know what he is talking about. And that is one thing but as I watch the spittle rage from the man's face I know the problem is not him the problem is me. This yelling man believes stuff. What do I believe? What do I believe? I do not know. And I figure it is about time I find out. And after some of the commotion had died down some of the harsh words were apologized for it turned out that instead of saying Republican girlfriend should have said head of the local Democratic Party. That was that day. So today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR we proudly present Identity Crisis amazing stories from real people asking themselves the hardest question of all - who am I? Indeed my name is Glynn Washington. Get ready because you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT. 