 Hey it is Latif. Last week Jad threw down a challenge. We want 5000 new donations to RADIOLAB before the end of the year. And the challenge worked - almost. A lot of people donated. Thank you if you are one of them especially this year. But we still have not reached our goal and we really think we can. Like this should be a doable goal by December 31. But to do it we need you.  Everything you hear on hing that makes you laugh out loud or cry out loud or look at the world in a whole new way that is possible because of donations. We are public radio. We are journalism that is funded by you. So if you have been fortunate enough this year to still have the ability to donate please do - radiolab.orgdonate or text the word RADIOLAB to the number 70101. And to sweeten the deal if you become a monthly sustaining member or if you are already a member you will have the chance to hang out with the whole Radiolab team at our first-ever virtual trivia night. And like ise it will be trivia without being trivial.  If you have already donated this month thank you. If not just help us hit that 5000 mark. We hit our goal last year. And if we do not do it this year they are just going to blame the new hosts which is me and Lulu. So do not let them do that. Go to radiolab.orgdonate or text RADIOLAB to 70101. Now onto the show.  Listener-supported WNYC Studios.   Wait. Wait. You are listening ...  OK.  All right.  OK.  All right.  You are listening...  Listening...  ...To RADIOLAB.  RADIOLAB.  From WNYC.  C?  Yup.  OK. Latif is this is our first time doing the thing together?  Yeah.  Wow. In the spirit of turning over the old and bringing on the new - hey I am Jad Abumrad.  I am Latif Nasser.  This is RADIOLAB.  And before we get started today just a quick warning - this episode contains some strong language and fact-based discussions of a certain bearded man in a red suit.   Who could it be?   And yeah this is our final episode of the year which we should just get out ahead of and say this year has been awful.  Yeah just - it really sucked. It sucked hard.   Not going to rehash it all obviously but - and I hate to use this phrase but these are unprecedented times.   Several new unwanted records...  Like every day...   ...Crossing the 9 million mark.  ...We are seeing new COVID numbers...   Ten million...  ...To 11 million...  ...Total cases...   A hundred-thousand people are in the hospital.  ...Hospitalizations...   A staggering milestone...  ...Deaths.   Three-hundred thousand confirmed coronavirus-related deaths in less than a year.   It is terrible. So eventually we were just like you know what 2020? Fuck you.    Oh deck the hall with boughs of...  We are going to do a goddamn Christmas special.  We are going to have fun whether we like it or not.  We are going to have some fun .  So today to put a cap on this godforsaken year we have two different stories related to the pandemic both Christmas-themed stories.    La la la la.  And we are going to start with...  With me.  With you. I just want to - I just want to note. Is it irony? I am not sure if it is irony that currently we have two different people talking about two different aspects of Christmas and they are both Muslim and do not celebrate Christmas. I love it. I love it.   I was not only talking about - not only talking about I was - last night it was a midnight. I was texting Santa. I am deep in this story. I am deep.  OK. So I know we are talking about Santa but that is really all I know.  OK. Well I think the important place to start is of course as always with Dr. Fauci...   Dr. Anthony Fauci reassuring kids around the world Santa is going to be OK.  ...Who said to a couple of USA Today reporters that Santa Claus is exempt from COVID-19.   Because Santa of all the good qualities has a lot of good innate immunity. So Santa's not going to be spreading any infections to anybody.  He was just trying to get kids not to worry about Santa Claus say that he is going to be fine.  So here's the thing. Santa is not immune to COVID-19. In fact it is the opposite. He can get it and he is very vulnerable. And frankly he is worried about it. And that is what I was texting about with him last night. Like he is worried he is going to get it. He is worried he might be - he might spread it to somebody else.  Wow.  So let me first say I learned about this story about Santa and COVID from another journalist named Julie.  I am Julie Wernau. I am a reporter at The Wall Street Journal.  What - how did this even happen? What do you actually usually normally cover? I am guessing not Christmas-related things.  No I mean that is my whole beat right? I just cover Santa Claus and...  .  ...Mall Santas.  No I actually write about the restaurant industry. And I was working on a story about winter coming and the fact that people you know are going to have to figure out how to sit outside in winter. And as a lot of people have seen now there is igloos and all sorts of things and heat lamps. And I thought to myself what else happens in winter? Christmas. What are the Santas doing? And then you know it just is what it is to be a reporter right? You have like a germ of an idea then you just go down a rabbit hole and you get paid to do that. So...  And that rabbit hole eventually led her...   We are skipping down. I am sorry.  ...To this.   Our next speaker is...  Back in August Santa actually gave a speech to the CDC.   ...Mr. Erwin.  Thank you. Not since the depths of the Great Depression or the darkest hours of World War II have so many sane and sober adults wondered aloud whether America may be facing a year without Christmas.  This is Santa Ric Erwin. He is the leader of a group of over 500 Santas called the Fraternal Order of Real Bearded Santas.  Which is exactly what you expect it to be - it is men who look like Santa Claus and have real beards.  It is a nonprofit trade group of you know Santa performers with real beards as opposed to the Santa performers with - that are as they say theatrically bearded or faux bearded or designer bearded . So Santa Ric basically gets this slot to talk via Zoom to this - to a group at the CDC called ACIP. They are the people who basically decide who gets the vaccine first.   This year Christmas will be more important to the American psyche than ever before. Our country is enduring an historic disaster trifecta and nearly all Americans endure unparalleled suffering. But promising vaccines are in phase 3 testing already and remaining social restrictions may be easing by Christmas. We are asking that professional Santas and other frontline seasonal workers be granted early access to the COVID-19 vaccine as soon as practical after tier-one release.  It almost feels like it is out of a Disney movie. Like it is like CDC we need to save Christmas. And to do that Santas need to be bumped up in line for the vaccine.   Americans are going to want Santa to be at Christmas 2020. I await your questions or comments. Thank you.  On behalf of the voting members of the ACIP Santas in America we want to thank you for your comments and really enjoyed hearing from you. Thank you again.  Thank you.  And the response...   And I really did believe in you all my life.  ...Is kind of like a pleasant chuckle.  And that was kind of where he left it.  But the next day...  He got a call...   .  This is Santa Ric Erwin.  From a fairly high-ranking official in the Trump administration...   Michael Caputo assistant secretary for public affairs at the Department of Health and Human Services.  Well hello to both of you. And just for the record you are both on the nice list this year.  Not nobody.   Oh that great. That is great.   Ho ho ho ho ho.  ...Saying we want to work with you.   From my perspective if - if you and your colleagues are not essential workers I do not know what is.  Ho ho ho ho ho ho - I love you.  So here's what I am envisioning. We are going to be doing a lot of regional events right around...  And when Santa Ric like laid out the deal can you kind of like lay it out as he told it to you?  Yeah. I mean he basically said that they knew that the vaccines were coming. They are talking about having Santa Clauses stationed in sites all over the country...   .  ...And that they are going to help get the word out and get people the vaccine. And in exchange they will have early access to the vaccine.   You go to your colleagues who are in the different cities where we are having events and have them come - and when the vaccine is available get vaccinated first.  You set up a station in Southern California and I will put 50 Santas in full costume in front of the cameras. And you let me know what other cities you are operating in and I will send Santas there.  All right. I am in Santa if you are in.  I am in. I am 100 in.  And he was - you know you can hear in his voice how excited he is.   I live to serve Your Holiness. Thank you very much.  This is a big deal. Like he is gotten through to the most powerful administration in the country.  Yeah. Now on the call Ric is super enthusiastic. But then when I talk to him later about it...  When he specifically invoked the phrase Operation Warp Speed...  ...He told me he was actually just being nice on the phone to kind of cover up for deep down these misgivings that he had. He said he felt like he was kind of like almost like ice skating on a knife's edge because he is just not a Trump guy.  This is the greatest mass casualty event since World War II and it is responsible to one team of individuals - the clown car in the White House. But there was a conditional that I would dance with the devil by the pale moonlight if it would save a single Santa or a single American citizen.  So it is kind of a hard position that he is in. But he says yes. And then he gets a second phone call.   Yes. How are you Mr. Secretary?  Pretty good. How you doing?  I am fine. I am fine.  This time you know it is a few days later. Now he is even more enthusiastic. They are talking about specifics...   Well how about one Santa at each inoculation...  ...You know how many Santas. Caputo is like I cannot wait to tell the president. He is going to love this.   He is going to just - he is going to love this.   All right my friend...  So things are getting really real.  He took to his Facebook page and informed all the other Santa Clauses that they had gotten a deal. You know they would be getting early access to vaccine.  Like this is actually happening. He is thinking we are going to save Christmas.   No no no no. Shut the music down. This feels like a conspiracy. And how is Santa an essential worker? That does not make sense to me at all. And it is very not Christmas-y  in spirit.  .  At first glance - right? - I mean it is ridiculous.  Julie Wernau now from The Wall Street Journal again.  Santa Claus is a make-believe character that lives in the North Pole.  .  But I actually thought that Santa Ric's arguments made a lot of sense.  Julie was like OK let us take their argument seriously for a second. For one thing she says...  The Santa Clauses and Misses Clauses are by and large in this vulnerable population.  A lot of these Santas are old overweight. Lots of them have diabetes heart conditions.  And I think that the argument that the Santas were trying to make is look - we are really important especially this year for people's happiness that we are essential and we have really direct contact with the public. And so is it really that ridiculous to think that the Santa Clauses of America are essential?  I kind of think it is kind of ridiculous.  Well to sort that out let us ask. Like technically what is an essential worker?  Well that word is tricky all by itself. Who among us wants to feel they are not essential?  So we called up this woman named Kelly Moore.  Associate director for immunization education at the Immunization Action Coalition.  She used to serve on that CDC board that decides who gets the vaccines first. And she basically was like look - the essence of it is...  Who must be exposed to the public or to others in order to do their jobs - and their jobs involve the life health or safety of our other fellow citizens?  So firefighters police officers teachers - you know the people you would expect. But that definition also includes all of these sort of edge cases like a server at a fancy restaurant. Or I saw a quote from a carpenter in The New York Times who was deemed essential who said quote I am essential to the pocketbooks of rich contractors and essential for spreading the virus. But that is about it. Or there was a case - a Baskin Robbins employee who was dressed up like as the mascot like dressed up like an ice-cream cone and the person was taking a selfie in the mirror and was like  why am I an essential worker? Like it is a fuzzy line.  So we like having actually these broader categories. If you try to get just the right person vaccinated with each precious dose you will end up vaccinating people so slowly that many people will die needlessly waiting for you to figure out who the perfect recipient is.  So the essential worker box is big. And if the ice-cream cone guy is in there why not Santa?  Wait a second. Wait a second. So Baskin Robbins' - the Baskin Robbins ice-cream scooper is an essential worker?  Depends on the state but yeah potentially yes.  But when you call someone an essential worker you mean they are essential to society - right? - or to a neighborhood.  Well...  Actually...  Kelly says not necessarily.  Part of this is also about people who do not have choices about exposing themselves to others in the way they make their living. That Baskin Robbins worker may not feel essential but if Baskin Robbins says she needs to be at work and she has to face a line of customers every day she could be exposed to the virus. She could also have the virus and expose people in the workplace.  Oh that is interesting. So it is essential in both directions. Like I am essential to people and me seeing people is essential to me and so therefore I am an essential worker.  Right. And according to Julie from The Wall Street Journal that is what a lot of Santas are looking at this year.  There are places all over the country that have deemed Christmas to still be essential. They want the Santas to be working. They want them out at the malls. They want them at the holiday parades. They want them at private events. They want them to be out talking to kids and parents and who knows what.  Some of these Santas that is their livelihood. They need these parties that only come once a year and if they miss it they are going to be in trouble for you know the next 12 months. And for some of these Santas...  Had a little bit of a gig earlier tonight and...  ...Or for one of them I talked to anyway...  ...Just vegging out now .  ...That sense of need goes even deeper.  It is a calling. We are called to it. It is - but it is one of the most heartwarming and also heartbreaking things you could ever do.  This is a longtime Santa...  This is my 38th year.  ...Named Santa Robert. He told me that a lot of the work he does is pro bono.  The Ronald McDonald House is a charity. We go to assisted living homes churches.  But this is also his job.  Yes. And it pays quite well . You can...  So is this...  You can make bank as a Santa.  And Santa Robert told me even though business is down this year...  Some families want nothing to do with it because of COVID.  He is still getting a lot of gigs.  A lot of them are outdoors. They want to do it in the daytime. Instead of a nighttime party they are doing it in the daytime. They are doing it outdoors.  Yeah.  But I mean I am still able to do it. I am still able to be Santa. But it is kind of hard because when - the mask I wear is a red mask and it covers most of the face. A lot of people will ask if I could take pictures without the mask. They are not posting pictures on social media which is fine with me because we could all get into trouble theoretically.  Oh like they are coming up to you and they are saying can I take a picture without a mask? And what do you say to that?  I usually say yeah if they want to get one without a mask. I try to be as accommodating to people as I can. I mean...  OK. And they are also without a mask or just you are without a mask?  Yeah they take off the mask as well.  Oh wow. Does that feel scary? Does that feel dangerous?  No.  OK.  I know - this is - and yes I understand this is a virus. The virus is out there.  I should add a few days ago at a Christmas parade in Georgia a Santa potentially exposed dozens of kids to COVID. Santa Robert is not the only one who is doing this.  It is kind of hard to put it into words. This is Christmas you know.  Yeah.  And everybody wants it to be normal. Everybody's been devastated by what is been going on all year long with the lockdowns with work with school. People are losing their jobs or maybe having cut-back hours and they got to wear mask eight hours a day. Everybody wants a normal Christmas. I just - I bring in that sense of normalcy of - hey it is all right. Let us do what we always do. We are going to have a party. Santa's going to be here. It is just going to be like old times. And they can kind of relax. They can kind of get back into it. They can forget their troubles for a half-hour or whatever. And that is I think very comforting to a lot of people.  It is - but it is - like it is a funny thing to argue for. And I get the craving for it. And yet at the same time like these are extremely abnormal times...  Yes.  Like and kind of dangerous and scary times where - like right now - and I am just saying LA because I know we both live not so far from - like in LA like I just saw an article this morning that said literally one person is dying in LA every hour in LA County every 20 minutes of COVID. What is the thing that feels so - I do not know - that for you it like makes you say OK this is the scary thing that is out there but I am still going to do this anyway?  I think - well part of it is that I need that sense of normalcy too. But you know there is a lot of things in life that have happened to people. And yes sometimes you can take as many precautions as you can - something bad may still happen to you.  But like - but this is so clearly dangerous. Like I do not know...  Well I survived a workplace shooting so - .  Oh because you worked at the post office?  Yes. The last big shooting they had there the Goleta postal shooting.  Oh my God.  And yeah that kind of probably has something to do with my kind of somewhat cavalier attitude I guess you can say because having to deal with having six of your co-workers getting their brains blown out...  No way.  ...By another former co-worker who went off the rails - and yes I knew her. And...  Oh my God.  ...The world does not stop. The world as not going to stop because this is happening. It is still going to go on.  What if there was - like the governor like expressly forbade it? Would you keep going out and trying - and Santa-ing ?  Yeah. Yes I would. My take is - a lot of people who are going to follow these rules are going to regret it. And...  But what about the flip? If these parties God forbid happened to become one of these superspreader events like what would happen? That would not just affect the people at the party that would affect so many more people. That would ripple way further out you know what I mean?  Yeah. I do not know. You know you are making me think a lot. You are making me think maybe I am nuts . But...  No I - like this is...  People need Santa. That is the only way I can think to put it - is people need Santa and I guess I need to be Santa. And it is not going to stop with this.  Damn. That is a committed - and I got to say - kind of scary Santa.  Yeah. And now I should say that I talked to multiple Santas for this story and most of them are doing Santa-ing online.  OK.  You know over Zoom. And there are all kinds of new websites like Ringle Jingle  or whatever. There is a lot of innovating. But there is also a lot of traditional Santas like Robert who are still doing what they do in person. And I do not know. I - like I think maybe we should vaccinate them.  What? No they cannot bad-behave themselves into being categorized as essential. No give some of those doses to the nurses the teachers. Those are the people who should be getting vaccinated - not the Santas who should not even be out anyways.  Yeah I mean I hear you. I hear you. But those Santas are still going out anyway.  Mmm. Hey whatever happened to the whole Santa backroom deal with the Trump administration anyways?  Well OK. So Santa Rick had these calls with Michael Caputo the assistant secretary from HHS. Everything looked like it was falling into place. And then all of a sudden nothing.  The Trump administration stopped responding.  Julie Wernau from The Wall Street Journal again.  They ghosted the Santas.  What soon becomes clear...   ...The embattled head of communications for the agency...  ...Is that that guy Assistant Secretary Caputo at HHS went on Facebook Live and just went on a rant.   The partisan Democrats the conjugal media and the scientists - the deep state scientists - want America sick through November.  He predicted a violent conclusion of the presidential election.  If you carry guns buy ammunition ladies and gentlemen because it is going to be hard to get.  And civil war.  This is war.  It later came out that he had just gotten diagnosed with cancer. So it is unclear exactly what was happening with him but they put him on medical leave.  So ultimately it was left to us to find out what happened you know? The Santas thought they had a deal. Do they still have a deal? And then you know the word back from the government was no they do not. And that was how Santa learned that there were not going to be any vaccines for Christmas this year.   The real-person Santas that is. But...   Elmo is back for something else that I think is on a lot of kids' minds.  In a weird twist that is keeping with our 2020 world where often fantasy feels more powerful than facts...    Elmo's friend has a question about Santa Claus.  ...Santa Santa...   Well...  ...The imaginary Santa...   ...So what I did a little while ago I took a trip up there to the North Pole.  ...According to Anthony Fauci...   I went there and I vaccinated Santa Claus myself.  That Santa - he got the vaccine.   He is good to go.    Hello Santa. Hello Santa. Everything I say it true. When you come on Christmas Eve the milk and cookies are for you.  We will be back with another COVID Christmas story after the break.    ...Even freezing can be pleasing. See the children bundled up and making snowmen in the snow all because of Mr. Santa Claus. This is the time to be merry...   Hi. This is Emily  and I am calling from Toronto Canada. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Thanks.   Jad.  Latif.  Radiolab.  Back with Part 2 of our COVID Christmas show. And for this part we are bringing in...  Hello hello.  Hey Sarah Qari. Producer Sarah Qari.  How is it going?  It is going well. How are you?  As you will hear in a second my brain is like utterly spinning with numbers.  So just to set things up back in April as we sort of switched to doing all these dispatches Sarah did a story about the 6-feet rule explaining the science behind this new number that had suddenly taken over all of our lives and created these bubbles that we were living inside of. But since then scientists have learned so much more about this virus and all of these other numbers have started to emerge.  Yeah. It is like we were literally looking at one dimension of it. And since then like our understanding of the disease and managing the pandemic has like exploded in all of these different directions.  So we asked Sarah for an update.  Yup. But OK we are going to do it like Christmas style so not the 12 Days of Christmas but the 12 Numbers of COVID.  OK.  And you know what? I am not sure we are going to make it to 12. But it is a global pandemic Jad. Just roll with it 'K?  All right. Hit me.  OK. So maybe the place to start is three to six air changes per hour for ventilation.  Three to six air changes per hour for ventilation. OK. What does that mean?  Basically that means how often in an hour does most - so more than 50 - of the air in a space completely change out for fresh air?  Oh like if the air is a circulatory system it needs to completely sort of filter in and filter around and out three to six times every hour?  Yes. Exactly.  I am suddenly looking around my house and thinking how often does the air in this house change?  Yeah. Like most homes the number of air changes per hour that are currently happening is less than one.  Huh.  Yeah which I did not realize and made me feel very gross all of a sudden.  Did you have to like open a window?  Yeah basically.  What happens if - well let us say I am in my house in Brooklyn and I open a window.   Just about six inches - like crack it six inches. How long would it take for the wind coming in through this six-inch gap to completely turn over the air in my apartment?  Well so this one study of average houses from 2011 this - a scientist named Shelly Miller told me about this - showed that opening even just one window those six inches would make air changes happen about 30 faster - so you know going from like 1 12 hour to one hour. And the more windows you open and the wider you open them the better.  Interesting. This is kind of interesting.  Let us see. What else do I need to say on this? Oh so to give you some context like I found out that on the New York City subway there is 18 air changes per hour which is pretty good.  Whoa. That is cool.  Planes have like 20 air changes which is kind of crazy.  Wow. That is really - this is really interesting. I find this air change thing interesting. You know what you need Sarah Qari?  What?  You need to get some carolers for this.   You are so right.   On the first day of Christmas COVID gave to me...   Three to six air changes per hour.   ...For ventilation.   Oh my God. All right. So that is day one. OK. Day two.  OK.  On the second day of e love gave to me...   COVID gave to me...  Now you do the number. So it gave...   Three to six air changes per hour for ventilation. And CO2 levels of 600 to 800 parts per million.   CO2 levels of 600 to 800 parts per million. .  Perfect. OK. Cool cool. So what does that mean?  So I called up Linsey Marr...  Professor of civil and environmental engineering at Virginia Tech.  She was in our Six Feet episode. And she told me that when it comes to this ventilation air recycling stuff...  You know it is almost impossible for the average person to know what the ventilation rate is.  Like you cannot just look at the air and say oh it is new air.  So that is why we have also talked about the carbon dioxide level.  Because we are all breathing out carbon dioxide. And so if there is a ton of carbon dioxide in the air then you can tell that OK ventilation's probably not very good 'ecause all this air that we are exhaling is not leaving.  Right.  And Linsey told me that the reason this number might be better is because...  Because you can take a sensor with you - and these cost maybe 100 to 200. And then you are looking for a target number that indicates that the ventilation is poor.  And I was like...  I am outside. It is a windy day...  ...Hmm maybe I should get one of these. Do you have one of these sensors?  Yes. I have one and I have been carrying it around with me.  Trusty carbon dioxide detector.  What should I be looking for?  I think if you see a number of 600 parts per million or lower that is great.  Does that mean 600 parts of CO2 per million parts of everything?  Yes.  So outdoors is going to be 400 parts per million.  Four-hundred and eighty - yeah sounds about right.  Have you gone a lot of places with it?  Yeah I have taken it to the gym.  Let me try walking into Planet Fitness. That is 635 parts per million.  I have taken it in our car.  In the car - ooh it is going up. OK 970 980 990...  We got up to maybe a thousand parts per million.  Whoa. Holy smokes.  But if we open the windows...  ...Cracking the window. And sure enough it is gone down. We are back...  I have not spent time in any restaurant so I have not looked there.  Outdoor driving's  not happening in New York right now so we are going to go inside a bodega. I am hovering by the pasta sauce. Around 615 parts per million - not bad local bodega.  See this is the problem with our new pandemic reality. It is just so many more things to measure.  I know. It is like both empowering in a way if you choose to be empowered but it is also incredibly overwhelming.  Crazymaking. Like I bought a pulse oximeter and I got that thing on my thumb for like every - like every couple hours for the last six months.  Well if you want you could just buy an air purifier. That is one thing that multiple scientists that I talked to recommended. They are like just buy an air purifier.  Wow that is interesting. I have always thought those things are a little bit like...  Gimmicky.  Kind of.  Yeah. No apparently they really help.  Are we onto the next...  Indeed. Indeed we are.  ...Day of Christmas?  So wait. Wait. This one actually - hold on.  .  Let me - oh OK OK. Yeah so -  on the third day of Christmas COVID gave to me...   Three layers of masks.  Wait do you already know that one?  Yeah.  OK so continue the gallop . OK...   On the next day of Christmas my true love gave to me...  COVID gave to me.  Oh right. Sorry.  OK you know what? I am not even going to front. This one just fell apart in fact-checking.   OK.  So we are just going to move right along to the next one. OK Day 5 - this one - oh this one is kind of hard to do.   On the fifth day...  I am just going to let the carolers do it.   ...COVID gave to me...   Maybe try whispering or just not speaking so often.  .  OK another factor in all of this in protecting yourself it turns out is volume. Like how loudly are you talking can affect the number of aerosols that come out of your mouth. So this comes from a 2019 study. And in order to tell you about it I am going to take out my little decibel meter app. So I am about one meter away. OK perfect.  Got the tape measure.  OK so let us say I am whispering OK? Can you hear me? Yes you can hear me. OK. OK. So right now I am whispering at like 45 decibels.  This right here is just 45 decibels?  Forty five decibels yes.  It feels in my heart like it is like 10. But wow 45? OK.  Yeah but 45 it is. So right now when I say good morning there is a ton of aerosols that are flying out of my mouth.  OK.  But then - OK I started at 45 and now I am going to go up to - I am like an average 50 right now.  So this right here is 50.  Yeah. Or like 50 - actually 51 let us say. So there is a six-decibel difference - OK? - 45 to 51. And suddenly the number of aerosols that are flying out of my mouth are twice as many in number than they were just six decibels ago.  Oh really? So if you just go from a whisper to barely...  Yeah.  ...A whisper you are doubling the amount of aerosols.  Yeah.  Dang.  And let us say I go up another six decibels - 57 - yeah 57 which is right around here I think - then I am again doubling.  Oh my God. So every six decibels of loudness doubles the amount of aerosolized particles.  Yeah. And then let us say I keep going and I go all the way up to 80 which is like me shouting at you. I do not know how to shout neutral - in a neutral voice  but I am shouting . As we have gone up every six decibels we have doubled. And by the time you get to 80 I am expelling 50 times more aerosols and droplets than I would be if I was whispering. Is not that crazy?  That is crazy. I am a little scared.   You have never yelled at me before.  I know. I am so sorry.   That is wild. Wow.  Is not it?  The lesson here I guess is we just need to - all of us need to turn it down. We just need to whisper.  Yes. Yes exactly. So - OK so the scientist William Ristenpart that I was talking to about this he said it is not just volume though. Like it is also how much you are talking. You know obviously if you talk more then you are putting out more aerosols into the air. And so it is not just like speak more quietly but also like just less. Just do less.  Talk less. Talk quiet. Talk less.  Talk less and do less and have less things to say. So yeah.  So one more time and then we will do the last one.  OK I have just a few more. Just to sum up really quick so far we have got three to six air changes per hour 600 to 800 parts per million of CO2 three layers of masks. Then we had that number that was fake news. Whispering not talking - that is not really a number but whatever - 50 times. And No. 6 is 40 to 60...   Relative humidity.   OK so humidity - turns out it is very important. So one is that drier air actually - actually I am going to pause because there is a very loud ambulance.  Yeah this is the...  Can you hear it?  ...The soundtrack of the second wave.  Soundtrack of New York City in the second wave. Yeah that is right.  Yeah.  So - OK so the idea is let us say you - I do not know - you are standing a few feet away from your wife and you open your mouth - or near your kids - and you open your mouth to say good morning right?  Good morning children.  Yeah . Like just imagine for a second - like let us slow that down. So you are like - you open your mouth and you are like  right?   OK.  And as soon as you open your mouth there is all of these particles that are flying out of your mouth.  Yeah yeah.  Some of them are bigger droplets wet from your own saliva. Some of them are these light you know airy little aerosols that kind of can just like float out like as if you were breathing out smoke. And what happens is when the air is dry there is no moisture in the air. There is no water molecules to like slow these aerosols down. So they are not running into any challenges. They are just like floating out into...  They are like...  ...The air...  Whee .  ...Coasting out of your mouth. You are like moo moo  you know.  Pew pew pew . Shoo .   And another thing that happens is that the larger droplets that are like sort of flying out of your mouth like catapulting almost and sometimes sinking - because the air is so dry the moisture in those droplets evaporates and those droplets then suddenly transform into lighter aerosols that can also go farther.  I see. Interesting. So the little missiles coming out of my mouth are just going - are zipping through the air basically.  Yeah. Yeah exactly. But now imagine you are in a room...   Can you compare the more traditional way...  ...Let us say it is your kitchen.   You are doing some cooking.  Making some eggs.  There is a little bit of steam in the air and the humidity is just at that sweet spot of 40 to 60. And let us say you go up to your kids - good morn .  They are like Dad why are you talking to me?  All these particles fly out of your mouth. Let us say you have - you know what COVID looks like - the ball with the...  Little spiky ball yeah.  Spiky ball yeah. So that shoots out into the air...  Boo boo boo .  ...And slowly like - or actually very quickly becomes like enveloped in like a thin coating of water from the air.  Ooh.  So the humidity almost like surrounds the virus particle and causes it to like literally fall apart.  Oh that makes sense to me. That makes sense to me because I mean that is kind of one of the principles of handwashing. Is it...  Right yeah.  I mean that plus soap water - it rips open the membrane. So I wonder if it is getting like - it is a little bit like a prewash a pre-handwash.  Yeah . Should we keep going?  Yes.  Quick duet?  Sure.   On the seventh day of Christmas COVID gave to me Sarah?   Fifteen minutes of close contact.   Cumulative over 24 hours.   OK. What does that mean?  So throughout the pandemic the CDC was saying to contact tracers you should consider someone a close contact when they have been within 6 feet of someone who is infected for 15 minutes consecutively.  I see.  But they changed it to - as long as it adds up to 15 minutes cumulatively over 24 hours then you are considered a close contact. And the reason that they changed it is kind of interesting. It is basically based on one person getting COVID.  Are you there?  I am. Can you hear me?  Yes I can. Hi this is Sarah from Radiolab.  It is so nice to meet you. I am a big fan of the show.  This is not the person you are talking about.  No this is Julia.  Julia Pringle. And I am an epidemiologist.  So Julia told me that last summer there was a group of inmates at a Vermont prison that tested positive for COVID.  So that is when my team at the health department got involved.  And it was her job to track down anybody that they might have infected at the prison.  ...Video surveillance footage talked to staff.  And it turned out there was this one correctional officer that appeared to have gotten COVID around the same time as the inmates. But this person did not appear to have had close contact with them according to the CDC definition.  ...Did not have 15 minutes within 6 feet in a row.  And this was confusing because that was the rule - 15 consecutive minutes of contact means that you are at risk.  Correct.  And so what they do is they go back to the surveillance footage.  And one thing we kept noticing was this correctional officer over the course of their shift there were multiple brief encounters.  There would be a couple of minutes where they would bring food to the inmates or they would see somewhere else in the tape like a few minutes spent giving the inmates their medication. And Julia said that when they added up all these little encounters...  Collectively they approximated about 15 minutes of exposure.  Whoa.  And so they published a paper about this. And based on that one paper and that one correctional officer the CDC ended up changing their contact tracing definition for the entire country.  Wow. OK. OK.  So that is - those are just more numbers.   Yeah.  I think that is it. I think those are all the numbers I have.  OK.  But I guess there is just one last thing that I want to tell you about. You know like we were saying before these numbers obviously can be super helpful in certain ways. However they are also extremely paralyzing and could potentially be really debilitating.  Yeah. Yeah.  And so one person I talked to this guy named Martin Bazant at MIT - who is like a professor in the engineering department I believe - he actually made like an online calculator essentially which I thought was really cool. I talked to him about it. And it is this - basically yeah - this website you can go to where a lot of these factors that we have talked about you can plug in different variables for like whatever room you expect to find yourself in plug in the humidity levels plug in...  Wow.  ...Will you be wearing a mask or not? Will - what kind of mask are you going to be wearing? You know ventilation - are you going to be talking? Are you going to be exercising? You know how big is the room? You can plug all of that in and it will give you a recommendation. And so it will tell you then how many people can safely be in that room for how long. So for example I was like on - in the interview with him and I plugged in - let us say you are in the average classroom.  OK.  And everyone is sitting and wearing masks and talking.  OK.  And it spits out this number that is basically like OK 50 people can safely be in this room for seven hours which is like a very...  Really?  ...Surprising finding - right? - a surprising recommendation.  Wait is that a real number that you just said?  Yeah yeah. That is a real number. Yeah.  Oh shoot. That is...  Yeah.  ...Very heartening to hear.  Right. So - and it is sort of this you know - he finds himself in this interesting spot where on the one hand he is like you know receiving backlash because it is like OK you are enabling people to then you know go do stuff and like maybe be unsafe. But his...  Yeah.  ...Whole argument is like well you know like I do not know. If there is a way to navigate all of these variables you know and to move beyond just the like do not see anyone indoors ever you know? Like if there is a way to like account for all of these different factors in a way that makes us safer in a way that helps us keep classrooms open in a way that helps us you know keep other facets of our lives going then like why would not you want to do that? And so he was...  Yeah.  ...Telling me he is like heard from people like people emailing him that have used the online tool and have been like I was able to keep my dance studio open because I like plugged in the numbers and like it seemed to make sense.  Oh wow.  And so I had this many people in and we were really safe. And yeah.  Wow. That is cool.  Pretty neat right?  Yeah. You know it is funny. It is like that is - I mean you know what I find myself wondering about? - which I do not know if it is a helpful argument I am having in my head. But - I mean I just - I find that way of thinking very liberating...  Yeah.  ...Because it - I mean what we all have to do right now is we kind of have to be poker players. We have to sort of understand the odds and the risks involved and make decisions in the face of those risks which is what a poker player does. They make a bet when they do not know what is going to happen. But they cannot not bet right? So we have to sort of do that ourselves in the way we behave and where we choose to go and whether we choose to put our kids in school and all those things.  Right.  They are all kind of bets. And...  And it is sort of like right now we are all playing poker with like a really poor understanding of how probability works. Right?  Yes yes.  And like the question is do we educate ourselves on probability and then perhaps maybe become riskier poker players.  Or do we...  Right.  ...Just keep playing with like our really crude understanding you know?  Right. And then there is this sort of a public messaging layer on top of that which is can we afford nuance right now?  Yes.  Maybe we just need to say to people wear a mask and stay indoors and do not see anybody.  Yeah.  And go slightly crazy and have some serious mental health blowback but you will be safe that way. I mean we could say that to people which I think is probably more effective. But it also creates this whole like politicization thing which we will not even get into. But yeah I like the online tool. I suddenly want it to be like a little drone that is flying over my head. And it just watches me as I walk in and out of spaces. And then it gives me...  .  It gives me like a risk rating for every...  This like magic device that we are slowly...  .  ...Creating through all these numbers.  That is a killer gift right there.  Yeah .  Well thank you Sarah Qari.  You are welcome. And I should say thank you to my carolers - Sue Nelson  Elizabeth  and Sandy Laprelle  and Noah  and Brian Dauphin .   On the 12th day of Christmas the COVID gave to me the long-awaited Pfizer vaccine. Yay.   One big plastic face shield maybe try whispering or just not...  All right. Well I guess this is us trying to slip out the door slip out of the year.  Yep. Oh special thanks to Akiko Iwasaki Martin Bazant Julia Pringle Linsey Marr Shelly Miller William Ristenpart Bill Nye USA Today the Fraternal Order of Real Bearded Santas and the International Brotherhood of Real Bearded Santas.   I am Jad Abumrad.  I am Latif Nasser. Hope you have happy healthy - emphasis on the healthy...  Yeah.  ...Holidays and New Year. And yeah we will check you on the other side.  Thanks for listening.  This is Damon  calling from Hobart Tasmania. RADIOLAB was created by Jad Abumrad and is edited by Soren Wheeler. Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser are our co-hosts. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Matt Kielty Tobin Low Annie McEwen Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Johnny Moens. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris.   Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.