A couple months ago Amanda took her buddy Erin to see the rodeo in New York City at Madison Square Garden. Amanda goes nearly every year. Erin had never been. This was the Professional Bull Riders tour. And one of the pleasures of that particular tour is the guy they have as a rodeo clown Flint Rasmussen. The guy's like a consummate entertainer like consummate entertainer. What do you mean? I mean he commands the crowd. That is Amanda. Rasmussen's official title in fact is not rodeo clown or barrelman. It is entertainer. And unlike what you may picture in a rodeo clown he speaks. He does a running patter the whole show joking with the audience. He works in clown makeup and a cowboy hat baggy gym shorts athletic jersey. Her friend Erin totally enjoyed him. He was constantly finding people in the crowd who had their cowboy hat on backwards. Yes backwards. These were New Yorkers out for the night in Western gear having no idea how to do it properly. Flint would have the cameramen pop them onto the JumboTron. I mean it was a great joke you know. He called them Woody like the Toy Story character. That is so cold. Yeah. Rasmussen's also an amazing dancer and great physical mimic. He can move like Michael Jackson or Elvis or for laughs a piece of bacon on the griddle. He dances with people in the audience. And in that show at Madison Square Garden there came this moment. He was out in the audience moving up the aisles. Here's Erin. He was dancing with people in the crowd interacting with them. And a girl in her mid-20s came down to dance. And he visibly got uncomfortable and started backing off and asked the arena if she was too young and if this was appropriate for him to be dancing with her. And what does the arena say? The arena is fine. The girl on the JumboTron visually gives consent verbally gives consent said yes yes yes yes. She was ushering him closer. As he was backing away she was like no you can come closer. And he shakes his head and walks away while she is still egging him on. But he does not want to cross a line. And remember please this is a man in clown makeup and a cowboy hat. Erin was like wait. Has MeToo made it to clowns? I turned over and looked at my friends. And I was like you would not have seen this a year ago. Yeah. This is an amazing experience to see how the world is changing right in front of your eyes. Now remember her friend Amanda had seen Flint Rasmussen many times before at Madison Square Garden. And she told me yeah in the past he would dance with a young woman as comedy. Yeah. Like very big very exaggerated very physical slightly inept. But in general his shtick with women was fake flirting. Fake flirting yeah in very cartoonish over the top. And was it-- Playful. Playful. And she says never threatening never ever creepy. And he is really floppy. And you know he is this middle-aged corny guy wearing gym shorts. But this was his first show in New York since MeToo the first show of this year's tour. And once Erin pointed out to Amanda how weird that moment was with the woman in the aisle they both were like maybe he is still finding his way. Maybe he is trying to figure out how a man in clown makeup navigates this new MeToo world. And they both started watching for other moments. And sure enough at one point Flint greeted some celebrities in the audience-- Miss USA and some other pageant winners Miss Delaware and Miss New Jersey. Again here's Erin. And the JumboTron went to them. And the rodeo clown asked Madison Square Garden should I go visit them? Should I go see them? And the JumboTron followed him. And he was photobombing them almost behind them. While the JumboTron was on the girls he was kind of poking his head in between them with his hands up. But his hands were very visible. It just felt like a physical manifestation of I am not crossing any lines. And I want everyone to see. I feel like in the past he would probably put his arms around them. You know he would engage with them. They are beautiful ladies. But instead he did not touch them. He asked the crowd what should I do? He asked them what should I do? And it was like a real question? It seemed like a real question. So was it an anguished what do I do? It was more perplexed. Like what do I do? Yeah. Like what do I do? Like all of his usual shticks something that he is done forever and ever rodeo pageant queens how he would interact with beautiful women how he would interact for all the years that he is been doing this up until this point no longer is valid. It seemed like this veteran showman was caught in this damned if you do damned if you do not situation. There were beauty queens at the show. And it is his job. He had to do something with them. If he would do the old fake flirting shtick maybe that was not gonna play so well that particular month when middle-aged men were losing their careers for unwanted advances on young women. But saying what do I do? That did not seem like a great alternative either. It was more awkward than I expected and slightly uncomfortable. I do not know what to do right now. I remember saying that. I reached Flint Rasmussen when he was off the road and back in his home state Montana. He does a lot of shows but Madison Square Garden's a big deal. And so-- I remember the moment I stopped and said I am not really sure what I can do here. And I kind of put my hands up like hi you guys. And maybe it is not something I should say in a microphone. But I felt like I had a pretty good rapport with the crowd at that point and they would get what I was saying. He told me that sure that moment might have looked awkward to somebody in the audience. But he swears he was playing it for awkwardness intentionally. He thought it would play funnier. And he said the adjustments that he made in his performance that night in New York City were not really very big. He is never been the kind of rodeo clown who would mack on women onstage. He is careful to be respectful. When he dances with any woman in the show he says it is just not entertaining if there is any whiff that he might be hitting on her. And if someone in their 20s comes down and sees what I am doing I do not wanna be that creepy guy dancing with the 20-year-old girl. It was the perception of the woman who'd seen you before. She felt like in the past you would not have asked the crowd what should I do? You know-- Yeah probably. I may not have said that honestly. I do not know. I would have maybe said hey let us get a picture and put my arms around them possibly which I still will eventually do and still maybe should have. But I think any performer if it is not on your mind you have not turned on the television. You are not with it. It is in the back of your mind. To hear Flint tell it all this is no big deal. Change is happening in the culture. He noticed took it in and then revised how he acted onstage by turning all this into shtick. If only things were always so simple. Today in our program we have stories of people who end up in situations where it is not clear at all how to proceed. And they really do feel like every option leaves them in a damned if you do damned if you do not kind of place. And then they have to figure out a path forward. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One The Borrowers. So this is sort of an impossible choice that some refugees are going to have to make. And this is something new in the last year or two. And it is happening at one of the biggest and oldest refugee camps in the world this camp called Dadaab this vast sprawl of makeshift housing that is way out in the hot arid plains of Kenya. Just under a quarter million people live there. Most of them fled civil war and famine just across the border in Somalia. You should probably know we are in the middle of the largest refugee crisis since World War II. The Trump administration has pretty much stopped resettling refugees from this camp and from lots of places to here in the United States even people with life-threatening illnesses. But the US does give food. There is bipartisan consensus in Congress on this. We are the biggest donor by far to this camp and in general around the world. No other country is even close though in recent years other countries have cut back. And food supplies are just not keeping pace with the number of people who need food which brings us to the impossible choice that refugees are having to make at this camp in Kenya. It begins with food. Reporter Kevin Sieff who until recently was The Washington Post bureau chief in Nairobi explains. Over the last couple of years the food situation here went from bad to worse. The UN used to consistently provide enough food at the camp for three meals each day-- things like rice vegetable oil wheat flour. A lot of people told me they went from three meals a day to just one. Recently the UN has increased rations. But the situation's still pretty dire. For a bunch of bureaucratic reasons a lot of the food that the UN gets from the US is sorghum. I did not know what it is. And it turns out neither do the people in Dadaab. It is a kind of cereal that they have no idea how to cook and that they do not like. People usually barter it away. Hadija Ahmed 58 years old a single mom with three kids in the camp she remembers when the rations were cut two years ago.  We used to get milk rice wheat flour cooking oil even canned tuna. But now we do not know what is happened. Hadija's kids started complaining that they were hungry. She is used to figuring things out. So to fill the gaps she started going to a tiny shop in the camp. Lots of people do this. The markets are run mostly by other refugees and stocked with produce from outside the camp. Hadija asked the shopkeeper if she could take a little rice and milk on credit thinking I will be able to pay this back. She also bought medicine and school uniforms. And her debt kept growing. The Kenyan government does not allow refugees to work outside the camp. And then after two years this past December the store owner had enough and cut her off.  So he closed the accounts like this is the end of it. I went back home. I cried. My mind was full of you know troubles and stress. And I did not talk to the kids for a day or two. Hadija is in debt for an impossible sum here-- 350. And now her creditor was hounding her to come up with the money.  He keeps on asking me why do not you pay my debt? Do you want to run away with my debt? Are you refusing to pay my debt? Busting my brains how nagging it is. The guy who owns the shop is named Abdi Nor. Hadija says he came by her house with a Kenyan police officer and threatened to arrest her. She knew it could get even worse than that. People are often beaten up or killed over personal disputes. There was only one solution left. The UN does have a program that will give you money more money than most of the refugees here have ever seen. But it comes with a crazy catch. You have to return home to the country you fled. Refugees in Dadaab can get about 150 per person upfront if they agree to go back to Somalia. I know how that sounds. They will leave a relatively safe place and move back to the same war zone that they ran from. Posters all over the camp advertise this program. In one a woman stands in a field with a bag on her back and a baby on her chest. It says return is my choice. Hadija decided to do it.  All avenues are closed for me. There is not any other alternative. I have to go because of the debt. She was returning to a failed state a place she had not been to since 1998. The morning she was leaving for Mogadishu I met up with her and her kids at a transit center. They were surrounded by suitcases and big plastic bags with other families who were waiting to board planes and buses back to Somalia.  This morning. Hadija's saying I am sad this morning. Her son and daughter are 19 and 17. She raised them in the camp alone. Her husband died years ago. They have no memories of Mogadishu. They do not want to go back.  But I am just stopping myself from crying. The kids get scared. I am afraid they might sneak away and run away when they see me crying like this because they think I am taking them to a bad place. She was so worried about them running off that the night before she slept between the two of them. Nobody was getting any real sleep though. Her son Ahmed was a few months away from graduating high school. Now he was dropping out and going to a place where boys his age were kidnapped by insurgents. This is Ahmed. Last night up to now I have not slept. You did not sleep at all last night? Yeah. I was just-- I was awake chatting with my friends saying them goodbye. I was thinking about making new friends. It is hard to make a new friend you know. I am thinking about what will happen. My life is going to be dangerous because I am going somewhere which is dangerous. And I cannot trust that I can live there a long time. Do you know why your mom's making this decision? Yeah. I know very well. The main reason that she is going back is for us. If we were not there she will not borrow any debt. It is 350 basically. Yeah 350. And that money is changing your life. Yeah. I am changing my life because of that money. If there was not that money I will stay here. Ahmed kept telling me how guilty he felt. He said Hadija was a good mom. When he asked for shoes she bought them. When he was hungry she fed him. He never thought about how she was paying for everything. He was a kid. But now he thinks maybe they would not be going back to Somalia if he had not asked for so much. I would met creditors like the one who loaned money to Hadija. They were pretty menacing guys gangster types with dark sunglasses and jewelry relentless in their attempts to get their money back. At one point after talking to Hadija for a while I was off talking to my interpreter. And he said hey you know her creditor the store owner he is here with her. And I looked over. And there he was this guy Abdi Nor. He would snuck into the transit center. He wanted to make sure she was leaving so he would get all of his money back. He had no sunglasses no jewelry. He was carrying a brown notebook with an itemized bill for Hadija. What is in the notebook? Like this is rice 6508 shillings. For sugar 5500. And this is 4900 in cash. She borrowed cash? Yeah. Total there are about let us see about 15 lines with a big line under all of that that says 35000 shillings or 350. But as I spent more time with them I realized Abdi was not some kind of mob boss trying to shake people down for money. He is a 23-year-old guy who still looks like a kid-- soft-spoken a failing attempt at a mustache sitting quietly on the ground next to Hadija. It turns out they live in the same block in the camp and he is friends with her kids. They actually have a real relationship. That is why Abdi Nor let her take out groceries on credit from his tiny sheet metal stall in one of Dadaab's busy markets. She comes to me every day while she is crying. She is saying I do not have food for my children. I have felt very emotional because I do not want to see her children suffering. And I know her. I cannot see her dying. I know her situation. So I have just allowed her to take that money from me. And the money that I have given to Hadija that is a lot of money almost half of my yearly earning. Half of your yearly earning. Yeah. Hadija's debt 350 that is the most credit Abdi Nor has ever lent out to any of his customers. Most of them are running smaller tabs with him-- 16 there another 40 here. It adds up. In total Abdi Nor is in way more debt than Hadija-- about 1500 to the big shops outside of the camp mostly other Somalis living in Kenya. It scares him the hole he is dug for himself. He says he had no choice but to cut Hadija off. So when you were asking for your money you could see that it was stressing her out. Yeah. And I also feel sorry for her. But I do not have any other option. I need my money. I have a small shop. I am about to close that shop because of this debt. Do you think the police would have arrested her eventually if she had stayed? Yeah. I think they will have come for her. Because they may also come for me. I think I may be forced to go back to Somalia because I am facing the problems they are facing also. I mean are you going to be in the same situation as she is? The only way to pay that debt is the same--? It is the same way. I do not have another option. People all over the world risk their lives in boats and with smugglers to try to get refugee status. But you can give up refugee status too. There is a name for the process-- deregistration. I followed Hadija and her family through the process. They are taken from table to table to sign forms and to give their fingerprints-- a conveyor belt of bureaucracies. OK. So now Hadija's coming.  Her fingerprints are being taken now.   He is applying the ink on the machine.  Now I am about to surrender my refugee status on this table. One of the deregistration officers then says this is the last process. This is the last process. So are they surrendering their refugee status? Is that what is happening? They are surrendering their refugee status here. We are taking the fingerprint of the left thumb to show that this person has left the country to his own country. So after this they are no longer refugees. They are Somalis. They are not refugees. Right now they are Somali citizens not Kenyan refugees. It is a big moment. It is hard to explain the magnitude of what Hadija is giving up. She was a part of a tiny fraction of refugees who had been singled out by the UN a few years ago for possible resettlement in the United States. She says she would already done a couple of interviews. Now she is pulling herself out of the pipeline. And if Hadija decided she wanted to come back from Somalia again she would no longer be considered a refugee. It would be harder to get food and shelter and to get her kids back in school at the camp. As I watch Hadija go through this so many of the UN and Kenyan government workers who are shuffling Hadija and all these refugees through the process tell me how terrible they feel and what a bad idea they think it is for people to go back to Somalia. For the refugees now life has become some more hard. People are expecting to get resettlement. And resettlement now is-- Trump has refused them to go back. So I think some of them they have lost hope of seeing this come. We are feeling of guilt of doing this but because-- You feel guilty doing it. Yes. We feel guilty because we do not want these people to go back. We want them to stay. Some refugees who have returned to Mogadishu have died in terrorist attacks. Others have already come back to Dadaab. And they have tried to warn people like Hadija that it is too dangerous. I talked to top UN officials about this about refugees using repatriation money to pay off their debt. They say they are aware that it is a problem facing some people. They dispute that it is widespread. And they are not ready to change the program. They say there is a need for a program like this. Some refugees do not want to live at Dadaab anymore. They need the repatriation money to restart their lives in Somalia. The real problem here the UN said is that it is caught in its own impossible position. It is just not getting enough foreign aid to buy food. Later we all got on a pink bus with yellow stars on the windows and took the bumpy road out to the airstrip. The airstrip is an exclamation mark of asphalt the only paved thing for miles surrounded by an endless plain of lava-red sand. I have been reporting at this camp over the last few years. And I have come to think of this strip as the capital of the camp the departure point for its luckiest and unluckiest residents. I got used to meeting families clutching their winter coats in the 100-degree heat with paperwork that named their future homes in places like Seattle and Minneapolis. Now with refugee resettlement stalled under President Trump those flights have pretty much stopped. Instead the planes are headed for Somalia. When Hadija and her family arrived at the airfield she and other refugees dragged all their belongings off the bus-- suitcases along with mattresses Qurans pots and pans. A few minutes later a UN official sitting under a white tent calls out her name. They are in line. They are getting their money now. She is putting her fingerprints down under her name. Her two kids are then called over. Kids come over here. And now it is her daughter's turn. She is putting her fingerprints down. OK. So there is a line of people. And there is a man with a pile of white envelopes. Each of them has a name on it. He takes the cash out of the envelope-- 100 bills-- and counts them in front of them.  I see he counted 450. And he is handing it now to Hadija. They are giving her the repatriation money right here in cash four 100s and a 50 in US bills. That is the total for her and her son and her daughter-- 150 per person. So now Hadija's walking away. She is got the envelope with the money. And we just need to follow them. Let us go. We give out the money the debt that is what my mom said. She immediately starts walking towards Abdi Nor who somehow made it onto the airstrip. She is taking the money out. She just handed it to Abdi Nor in the white envelope. She did this right in front of UN officials officials who are here to oversee this process that the UN calls voluntary repatriation. Around 100 feet away a bunch of other refugees are also paying their creditors slipping bills through the barbed wire fence at the edge of the airfield. Everywhere I look people were settling their debts. For the moment Hadija stood alone. So you had-- in your hand you held the money for 30 seconds. And then you had to give it away.  Yes. Because this money I have ate long before. This money she ate. Yeah. And why I am leaving is because of giving it out. She had 100 left. She gave 50 of it to an older son who is staying behind in the camp. He was afraid to go. Hadija and her kids huddled around him. They are saying goodbye to the other son. They are hugging.   We are leaving now. I am leaving my son. And I am leaving you guys to say bye. OK. They are being told to queue and go to the field. OK. All right. OK. Now they are queuing for the flight. OK. They just called her name. She walks up the steps. All right. They are pulling up the steps. Wheels up. It is flying out over the airfield over the camp over the shrubs. And in about five minutes they will probably be in Somalia. Abdi Nor looked on as Hadija and her kids his friends flew away. I went to meet him and asked how he was feeling. I felt happy to get my money back but I also felt sorry for her. The only other person who paid him off like this and flew to Mogadishu was another mom who went back with her daughter. Not long after they got there a gigantic truck bomb went off in the city killing more than 500 people including her daughter. It was one of the deadliest terrorist attacks anywhere since 911. After the bomb blast I felt very emotional because I think she did not deserve. I have followed returnees back to Mogadishu. I have seen the massive impoverished displacement camps where they end up many of them partially controlled by Islamist extremists. They are way bleaker than Dadaab. So when do you think you have to make your own decision? I do not have a deadline. But I think it is not far. It is not far. I am thinking about it right now. It may be next month or-- Really? You might have to go back pretty soon? Yes. I think so. And today I mean you saw the plane leave. That is the same plane that you would take if you went back. Yes. That is the exact same plane that I will go. Dadaab was never the world's most hopeful place. But for so long there was at least the possibility of escape. From across the camp you used to be able to see the flights overhead full of lucky people on their way to America. Kevin Sieff he is a foreign correspondent for The Washington Post. Thanks to his interpreter in Kenya Abdi Hussein. The United Nations World Food Programme needs 8 million a month in donations to support all the refugees in Kenya. They never ever get that much. If you personally would like to help and get at least a bit more food in there they do take donations from people not just from governments. Go to wfp.org. Again that is like World Food Programme wfp.org. Coming up a parent desperate to help her kid has only one option through a perverse loophole in the law. But does she dare to use it? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Damned If You Do stories of people faced with options where all the options are bad. We have arrived at act two of our program. Act Two We Must Destroy This Family in Order to Save It. So Eileen and her 19-year-old son Noah they are not agreeing about some of the big issues like for instance death as it occurs in Star Wars movies. We do not even know that he is dead. Wait. Luke? We do not know that he is dead. They say that all the time. When a Jedi evaporates it is the same thing that happened with Yoda. Their physical body's gone but their Jedi spirit is around. I mean jeez. You are from-- What do I know? I am just a mom. Yeah. You are just a mom. Come back to me when you know what you are talking about. They live in the Chicago suburbs have two dogs go on vacations to Florida get along well enough as you can hear. But it took a while to get there. In fact as a parent Eileen had to deal with the kinds of decisions that other parents fear that they are going to have to make. And this story is about this one moment in Noah's life when Eileen faced the toughest of those decisions. Shannon Heffernan tells the story. Noah's problem started when he was little. He would throw fits like not standard kid fits-- shrieking kicking completely uncontrollable for hours. He would run from one end to the other down this hallway. And he would literally bounce himself off a wall. Like he needed that pressure on him to stop his impulses. His diagnoses started when he was around five-- ADHD obsessive compulsive disorder oppositional defiant disorder mood disorder. He would pull out his own hair so he had bald patches on his head. But Eileen's a nurse has a calm can-do attitude in emergency situations. Blood and guts is a matter of routine. So she found solutions like pillow therapy. She would put a pillow over Noah and lay on top of him. The pressure calmed him. By the time he was in kindergarten doctors had put him on a bunch of different meds. Noah asked why he had to take them. Eileen was like no problem. And she explained. I sat down with a piece of paper and crayons or markers or something. And I said look this is what a normal brain looks like. See how all the pathways connect? Your brain tried to form right but your brain is kind of like a bowl of spaghetti. Sometimes the connections are there. And sometimes there is a blockage and then it had to grow a different way. So when you are having issues your brain is trying to make it go through here. And then it gets blocked. And that is why you have to take medication. Still they constantly had to change his meds. Sometimes it seemed like nothing worked. As Noah got bigger his outbursts got scarier. When he was about 10 at an Easter brunch Noah showed up in the doorway with a carving knife and said he was going to stab himself. When Noah's family could not get the knife away from him they called 911. The cops got the knife away and the paramedics took him to the emergency room. Eileen started finding knives hidden under the couch. She worried what Noah might do to himself. She also worried about her daughter Bridget. She is seven years younger than Noah. In middle school Noah would go into these rages throw things shove furniture. He never hurt her but it was scary. Eileen would tell Bridget-- Go in the car and lock the door. Because I knew I could still see her. She was safer in the car. He could not get in the car. And then I would go in the car as well at some point. And then he would be outside the car screaming and yelling and pounding on the car. Noah's 19 now. The explosions were as frightening to him as they were to the people around him. It was scary. It was very scary. Because it is the type of thing where you have a random burst of uncontrollable actions. When he began to calm down it was like waking up from a nightmare. And when you awake it is like you are scared of what you just did. So it was this type of thing where when I awoke from it I saw there was things broken on the wall. There was a lot of knives thrown everywhere things broken things on the floor. Sometimes it would be so intense that I am not conscious of what I was doing. It was a thing where like it ate at me really because day in and day out I always thought to myself oh my god. What if I really hurt someone? And I do not know what I am going to do. Eileen met Noah before she was actually his mom. She was a neonatal nurse working the night shift. He was a preemie only 1 pound 7 ounces. He had drugs in his system from his birth mom. She disappeared on him left him at the hospital. Child welfare workers said he would be hard to find a home for because he was so medically fragile. They said he would probably end up in a special kind of nursing home for babies. And that broke Eileen's heart. And so she decided to adopt him. She was single. She did not have a lot of money. And she knew Noah needed lots of help. But she thought I have always wanted to be a mother. I am a nurse. Who better than me? She borrowed a car seat and crib from a friend filled out all the necessary paperwork with DCFS the Department of Children and Family Services and took Noah home. When he was a baby Eileen brought him everywhere with her. He was easy. But as he got older and started having these meltdowns she says her friends and family stopped inviting them over. She calls mental illness a no casserole disease. If your kid has cancer people show up on your doorstep with casseroles. If your kid is hospitalized with mental health everybody runs away. From the time he was five Noah sometimes wound up in the hospital for psychiatric care sometimes for weeks at a time. Remember Noah had been abandoned by his biological parents as a newborn. So Eileen always reassured him that she was not going to leave him there. Yeah. I always would promise him yes I am coming back. I promise I will not leave you. I have said that his whole life that I am not going anywhere. You are stuck with me. By the time Noah reached high school Eileen estimates he would been hospitalized 30 times. She says police and paramedics knew them by name. That is how much she called 911. Noah's doctor started saying they had to stop dealing with his illness in crisis mode. He should go to residential care a facility get 24-hour supervision live there for months at a time. Social workers said the same thing. The kind of intensive services Noah needed if he wanted to stay at home they were too expensive for Eileen for most people. But Eileen was not sure about residential. She could not stand the idea of Noah being in an institution. But she worried if she did not do something soon he would end up in juvie or he would hurt himself. Because he had said multiple times that that is what he was thinking about. And I never really believed him. But I did not want to be that parent who people would say on the news-- they would be sitting at home and going well how did she not see the signs? My god he was in the hospital 30 different times. How did she not know? I was not going to be that person that did not try every single thing they could. Better off that he is mad at me than he is no longer here. Well I was more than mad. I was beyond mad. For a time I hated-- I hated everybody for a time. But looking back I mean I did do some very bad things some of the stuff I told you about. But I am not going to say it on live radio because I do not want to be perceived as a monster. But I mean yeah I did very very stupid things. Eileen started calling around to residential homes. But none of them had an open bed for a kid on public aid which was Noah's situation. She considered paying for a residential place on her own. But when she did the math it came out to about 100000 for six months. There was no way she could afford it. So Eileen worked her way up the chain of command hoping someone could find a facility the state would pay for. She called social workers state r