This spring sometime after South Carolina governor Mark Sanford publicly confessed that his soulmate was a woman in Argentina who was not his wife which was just after the Elizabeth Edwards book tour where she talked about the child that her husband allegedly had with a woman who was not her which was of course right on the heels of Jon and Kate splitting up after reports that he had an affair which was all before Nevada senator John Ensign admitted paying 96000 in cash to his former mistress and her husband after her husband found out about their relationship a writer named Jessica Pressler noticed something going on in the weddings pages of the New York Times what the paper calls their Vows section. She saw that there were couples getting married who cheerfully told the newspaper in the little write up that they do there as part of their meet cute story that the way they got together was that one of them cheated on a spouse or longtime partner. I believe one of them says-- the headline on it is something like it took awhile but they finally got together and you are like because he was having a three-year relationship with another person in the meantime. Jessica Pressler wrote up her discovery on the New York magazine blog Daily Intel. She noted that there was a kind of code language in all these wedding articles. They always say like their road to finding each other was a bumpy road. Or they had a difficult time many ups and downs. They encountered some obstacles along the way. And it is like no those are people. Those are other lives. They are not speed bumps. Take for instance the married women who according to a romantic write up on the Vows page of the New York Times flew to Paris to see another man and stayed with him in a hotel in the Latin quarter for two weeks where they quote reveled in their Vie Boheme before she flew back to the US and moved out of the home in New Jersey that she shared with her husband. I mean it is just weird because Vows is something that you have to try to get into. You have to lobby to get into that column. So it is like Mark Sanford he had to speak publicly about his affair. Most people do not have to go around telling everybody about it. See but that is what is so strange about it. Is that somehow some part of them does not think I should not talk about this. Somehow the notion I had an affair is so just nothing to them. Right. I think it is probably just people when they cheat on other people tell themselves that they are doing it because they have to because fate is involved. And whatever happened you are better off and probably the person that you broke up with is better off. And this is the way it was meant to be. This is fate. As for the cheated on ex-partner when the story appears in the newspaper on the wedding pages it is almost as if the newspaper is siding with the cheating couple. The ex-partner is just collateral damage on the way to their wedding. They do not get to say anything for the themselves. It is not their story anymore. It is somebody else's love story. But that is the thing if it were any other section of the newspaper the reporter would go to them too for a comment. To get their side. I think they should do that. But because it is the wedding section it is just like well it is not really their story. Right. Yeah they have no say for themselves. They are done. This had nothing to do with them. It is very bizarre. It raises all kinds of questions for me. As a reader I am very distracted by it. Well today on our radio program we go where the newspaper marriage columns fear to tread. We hear from all parties to the affair the cheated on as well as the cheaters and their different takes on what happened. And no surprise they are very different from one another's. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Today on our show Infidelity. Stay with us. Let me kiss your stiff upper lip. We begin with this story from England which if you have read any 19th century literature seems to be an island that is filled entirely with people who are full of submerged and often misplaced passions for other people. Here's Ruby Wright. Andrew you have always lived in Dorset? Yeah. But why did you end up in this part of Dorset? I was looking for a house for myself and my two daughters somewhere to live. I always wanted to live in the countryside having always lived in the towns in Dorset. And I saw it in the paper. It is as simple as that. And you did not know anyone around here? No. So how did you know about us? I was at the pub. And this couple walks in and the bloke was wearing a leopard-skinned pillbox hat and I thought I have got to get to know this person. And he had a very attractive wife I think that was-- I just saw them in the pub and thought I must know these people. This guy Andrew moved to the village. And he would met us both together at the same time in the pub. And I would say that we both had a closeness to Andrew. My closeness to Andrew was very much about talking about how I felt and how he felt. And he would have various unsuitable girlfriends. He would have flings with people. And I would say come on then Andrew tell me about it. I liked it he was very candid. I was a single parent at the time and it just seemed an idyllic situation. A beautiful old cottage with this couple and their daughter living in it. And it was a home from home became a home from home for me. And you became a very good friend. And I remember you would come up a lot and we would come down and see you. And you were always a very cozy person to have around. It was always a delight when you used to come up and see us. Yes. I would argue that I would fallen in love with the whole family. Including you and Ed indeed at that point. When I started to fall in love with Andrew it was like my falling in love with him was a direct parallel of my father dying. So as my father was dying at home of cancer I was falling deeper and deeper in love with this man Andrew. And Andrew would talk to me about my father dying because he would been with his mother who died of a brain tumor. He would actually been beside her bed with her as she died and during that period. And I think I valued being with someone. Because George's parents were both still very much alive at that point. I think for me it was sort of-- I felt he had an understanding of what it was like. And it was very hard for me not to fall in love with him. Did you think something was always going to happen? No. I was convinced nothing would happen. I had fallen in love with her so probably over the summer after her father's death I was single at the time just living with Tams my younger daughter. And I did not really want a partner at the time. So falling in love with Lal I thought that is OK. I can love somebody from afar and I do not need to love anyone else. And it had never occurred to me that she might even dream of falling in love with me. It just did not occur to me that Lal might look at anyone other than George. How did I know? Well I would come back from this trip and it was Christmas. And Lal said We are going to spend Christmas with Andrew. And I was delighted because I could not think of anybody nicer to spend Christmas with. And I remember Andrew coming up the evening I got back. I was going off to get the present for him that I would bought. I thought that is odd Lal and Andrew are not talking to each other. There is silence in the kitchen. And when he left he kissed her on the back of the head. And I just-- something I do not know maybe I was-- one part of me was expecting something to happen one of these days. It was confirmed because mum has left her diary lying around. And I read it and there it was. So it was like she wanted you to find out without having to say it. I think yes. And you actually had to tell me. Were you going to tell me together? Yes. We were going to tell you-- I do not think we would even discussed telling you. But what happened was you had been away on a holiday and had come home. And I picked you up I think. And you said to me Where is mum? And I thought what am I going to tell Ruby? I have probably half a minute to decide. Am I going to tell her the truth or am I going to make up some story? And I thought-- I just said to you Well I think she is down at Andrew's. And I did not have to say any more. You seemed to know. You were very angry with me quite rightly. And I think up until that point we had always had a very close relationship. And your anger manifested itself mostly by you just refusing to see me. I think people were very shocked by what happened. And I was very shocked. And Dad was very shocked. Were you surprised at yourself? Or were you surprised at the force of your own attraction and actions? I am shocked now at how incredibly selfishly I acted. And how oblivious I was to your pain and George's pain and Ed's pain. Almost like I deserved this thing I was on this track and I was heading off on it and nothing was going to deter me. But as to say almost as if I deserved it. Almost as if I was owed it. George was tipped off. And I felt-- as soon as I knew I felt I had to go and face him. So I walked up to Manitoba and I can remember standing outside in the bottom field for a good half an hour summoning up the courage to go and say to George This is true. I would expected quite literally expected him to hit me or bloody my nose or something like that. Or at least shout at me or rave. I knocked on the door he said Oh Andrew. Andrew come in. Come in. Have a glass of wine. Five minutes later I was in floods of tears and George was not. It is just very odd. It was all kind of wrong. But what he said to me stayed with me until now really he said Andrew I have lost my partner. I do not want to lose my best friend. I know I have a real problem with anger. I mean I do not tend to get angry. I find it a very hard emotion to express. But I was angry at that point. I was very angry. I remember standing at the sink doing the drying up and somehow the plates ended up being smashed on the floor. The emotions were very very odd because I was terribly terribly fond of Andrew and he was very concerned about my well-being. At that point I still believed strongly that we would all become friends again. I am looking back and it is all terribly naive really. But that is what I felt at the time so I wanted to keep some kind of relationship with George for this future blissful time when we were all friends again. I think in my fantasy world I would have carried on having a passionate physical sexual relationship with Andrew and a fond relationship with George. And the two would have somehow run together. I think some couples through all their anger or hatred or battles there is this incredible chemistry that still comes back. To your irritation you cannot get rid of this-- and I think with George somehow for me the chemistry disappeared quite early on. I mean the one thing we have not discussed in all of this you know the question of sex. I mean that was really at the heart of our split up. That mum did not-- she was not satisfied in that department. And I knew that I had a part in this. That there was an aspect of our relationship namely the sexual part of it that I was not facing up to. That I had a responsibility in it. I was not an innocent victim as it were. You could say that George loved Lal he could understand me loving Lal. And whilst that was contrary to his needs or wishes or whatever he could understand it. In a sense I think he never blamed me. I think he blamed Lal and not me. It got very complicated because George and Andrew far from becoming rivals and having a duel at dawn-- far from George challenging Andrew to a duel at dawn George kind of welcomed Andrew into the fold and Andrew became a kind of member of my family but without me there. And there would be Sunday lunches and Saturday suppers and dances in Evershot. He was part of that. And of course I felt like I was living in exile. I felt like I would been exiled to this foreign country albeit a beautiful one and it was six miles away. But I felt I could not have been further away. And Andrew was welcomed into the bosom of the family. And I think that caused enormous resentment for me. I know it did. And I do not know whether Andrew ever understood that what it was like on a Sunday to know that he was having lunch with my daughter and my son my ex-partner. And I was here. What then happened was that mum's relationship with Andrew did not last. And I still continued to see Andrew because he lived just around the corner. And I know that she found that incredibly hard. That when despite the fact that she was not seeing Andrew that I still was his friend. And she felt excluded from my new life. I did not think she had much right. I have heard people say that it is impossible to have a relationship. You cannot say with the person you leave your family for because there is too much guilt and emotion. Do you think the fact that you left George for Andrew ultimately meant that you could not continue this relationship with him? Yes I do. I do not think it is impossible. But I think it was if not inevitable it was quite likely that those seeds of destruction that were laid right at the beginning and blame did in the end undermine our relationship. Do you wish that you could turn the clock back? No because at that point I think I was still completely obsessed with Andrew. This idea that love being a madness. So I do not think at that point I did wish I could -- I think it was much later I would wake in the night with the window on the wrong side of the room sometime around dawn or before dawn I think. I would just think what am I doing in this place? How have I got here? And it was as if I would sleepwalked out of my other life with no explanation and I would woken up and here I was. And it was truly terrifying. And I think that as long as I was damaging you lot I was really not aware. But it was when I came to damage myself that was when I really woke up. Because I lost you. Effectively I lost you between the ages of 13 and 18. So my biggest loss was losing you for five years. At puberty. You were 13 you were just about to have your first period. You went off with George to Africa. You came back and you looked different. And actually with maternal intuition-- which I obviously did not have much of-- I remember looking at you and thinking she is changed. She started her period. She is becoming a young woman. And sure enough you told me. And I though God George was there for that. Her dad was there for that. Why was not I there for that? And I think during that whole time we did not really talk about how we felt did we? No. I do not think so. Ruby Wright. She does a music show called Ruby's Chicky Boil-Ups. It airs every other Sunday on radionowhere.org. Her website is rubywright-- that is W-R-I-G-H-T-- dot com. Coming up what to say to your parents about the rich married guy who set you up in an apartment when you are 22 years old. And what to say to yourself. And other dilemmas of cheaters and the cheated on. In a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Infidelity. Recently when CNN did a story about Elizabeth Edwards it was interesting to read the comments on CNN's website. There were nearly 300 comments a lot of them just vicious. Calling her crazy calling her delusional calling her an idiot to stay with her husband John Edwards. But a few women wrote in to say it all seemed more complicated than that. One posted this I am in this situation right now. It is a difficult call to make. My mom was a psychologist and she specialized in couples where somebody had cheated. She treated hundreds of these couples and she did studies looking at hundreds more. She wrote a book about her findings. There is solid research a variety of researchers have shown that in one out of two couples one or both partners will cheat during the lifetime of a relationship. That is 50 percent of all relationships. Most affairs are never detected. And one of the surprising things that my mom found out in her research was that tons of people will have affairs even though they are happy in their marriage. You do not have to be unhappy to have an affair. 56 of the men and 34 of the women in one of my mom's studies said they cheated though their marriage was happy. And she said lots of couples came in to see where that was the situation. Where not only the cheated on partner but the cheater seemed genuinely surprised that this had happened in their marriage. Which brings us to our next story. About the cheaters lurking inside any relationship. We are at Act 2 of our show Act 2 The Italian Job. This story comes from James Braly who told it at the storytelling series The Moth in front of a live audience. I am sitting on my suitcase in the main train station in Rome next to my girlfriend Susan who is sitting on hers. And we are rifling through our Let us Go Europe trying to agree on the next destination of our vacation. Susan grew up in Germany so she will go basically anyplace. As long as it is sunny. But I need to go to the right place. And I have a pathological terror of going to the wrong place. So whenever Susan suggests someplace in particular I suggest someplace else. Because I can see something wrong with every place. And this is a gift I bring to every area of my life notably my relationship with Susan. We have been together for about seven years since college and every time she brings up the subject of commitment-- maybe it is a good time to get married-- I say I think I need a little more time just to make sure that what we are doing is right. So as a result all of the lights on the arrivals and departures board are blinking. And the man on the public address system keeps saying departione over and over and over again. And Susan is up on her feet screaming at me Make up your mind before all the trains pull out. While I am kind of hypnotized by the hem of this flower print dress it is about 10 feet away fluttering in the breeze each time a train pulls in or out of the station. Which at this point is frequently. Which is hanging off what may be the most beautiful woman I have ever seen who is standing next to her beautiful friend. When Susan says Are you looking at those women? And I say Where? And she says Right there in the flower print dresses. And I say You mean them? And she says Yes. They look interesting do not they? Like maybe they are going someplace interesting we might want to go. You know what? I think I will ask them. And before I can tell her what a bad idea that is she is over there talking to them in French. And they are pointing at me and a few minutes later she is introducing them to me. Isabel is the beautiful one and her sister is a gloriously beautiful woman named Franz who has a face off of one of those French go to war buy war bonds posters that makes you want to invade. So I am just staring at her as Susan says Guess what James? They are going to Positano. Which is one of the numerous fishing villages we debated going to. What do you say we all travel together? And two minutes later Franz and I are on the same vacation. Sitting on a train to Naples and then on a hydrofoil to Positano and then checking into the same hotel into adjacent rooms where we are going to change into our swimsuits and meet on the beach. Now I have not been in a swimsuit for years since the last time I was on the beach. And I am looking in the mirror in the hotel and things have changed since then. A little Italian bakery opened up around the corner from my office. And I would been going there every workday having apricot bear claws. And now I have two apricot bear claws hanging off the sides of my waist bubbling up over my swimsuit. And it is one thing to decay in front of your girlfriend there is a kind of mutual decay contract where you are all going to atrophy at more or less the same rate. But I do not have that deal with Franz. And there is no way she is seeing my bear claws. So when we meet on the beach the girls are in French bikinis. And I am in my shorts and my button down shirt from the train ride like I forgot to undress half myself. And after a couple hours of them swimming Franz comes over to me and says Do you not swim? And I say Indoors. I burn easily. And she hands me her bottle of sunblock. And I start to shake my head sadly and point to one of the ingredients and I say I am allergic. There are six more days to go. So the next morning after an all nighter with Let us Go Europe I have a comprehensive understanding of all the cultural high points within a 30-mile radius of the city of Positano. None of which include the beach. There is Mount Vesuvius and the Grottoes of Capri and the Hanging Gardens at Ravenna. And we can go to a beach anywhere but there is only so many places you can see this kind of culture. That is the position I am taking. And the French love culture. And the Germans admire the French. So six days later we are all just about as pasty as when we stepped off the hydrofoil. My secret waist is still a secret. And I make it to the last night we have a little farewell dinner at a seaside restaurant and we are walking on the beach one last time for old time's sake. Saying our goodbyes. Everyone is a little misty. Except me. I cannot wait to go home in the morning. When Franz says Does anyone want to go swimming? And her relatively more modest sister says We do not have suits. And fearless guileless dramatic Susan says That is OK with me. And a couple of minutes later they are standing on the beach in panties and bras. Which are very different than bikinis. And Franz's are chocolate brown lace. Her skin is the color of milk. She looks like a profiterole. My favorite dessert. It is agony to keep my eyes open but I cannot close them. And the three of them run into the water laughing and splashing and then finally disappearing underneath the surface. So everything is quiet for a moment and then one two three they pop up and start calling at me like sirens. Who actually lived in Positano 3000 years ago. James come in. It is wonderful. I have not been swimming one time and it is dark. So I make a decision. I am going to take off my shoes and socks and pants and I put them on a beach chair. And I unbutton my shirt and thread out my arms so that it is just hanging there like a little poncho. And when Franz disappears into the water again it goes off on the back of a beach chair and I am in. But I have waited so long to make up my mind that Susan's cold. Franz's sister is ready to go back as well. But Franz is fine and I just got in and we are all vacation buddies. So Susan and the sister go back to the hotel leaving Franz and I for first time alone. In the dark in our underwear in the Mediterranean where they invented the word philander. And where it occurs to me we can have sex without her seeing my body. So I swim around for a little bit and trying to figure out what is the personal space in the Mediterranean. How close can you swim before you cannot swim away? And whatever that distance is Franz swims right to the edge of it and says The water makes me feel so free. It is not having that effect on me. I got bear claws to hide and promises to keep. And I am so tense that I cannot breathe normally which makes me look abnormal. Which leads Franz to say Is everything OK? Maybe we should go back. And she gets out of the water and stands on the beach dripping in the moonlight dabbing at herself with her dress. So I have got one eye on her and the other on my shirt which is fluttering off the back of this chair. And I get closer and closer spreading my legs wider and wider so that only my head is visible. Like an alligator. It looks like I am in about six feet of water but really it is about 18 inches. My thighs are in agony and I cannot hold out much longer when Franz lifts her dress over her head and I spring up on the beach and behind the chair and I am wet but covered when her head pops through the dress hole and steps back in surprise and lets out a little French vowel Ah. And we get dressed and we are walking across the cobblestones back to the hotel which are slightly uneven so the backs of our hands brush. And she takes mine in hers. Which I have read in the Let us  Europe is a friendly and warm gesture among European women. Do not get any ideas. So I am feeling friendly and warm trying not to have any ideas. When Franz says Susan is very lucky to have you. And I say Well thank you very much but I am very lucky to have her. Trying to regain a shred of dignity while holding onto this woman's hand. And Franz smiles the smile of the boyfriendless and yet supremely confident goddess and says Why? And there are all sorts of reasons I am lucky to have Susan but I cannot think of any of them at the moment. Because my mind is blank. And I say Well why are you friends? And Franz looks at me and says Because she pursued me. And our hips bump at the base of the stairs of the mountain to the hotel and she puts her arm around my waist. Right above the bear claw. And all I can think is to hunch down like I have got osteoporosis so that her arm slides up my rib cage. But with each step up the stairs it slides back down. And then it hits. And she starts laughing this bubbly French laugh. And she says What softage. I do not speak French and I do not know want to know that means anyway. So I keep walking. And she says it again. What softage. You have a life preserver. It is so cute. And she keeps her hand right there. Like a girlfriend. Up the stairs and into the lobby of the hotel and into the elevator which is too bright and too small to be touching. It is a tiny little hotel tiny little elevator. So she is in one corner and I am in the other when the doors close and the floors start ringing off one by one. And we just look at each other. And there is not much more time to go. And then the doors open before I can make up my mind what to do and we are standing there in front of our rooms and she just looks at me with the most beautiful face I have ever been swimming with and one that I have never wanted to kiss more. But I just cannot do it to Susan. So I kiss Franz on the cheek three times which I have learned that week. Which allows you to change your mind potentially. But I make it into my room and I close the door behind me and Susan's up in bed reading Let us  Europe in anticipation of the debate that is probably going to happen tomorrow morning over where to go. And she looks up and says How was it? And I say It was hard Susan. It was really hard. And she looks right at me and says I know. Like she does know. Like she really understands why I have avoided the beach for a week on the beach vacation. And she accepts it. So I take off my shirt and get in bed next to her and turn my back. And suddenly I start crying these weepy little hide them in your hotel room pillow tears. Which is not the kind of guy I am. I am a poker-faced poker-bodied magical thinker. I have been eating bear claws for a year and thinking I am in shape. And that I can be faithful and philander at the same time. And it is an overwhelmingly sad and yet strangely comforting relief to lie there and know that I cannot. And that I have actually made a choice that after seven days-- seven years really most of my adult life-- to lie there next to Susan and right or wrong finally be me. Thank you. James Braly. He is touring the country with a one-man show called Life in a Marital Institution which he is also turning into a book. His website jamesbraly-- that is B-R-A-L-Y-- dot com. Thanks as always to The Moth which features personal stories told live in front of an audience. For more Moth stories check out The Moth's great free weekly podcasts at themoth.org. And The Moth has started its own radio show The Moth Radio Hour which we welcome onto the scene now on public radio stations around the country.  Act 3 How did I get here? So James Braly gave us the thoughts of somebody in a moment before infidelity occurs. Dani Shapiro has this story about the confusing mess it can be during the affair. Here in no particular order are some things Lenny told me. That he and his wife did not sleep in the same bed. That they have not had a real marriage in years. That she was undergoing electroshock treatment in a clinic outside Philadelphia. That he had cancer and had to fly to Houston three days a week for chemotherapy. That his youngest daughter age three had a rare form of childhood leukemia. That he could not get a divorce for all of the above reasons. That he was heartbroken that he could not leave his wife and marry me. For a long time I believed him with every bone in my body I trusted that Lenny Klein was telling me the truth. When we talked about it his jaw would tighten and his big brown eyes would fill with tears. His voice would quaver with pent-up complex feelings that I could not possibly begin to understand. Poor Lenny. I marveled that so many bad things could happen to one person. And I vowed to take care of him. I exhorted myself to be a real woman one who could step up to the plate and be good to her man in his moment of crisis. Years later I hold Lenny's lies up to the light and examine my own reasons for believing what in retrospect seems preposterous. I reread my old journals and noticed the way my girlish handwriting deteriorated into a scrawl as I wrote I have to be there for Lenny he needs me and he is going through so much. I do not know if I can handle it but I have to be strong. I try to remember that Lenny was a trial lawyer that he built an international reputation based on his own pathology. That he lied with an almost evangelical conviction. He prided himself on being able to convince anyone of anything. The lies had small beginnings. Lenny called me from a business trip and told me he was at Montreal airport waiting to catch a flight to Calgary. I checked with the airline and found out that the flight would take approximately five hours so when Lenny called an hour later to say he had landed in Calgary I very calmly asked him where he really was. Calgary he said. No Lenny. Really. He stuck to his story. In the time that I knew him he never ever changed his story midstream. I hung up on him and called his family's house in Westchester. When the maid answered the phone I asked to speak with Mr. Klein. And when he picked up the extension and I heard his rough craggy Hello I screamed so hard into his ear that he dropped the receiver. He raced into the city he let himself into my apartment and found me curled up in bed. He scooped me up and held me to his chest. His wife was not home he told me. She was having shock treatment. And someone had to take care of his daughter. He had not wanted to tell me because he wanted to spare me to protect me from the horror of his life. Surely I understood. Shush sweetheart he murmured into the top of my head as I wept my face beet red like a little girl's. So many people need me he said. But I love you best of all. Two years have passed and something has gone wrong terribly wrong with my life. I do not in fact think of my life as my life but rather as a series of random events that have no logical connection. I am no longer a student. I dropped out of Sarah Lawrence after my junior year supposedly to pursue acting. And I am actually doing a pretty good imitation of an actress. But I am doing an even better imitation of a mistress. Lenny's been busy buying me things. I do not particularly want these things but they seem to be what Lenny is offering in lieu of himself. So quite suddenly overnight really I find myself driving a black Mercedes convertible. And just in case I might be mistaken for anything other than a kept woman I wear a mink coat a Cartier watch a Bulgari necklace with an ancient coin at its center. The Mercedes is a step down from the first car Lenny gave me when we had been going out for a month. A leased Ferrari. I do not know how to drive a stick shift so the Ferrari was a bit of a problem. What I must have looked like a 20-year-old blonde dressed like Ivana Trump stalled in traffic grinding gears trying to find the point on the clutch to hold that ridiculous car in place. Lenny rented an apartment on a pretty little street in Greenwich Village. A furnished triplex with a garden a fireplace and a be