A few months ago all of us here at This American Life heard that there is this test that they give to determine if somebody is a psychopath. And we thought we want to take that. So we asked a forensic psychologist Dr. David Bernstein who gives this test all the time to administer the test to us. He took us each into a room gave us about an hour of questions. As a child did you get into a lot of fights? I would say beat up more than got into--  When you were young did you ever do rowdy things outside of school like vandalize break windows set fires hurt animals or young children anything like that? Steal? No. There was a video that we watched in school that really warned me against it. The one thing that I did do-- And you graduated high school? Yes. And what did you do after leaving high school? I did an internship actually at National Public Radio like all budding psychopaths. Now to be clear Dr. Bernstein gave us the shorter version of the psychopath test and he was not as rigorous as he would have been with real potential psychopaths. For instance he did not check police records to independently verify everything that each one of us said. Because of course we did not expect to find a psychopath on our staff. Though to be honest it was not until Dr. Bernstein actually arrived at our office and started administering these things that we really I think all fully understood just how far gone a true psychopath is. He explained to us a psychopath has no empathy at all no sense of mercy no conscience. They do not experience love. They could tell you what these things mean particularly the smarter ones the brighter ones. They could even the brighter ones will learn to fake it. But they could not experience it. But you work with people all the time. Think of any group of people that you know well. Friends relatives your state's congressional delegation. And sometimes you see them and the thought crosses your mind OK this person is not a psychopath but there is tendencies. There is a little note of something. And of the people on the staff who took the test-- that is Julie Jonathan me Sarah Jane Ben Robyn and Nancy-- we all did have our suspicions. So why were you in there for two hours Robyn? Yeah why were you in there for two hours? I do not know. There is a lot of questions. There is so many questions. He told me that you were actually a bit transgressive more than others. Really? Yes. He said that coming out. Who is you? Robyn? Robyn. Robyn yes. Robyn was more rebellious than those. Yeah he did say that. Wow really? Yeah he did say that but-- The test if you want to know asks about your family whether you have been in love your favorite and least favorite things about love what kind of employee you are plus these general questions that really make you think about what a psychopath is. Like have you done crazy or dangerous things for fun? Do you think people are easy to con or manipulate? Do people tell you-- this one's sort of scary-- do people tell you that you have a bad temper? But a surprisingly large part of the questionnaires is about things that you did when you were a kid when you were a teenager. So Robyn with the stuff that she did in high school seemed like she might score at least a couple points. And so did Jane. Jane had run-ins with the law as a teenager. Here's how she answered Dr. Bernstein when he asked how would your teachers describe your behavior in high school? Rebellious irresponsible. Underachiever? Yeah. Because I could have done a lot better. I am sure they thought that. What kind of grades did you get? A's and then over time D's. Yeah to where I quit basically because I was failing all of my classes and I did not want to be there anyway. So when we were all sitting around talking after we took the test still waiting to get our scores talking about whether we had been nervous taking it there was one more person besides Jane and Robyn that everybody thought might score at least a couple points on the psychopath scale. Who do you guys think is going to have the highest score? You. You. Really? Yeah. Yes. Well wait. So Ira wait. Were you nervous? I was very nervous. Yeah I was. Are you still after taking it? A little.  I am nervous for you. Me too. I think I am nervous. Well today on our radio show what it is in me that the people I work with see as possibly psychopathic. And two of our favorite contributors Alix Spiegel and the very funny Jon Ronson each has been spending lots of time investigating the psychopath test figuring out what it can tell us and what it cannot tell us. It is a test that is used in criminal justice systems all over the world. They explain why that may be worrisome. That and of course our scores. Who on our staff scored the highest on the psychopath test me Jane Robyn or some yet-to-be-named dark horse? Stay with us. Act One Underachievement Test. The psychopath test that we are talking about all this hour is used by prisons and by courtrooms. And the questions on the test are supposed to measure whether you have any of the traits on this checklist of 20 traits that scientists have observed in psychopaths. Lack of remorse impulsivity failure to take responsibility for your actions pathological lying sexual promiscuity. And because it is a checklist sometimes people just call the test the checklist though sometimes they call it by its formal name the PCL-R which stands for Psychopathy Check List Revised. And to give you a sense of how the test is normally used we have this story from Alix Spiegel. The day that sealed Robert Dixon's fate began with a bike ride. Robert says it was still early morning when he asked his friend a guy named John to give him a ride home on the handlebars of his bike. But he says John was already upset. John had gotten into a fight with his girlfriend. He was jumpy and in a bad mood. So when they passed a young man headed in the opposite direction Dixon says John made a proposal. Let us rob him. He said to me he says hey let us see what this guy got. I said no come on man just take me home. He says no come on let us just-- this as not gonna take that long. So he turns the bike and I am sitting on the handlebars. They caught up with the man and Dixon jumped off the bike to act as lookout while John approached him pulled out his gun and asked for the guy's necklace. Dixon could hear them arguing. The man did not want to give it up. He said it was a gift. Now my main concern at this time is that I do not want to get caught doing what we are doing. So I am looking around. I look at them. He is talking to him. Again I am looking around to see if the cops or anybody see us out there doing what we are doing. And pow! The gun goes off. What I saw when I looked at my co-defendent was shock that he was in shock that he had just pulled that trigger. And so I said what happened? He looked at me and he did not answer me. He just ran. In December of 1985 Robert Dixon got 15 years to life with a possibility of parole for acting as an accessory to murder. Now this was not Robert Dixon's first crime. There is no way to sugarcoat this. Robert Dixon was a delinquent. As a teen he was convicted of raping one woman and beating another. Since childhood in fact Dixon's life had been deeply disturbed. He tried to commit suicide at 10 and at 12 threatened to kill himself and his father who according to records often beat him. He was in and out of detention for the rest of his teens. That was his life before the crime. I am just living day for day. I do not have a job. I have been kicked out of my home by my dad. He and I really not getting along. I am ripping and running the streets. I was delinquent. I was a lost person. I went to interview Robert Dixon in a maximum security prison in Vacaville California. 26 years later he is still in prison for his crime. I went to see him because I wanted to understand who Robert Dixon is today. In the days before our meeting I talked to a small army of his friends and family all of whom felt deep in their hearts that they knew Robert Dixon and that the man they knew was completely changed that he was no longer a threat to anyone and was ready for parole. Here's Dixon's father the man Robert once threatened to kill. I have seen him change in the last 10 years drastic change in him especially with me. He got older and he kind of slowed down and I got older and I slowed down. Age change everybody. Now Dixon Senior says this transformation did not happen quickly. He says for a time even after his son went to prison he was still impulsive still hard. Robert's early years behind bars were riddled with 115's. That is prison speak for rules violations. And the stories he would hear from Robert were always about fights. But about 12 years ago he says the narrative began to shift. You know he would tell me about a lot of incidents that would come up and he would avoid them. You could have it your way and walk away. He knows that if he is going to get there he is got to be twice as disciplined. He is got to do things above and beyond. And quite frankly he has. This is Dixon's best friend Bob Stuart. Like Dixon's father when I went to visit Bob he regaled me with stories of Dixon's transformation. And this change Bob said was not simply a matter of getting older and mellowing. Dixon he said had worked at it worked at it hard. Bob brought out a folder with copies of Dixon's various certificates from business courses from self-help seminars a thick stack documenting hours logged in a quest for change. Stuart comes from a very different background than Dixon. He is a successful engineer who was introduced by a friend who met Dixon in prison and thought that Dixon could use a mentor. And at first Stuart was just that a mentor. But 16 years later it is clear that that has changed. I mean I consider him my best friend and likewise. And hard to believe that somebody inside prison would be. And I have good friends but he is the person I trust absolutely. Dixon's goal Stuart told me was not just to get out of prison but once out to do good. Dixon says the same. I am not proud of my life. I have hurt people. I have disappointed myself. I have ruined my life. And I am doing everything that I can to salvage some part of the second half of my life. So yeah. I am trying to turn it around. So that is the way that Robert Dixon's friends and family see him a man once bad deeply reformed. But there is another view of Robert Dixon. Assessment for risk of violence. Dr. Peter Bradley is a psychologist in California who does forensic evaluations. And when I went to visit him he showed me a stapled report with Dixon's name on top. The report was a psychological evaluation done by another psychologist a psychologist employed by the state. This is the main report that was done through the prison system. You see in California before a lifer like Dixon goes in front of a parole board they are given a psychological evaluation by a state psychologist. And as part of these evaluations the prisoner is given a test to determine if they are a psychopath. All lifers up for parole in California are given the PCL-R. The Psychopathy Checklist Revised. Now I want to say here that I did ask the California Department of Corrections to talk to me about Dixon's test. But they said no. Dr. Bradley however had reviewed Dixon's testing and read to me from the report. Mr. Dixon obtained a total score on the PCL-R which placed him in the high range of the clinical construct of psychopathy. He scored higher than 73 of those offenders on this instrument. That is very technical probably hard to understand. What it means is this that the psychologist saw Dixon not as a man reformed but basically as a psychopath as someone cold and remorseless incapable of empathy manipulative narcissistic impulsive and therefore as a person likely bound by his very nature to do further violence. And it was really in large part because of his score on this test that Dixon was determined to be too high a risk and was denied parole at his last hearing. So which Robert Dixon is the real Robert Dixon the one the test sees or the one that his friends and family see? To answer that question you need to understand more about the test the man who created it and how it came to have so much power.  So what? A classroom of people watches this video? No maybe a couple. This is taped from one of more than 1000 interviews collected by the creator of the PCL-R the Canadian psychologist Robert Hare. All of the interviews are with prisoners many of whom like this man are psychopaths. Anyway I was going on about justifiable murder. Someone rapes your wife molests your kid. And then a guy's got to do that. If he does not-- that is just the way it goes. An eye for an eye a tooth for a tooth. Yea though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death I will fear no evil for I pack a .357 Magnum. I visited Hare at his home in Canada and together we watched videos like this for hours psychopath after psychopath one after another. I have got so much great stuff in here. This guy's terrific. He is part of the New York mob. I was upset that he did not want to pay me the money. He had the nerve. Hare would play some tape then stop and talk about language use and psychopaths or pain and psychopaths. And as he watched there was always this glimmer in his eye. It was impossible to ignore the pleasure he got from watching them. Like there is a smile on your face. Oh that is gas pains. In spite of the fact that I have been in this game for a long time I am still-- it is a source of amazement. Hare has been in this game a long time. He began studying psychopaths in the 1960s. And it is easy to forget now in part because Hare's work has made the idea of the psychopath so commonplace but back then research on psychopaths was totally obscure. And no one least of all Bob Hare thought that this work on psychopaths would ever have any practical applications. What Bob was interested in was basic science. He wanted to understand what made psychopaths tick. To figure this out he went to a place he figured he would find at least some psychopaths a prison 30 miles away from his office at the University of British Columbia. And he asked the prisoners for their help. And the offenders in those days had hardly ever been studied. They were very interested in what I was doing. And they would all volunteer and in fact one of the head inmates there the one at the very top of the heap actually held a public address. In those days they could congregate in groups of 400 or 500. And said look this sounds interesting. I am in. And everybody else then said we are in too. So Hare set up a lab and started pumping out studies. For example Hare would place the prisoners in a chair tell them that in 30 seconds he was going to zap them with an electrical shock then measure their heart rate to see if that information bothered them. Most showed lots of emotional arousal anticipatory fear anxiety while they are waiting for the shock to occur. Psychopaths hardly any. In another experiment Hare showed the prisoners both highly emotional and totally neutral pictures-- a picture of a rape say versus the picture of a chair-- and again measured their physical response. He found that for most prisoners the emotional pictures prompted a very different reaction than the pictures of a table or chair. But with psychopaths there is no difference. They treat these horrific pictures as if they were neutral pictures. No difference whatsoever between them. And over the course of these experiments Hare developed a theory. He believed that the psychopaths he saw were essentially emotionally deaf simply did not have the capacity to feel in a first-hand way emotions like empathy remorse and love. It is sort of like trying to explain to a color blind person what the color red is. Can we teach a color blind person how to see red what red is? You can have all the dictionary definitions you want but this person will never quite get it. Now this work was basically well received. But Hare says there was still a huge amount of skepticism. Part of the problem stemmed from the fact that this field of research psychopathy research was lacking one very important ingredient. You see in science before you can do practically anything there is one thing you absolutely positively have to get straight. The key is measurement. Science cannot progress without reliable and accurate measurement of what it is they are trying to study. Simple as that. To understand this consider for a moment the blood pressure cuff. Hare says before the blood pressure cuff was invented in 1881 doctors had no good way of figuring out if someone had high blood pressure or low blood pressure which meant they could not figure out that high blood pressure was related to heart attacks and all sorts of seriously unfortunate things. Here Hare concluded was the problem with his field as well. There was simply no way to measure. We did not have the psychiatric equivalent of the blood pressure cuff. And so Hare decided to make one. He sat down with his long-term research assistant and together they wrote down all of the personality traits that they and other scientists had consistently seen in the psychopaths they studied traits like well like these read by Hare and a former student of his Steve Hart who is now a leader in the field. Egocentricity grandiose sense of self-worth. Pathological lying cunning manipulative. Lack of sincerity lack of remorse or guilt lack of empathy. Sensation seeking or proneness to boredom failure to accept responsibility for own actions and so forth. Now for each of these traits Hare wrote up a little description so that people would know what he meant by say lack of empathy. Psychologists using the test were supposed to ask the interview subject a series of questions about their criminal history their family to determine whether the person had that quality. Parasitic lifestyle. If the trait was present they got a two. Absent they got a zero. And if it was not really clear they got a one. There were 20 traits to check which is why Hare calls it the Check List and at the end of the test your score was totaled. 40 was the highest you could get but anything over 30 certified you as a psychopath. Voila the PCL-R was born. It was 1980. At his house Hare pulled out an ancient-looking document. So this is literally it. This is it. This is the first thing that people saw. 17 pages double spaced. A certified diagnostic test which at least appeared to be remarkably reliable. When two different testers gave the test to the same person they usually got the same result. The PCL-R was on its way. Kind of. Actually the only people really interested in his test at this point in the early '80s were other academic researchers. People in the criminal justice community still saw the study of psychopaths as marginal irrelevant to understanding crime. You see at the time criminal justice people thought about where crime came from in a very specific way. Criminals were made not born. Criminologists sociologists tended to explain crime in terms of environmental factors where you were raised who your family was your peer group. So in those days social factors environmental factors were the explanation for all crime. The idea was that anybody could be bad or good. It was all the environment. And Hare's focus on personality did not really fit this zeitgeist. But the disinterest of the criminal justice community changed almost overnight after one of Hare's students an undergrad proposed to do a study. What the student wanted to do was see what happened to prisoners who had been tested after they were released from prison. Was a person with a high score on the PCL-R more likely to commit a crime than a person with a low score? Turns out they were. Bob Hare. Those who had low scores on the PCL-R about 20 or 25 would be reconvicted within four or five years. The high group was 80. So score high and there was an 80 chance you would re-offend. Score low 20. In other words-- The checklist did an excellent job of predicting who would commit another offense within the next couple of years. How excellent a job? As good as one could get. This was a huge finding. For years criminologists had labored to dissect the environmental causes of crime. Then suddenly here was the PCL-R a personality test used for marginal academic research that appeared to identify the world's most serious chronic criminals the people we really needed to worry about. Steve Hart Bob's former student says that everybody was shocked. Here we are using a diagnosis of personality disorder to predict criminal behavior and it is working. And it is working in a way that is obvious. You could see the differences. An old psychologist Jacob Cohen called this the intraocular effect like it just really hit you between the eyes. The paper was first publicized in the mid-'80s and people in the criminal justice community quickly came calling. For example Steve Hart remembers that shortly after the paper went public the lab got a visit from Canada's National Parole Board. They wanted the test. They said quite literally what we want to do is give everybody this test and then have the test score written in big red numbers on the front of the file. No parole board should be able to make a decision without having some knowledge about whether or not somebody is psychopathic. I think most of the researchers in the room were horrified that no we do not want that. Adelle Forth is another researcher who worked in the lab. The idea that you would just stamp something on someone's file would be horrific because this label someone is a psychopath this will stay with this individual. This is not something that will go away. In fact every researcher that I spoke to who was there at first found this idea of parole boards using the test deeply disturbing including the guy who invented the thing Robert Hare. The potential for misuse of an instrument that has solid scientific credentials is very great. And the reason is people say well it is got solid scientific credentials. It is really really good. It must be good. So my apprehensions were there from the very very beginning about the potential for misuse. And so at least initially after the criminal justice people came calling Hare was clear. Hare said they were not getting his test. Steve Hart. I am never giving the checklist to somebody who works in the criminal justice system. I am just going to give it to scientists who do nothing as opposed to people who actually try to make decisions. And we actually had a lot of value or moral discussions about that about would it be appropriate to withhold the information from people who might try to use it? And so for many years Hare refused requests from the criminal justice system. But Hart says Hare's students argued with him told him that this was simply not his choice to make that scientists do not really have a right to withhold knowledge once that knowledge exists. Like you know come on buddy. Free it up. If you have got something important then let us let everybody take a look at this. Eventually Hare agreed and in 1991 he published the PCL-R officially so that anyone could use it including people in the criminal justice system which is how the test ended up being used in America on people like Robert Dixon. I remember reading the report and feeling heartbroken. This is Charles Carbone Robert Dixon's lawyer talking about a day two years ago when Robert's psychological report arrived in the mail. I knew no matter how hard I worked from that day forward that when I brought him back to board we were going to get denied. The political reality Carbone says is this. In California not only the board but the governor must sign off on every parole granted. And there is just no benefit to being seen as soft on crime. So if a psychologist gives a bad report because of a high score on the psychopath test even if the board or the governor wanted to set that person free there is as Carbone points out no political cover if the prisoner re-offends. The headline will be well the psychologist told you so. There is no political upside. They only have something to lose by allowing these lifers to go home. Which is why so few people with Robert Dixon's test scores ever do go home. Still Carbone is trying to fight it. He hired Dr. Peter Bradley the forensic psychologist you heard from earlier who evaluated Dixon and like his friends and family concluded that he is not a psychopath. That he has developed among other things a sense of caring and ability to be compassionate with other people that he is matured in that way. Dr. Bradley says in general he does not like to use the PCL-R because he feels the scoring of the test is determined too much by events in the past that prisoners cannot change by juvenile delinquency and things that happened in school an inmate's criminal past not who they are today. It is weighted more toward the historical factors. It is not able to look at factors that can change and that do tend to change with a lot of people. This is what Dr. Bradley thinks has happened to Robert Dixon. He thinks Dixon's changed substantially but will always get a high score because Dixon had a long criminal record before he went to prison. As for Dixon he does not know why he is doing so badly. He says his friends and family do not understand either. They keep asking him what is happening. What are you going to here saying to these people? I says hey I am talking to them just like I am talking to you. I am not switching up here. This is not Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde. I do not know what is going on. Now obviously Dixon's friends and family could be wrong. Robert Dixon could be a psychopath. But I will tell you that in recent years use of the test in the criminal justice system has come under criticism. And you know who is one of the people criticizing? Robert Hare. He tells me that some of his initial fears about how the test might be misused have actually come to pass. I feel ambivalent about it. You see while Hare's a strong believer that his test works well for the basic lab research that it was originally designed for he like others has begun to wonder if the test does as good a job outside the lab. Once you get into the real world there does seem to be some lessening of reliability. This is Daniel Murray a professor at the University of Virginia. About four years ago Murray did a study which looked at what happened when a psychologist hired by the prosecution gave the test to the same prisoner as a psychologist hired by the defense. Did those two psychologists give the same score to the same person? The answer? Definitively no. 10 15 even 20 point score differences we found. And overall there was about an eight-point difference in scores. In fact in 23 of the cases the scores were substantially different. And the differences were not random. Psychologists hired by the prosecution consistently scored people higher found more psychopaths. Psychologists hired by the defense scored people lower found fewer psychopaths as you might expect. But there is something else which might explain these differences that Murray found. There is no regulation of who can administer this test. Hare tells me that he often does training in America and says he frequently sees things that frankly horrify him people without degrees in psychology using the test poorly trained people using the test. Many of these people have really no business doing this. It would be sort of like asking a nurse now to go out and start performing surgery. It does not work this way. It should not work that way. So I am very concerned about the inappropriate unprofessional use of this instrument for purposes that have serious implications for the individual and for society. Do you think that on an emotional level like it is hard for you emotionally to think about your instrument having hurt somebody? Oh yeah. Interesting question. Notice I did not say that is a good question. Interesting question. Almost certainly. I think about this periodically and I probably try to suppress it. Yeah I do dissociate myself from it. If I thought of every potential use or misuse of the instrument I probably would not sleep at all. OK are we going to the bedroom or here stay? Of course the friends and family of Robert Dixon are convinced that there is been a misuse of the test. And convinced too that that error will somehow miraculously be corrected. When I went to visit Robert's father at his home he took me down a hallway and showed me a neatly prepared fully equipped second bedroom. It was he told me for Robert. OK this is his room. There is a bed. There is a closet. This would be his dresser. As I said before for most of their lives these two men had grave difficulties. But now every other Sunday Dixon Senior goes to visit Dixon Junior in prison. They talk about what they are going to do when Robert gets out. They want to go fishing together. Dixon Senior already bought the gear. And as I listen to them talk about these conversations and the relationship they have it is hard to believe that it is a con that it is cold-blooded manipulation. They seem very close just as Robert seems very close to his best friend. And I found myself wondering if a true psychopath could really have relationships like this. Do you think you are going to get out of here? I hope so. I hope so. And I hope I can get out before my dad pass away. Yeah well better hurry up. And I will be here waiting for him. Robert Dixon Junior has been incarcerated for being an accessory to murder for 26 years. In 2014 he will have a new parole hearing. If he goes to that hearing with his current score on the psychopath test which he is slated to do it is very likely that Robert Dixon will be denied. Alix Spiegel. She is a science correspondent for NPR News. Coming up the positive side of being a psychopath. Jon Ronson on how being a psychopath can help you in your business. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show is all about the psychopath test created by Bob Hare used around the world by courtrooms and prisons and this week by us as well. We took the test. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two King of the Forest. Jon Ronson has a new book out about the psychopath test. In fact that is the name of the book. It is called The Psychopath Test. In his research Jon met with Bob Hare who created the test. He also went to a seminar to learn to administer the test himself which had an unfortunate effect on Jon. He started seeing all kinds of people as psychopaths. It really is everywhere if you start to look for it. Jon saw this statistic. 1 of the general population tests as psychopath 25 of the US prison population which makes sense I guess and 4-- 4-- of business leaders. Ronson wondered if that could possibly be true that so many business leaders might have psychopathic traits. And so he tried to find a business leader who might prove this true or false. And then he learned about a former chief executive of Sunbeam the toaster and appliance company. In the mid-1990s Sunbeam was a mess. The board of directors needed a merciless cost-cutter. And so they offered the job to someone quite unique a man who seemed to actually unlike most humans enjoy firing people. His name was Al Dunlap and he would made his reputation closing down plants on behalf of Scott America's oldest toilet paper manufacturer. There were countless stories of him going from Scott plant to Scott plant firing people in amusing sometimes eerie ways. At a plant in Mobile Alabama for instance he asked a man how long he would worked there. 30 years the man proudly replied. Why would you want to stay at a company for 30 years? Dunlap said looking genuinely perplexed. A few weeks later he closed the Mobile plant down firing everyone. He fired people with such apparent glee that the business magazine Fast Company included him in an article about potentially psychopathic CEOs. All the other CEOs cited were dead or in prison and therefore unlikely to sue. But they took the plunge with Dunlap anyway. They referred to his poor behavioral controls. His first wife charged in her divorce papers that he once threatened her with a knife and muttered that he always wondered what human flesh tasted like. Then there was his lack of empathy. Even though he was always telling journalists about his wise and supportive parents he did not turn up at either of their funerals. On the J