There is this story my mom used to like to tell. My older sister Randi was eight or so when this happened. And something came up at school that Randi did not understand and she came home. And she asked my mom where do babies come from? And my mom just felt like great. This is great. She is bringing this up on her own. I do not have to sit her down in some awkward birds and bees conversation someday. We can get this out of the way now when she is young and she is really excited to tell her this stuff. And she explains the whole thing right? Where babies come from what sex is. And the way my mom always used to tell the story she said that she felt like I am doing such a good job here. Like I am such a good mom today. And at the end of it she asked Randi OK so that is everything. Do you have any questions? And then Randi pauses for a long moment and she asks Can birds really fly? And my mom realizes of course oh she was not ready. Like she absorbed nothing. And sure enough like a year passes and Randi comes back to her-- I do not remember why-- and asked her again like where do babies come from? And it is like the first time never happened. She remembered none of it. And I think of that story sometimes when there are debates over what is suitable for children. And I think there is a whole category of things that kids protect themselves from. Like they just do not want to engage with that stuff. Adults do not need to keep them from it. But then there is other stuff stuff that does seep into their world that they take to heart and they mull about and they make part of themselves. And the thing that is difficult is that it can be really hard to predict what those things are going to be. Well today on our program things that kids hear things they see things that happen to them that affect them in ways that they only understand later as adults. Like for instance what it means to give little Black kids toys that celebrate the Confederacy or to drag teenage boys into the desert to watch atomic bombs go off or to bring your kid to work when your work involves breaking the law. How do you even quantify exactly what that does to a person? Well today we try to figure that out. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Stars and Bars and Bars. We got the idea for this week's show from this thing that happened to one of our producers Neil Drumming a realization that he came to an adulthood about a TV show that he would watched as a kid. Here's Neil. The hit TV show The Dukes of Hazzard ran from 1979 to 1985. It starred John Schneider and Tom Wopat as Bo and Luke Duke two rakish good ol' boys trying to stay on the right side of the law in rural Georgia. But if you ask any man my age who was a fan of the show The Dukes of Hazzard's true star was a bright orange 1969 Dodge Charger nicknamed the General Lee. Every week on CBS the General Lee would roar through country backroads leaping over virtually everything defying the laws of physics and blowing little boys' minds across America. I had a General Lee. In what like a Matchbox or a Hot Wheels? No I had a straight up like the plastic joint. Oh. OK like a big sized one. The big sized one. OK. You know whatever go around. Drive it over your dad's foot and he would get angry. Like that size. This is one of my favorite rappers Breeze Brewin. He is from the Bronx. Like me he watched The Dukes of Hazzard faithfully as a boy. We both had Dukes of Hazzard lunch boxes and we were both proud owners of miniature versions of the General Lee. Back then it was probably one of the most coveted toys any kid in either of our neighborhoods could possess. I remember the bully of the neighborhood stole mine and tried to pretend it was his. I hate when that happens. This is mine right? I am like no it is definitely not. The General Lee was remarkable. Not just because it was both fast and furious before that was a thing but because its rooftop was emblazoned with the Confederate flag. As kids Black kids pushing our mini American muscle along the carpets and concrete of New York City neither Breeze nor I saw anything bothersome about that bold symbol up top. In fact for us at the time the rebel flag was just part of what made the car so damn cool. There was a kid in my neighborhood Irish kid. He had an orange Dodge Challenger 440 no flag on the top. I remember a lot of us were like damn he need to throw the flag on top of that bad boy. Wait it was a real car or it was a toy? No he drove that bad boy and you heard him coming down the block. You are just like that car would be dope. That car would be dope if he had that flag on that bad boy. I got the idea to talk to Breeze about this because in 2001 as part of his group the Juggaknots he wrote and released a song called Generally. It is spelled like the adverb but a play on the name of the Dukes' prized racer. I do not remember exactly when I heard the song but by then it had been over 15 years since The Dukes of Hazzard went off the air. I had not thought about the show or the car in ages.  That was my favorite you all. General Lee. They was them good ol' boys. General Lee. They was not meaning no harm. General Lee. You watched the show. You had the toys. I am pretty sure that when I was in my 20s and heard Generally well that was the first time I put two and two together and realized oh wait. One of my favorite toys growing up actually bore an unabashed affront to my humanity and freedom. The flag on the roof-- how the hell did I miss that? Listening to the song again recently I thought maybe it was about Breeze himself coming to that same realization. We are the same age after all. But when he and I met to talk about it Breeze said he would recognized the inherent put down in the General Lee's paint job by the time he was in high school. He was actually inspired to write Generally a few years later after he would had kids of his own. One day he took them on a shopping trip. I was literally in Toys R Us probably on Gun Hill Road near Co-op City or the one in Yonkers on Central Ave and kids losing their shh looking for toys and me questioning like what is up with these toys? Oh OK. And then I see the General Lee. The iconic roadster was back on the shelves being pushed on a new generation to promote some TV movie relaunch. Do you remember it? What the song? Yeah. Yeah definitely. Could you take me through it? You want bars? Yeah man. Oh man it is tough. I am 43. RAPPING You drive me batty. Daddy's survivin' and be seeming slimmin' screaming women. Could the sound be more annoying? The thing I love about Breeze is that he writes these dense clever impressionistic rhymes that sound like words tumbling down stairs. In this first verse he is telling the story of that trip to Toys R Us building the scene of a frustrated parent overwhelmed by toys and demanding children. RAPPING Baggin' all these whack toys trying to lack noise peace and quiet. Cease a riot constructively. Then what I see? The General Lee. And I said you know what? I need to explore this idea like why do they think that was OK? Why do they think that they could show this image and make us champion that image? Why is it OK to make our pain this pop icon? Why was it OK? I just wanted to attack it that you would have the audacity to do that. I was just thinking not with my kids. So then you go-- so then there is the chorus after that right? Yeah. So the chorus it is like RAPPING the General Lee representing for your clan. The General Lee for real somebody pulled a fast one. The General Lee now I am starting to overstand. The General Lee was not the first will not be the last one. I love that line somebody pulled a fast one just because it is nice. It is like the car is fast and it is like a really-- it is a really nice one. I appreciate that. It is very slick. I mean it is pretty blatant. It is the hoodwinking. Yeah. They got over you know? They normalized it for better or for worse. It is a huge screw you you know? It is like we are going to do this. You are not going to say nothing. We are going to put it on prime time TV. We are going to put it in Toys R Us. In fact you are going to buy it. So it is like-- in the song I say But sell my L. Sell my loss. Of course at seven eight nine years old it was not Breeze and I controlling the TV remote or spending our hard-earned cash. It was ultimately our parents who let us watch the show and bought us the toys. Considering that both my parents were born and raised in rural South Carolina and experienced chilling racism firsthand you would think they would have objected to the Dukes and their General Lee. But they did not. Breeze's parents who are from the Caribbean they did not either. He has a theory as to what our parents were thinking. I think you know it is a lot about I do not want my kids to be left out. I do not want my kids to be weird. It was a number one show. So it was like you know why deny them that? OK this is important. On TV the doors on the General Lee were welded shut as is common with a lot of stock race cars. So Bo and Luke Duke were constantly hopping through the windows. It was the only way in or out of the car. Here's Breeze with the song's final verse. RAPPING Disturbable to see what we was murdered to when it coulda shoulda been a convertible. I started off with like you know what? You was constantly jumping in and out of the windows. It would have made more sense and been more practical to have been a convertible. Just cut the top off. Chop the top off. But you needed it. You needed the top of the car. You needed to show that image because that is the pimpery. That is the game. I get it. You all wanted to see it. Here it is. OK take me through that verse. RAPPING Disturbable to see what we was murdered to when it coulda shoulda been a convertible. See that they are climbing through the windows and go make better time and do the pro hopping but no stopping. Commercial use is the issue. They get you with decals. Match the lunchbox pajamas. You wanna snatch the bunch. Lock that be wild generally praise the stuff crave the stuff slaves to stuff. Get it for me begging like please. So now with that I talked about how I would beg my parents for it. But then it is just like sporting the pain you know what I mean? Like you were sporting my pain and it is literally a comedy. RAPPING Sportin' the pain. Sure was a brainwashed kid but never had a fad with rockin' a swastika. Of course Nazi. But that I would rather not see. The closest that I got be seek Haile Selassie. But sell my L see it is nothing than this double standard. Trouble be it something candid or this subtle. Gun the flag down. What? No hesitating. Gutter regulation fuck the legislation. But now some of you all walking around like for shame word as I wonder what the murderers of James Byrd thought about the General Lee. In 1998 James Byrd a Black man in Texas was badly beaten and pissed on by three white supremacists. The men then chained Byrd by his ankles to a pickup truck and dragged him over asphalt for roughly three miles. Byrd died when his head and arm were severed from his body. The white supremacists who sported various Nazi and confederate symbols dumped Byrd's mutilated body near a Black church. This atrocity was heavy on Breeze's mind when he wrote General Lee which is why the last verse ends in anger. As he says gun the flag down no hesitating. I kind of was like I know some people are going to be like Breeze you are wildin'. You are talking about shooting down a flag. You should go through the right channels. There is legislation.  But I am like word? Well what do the murderers of James Byrd think about the General Lee? You know what I mean? It is just like at some point we gotta kill your idols. We gotta burn your idols. So you were saying-- you told me that you were-- you have been thinking about this song a lot lately. Literally like a week before you called I was listening to the song and I almost got a little choked up. Because like god damn you know what I mean? It is like 16 years later why is it still an issue? I would like to think come on you are better than that now America.   That said I cannot help but harbor a little bit of nostalgia for the General Lee. Not so much for the thing itself but for what it represents for me-- a time before I could possibly recognize the insidiousness of its design before I really understood its origins or how that history has shaped me and the people I care about back when all I really had to worry about was who had the coolest toy on the block. Neil Drumming. These days he works at our sister company Serial making podcasts. Today's show is a rerun. I honestly believe they should have changed the name Robert E. Lee High School a very long time ago-- probably after you know '90s early 2000s. That is Joralen Mauldin. When we talked to her for today's program she was 16 years old a member of the drill team at Robert E. Lee High School in Tyler Texas-- a Black girl with a blond afro which on Fridays would be tucked under a white cowboy hat part of her drill team uniform. She talked to B.A. Parker. I love being on this team. I love the girls who are on here. But you know the history is still-- you know it is there at the back of my mind. And I know a lot of it it does not really bother that many people but it is still something that I find that gets to me. That history is that Robert E. Lee High School was founded in 1958 four years after Brown versus Board of Education as a place for white students to go to avoid integration. The town gave it the name Robert E. Lee as a way to give the finger to the Civil Rights movement. The school prided itself on having this massive Confederate flag-- allegedly the second-largest Confederate flag in the world. It took 20 people to carry it. Then in the 1970s the courts ordered the town to integrate the high school. These days 60 of the school was Black and Latino. Though in Tyler it is still referred to as the white high school. When they announce the name of the school at the beginning of games Joralen says she just kind of blocks it out. She found out about the school's history a little while ago. I learned this last year I believe because we have memory books. And it dates back all the way to when Lee first opened and we were flipping through one of the very first ones. And that was when I saw the uniforms and all the traditions that they used to have the Southern Belle Drill Team and our Bell Guards. They were called the Rebels and the Rebelettes and they did wear Confederate uniform style of clothing and things like that and they proudly displayed their Confederate flag. And it just shocked me and all I could think about was what? Like for real? You all are kidding me right now. Do you have to sing the school song? They tried to make us learn it but I never memorized it. The school song starts with the lyrics Robert E. Lee we raise our voices in praise of your name. May honor and glory guide you to fame. Have you ever-- have ever looked at the lyrics of it? I have looked at the lyrics which is why I have not tried to memorize it. Would you ever sing it? Never in my life never. There is one lyric in the school song-- Our memories will bind us to Robert E. Lee. That part definitely seemed true back when we first aired this story in 2017. Then in 2020 one year after Joralen graduated the school district actually changed the name of the school to Tyler Legacy High School. Joralen by the way is not crazy about that name either. She says Legacy is a nod to the school's Confederate legacy. She says she would have gone with something neutral-- like for instance Rose City High.  Way down on the levee in old Alabammy there is daddy and mammy. There is Efraim and Sammy. On a moonlight night you can find them all. While they are awaiting the banjos are syncopating. What is that they are sayin'? What is that they are sayin'? But while they keep playing I am humming and swayin'. It is the good ship Robert E. Lee that is come to carry the cotton away. Act Two History is Not a Toy. So there are over 200 public schools around the country named after Confederate leaders and over 700 monuments memorializing the confederacy in public places. Those numbers come from a database run by the Southern Poverty Law Center. Of course many other statues have been taken down in the last few years. The Statue of Robert E. Lee was removed just this week in Richmond. But for all this commemoration of white experience of life in the South before and during the Civil War there is actually not that much out there memorializing the Black experience. One of the few places is in Baltimore. I have to say I was surprised to learn it was there. I grew up in Baltimore and OK this came into existence after I moved away. But I am back in Baltimore regularly to see family though I had never heard of it until B.A. Parker who was a producer at our program-- and who also grew up in Baltimore not far from where I grew up-- told me about it. Here she is. Every Black kid in Baltimore knows this place. Most of us went there on field trips when we were in school or were taken there by an earnest parent. It is called the National Great Blacks in Wax Museum. That is great Blacks and they are rendered in wax. It is the first Black History wax museum in the country. I first went there on a field trip in the third grade and for better or worse it is been stuck in my memory ever since. To be honest it scared the shit out of me. It is violent and graphic and unlike any other museum I have ever been to. And its main clientele was children. Even today I can talk to anybody who grew up Black and in Baltimore and if you bring up the Blacks in Wax they will be like yeah that was messed up right? Texting with friends and family about this last week I got messages like I had nightmares and I started to tear up and I can still see it in my head. I wanted to go back to the museum to see if it was as bad as I remembered. There is a crowd of people from a bus coming in. Oh there is a couple kids. So I went back there recently with my colleague Sean Cole. The museum itself is an old fire station and three row houses fused into one building. In the lobby the wax figures of W.E.B. DuBois and Carter G. Woodson are there to greet you. Next to the ticket booth is a figure of the great military general Hannibal riding a massive elephant. And up over ahead is the first Black female pilot Bessie Coleman. Oh I did not even see. There is an airplane above us. There is an airplane above us with like a cool chick in it with her shades on and she is taking no one's mess. The lobby's awe-inspiring and stuff but then you buy your ticket and actually enter the museum. Then everything changes. A quick warning-- there is a lot of violence of all sorts in what follows. It might not be for everyone. When you step inside the museum it is dark. Immediately to the right there is a wax figure of a slave. He is on his knees his teeth knocked out and he is being held down by two white slavers who pull his head back. They have shoved a long funnel into his mouth and are pouring gruel through it force feeding him. Brown gruel spills out of his mouth. As an act of rebellion some slaves would not eat so the slavers made them. This is the very first thing you see. And then to the left is one of the museum's signature attractions. All right so do you want to go into the slave ship? They have built a facsimile of a slave ship into the museum. It is not that big about the size of a large trailer. But when I was eight it seemed enormous. Back then walking down to the hold below was like walking onto an amusement park ride only the opposite of fun. At the entrance there are two white wax slave merchants both impeccably dressed. One sits behind a desk. It used to be that when you stepped onto the stairs a recording would play one of the merchants announcing New load of slaves coming aboard now. At eight I understood. They meant me. I was supposed to be a new slave. I burst into tears. At first I refused to go all the way down into the ship. But the other kids did it so I did it too. And what I saw when I got to the bottom of the steps was what I was seeing now another vicious looking white man. And he is branding a slave woman who has a chain around her neck and like placing the brand on her shoulder. And she is fully nude and covered in blood. Jeez it is just-- pure agony is on her face. And he looks like he is full of hate and anger and is just ready to torture someone. None of this has changed. There is collections on shelves of just parts of bodies bloodied. Being eaten by rats. That should be noted. Like there is one under-- like below that is dismembered and being eaten by rats. The museum goes for an intense realism. It does not leave anything out. It is over the top in a way that is almost campy. This is probably because the wax figures all were made in the 1970s. The slavers have mutton chops. A few of the slaves look more like they are from Good Times than from Roots. But the scenes are always based on documented atrocities. At a certain point in the slave ship I turn around and I see the entire wall behind me is one huge mirror. And then I see the chained-up slaves and I am forced to look at myself. And it comes home to me in an instant that these people are my ancestors. Without the torture without the sorrow without the misery that they endured during the Middle Passage there would be no me. So what do you remember from when you were a kid and seeing this? I remember like being confused right and being scared. The fact that it is someone who is my skin my-- you do not have the language for it. But it is like a pause and reflect and your eyes grow wide. And you are trying to understand what it means. I am sorry. I just got distracted by them trying to shove the guy in the oven. Sorry. What? What? No that is the Underground Railroad. It is a fake oven. Oh OK. There was an exhibit behind Sean of a white man helping his runaway slave escape through an oven with a door in the back allowing him to slip through from one house to another and another. As a kid it was not like I was unfamiliar with Black history. By the third grade I had already been to the plantation in North Carolina where my ancestors were sold. I was obsessed with Thurgood Marshall. I wanted to be him. I wanted to marry him everything. And my elementary school made such a big deal about Martin Luther King every year. And I once got to play one of Coretta Scott King's bridesmaids in an assembly. But it was exactly that the elementary school version of Black history-- Dr. King Nelson Mandela Rosa Parks the coloring book of greatest hits not the brutal reality. But none of this compares to what you see in the museum's basement. The basement is so intense that the museum has posted a sign outside of it warning that you should not go into it until you are at least 12. Under 16 you need a chaperone. We headed there past Henry Box Brown the slave who mailed himself to freedom in a box. When I was a kid he would pop out and wave. But it startled too many kids and they do not do that anymore. We walked past Henry to the top of the basement stairs. All right so we are going to go downstairs to the lynching exhibit. I did not see the lynching exhibit when I was eight. I saw it on a second field trip when I was a freshman in high school. I still do not think I was ready. I do not think I was ready now. It starts off when you are still walking down the stairs with historical photos and newspaper clippings of actual lynchings as recent as 1998. Black people hanging from trees set on fire dragged by trucks. Photos of the dead surrounded by crowds of white spectators all decked out in their Sunday best. Smiling little girls with the ribbons in their hair looking at the camera some with pride a man hanging from a tree behind them. Then at the bottom of the stairs as soon as you round the corner-- All right so-- Oh boy. Yeah. Oh. Oh my God. Do you want me to describe what is happening here? In front of us was a husband and wife named Hayes and Mary Turner. They lived in Georgia. Back in 1918 a local Black man had killed the plantation owner. And when the Sheriff's Office went hunting for the killer they and a mob lynched practically every other Black man in their path. Hayes Turner was one of the casualties in that massacre-- a warning this gets especially graphic. Just as I was about to describe what happened next to Sean the museum's educator Imani Haynes walked in. And I was grateful she did because she took over. He had nothing to do with the situation and unfortunately he was lynched. Afterwards he was castrated. So what you are seeing in this scene in the exhibit is Turner lynched. He is wearing overalls and we have his overalls opened up in his private region blood dripping down. Next to Hayes is his wife Mary. After he was lynched Mary bravely went seeking justice for her husband. She was eight months pregnant at the time. They lynched her too. In the museum exhibit she is hanging from the neck. But in real life they actually hanged her by her feet set her on fire slashed her stomach open and pulled out her baby which was still alive. That is what is depicted in wax. Then they stomp on its head. The sign on the wall adds to the story that haunted me. It is also the only part that historians cannot fully verify. It reads Walter White describing the lynching of Mary Turner and her husband Hayes Turner depicted in the scene said that it was too horrible to describe the mob taking the time to sew two cats in Mrs. Turner's stomach and making bets as to which one would climb out first. To the left of the Turner's bodies is a mantelpiece with souvenir jars. Sometimes the lynchers would keep pieces of their victims. In these jars were supposed to be the ears locks of hair and genitalia of Black people all next to a kid's baseball trophy. I am not sure why that is there except to underscore the point that these body parts are trophies too. It is a difficult room to process. When I saw this at 14 some of my classmates did not even know how to react. A few of them stoic. Others awkwardly deflecting with yo. I remember feeling angry because you could not escape it. There are signs around the room that anticipate your distress. They say Identify with the victims and martyrs and never forget them. But do not get bitter or despondent over what they endured. Dr. Joanne Martin founded the museum with her husband Elmer in 1983. And when I told her all the kids in my third grade were crying and freaking out and holding hands she was fully aware that happens. In fact it is intentional. For me that is the point. When they leave shaking when they leave crying-- and that is often the reaction-- I have no problem with those tears. And it is-- what people are going to talk about years later is going to be our slave ship. And they are going to say I never forgot your lynching exhibit. And everything else it seems like a movie if you do not have a sense of exactly what people were fighting against. If you think that Rosa Parks-- that what she did had something to do with the seat on the bus and you do not understand that that act was going to get her jailed but it could have gotten her lynched as well. When Joanne and her husband founded the museum they set out to create something that they wished existed in the world a museum that celebrated and preserved Black history created by Black people for Black people in a majority Black city. They were professors at historically Black universities in Baltimore Elmer at Morgan State and Joanne at Coppin. But they wanted to reach more than just the academic class. When they visited a wax museum in St. Augustine Florida they thought yeah wax figures. That is the way to go. They had money saved for a house but instead put it towards wax figures. It still was not enough. Wax figures are absurdly expensive-- 4500 then but tens of thousands of dollars now. They ended up with their first four Black history figures Frederick Douglass John Brown Nat Turner and Mary McLeod Bethune. Elmer and Joanne would tour around with their quartet of wax figures at different schools and churches and expos. We just would take the figures set them up as exhibits throw them into my Pontiac take them back home to our two-bedroom apartment. So if you looked into the guest bedroom of our two-bedroom apartment you would have found Mary McLeod Bethune's head on the dresser and Frederick Douglass' parts over in a corner and so forth You know I just gave him an ultimatum. Mary McLeod Bethune has got to go. You have got to find a place for Mary McLeod Bethune. Dr. Martin told me they are thinking of expanding the museum and making it more child friendly toning down the violence which surprised me. It does not seem like her mission at all and it only makes sense if our history were a little more child friendly which it definitely is not. The four little girls killed in the 1963 church bombing in Alabama they were all 14 and younger. The kids who marched in Birmingham's Children's Crusade were beaten and had dogs sicced on them. They were as young as 12. And Emmett Till was 14. He has a memorial in the lynching room but you would not even be allowed to go down there without a chaperone. Even though the museum upset me I respect it. It got through to me. Even as an adult watching right-wing pundits discuss the greatness of America I still think of Mary Turner and her baby. When I left the museum I have the same feeling I did as a kid like I was in on a secret about what the country was really like like all of America's truths were in a basement on North Avenue. B.A. Parker-- she can be heard on the podcast The Cut from New York Magazine. Coming up a seventh grader gets a taste of the family business which means breaking the law with mom and dad. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Suitable for Children stories about the random stuff that kids encounter that just sticks with them for the rest of their lives for good or for bad. We have arrived at Act Three of our program. Act Three Take Your Kid to Work Day. So in this half of the show we have stories of kids seeing stuff that really maybe they should not see and we begin with this story from Domingo Martinez about tagging along with his parents when they were on the job. His dad had a trucking business in Texas. They were doing worse and worse over the years. By 1986 Dad had become a truck driver with nothing left to haul but marijuana. Through his early 30s he could do little with the trucking business he would inherited from Grandpa except watch as it crumbled around him. Back then he began his days by throwing open the door to the bedroom I shared with my brother Dan. He would stand there in his underwear looking like a tall diapered child and say You two get up. He would end the day drinking a lot of 1.50 Budweisers at the shanty bars that littered the port of Brownsville. At home Mom kept the bookkeeping. She watched the flow of money slow to a trickle and then stop outright when I was in middle school. My brother sisters and I knew things were dire when our mothers stopped shopping at El Centro Supermarket-- the nice grocery store as she would always told us-- and started bringing home bags from Lopez Supermarket the poor people grocery store. One morning mom surprises me by showing up at my seventh grade algebra class and removing me getting us on the road out of Brownsville headed north. There is no explanation. Sientte y lla callete she snaps at me. Sit down and shut up. I do not know why I did not guess what we were doing that morning that Mom and I were lookouts for Dad who was on the road somewhere behind us in one of his flat-nosed tractor trailers carrying a large load of marijuana and headed north. I had heard the stories knew some of the tactics of smuggling by this point. But I did not make the connection that mom and I were driving ahead of Dad to make sure the customs station was closed. And if it happened to be open we were supposed to turn back and warn him. This was back in the 1980s before the Patriot Act when there were two US customs checkpoints blocking the migration of drugs fruit people reptiles and parrots on the roads between the United States and Mexico both about 100 miles north of the Mexican border at highway checkpoints. The station on Highway 77 in Sarita was the busier and the better financed. The checkpoint in Hebbronville though was an Airst