Back when Cliff worked as a room service waiter at Holiday Inn so many guests ordered in pizza delivery to avoid the lousy room service. But sometimes the food and beverage manager who was this tightly-wound guy and immigrant from Algeria would stake out the lobby and try to catch the pizza delivery guys and kick them out before they made it to the elevators. Then one day this food and beverage manager came up with a better plan-- to trick the guests. The hotel got some cardboard pizza boxes and takeout menus that looked like they could have come from any delivery places you have ever seen. Each of them had a cartoon of an Italian chef with a moustache and a big hat. He was holding his fingers to his lips in the classic kind of Mama mia that is delicious sort of pose. This pizza place had a name-- Giorgio's-- but the menus did not list any address. They did list a phone number. And the phone number was not an extension in the hotel phone system. It was not a room service number. It rang at this red telephone an outside line that they installed on the basement wall right near the big institutional hotel switchboard that the room service operators normally use to take orders. And to complete illusion we were given stacks of-- you know those green checks that you get in diners the waitress just fills it out by hand? This is Cliff. So we were supposed to fill one of those out and tape it onto the box for just that finishing touch of verisimilitude. And so how would it work? Somebody would call the number and then did you have to answer the phone and say Giorgio's? Yeah. We soon realized that being an outside line we were relieved from the standards of ordinary hotel courtesy. So it was all this Giorgio pizza! It was like a platform for improv. Use these ridiculous sort of Vaudeville Italian accents. What is the matter for you? Hey Louie where is the driver? I want to apologize to any Italian-American listeners right now on behalf of Public Radio in general. Absolutely unforgivable on any level. A room service waiter named Kevin had a character named Luigi that he would play on the one. The captain of the room service waiters Brandon been a loyal company man until all this absurdity began. And he could do a really excellent sort of Sylvester Stallone croak which I cannot. And he could also do Brando doing The Godfather which he loved to do. And you know mumbling--  And so all right. So if I am calling for a pizza and I say like hi I want to get like a-- You are getting a serious runaround is what you are getting. There were two flaws in the deceit and they were pretty big flaws Cliff says. One was the pizzas themselves. They were frozen and they were the size of room service pizzas not real pizzas from a pizzeria. Smallest just nine inches. A large was the size of an old vinyl LP. The other flaw was the delivery outfit. Conceivably the room service waiters could have just changed out of their polyester tux jackets and bow ties back into street clothes and then pretended to be pizza delivery guys. Or they could have stayed in uniform and told the guests that they had intercepted the pizza on the way up. Instead of either of those options though the food and beverage manager chose-- A very strange garment the like I have never seen before or since which was sort of a kind of peppermint-striped apron. White with vertical red stripes. And it was huge. It was enormous. I was absolutely you know lost in this bizarre garment. And it came with a floppy hat made of the same basic fabric. None of it looked like anything any pizza delivery guy in this hemisphere had ever worn. And all sort of protested that this is a terrible flaw in your illusion. Because we had just been in the room. The waiter you would go up and you would deliver a six pack of beer. And then 20 minutes later you would be back with the same face-- To the same room? But dressed as this-- I always thought of it as a rodeo clown costume. If you would send me in as a rodeo clown when I would just been there as a room service waiter it is going to stimulate suspicion. Plus it was humiliating to wear this ridiculous getup. And then it was so stupid. It was just done so badly. No matter if it was done badly. It was done just well enough with just enough of the details right the menus the outside phone line that it made lots of money right from the start. Did guests ever say anything indicating that they were onto the scam? People gave you weird looks. But only once did somebody completely tip their hand and did somebody ask me. The guy he is busy signing his name on the check. And he says So. And he sort of gives me a smile. He is not being confrontational. He is being sort of sardonic. And he says So just exactly where is Giorgio's Pizza anyway? From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Today on our show bait and switch. We have four stories. In some of these stories are people running the scam running the bait and switch are unrepentant. In some they feel guilty they feel contrite. But in all of theses scams once you know it is a scam you cannot believe people try to pull it off with a straight face. Our four acts involve a car a fake valentine a fake girlfriend and treating people for the Lord Almighty. Stay with us. Act One Neighborhood Watch. We begin in Austin Texas with some people who want nothing more than the best for all concerned. Michael May tells what happened. Mark Douglas Ledford is 39 years old and plays in several punk rock bands. But do not let that give you the wrong impression. He is a Good Samaritan kind of guy. A tattoo across his chest reads To whom much is given much is required. He owns his own home and has a day job. November 29 2007 started off like any other work day. It was a Thursday morning. I went to work. I came home I pulled into the driveway and there was a car parked on the curb near my driveway. I noticed that the windows were down and the doors were unlocked and the keys were in the ignition and it was kind of a big dangly keychain. Like it looked like a girl's keychain. It had a bunch of stuff hanging off of it. Something was off. Mark lives a few miles north of downtown in a ranch home that sits on a corner of a quiet street with only one house nearby. The only people who park on this stretch are Mark's bandmates when they come over to practice. And so I immediately walked across the street to my neighbor Sarah's house. And I knocked on the door and I said hey do you have company over? I think they left the keys in the ignition over there. And she said I do not know whose car that is. And when I went back by and looked at it again it looked to me like something had happened. Like someone left their car abruptly. And I thought it was suspicious enough I went in and I dialed 911. It was not even like 10 minutes and there was a knock at the door and it was a police officer. They said did you report this car? And I said yeah is not that crazy? And they said well what is the problem? It is legally parked. And I said well the windows are down and the key's in ignition. And they said well you know you would be surprised what we see out here. And I was just like are you kidding me? And so my thought was OK. Well maybe it does not seem strange to you but it seems strange to me. Can you contact the owner or can you do something? Because they seemed just reluctant to do anything. And the officers' response at that time was well you know. People they buy these cars and they do not get them registered properly. I guess I could do a cross check on it. And at that point I was frustrated. And I said listen. I do not know what your procedure is. They say if you see suspicious things in your neighborhood report them. I am reporting it. And there you go. And the officer went back to their car and drove off. There is women's clothing in the backseat. And not just like women's but like a women's like-- they looked like stripper clothes and then men's work boots and rope. This is Mark's girlfriend at the time Asia Ward. She is younger than Mark 21. A cute gothy girl with a thing for zombie movies. Likes to read books about serial killers. They both started to imagine all sorts of sinister scenarios. Like some poor little stripper lady was taken from her work and like murdered and this is her car. Because if that cop walked by even if they were not going to do anything about it they could have at least been like oh yeah. Get right on that. And like made us feel better about it you know? Or said that they were going to investigate it or looked at it been like yeah this does seem kind of weird. Because it does! Like if you think that that does not seem weird then there is something wrong with you! You know? That is a fishy situation right there. By the next day Friday neighbors are trying to worry too about the car. Sarah the woman who lives across the street even calls the cops again and sends Mark a text to let him know she is on the case. That night Mark goes to play a gig in San Antonio. And when he and Asia roll back home around midnight there is the car still just sitting there with the keys dangling from the ignition. So when I came home Saturday night I expected the car to be gone. I expected them to have towed it away. And at that point I was just like-- I had it. I was like OK. We are going to figure out what is going on with this car. That is it. And I was like well there has to be insurance papers business card something in the car that'ill let us know who the car belongs to and maybe we can call them and tell them your car's parked here. And at this point we are thinking there might be a dead body someone bound and gagged it is a crime scene. And I am like well I do not want to put my fingerprints all over a situation like that. So I put some gloves on. I consciously go I am going to put gloves on so I do not leave fingerprints. And they are black knit gloves and they have like a little skeleton screenprint on them. So I get the gloves and I open the door and I start going through the glove box. And I did not see anything. And I was talking to Asia. She is standing on the sidewalk. And I am saying there is nothing in the glove box. I go through the console. And then I would get out of the car and close the door. And then we were talking well should I go in the truck? OK go in the trunk. And so I would open the door again and I would go back in the car and I got the keys out of the ignition. And I tried to open the trunk and it was like when I would stick the key in it was like there is something jammed in the lock. And I was like listen. I am going to get a screwdriver. I am going to open the trunk. If I break somebody's lock I will pay them back. You know whatever. We are just going to get to the bottom of what is going on here. And you know I mean I do not know what to do. I just stuck the flat blade screwdriver in the keyhole tried to turn it and it would not do anything. So he puts the screwdriver down and gets back into the car and is digging through the center console. And he looks out the window and he is just like hey Asia is that a cop? And Asia was like no. And I go that sure looks like a cop. And right about the time I say I do not think so out of nowhere-- Get on the ground! OK sure. Get on the ground now! No. Get on it! Get on the ground! No. Suddenly they were surrounded by cop cars. Hey we live right here. Get on the ground! Asia get on the ground. OK. And they tell me to get on the ground and I said no and Mark is just like get on the ground! Like Asia you need to get on the ground. Because I was so shocked! Like I was not doing anything wrong. I was trying to help them out because they did not want to do their job is the way I was thinking right? And I was like get on the ground! They will shoot. You know? Like get on the ground. And so she laid down on the ground. And it was not long. There were like six cops there just like that. Do not move do not talk! And one of the police officers is like you thought you would go for a joyride! And then throws me in the cop car. And I am like dude they thought we took the car? Like they thought we stole this car and drove it around? And I am freaking out. Mark and Asia are handcuffed and put into separate cop cars still with no idea what is going on and told to wait for a detective to show up and interview them. Finally he arrives. Detective John Spillers. And he starts asking questions. And he asks he says do you mind if I record this? And he is like you have the right not to say anything. And I was like yeah I do not care. I will tell you whatever you want to know. Like I have not done anything wrong. I am not hiding anything. Like I will tell you whatever. So he is like OK. And I was like I do not need a lawyer or anything. So he turns on his recorder and I tell him exactly what happened. Thursday night I was coming to visit him and I was walking from the bus stop to his house and I saw the car outside and I was like hey is somebody here? And he is like oh no the car's been there since I guess that morning? And he said that he had called the cops and a  officers did come out but say the car was not reported stolen or anything and there was nothing they could do about it. They said that they were going to have to talk with some witnesses about me going in the car. And I said you do not need to talk to any witnesses. I am telling you I went in the car. I mean if you find out who owns it you know I would gladly pay for the repair of the lock. What I think we are going to do tonight is I am going to verify some things from the office. What I will probably end up doing is examine the photos suspects for you and her. That way-- In case you did not catch that Detective Spillers is calling them suspects and talking about interviewing witnesses. He says a neighbor reported them breaking into the car.  who the witness was? Well the person who calls in saying there is people out here. Oh. Well yeah we were out there! I mean as investigator I have to do my job. Oh OK. Well I mean you do not even have to have a lineup. I will tell you  out here. Finally after a few hours of talking with Mark and Asia who explain everything including the calls to 911 and after talking with Sarah across the street the cops leave without arresting anyone. Asia said they even shook hands. Yeah. All right great. Well thank you. Thank you madam. But there is one thing the cops did not tell them-- a crucial detail that made the whole thing make sense. The police had put the car there themselves. There were no witnesses no neighbors who saw them break into the car and for that matter no victims. The car is what is known as the bait vehicle and it was out with surveillance cameras and microphones assigned to lure and catch car thieves. The gear was in the truck which is why Mark could not get in it with the key. Police departments across the country use bait cars. It is even funded by major insurance companies. And that is because it is effective. The police can sit back and wait for someone to take the car. Then the suspect comes in for booking complete with their crime preserved on videotape. If this sounds like a setup legally bait cars are not considered entrapment. Just like it is not entrapment for an undercover cop to stand on a street corner dressed as a hooker. For it to be entrapment the cop would have to egg you on would have to suggest that you pay for sex or steal the car and that is not what they are doing here. The Austin Police made 70 arrests last year using bait cars and Mark and Asia were about to become another statistic. Around two weeks later on December 17 Asia's birthday the couple is woken up at 6 AM. There are flashlights being beamed into Mark's bedroom window. I had stayed the night at Mark's house and then we hear banging on his door in the morning. And we wake up and he goes and he answers the door and it is two police officers. And he is just assuming that they are going to ask him more questions about the car but they actually say we have warrant for your arrest and we are going to take you to jail. And he is like are you kidding me? I felt really upset you know? Like you are going in jail for what? And plus it is early in the morning so I am just like you are going to jail like what? They asked me if anybody else was in the house and I said well yeah my girlfriend Asia. And they go well we have a warrant for her arrest too. We were about to go get her too. And I was like what? The officers show them arrest warrants for burglary of a vehicle a charge that could land them in jail for up to a year. They are confused arrested for something they did not do and they still do not know it is a bait car. In the waiting room at the jail Mark whispers happy birthday across the room to Asia. It is against the rules and he gets thrown in solitary confinement. He is in there half the day and he does not exactly handle it like a hardened criminal. I mean they put me in some little isolation room for a while. And I was like are you kidding me? But yeah. And I kind of lost my mind in the cell. They took all my clothes and they gave me this jumpsuit and they stuck me in a cell. And they had these slippers and when I would walk they would go . And I thought that there was a cat somewhere in maybe the violation duct and I was like how did you get in there little guy? Are you OK? I was like  losing it. And it was weird because he would only meow whatever I walked around in the cell. Then I would sit down he would get real quiet and I would be like are you OK little guy? I did not realize until they like they go you are going to be released and I was walking down the hallway and I could hear the little  of the slippers. Yeah. I was tripping. To be fair Mark and Asia's case is very unusual. Bait cars are usually played in high crime areas to trap people who already have criminal records. In this case it was part on a quiet street in a nice neighborhood just blocks from a high school right where dozens of kids walk by each day. The police were less likely to catch a hardened car thief and more likely to snare someone drunk or high or broke or bored who'd walk by and see the car just sitting there with the keys in it. Case in point. Turns out Mark and Asia were not the only ones on their block snared by the bait car. The boyfriend of their neighbor Sarah who had no criminal record drove the car on Friday night around one in the morning. He drove down the block turned it around and parked it in the exact same spot. He was caught on video laughing hysterically as he rolls down the block with Willie Nelson's On the Road Again cranked up on the stereo. He was charged with a felony. After spending the day in jail Mark and Asia are released and right away they get a lawyer and start trying to get to the bottom of this whole mess. That is when they finally learn it is a bait car. That meant that when Mark called 911 the officer who answered the call went so far as to deceive him at his own home. He was furious. And a lot of things ran through my head at that point. I was like you know even at best they have just planted something to lure a criminal element 15 feet away from my bedroom window. You know? And then secondly the conversation with the officer jumped to mind. I am like that cop knew exactly that that was a bait car and sat there and lied to me that oh what is the problem oh you would be surprised what we see around here oh these people do not register these cars right? All of that was a lie and they knew. Yeah. I mean how about the night you were detained? They did not-- did that change the way you were thinking about their conversation when they said they had a tip and someone had reported you at the car? Yeah. Which once again was a lie. I was pissed yeah. I was pissed. I repeatedly asked the police and prosecutors to explain their actions but they refused to go on record. But Travis County attorney David Escamilla told a newspaper that nobody thinks Mark wanted to steal the car but quote It is not appropriate to go out and jimmy the lock on the trunk of a car that does not belong to you. Detective Spiller's affidavit also focuses on the fact that Mark tried to break into the trunk with a screwdriver and even wore gloves like a real criminal. And there are couple important details Detective Spillers has left out of the affidavit. He does not mention that the car was parked in front of Mark's home nor that Mark had called 911 as soon as he saw the car or that Sarah had also called or that there is surveillance video of Mark milling around looking through papers in the glove compartment for 20 minutes. No. Instead Detective Spillers concludes that he quote believes this section constitutes more than mere curiosity or trying to locate the owner's information. The prosecutors were put in a tough spot with this one given all the evidence of the couple's innocence. They almost immediately offered a deal. If Mark and Asia stayed out of trouble for a year the prosecutors would completely drop the charges. So we were going to take that offer but then the other little small print of the offer was that you signed a guilty confession. And I refused to do that. I said no and Mark did too. Both of us were like we are not signing guilty confessions because we did not do this. And what we did do we believe we were in the right for doing. So I mean we are not signing a guilty confession. And I said no you know? We will just go ahead and go to trial. And I think if six of my peers here this story and apply any sort of level of common sense no one's going to find me guilty of burglarizing a vehicle. So instead Mark and Asia demand a jury trial. But like everything leading up to this point it is not so simple. For more than a year and a half they regularly show up for court ready for the trial and for one reason or another are repeatedly told it is being postponed. Finally out of desperation they decide to talk to the media-- me. I wrote a story for the daily paper the Austin American-Statesman and the next week prosecutors call with a much better offer. Asia's case would be dismissed outright since she never technically entered the vehicle. Mark could plead no contest to criminal mischief a class C misdemeanor same as a traffic ticket. And if he stayed out of trouble for a month the charge would be dismissed. He takes the deal. I do not know. There is a lot of things about the whole situation that just really piss me off you know? And I try not to-- I try to keep it funny because at times I can get really angry about the situation. Mark and Asia paid a pretty high price. Asia wants to work with kids and for the past two years she could not even get a volunteer position because of the burglary charge on her record. It is cost them 3000 for lawyers and to get their records expunged. But there are less tangible effects as well. Asia works at a toy store and a few months ago someone left a cell phone on the floor. At first Asia did not touch it just let it sit there ringing and ringing and ringing. She was thinking it is not mine. Could be a trap. Is it worth the risk? Eventually she picked up the phone. Michael May. When he is not chasing parked cars he is books and culture editor at the Texas Observer. Coming up-- a message from Madonna on your home answering machine and other really scary bait and switch techniques from people who feel they have no choice in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show-- Bait and Switch. There was a flyer taped to the wall by the water fountain in the English department at Penn State this week. It says Raw and then underneath it in bigger letters it says Sex then underneath that Everything you need to know. And then under that a website rawsex.psu.org and then under that an address and time for a meeting of some sort. And then under that at the very bottom in teenie-weenie little type you have to look very closely it says Hosted by Orthodox Christian Fellowship a ministry of Holy Trinity Orthodox Church. This flyer yes is a not-very-disguised bait and switch for Jesus. Which means us to the next act of our show Act Two Raw Sex in which there will be no sex but there will be a bunch of Jesus. One of our contributors Dave Dickerson was raised as an evangelical and he says baiting and switching was just taken as a given. After all being an evangelical comes with a huge responsibility to bring nonbelievers to God. You have to. You know Jesus actually said go out into all the world and preach the gospel. And at the same time we are also told and they are going to hate you just like they hated me. And so you have this kind of Biblical imperative to spread the word to people who do not want to hear it. And Paul at one point says Be as innocent as doves and as wise as serpents. And so you know a little bit of trickery to sort of like help the medicine go down seems like a reasonable thing to do. So what would you do? Well when I was with Campus Crusade for Christ who was famous for doing a lot of these things one time we went out to California-- I was you know originally in Tucson. And we went up two people on the beach and said hey we are going to have like this luau party tonight! You know come! We had flyers to hand out. And then it said there is going to be music and food and drinks! It said drinks. It did not say non-alcoholic drinks. It just said drinks. And it was almost shameless. Because of course the women who would go out-- this was spring break-- they were in bikinis and they were very attractive. And so we could see they would go up to guys and of course the guys would take the flyer. And they were going to go to this luau. And there was no real tip-off. It did not say Campus Crusade for Christ at the bottom or anything like that. And when we actually had the actual presentation-- Wait the presentation you mean the luau? Yes. The luau in quotes was kind of a skit show. You had the Diet Coke and whatever and the pretzels. But the entertainment was oh you know they would lip sync to Journey. There was an air guitar contrast. It was silly stuff that was wholesome and not at all like the wet T-shirt contest stuff they were maybe expecting. And then every two or three episodes someone would come out and say you know I just want to point out that Jesus Christ has made a huge difference in my life. And if you have any questions about that you can talk to some people over here and we have got literature blah blah blah. And now back to your program. And as this happened after about the second or third of these sort of commercial interruptions I could see-- I mean I was cringing anyway. I knew this was wrong way to go. But you could see people looking at each other. Like guys would go oh. They would look around and you could see them sort of thinking these women are not on the market. You know this is like the almost exact opposite of what we were promised! And so you would see this a lot. And you would always feel kind of strange about it. Right. I felt like there must be something kind of inherently flawed with the system. I got trained once in doing something-- and this is another classic-- to do a survey a spiritual survey of people to walk up and say hey we are doing a survey of religious attitudes. So do you believe in God? What sort of God do you believe in? And that kind of thing. And it would just ask a series of questions that would eventually lead them to by the way do you belong to a church? Hey would you like to join ours? That kind of thing. And we got put into pairs. And this friend of mine and I started at one end of the campus. And while we were walking down this thing I had all these ideas in my head thinking OK. What if they ask like who is sponsoring the survey? Or what statistical model are you using? You know we were in college enough to know that there is a survey and then there is a survey. And we hit a statistics major we are in trouble. And one woman came by and my friend said I do not know. She looks kind of busy or angry so let us avoid that. And this other guy came by and he said this does not seem right. And we kept talking each other out of confronting people. We are like halfway down the campus and finally we just looked at each other and said we just cannot do this can we? But is the thing that bothered you the fact that you are going to have to walk up to strangers or is the thing that bothered you that you were walking up to strangers under a false pretense? Oh. Well it was both. But clearly the false pretense was supposed to make it easier was supposed to give us cover so that we did not seem religious. And it was not fooling us. So it seemed both false and did not really help. There is a big debate among evangelicals about how to better reach out to non-believers. You will find shelves of books on this at Christian bookstores. One of the evangelicals who is trying to change some of the old tactics is a guy named Jim Henderson. And he is tried all kinds of things to reach non-believers. When a guy named Hement Mehta offered his own soul for sale on eBay to the highest bidder it was Jim Henderson who won the auction with a 504 bid which is you know cheap for a soul. And what he we did with that money was he simply asked Mehta to attend a few churches with him and tell them what was persuasive and what put him off. This project led to a book. Henderson has another book called Evangelism Without Additives. He says in his decades as a pastor trying to convert people he noticed that sinners like Jesus but they do not like Jesus's people. Which led Henderson to completely rethink how he was approaching non-believers. It was not an epiphany. It dawned on me slowly that I was tired of feeling bad. I was tired of thinking about you as a project instead of you as a person. And so I did not like that. And then I also noticed that in spite of all the preaching I did about this to get other people to do it they just would not do it. I mean they are just Christians ordinary Christians vote with their  and they just do not participate in these programs. In the programs to evangelize you mean? They would not evangelize? Yeah. I mean you can push them for a few days like a diet or something like that and then it is like are we done with this now? Can we go back to our normal life of thinking about ourselves? So-- Usually it does not work. No it does not work. It does not work for the same reasons it does not work for normal humans. We do not like being pitched. We do not like being treated that way. I do not like being invited to a party to kibbitz and chat and then find out you have a pitch you want to give me. You know we can smell a sell coming. And by the way most of the ways you have observed evangelism being done as it is being marketed are ineffective. The large rallies-- all that stuff. The statistics are just abysmal about the number of converts that actually stick. It does not result in what the church wants. The church wants disciples. Jesus actually did not say go out and make converts. He said go make disciples. Which is a completely different project. So the founder of our movement Jesus did not model this behavior. You never had to lower himself to a bait and switch. So this has been an adoption of sort of American consumerism that we have adopted as a church. And it is really largely based on sales. The way of getting people to join. I mean quite frankly I want people to follow Jesus. I believe Jesus is God and all that stuff. But I am completely done with the whole evangelism as a sales model deal. I am done with it. So walk me through what is that you are advocating. You have this thing called doable evangelism. Evangelism that actually normal people can do without feeling weird about it. So give me the steps of it. Like what do I do if I want to do it? Doable evangelism does not concern itself with converting people. It is not about sales. It is about connecting. So the paradigm is about connecting with people. The way we connect there is three what we call spiritual practices for connecting with people. Number one notice people. Practice the art of noticing. Sit and watch. Sit in the mall and watch people go by and ask yourself I wonder what is going on with that person. Just reflect. The second one is pray for people behind their backs. You know Christians like to pray for people. And we believe prayer matters. So pray for them