OK. I think we all can agree this sounds really really bad. Four guys from Newburgh New York plant explosives at a synagogue and a Jewish community center in the Bronx. And they are arrested-- this is three months ago they were arrested in May. They also it turns out had plans to fire Stinger surface-to-air missiles at military planes. On the face of it this case looks like a pretty shocking criminal act. Aziz Huq writes about the government's legal strategy in the war on terror. He is also the lawyer defending prisoners in a couple of these kinds of cases. And he says that when you dig into the details of this particular case it starts to look different. Basically what you have here is the most recent in a series of cases in which a alleged terrorism conspiracy is initiated and pushed along by a government informant. An older man somebody in his 40s who is wealthy coming to a mosque-- This is the informant? This is an informant. Coming to a mosque finding people who are on the periphery of crime and encouraging them and walking them toward somewhat an act of terrorist violence. And so the informant in this case when he came upon these men did they have this plan to attack the synagogue? As far as anyone can tell no. In other words he was not stumbling upon an active terror cell? Well no. What we know is that on the one hand here you have a case where a group of people have done something clearly reprehensible clearly criminal. On the other hand it is not clear whether absent this tremendous amount of money and time that is coming out of the government's coffers there would have been any crime in the first place. The plastic explosives used in the bombing were actually provided by the government through the informant and they were fakes. The Stinger missile came through the informant and it was incapable of firing. And the informant also drove them to the bombing. The perpetrators meanwhile are described in press accounts as sad sack petty criminals whose previous crimes were snatching purses and trying to sell drugs to undercover cops that kind of thing. One is described as being addicted to crack and coke for years. Another took medication for schizophrenia and was reported to keep bottles of his own urine in his apartment. None of them seem to have ties to any known terrorist organizations. And this case is not unique. It comes out of a strategy that our government developed after September 11. The government wanted understandably to stop terrorists before they attacked. But of course-- think about that for a second. What a difficult job. How can you find somebody and stop them and lock them up for something before they actually do it? Well what the government decided to do was go after people who seemed like they might someday get involved in a terrorist conspiracy. With any charges that it could make stick. At least it would get those people off the street. And sometimes that meant sending in an informant to nudge suspicious people into doing something like what those men in Newburgh did. Well today on our program we have the amazing story of one of the first cases after 911 that did this. The justice department went after a guy who had not done anything wrong. An informant helped him commit a crime and they convicted him. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. This is a story that takes place in the world of international illegal arms sales. The world of wiretaps and informants and prosecutors. You are going to be hearing FBI surveillance tape. You will hear from the man who got put away and from the US Attorney who led the team that put him away. Petra Bartosiewicz has the story which we are devoting our whole show to today. This originally ran on our program in 2005 right after the trial. What you are about to hear is a victory speech almost four years in the making. It is April 23 of this year and the US Attorney is giving a press conference on the steps of the federal courthouse in Newark announcing the conviction of Hemant Lakhani. Good morning my name is Christopher Christie. I am the United States Attorney for the district of New Jersey. The jury has spoken and Hemant Lakhani is not a women's clothing salesman. He is been found guilty on all counts for lending material support attempting to lend material support to terrorists money laundering smuggling illegal brokering of weapons. Today is a triumph for the Justice Department in the war against terror. I do not know that anyone can say that the state of New Jersey and this country is not a safer place without Hemant Lakhani trotting around the globe attempting to broker arms deals. Later the very same day in the Passaic County lockup sits the convicted terrorist sympathizer Hemant Lakhani.  Hemant Lakhani is a liar a shameless braggart a snob. He is amoral selfish and he is greedy. But the thing is if you hear his story it is hard to believe that on his own he would have ever succeeded in buying or delivering a missile to a terrorist group. In fact he is an amazingly incompetent illegal arms trader. And it is not at all clear that the world or New Jersey are any safer with him off the streets. How is Mrs. Lakhani? She is OK. I am going to talk to her later. That is me comforting him. Telling him I am sorry. That his wife is going to be OK. The truth is I am not sure I am exactly sorry. And I do not really know if his wife is going to be OK. But when an old man is sitting next to you crying like that reminiscing about their life together what else are you going to say? By putting me away for 100 years or 5 years or 50 years what do they think they are going to do? They think that terrorism is going to stop? I have nothing to do with terrorism. I am not Muslim. I am not a part of Al Qaeda or Hamas or of Hamas or anything. And what do I want against America? What have I got against America? why? Hemant Lakhani is 70 years old. He is Indian but he is a British citizen who lived in London for decades. And all his life he is made his living by being a salesman of one sort or another. Clothing rice oil armored personnel carriers-- more on that later-- and lately it seems an illegal shoulder fired missile. So how did a salesman a guy with no criminal history whatsoever become a target in the war on terror? Bad timing has a lot to do with it. As it happened the US Attorney who sent him to prison Christopher Christie was nominated to his job by President Bush on September 10 2001. His office has this huge conference room with giant windows facing lower Manhattan. We are sitting in my conference room doing this interview you look out those windows you have an unobstructed view of Manhattan. And people sat in this conference room and watched both buildings collapse. And so the atmosphere when I came in a few months later after my confirmation was still one of real crisis and of real sadness. And it was enormously stressful. And I can tell you that in my first six months here I was confronted on a weekly basis with a widow or a child who had lost their family. And in my own parish at home we lost two people. In my children's school there were three parents who were killed. And they look to you now. You are the US Attorney and they look to you to say are we safe? And so that was the atmosphere when you walked in. And that was the atmosphere under which Lakhani started. You have got to place everything that happens in the early parts of Lakhani in that context. That we were intent as prosecutors-- and I believe the agents felt this way too-- making sure it was not going to happen again. We clearly now had a brand new mandate from the President and the Attorney General. And the mandate was prevent a terrorist attack. Not solve it after it happens but preventive it. And I do not think people still understand what a sea change that was for federal law enforcement in this country. So it is understandable that Christie's interest was piqued when he heard a report from an informant about Hemant Lakhani his very first week on the job. It was in a normal weekly terrorism briefing on the fact that we had this informant who was telling us that there was someone who approached him regarding his willingness to broker missile sales. That informant is the next important piece of this story. To explain his part in it we actually have to go back a couple decades to Lahore Pakistan. To an American Drug Enforcement Administration agent named Charles Lee. Lee was a former seminarian who sitting on the toilet one day at school happened to pick up a Reader's Digest and open it to a New York cop story called Merchants of Heroin. He was so taken with the story that he quit the seminary the very next day and became a federal agent. He ended up stationed in Lahore. One day a contact brought this guy to his office named Habib who said he wanted to work for the US government on drug cases He talked about some people that we were quite interested in. I asked him about a particular individual up in northwest Frontier that we would had no success-- he was wanted in I believe at least two or three judicial districts. And he was already indicted. All we needed to do was get him out. But you could not even get the army to go after these people up there. So Habib said that he could get this person out. I thought well nothing could be a better acid test then to try that with Habib to begin with. Because if he could do that he must be able to do just about anything. And here Habib comes along and in no time flat delivered this guy right out. Kaboom. We had him and well it made a believer out of all of us. This guy obviously could do it. So that started it. So everybody loved Habib then. Habib turned out to be a great informant. For about a year and a half he and Lee made case after case. Then one day Habib's cover was suddenly blown. A drug dealer tried to kill him. And Lee swooped in to save him. Within 24 hours Habib and his family were in the US but now he had no job and no support. So after awhile he tracked down Lee who by then had returned to the US and asked him if he could do DEA cases in the states. And they started working together again on drug cases. Lee also recommended him to the FBI to use an informant on terrorism cases. But Lee says Habib was not on top of his game. And that came to light during one investigation where Habib tried to incriminate a guy who in Lee's words was not a doper period. Lee could not figure out what Habib's motive was for setting the guy up. When that happens it calls into question this guy's abilities and his veracity. It calls everything into question. Asking him about it he did not have the answers. And when you do not have the answers in this game that is good night. So rather than trying to second guess a bunch of that you just close this guy out. That is the end of him. Unreliable. There were other disappointments. Lee started a rice importing business with Habib. He thought it would help get Habib on his feet permanently. But pretty soon he found out Habib had ripped him off. He would sold the same shipment twice and Lee had to make good on 25000 he would stolen from a customer. And then he found out Habib had ripped off other people too. Had threatened people said he could get people killed. Lee was floored. He cut off Habib completely. He also typed up a nine-page letter about what he would learned and delivered it to Habib's FBI handler. Sometime after that the FBI deactivated Habib as one of its informants. But then after 911 things changed at the FBI. Though the agency had been warned how unreliable Habib could be his experience and language skills suddenly made him a hot property and different FBI bureaus were fighting over him. He ended up in the Newark bureau which is also the jurisdiction of US Attorney Chris Christie. It is Habib who first spotted Hemant Lakhani and brought him to the attention of the FBI. When Lee heard about the case he was stunned that the FBI was talking to Habib at all. I do not know. It went through my mind I wonder how they can justify doing that? I wondered if it was a legit case. I am sure these terrorism cases are exceedingly difficult to make. And exceedingly difficult to break into and that therein lies the temptation to reactivate a guy like Habib. Maybe they took him out and dusted him off and put him back to work. So here's how Habib ended up at the center of one of the biggest post 911 terrorism cases. Habib knew an Indian gangster a suspected terrorist named Abdul Kayum. Kayum also knew Lakhani. Here's US attorney Chris Christie. The ties that Lakhani was claiming to have to us to the terrorist whose last was Kayum was one that was of particular interest to us. The fact that Kayum even knew who Lakhani was. You know I do not know what a women's clothing salesman is doing being associated with someone like Kayum. A word here about Abdul Kayum. He is suspected of a series of bomb attacks in Bombay in 1993. Kayum's name is on terrorist watch lists around the world. And Lakhani's association with him is one of the most incriminating things about this case. And something Lakhani has never been able to explain away. What we do know is that in the fall of 2001 Kayum was sitting in Lakhani's hotel room in Dubai a hotel they both regularly stayed at Lakhani says talking business. At the time Lakhani's career was in something of a slump. He had been a successful clothing importer but when that fell apart in the early 1980s he went into other stuff. He bought a rice business and later a small Indian airline but those went under after a while too. He tried to recoup his losses by brokering various other deals. His latest one was an oil refinery deal. At the moment when he was sitting in the hotel room with Kayum he was looking for oil investors. At some point Kayum gets a call on his cell phone from Habib the informant who Kayum knows only as a rich businessman. Just to clear up a confusing thing about the tape you are about to hear Habib's full name is Mohamed Habib Rahman and the government refers to him as Rahman. But his nickname is Haji a term of respect for a Muslim who has made the Haj the pilgrim's trip to Mecca. So other people call him Haji. So what happened was is that Kayum said that Haji is a very powerful man in America. He is worth himself but a few hundred million dollars. And maybe he can help you. Speak to him. So I say oh hi Mr. Haji hello. And then he tells me that I believe that you are looking for a financier for a refinery project. So I thought he must be a powerful man. Of course he was nothing of the sort. At this point Rahman was making his living as an FBI informant and had actually racked up a string of unpaid debts. But Lakhani knew none of this. So Rahman starts to feel Lakhani out to see if he could be of interest to the FBI. He calls him over several months. Henry Klingeman Lakhani's defense attorney says at this point the informant saw Lakhani as his meal ticket. Meal ticket. Dupe. Patsy. Rahman is everything Lakhani is not. He is smart he is savvy. When Rahman reports back to the FBI the information looks incredibly promising. He describes Lakhani as a major weapons trafficker to terrorist groups in at least five countries. Again Henry Klingeman. I am looking at a set of handwritten notes prepared by the FBI agent who handled the informant. The notes are dated December 19 2001 and they include his summary of what the informant said to him about Lakhani. Specifically that Lakhani was a main weapons trafficker tied to Pakistani Indian criminals Sri Lankan terrorists Nepal and United Arab Emirates terrorists. That Lakhani is a broker of crude oil from Iraq. And again this was during the time of the embargo. Saddam Hussein was still in power and Iraqi oil was embargoed. That Lakhani was supplying weapons to the Mujahideen the holy warriors in Kashmir. That he was best friends with the Ukrainian prime minister no name given. And that he was worth 300 to 400 million meaning Lakhani. Lakhani who lives in a semi-detached home in a London suburb two old cars in the garage. With respect to what weapons Lakhani claimed he could sell the agent's notes indicate that the informant told the agents that Lakhani could sell large-scale weapons including missiles anti-aircraft guns any type of weapons. On January 17 2002 Lakhani and Rahman finally meet for the first time in Newark. Now the investigation kicks into gear. The government surveillance tapes are rolling. They show grainy black and white images of Lakhani sitting across a large table from Rahman. They are in a room at the Gateway Hilton overlooking Newark airport. And clearly Rahman is now trying to initiate a deal with Lakhani. And just as clearly Lakhani is eager to oblige. The two men speak in Urdu and Hindi and the translation sounds sort of like English Language Instructional videos. Rahman's translator is the first voice you will hear. Actually the main thing is- You mean the guns for fighting? Yes the guns and the anti-aircraft guns. Yes they are available. Do you have something latest? Latest missiles? Something sinister just like Stinger with an effective range of at least 15000 feet? Yes available. Give me the details about that one. The main thing is the anti-aircraft gun. Yes the anti-aircraft gun and anything else you think is important. Ammo? In ammo I can give you whatever you want. Anything you ask for. Every gun and everything. As much as you want. Do these people also have submarines? Yes they are expert in this. Good. I mean this is a guy who promised to sell submarines to the informant if the informant wanted them. That is the kind of thing that ought to make an FBI agent listing to the conversation just take his headphones off and shake his head. Why are we doing this? This guy is promising to sell submarines. It is preposterous. I mean the one thing he did not offer was an aircraft carrier or a space shuttle but if he had asked them for one I am sure he could tell you the Lakhani could get you both. Lakhani supposedly told the informant that he meaning Lakhani has people in the US government. And next to that it says obtains weapons NVG. Which as we have said is night vision goggles. So the obvious implication is that Lakhani has contacts within our own government from whom he obtains weapons including night vision goggles. And also get me order for night vision goggles. What is that? That is something for seeing at night. Are they buying it? Yes they need a lot of them. It is their demand. What sunglasses? It is just evident that he has no idea what this guy is talking about. And they had a similar conversation about plutonium. Supposedly Lakhani bragged to the informant that he could get plutonium in 22 pound bottles. Now how he came up with that increment one can only imagine. But in any event the informant mentions PLU 135 which is plutonium. And again Lakhani betrays an absolute ignorance about what this guy is talking about. None of the claims that Rahman initially made about Lakhani checked out. Not one of them. Not that supposed arms deals or the nuclear material or the personal wealth. Though it is very possible that the source of this bad information was Lakhani himself. Klingeman describes his client as a name dropper who associated himself with real events and real people but actually had nothing to do with them. To be sure his bragging is boundless. Here's a small sample taken mind you from just one conversation. The richest man in London is Indian . I was the richest man. This was Lakhani in those days. When I used to get down at the airport there was a red carpet for Lakhani. Red carpet. Not blue or green. A red carpet was given to me. Why? Because I was the most important man. I became very friendly with the royal family. And it is a fact. And they used to love me.  is an  you know that. I know him very well. Believe me. He claimed to have lunch with Tony Blair at 10 Downing Street. Said he knew Libyan dictator Moammar Gaddafi former Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto. The Prime Minister of Sri lanka the President of Congo. When I first visited him in prison I asked if he really knew all these people. He told me you want to meet Tony Blair? Give me 48 hours and he will be in your house. So it is quite possible that Lakhani lied to Rahman about who he was. Or maybe Rahman exaggerated. Understandably this is not something the government wants to contemplate. Here's US attorney Chris Christie. Did you ever feel at any point in the investigation that he oversold Lakhani even a little bit on some of those things that did not seem to pan out. Like his 300 to 400 million net worth. That he was a major arms trafficker in numerous countries. You know listen I am not going to sit around and second guess it. What was done was done and I think ultimately the jury decided that question. For Christie it was enough that Lakhani knew Kayum and that he had done at least one arms deal before he met the informant. That was enough experience in the arms trade to be suspicious. Like if you came to me today Petra and said to me Chris get me a brochure on the Stinger missile and see if you can fax it to me. Just because I am doing this program and if you could get it for me. You know I would not know the first place to start. Where do I get a brochure on a Stinger missile? Or on a Igla missile? I would have no idea where to start. I do not know if you would have an idea of where to start. Lakhani knew. Actually if you Google the word stinger missile and brochure you can find a Stinger sales brochure in a few seconds. And the one arms deal the government knew Lakhani was part of went like this. As an assistant to another broker Lakhani had helped arrange the sale of some armored personnel carriers to Angola for use by the president of Angola. Proper paperwork was filed with various governments. Everything was aboveboard. It was all perfectly legal. If you push Christie he will admit that at the end of the day Lakhani was not exactly a criminal mastermind or even a very good salesman. But he was the suspect they had. They could not predict where the next attack on America might come from. So they would investigate Lakhani as aggressively as possible to see where he might lead them and who he might lead them to. So they begin to ratchet up the case. The informant Rahman tells Lakhani he wants to order 200 missiles. But first Lakhani has to prove he can deliver. He needs to get just one a sample and he needs to ship it to Newark. There is talk of hundreds of thousands in profits and a half million dollar bonus. Then Rahman tells Lakhani that he represents a Somali terrorist group called the Ogaden Liberation Front. A real organization by the way but not a terrorist one. And at a certain point well into the deal Rahman tells him the group wants to start Jihad in America and throws in a reference to Al Qaeda for good measure. Lakhani usually talkative on any subject seems to have no reaction to this news. Boss you have no idea how much money there is in this business Rahman says. If you ask Lakhani why he did it he cannot really explain. He says it was not ideological or political and he claims he did not need the money. The best answer he came up with when my producer Sarah Koenig and I interviewed him was well Voodoo. And a lot of long distance phone calls. By the second meeting you had already agreed to try to get this stuff for him. Why did you do that? Well I told you it was a mistake. To say it is a mistake-- it seems to be understating the activity. It is more than a mistake. It is a serious decision to enter into something that is potentially-- You are interrupting me. You were interrupting me. Why-- It is a legitimate question. There is a guy who you have some doubts about he is asking you for things that you know are illegal basically. You have other priorities with your oil deal you are trying to get financing. Why do you bother to go forward with this guy? Well it happened. He induced me. You can call it inducing. He induced me that is all I can tell you. I have no other reply. What does that mean exactly to you? How did he get to you? You were very worldly you know many people you have done these deals before. How is it that he is able to convince you? He induced me that is all I can tell you he induced me. Nothing more. I was not greedy. I was not looking for extra money or big money or small money because money is no object in my life. But he induced me. Somehow he made some kind of magic on me and I could not say no. Or whatever happened I do not know. And he used to bother me like nobody's business. He would bother me 10 times a day. Sometimes I can show you the transcript. Call number one call number two call number three call number four call number five. Five past 10 511 520. Three hundred telephone calls he has made. What about these? What about that? He just annoyed you into it? Not annoyed but you know he would not leave me alone. Did you ever get suspicious that he was so persistent? Yes. Did you want him to like you? Well I do not think anybody who dislikes me in my life. Nobody dislikes me. Klingeman his attorney says Lakhani did not seem at all bothered by the phone calls and attention. In fact he says his reaction was just the opposite. Fundamentally what drove him was a desire to be part of something. He had failed in business. And to a great extent he had failed in life. He is an old man. And this was his chance to be part of something. He enjoyed the flattery and the attention of the informant. And he enjoyed the phone calls. He enjoyed the globe trotting. And I think that more than anything else is what drove him. Here was someone coming the Mr. Lakhani a sad-sack Willy Loman of a character and saying you are a big boss. You are a big man. You have connections. Help me. And Mr. Lakhani has never heard this from anyone before. But was Lakhani just a sad sack? It is true a lot of the business deals Lakhani bragged about seemed like complete fabrications but some of them were real. And his wife Kusum showed me photos proving that he moved in some pretty fancy circles. This is photo of Prince of Abu Dhabi who came to play polo with Prince Charles. And we visited the grounds. Prince Charles is shaking hands with my husband. And I am standing by on the side. But then again there are so many odd moments in the FBI tapes. Moments where Lakhani just seems out of his element. One minute he would be talking about weapons systems the next he would be offering a diamond deal or scrap metal anything. Here's an exchange where Lakhani's weirdly candid about what he thought his first meeting with Rahman was going to be about. Lakhani is speaking first here. When you first met me did you have any idea that you will be doing this? How did this happen? Yes I was looking for a serious person. After meeting with you I felt that this could also be done. OK. To be honest my idea was this. You told me there were so many Mexican people and they eat a lot of mangoes. Do you remember the mangoes from India? It was my idea to import mangoes from India. I am telling the truth. Mangoes. And then without missing a beat Lakhani goes right back to discussing weapons. Then there is this exchange about Indian sweets. To me he seems like an insecure man here. Desperate to please. Again Lakhani speaks first and he mentions Kusum his wife. Eat the sweets I brought for you they are very high class. Try this one. Wow. Is it your favorite one? Yes I like it very much. Yes it is balushahi. This is my favorite. Kusum told me you would like it. Yes I like it most. Believe me Kusum said you would like balushahi. Yes. She was saying this sweet is very good. Even I did not know it. Really it is very delicious. Kusum was saying so. I will call her right now and tell her that you like balushahi. That is what I told you. So she was right. Will you eat some? Yes definitely. Kusum was saying you will like it. Is it true? Yes. Oh. this is very tasty. But ask US Attorney Chris Christie about it and it turns out he reads the scene completely differently. I absolutely agree with your description of him in that way but I take something completely different from it. I do not think that he is this inane guy which is what I am getting from you. You are thinking like this inane idiot is sitting there talking about the sweets he got And why does not he get to the missile deal already? But the fact of the matter is Lakhani is trying to be a nice guy a good guy. He is trying to get on this guy's good side no matter what he has to do to do it because he wants to make the deal. This is the conduct of a person who is a salesman. I do not care what you are selling whether it is a used car women's clothing or a missile. The deal is to get a customer who is willing to buy and who buys from you. And he thinks this guy could go to somebody else if he gets frustrated with me so I am going to try to keep him close. And that is the way I view that interaction. Coming up in the words of the old saying keep your friends close keep your shoulder fired surface-to-air missile closer Our story about Hemant Lakhani continues in a minute. From Chicago public radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today we are devoting our whole show to the story of the government prosecution of Hemant Lakhani on terrorism related charges. For nearly two years Lakhani spoke with government informant Mohamed Habib Rahman. Again here's Petra Bartosiewicz. It did seem Lakhani would say anything to please Rahman. Whatever item Rahman requested anti-aircraft weapons land mines radioactive suitcase bombs his answer was always the same. It is available. Here's Lakhani in the second meeting promising to get Rahman Russian-made Igla missiles the surface-to-air shoulder fired kind. How many do you want? About 200. It will be done. It will be arranged immediately. I will go there on Sunday. The delivery will be ready on Monday. He says this on April 25 2002 that he will deliver on Monday. But the truth is Lakhani cannot deliver on Monday. And he cannot deliver for the next year. Lakhani's problem is not just that he cannot deliver the missile it is that he cannot actually acquire one. So even though he is promising Rahman the deal is nearly done in fact there is no deal. Month after month after month he puts Rahman off and Rahman understandably is getting impatient. Here's Lakhani's attorney Henry Klingeman again. In terms of the chronology between January 2002 and August of 2003 there is a pattern. And there is no point in going conversation by conversation because the conversations are all the same. The informant says what is happening? Lakhani says the deal is done. The informant says well where is the missile? Lakhani says it will be here any day. And the missile never shows up. And the informant calls back two days later and says what is happening? Lakhani says the deal is done. The informant says well where is the missile? Lakhani says it will be here any day. And that just goes on and on and on. Lakhani's one and possibly only weapons contact was the Ukrainian state controlled arms manufacturer. A company called Uker Spitz Export. This was the company the Lakhani got the armored personnel carriers from in the Angola deal. He showed Rahman their weapons brochures. But to buy missiles from them he would need special government paperwork which he did not have. So he started asking around in some shadier corners of the former Soviet republics. Apparently he was not so subtle about it because soon enough the FSB the Russian security service caught wind of it and started tracking Lakhani. Here's Chris Christie. At some point Russian law enforcement the FSB contacted the FBI to let them know that they knew Lakhani was contacting legitimate sources in the old Soviet union in an attempt to buy these missiles. Well I know at that point for me the light bulb really went on and I said this guy's for real. He knew the right people to call. Still Lakhani could not seem to get one. Months passed. The US government had given the Lakhani a buyer but they were getting tired of waiting for him to drum up a seller. If only he would find a missile their case could be done. So they get him a missile. They cook up a plan with the Russians. FSB agents posing as arms dealers sell Lakhani a dummy missile. Real in every respect except that it had no munitions. Even an expert would have been fooled. Lakhani falls for it. He even watches the missile being loaded onto a ship in Saint Petersburg that he thinks will carry it