From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Bim Adewunmi sitting in for Ira Glass. Not too long ago a few of us here on the show were talking about families and how everybody has a role to play in theirs. And whatever your role is it sort of becomes your identity. Like this one's insular and really into books or that one's the sensitive one who is quick to anger or the little one's the sweetheart-- that sort of thing. And the longer we talked about it the more we began to notice a pattern. Sisters in particular often have very specific very pithy elevator pitches about themselves and each other-- like my colleague on the show Emanuele Berry. OK so I have three sisters. My oldest sister is Danielle. She is like the rebel. She is the sister who moved out when she was a teenager. Then we have Elena. And she is like-- I guess you could say like the diva.  And then my youngest sister Keanna who is sort of like the-- wants to have fun all the time-- like little like wild. Uh-huh. But not like too wild.  I see. She is fun. She is the fun one I guess. Uh-huh. Yeah. And when it comes to Emanuele's role she said this thing partly being funny but also sort of seriously. I am the favorite. Yeah I am the favorite sister. Huh. The best. OK.  See that is-- that is overconfident right there.   I was so sure that the story that my sisters tell about me is that I am their favorite sister. Amazing. Like it is so clear to me that I am each of their favorite sister. OK just checking. No I know it sounds like unbelievably cocky. But I really do not think it is coming from a place of cockiness so much as like in terms of our personalities I am the personality that like can be the favorite.  You know? Nothing you are saying is making it better. No I say that 'ecause I think I am-- I am like the peacekeeper. So like I am the one that gets along easiest with each of my sisters. Yeah. You are like the character in the teen movie who is friends with the jocks and the nerds and the-- Yes. --the hipsters and the cool Black girls and all that stuff. That is you? Everyone yeah yeah yeah basically. Amazing. OK so Emanuele I have to ask in the interest of journalistic integrity-- Mm-hmm mm-hmm. --would your sisters corroborate the very specific idea that you have that you are their favorite? I mean yeah I--  I think? I mean I thought but then I called my sisters. When I describe you to others? Yeah like is there a story that you tell about me or is there like a Emanuele is this sister? Well I am always like my sister Emanuele who is like super smart. She has a super-cool job in New York.  It-- it does kind of come down to like-- this is so terrible but Elena's the pretentious one you are the ambitious one. Keanna's the one with the kid.  I just always think of you as like the family boss. Like-- Mm. I do not know. If we were a mob family you would be the boss of this family.  So when I asked my sister Elena-- she is the second eldest she is right before me-- what is the story she tells to describe me-- The first one that popped up  and I am just like it is not that flattering but it is-- It is not that flattering? No I mean-- it is just-- it was just the time that you punched me in the eye--  --when we were like-- and you were like four at the time right? OK. And we were playing Pocahontas. Yeah. And I was the older sibling and so I was going to be Pocahontas. You were younger than me. I mean I always was playing some random side character or boy always. And so you played her best friend. And I just remember-- and we were in a tent too because we had set up a tent in the living room you know? And you were like I want to be Pocahontas! And then you punched me in the eye.   So just-- just doing a tally-up-- Uh-huh uh-huh. --of the responses of your sisters-- so punched in the face ambitious the boss of the family Mafia-style. Uh-huh. It is amazing to me how different those things are from the favorite. I asked them for the first thing they think of OK?  Right so-- wait hang on-- so favorite is not supposed to be the first it is one of the things they say? I guess. Maybe it is just like buried deeper than I anticipated in their like minds you know? This is amazing backpedaling and I love that. OK so they did not immediately say she was their favorite. But she does not mind. Instead what struck Emanuele in these conversations was how it seemed like they all were telling the same stories but with different entrance points like a low-stakes Rashomon. I mean Danielle's story right is about me being like the mob boss of the family or that is the sort of like role that she holds me in. And the story I tell about her is that she left when she was a teenager. Uh-huh. And it is weird because they are sort of connected in this way where like her leaving as a teenager kind of resulted in me having to take up some of that space and be maybe more of a boss right? So it is sort of like action and consequences like we are telling the same thing. And then with my sister Keanna the story she tells about me when we talked more is about how when we were in high school together I tried to kick her off the basketball team. Hold on that is a very casual way of saying something quite horrid. You what? Is it though? Is it horrid? I was the captain of the basketball team and she was not taking it seriously. Explain. She was not taking it seriously and I was very serious about basketball. And she was just always goofing around and she never wanted to run. She would always all of a sudden like have a cramp. And she could not do the suicides. I absolutely 100 love the air quotes. They really add something to the storytelling. And what is the story that you tell about her in relation to that? We went to Puerto Rico together for spring break when I was in college my senior year. And she like fell hard for this guy. And she kept like disappearing and I did not know where she was. And we got in this huge fight where we were like screaming drunk in the streets at each other. And she is like I am an adult! And I am like I am calling mom and dad!  Yeah but at its core it is sort of about how Keanna is always about-- Keanna wants to have fun. Like at the end of the day that is what it is about for her. Right and you are sort of the fun marshal? A little bit yeah. I mean I got to keep her in line. Yeah like a boss. Like a mob boss. Yeah. Yeah. I am the boss and like Keanna's the wild one. And we each sort of have like these labels right? But they are also kind of outdated. Like my sister Keanna is like a mother. And I do not think she can drink a half a glass of wine without passing out anymore-- like a very-- very different than Puerto Rico Keanna. Sure. But you sort of like-- right? You get stuck with these roles from childhood. Like we are a weird ecosystem or something like that. And we all have a place. So like she is the fun one so I cannot be the fun one. Right you cannot have two letter As-- Yeah yeah. --in the alphabet. Even though you might make similar sounds I feel like you are all such distinct letters. Yeah. And each one has to kind of fit in. Yeah in this sort of like world that we have created as sisters. Unlike Emanuele I only have one sister. But if I had to define myself-- like if someone asked me about the foundational underpinning of my identity among all the many things I could say-- that I think in paragraphs or that I tend to cheerfulness over melancholy-- before all of that the thing that I would say is that I am Ade's little sister. She is three years older than me the kindest person I know my best friend. I love her like she is me. And when I was small I wanted more than to be like her. I kind of wanted to eat her up just consume her. I was obsessed with her but like in a healthy way. We created this dense self-contained world together as kids. One example of it was Funky Funky Funky Radio a radio station universe that we made up and recorded onto cassettes that we lost years ago. We did news and current affairs and human interest stories and sports-- specifically horse racing with a twist that in this world the horses could talk and they all had very different personalities. My sister was basically the station manager. She directed our work like she directed my life at that age. Funky Funky Funky Radio was completely for us. We would play it back to ourselves and give notes on what we could do better next time. Sometimes we played it to our dad but it was not for him. It was an exercise in sisterly world building. Being a younger sister is how I move through the world. I am the second one the younger one the littler one. I am aware of all the cliches-- that they are annoying attention hogs the ones who get to mess up-- a whole box of behaviors. Even so with the noted exceptions of Amy March and Lydia Bennett I reserve my biggest love for almost every literary or pop culture little sister-- Serena over Venus Marianne Dashwood over Elinor Sasha Obama over Malia. I am the second of four so that means I am a big sister too to two brothers whom I love very much Demola and Dapo. But that fact the fact that I am also two other people's older sister is so secondary to that first fundamental identity that I have. I am the little sister. Maybe it is because my sister knew me before I really knew myself. I got to meet my brothers when they arrived in this world. But Ade she was already a fact. She is the most constant thing in my life. I have never known a world without her. I cannot imagine it and I do not want to. Today's show is about that world that can exist between only sisters-- the worlds they build together and the things that could knock those worlds off their axis. We have two stories today about the bonds between sisters and how they get broken and fixed or not. Stay with us. Sister Act One Cindy and Dayana. We start today with sisters Cindy and Dayana Carcamo. They are close but recently they have been struggling with this thing that happened when they were very young. For the first part of their childhood they did not know each other at all. Here's Cindy. My family is from Guatemala. My sister Dayana was born there. She lived there for years far away from me and my parents. I was born in LA. When we were little Dayana believed that explained one difference between us. I thought you were very American-looking. What she means by American-looking is that I looked white. At one point I remember thinking that if you were born in China you would look Chinese. And if you were born in America you-- yeah I remember thinking like that. So it could be that. You know I thought she was-- she was born in the US so she was very American-looking. And I was like wow she looks really different than the way I look. In Guatemala like a lot of places whiter skin is considered prettier. My lighter skin became a thing for us growing up. Like one time a family friend Ricardo came to visit. He looked like the famous '80s singer El Puma. So I remember him making a comment one time. I remember exactly where we were. We were at the entry of the house. Yeah and I remember him saying oh Cindy you are-- you are so pretty. Oh look at you. And then I remember him telling me oh your sister's so pretty. Oh it is a good thing you are smart. I am glad you are smart. And I was like-- I was like yeah I am smart. And I was like OK that is kind of odd. But I knew-- I knew very well though why you were prettier than me. To me she was always so beautiful and great so quick-witted so good at managing everything at reading a room. She always knew what to say. For as long as I can remember I wanted to be like her. She was the responsible one I was a space cadet. She was the neat one I was the messy one. At one point she put tape down the middle of the bedroom and told me to keep my mess on my side. All those things I always thought that is just who she is how she is-- rigidly organized high achieving her obsession with being perfect always wanting to please. But while we were talking it dawned on me for the first time that I had it all wrong. A lot of those traits had to do with her being separated from our parents. TEARING UP No because I did not want to disappoint them. Yeah I knew you know I had to be a good girl. And I had to listen to-- I had to listen to whatever they said and I had to impress them. Because I did not want to be sent back. By sent back she is talking about being sent to Guatemala. My mom and dad came to the US when Dayana was just a baby. My mom was a teenager. They were crossing illegally and she worried it was too dangerous to bring her. It seemed irresponsible. So they left Dayana with her grandmother Chita. It was a cushy setup-- they had a housekeeper who basically waited on Dayana. They lived in a nice neighborhood. And anyway my parents assumed they would be back for her soon. She would not end up joining them for years. It is only now that I am beginning to put together a more complete picture of why that was and how much it shaped Dayana and our family. For a long time I knew the basic facts-- Dayana lived the first years of her life in Guatemala without my parents and then she came home. But I never knew the full story. What was it really like for her? How did it affect her? What did she imagine about her life in LA? Sometimes you can be so close to people but this is the kind of thing you do not ask about. What was your idea of what mom and dad were like? I pictured her as this almost like professional career beautiful woman. I knew she worked full-time. And I remember them saying something about how she used to like design like fabrics. So I thought that was pretty glamorous. And I remember the way she dressed. Like she wore these kind of fitted shirts. And I remember looking at her and thinking wow she has such a beautiful body. I want to be like her. You know she had this like cute butt. And I was like oh my gosh I do not have a butt. I want to have a butt like mama. Dayana told me that during the years apart she would imagine what it would be like when she finally joined us. Like a lot of-- a lot of hugs telling me that I was very special that they loved me. And I thought I was going to be very special coming here you know to the US because they were finally going to have me. And I thought I was going to be like on this throne type of thing because they had missed me so much. And they were going to want to be with me. My parents did miss Dayana desperately. While Dayana was in Guatemala they sent her boxes full of toys clothes and American candy like Snickers bars and Wrigley's chewing gum-- stuff that was pricey or hard to find back then. My mom told me after they were separated she kept having this dream where Dayana was on a mountain that she could not reach. She became deeply depressed. It runs in our family. But it is hard to know whether mom's started because of the separation or if it was there all along and the separation made it worse. The first time my mom was able to visit Guatemala after the separation Dayana was two or three. She had not seen her for over a year. Now she was meeting her as a toddler. This was before I was born. My mom showed up with a suitcase full of outfits and toys for Dayana. And when she got to the house Dayana sort of ignored her. She would rather hang out with Chita or her Aunt Estella or Uncle Yembi. At one point my mom scolded her for something and Dayana responded with tu no me creaste-- you did not raise me. But she could not pronounce her R's so the way the story's always told in my family she said tu no me cli-aste. My mom felt rejected. She says looking back she knows she should not have felt that way. But she was so young. She was only 20. Meanwhile her mom Chita was emphatic that Dayana should stay. She cried. She told my mom I am attached to her now. Do not take her away. By the end of the visit my mom decided she could not tear Dayana away from Chita and a family she did know. So she came back to the US alone without Dayana. She left the suitcase full of toys behind. That scene-- mom going to get Dayana Dayana staying in Guatemala-- that turned into something that happened over and over. It happened so many times that both Dayana and my mom have lost track. It was always the same-- mom would come with the intention of bringing Dayana back with her Dayana did not really want to be with her Chita would cry and mom could not bear to take Dayana away from her. I would heard that story a lot growing up. The back-and-forth tormented my mom for years. I asked her to talk to me for the story but she said no. She cannot talk about this without crying and that embarrasses her. Until now it never occurred to me to ask Dayana how all this felt to her. Dayana told me the constant thing she remembers is my parents would come to take her and the adults would start arguing. And it was really confusing. She wanted to go with mom and dad but she did not want to leave Chita behind either. And the adults around her were not helping. One day they would tell her you are leaving. And then they would tell her never mind you are staying. That was the kind of detail about Dayana's childhood that I did not know most of my life. And I did not know this part either. At one point my parents turned to Dayana and asked her point blank so how about it? Do you want to come live with us in the US? And Dayana was like sure. She was around four. But then I remember the next day Tia Estella saying you should not go. We love you here. You should really just stay here with us. Why do you want to go with them? They left you anyway and-- so it was that type of conversation. And then I remember mom and dad asking me again and me saying no. And then I remember mom and dad being very upset about that. To this day-- this comes up in my family by the way that Dayana said she wanted to stay. My parents bring it up whenever Dayana asks why did not you bring me? It is become this ongoing refrain. They will say you said no. We asked you remember? It is gone on for years.  As a reporter I have covered family separations. I have covered US immigration policy for more than a decade most recently for the Los Angeles Times. And in my job I have covered their reunifications-- families in airports or at the border hugging each other and crying teenagers and moms dads and toddlers with toddlers looking stoic and distant-- the whole range. I am the reporter who goes up to them and asks them how they are feeling. For a lot of people I think these scenes look like an ending the conclusion of these stories. But I know they are not. They are just the beginning. This moment when a child is returned to their parents I am always thinking the next part that is the hard part. My sister still remembers the exact date that she finally joined my parents in the United States-- December 7 1982. She was eight I was three. My parents were legal residents by then. Dayana came with Chita-- mom thought it would be easier that way-- and they came for a long visit. At the end the plan was Dayana stays. And this time Chita relented. Dayana was finally here for good. Until I started asking her about this recently I would always imagined the years of separation were the hardest part for Dayana. But that was not true at all. I did not know my parents. And I did not know how they were going to treat me. I did not-- I really did not know them. So it was almost like I was with strangers. Back in Guatemala Dayana grew up with aunties and cousins who lived steps away-- a whole network of people who doted on her. There was a refrigerator full of homemade ice cream and Chita would let Dayana grab what she wanted. It must have been so weird for her having to navigate a whole new set of rules and ways of living having to decipher everything and all of us. I remember feeling really lonely. I missed Yembi a lot-- my uncle. And then of course Chito-- grandpa-- I missed him a lot. I remember I had-- mom and dad bought me a lot of like stuffed animals. And I remember I named all of them. So one of them was like Paola. One of them was Yembi. One of them was Chito. Like they all had a-- all had a name. I remember feeling lonely all the time. Mm-hmm. Yeah I mean it lasted for-- you know it lasted gosh-- I think I started to feel-- feeling more comfortable with everything probably in junior high. Yeah it is a long time. Mm-hmm. This is the first time I heard this. And it crushed me. It is hard for me to hear this to hear Dayana dealing with this in such a little kid way. She never seemed like a kid to me when we were little. She was so competent. She was so good at school-- straight A's always so practical. She did not like to play. I had an imaginary friend growing up and she very rationally was like that does not make sense. I have always felt she was a grown-up from the beginning but of course she was not. She felt insecure like an outsider. So she made a plan to try to fit in to make herself indispensable to our family. Here's what she did every day-- she made her bed and mine she dressed me in the morning she made our lunch for school she helped me with my homework she washed dishes after dinner and on the weekends she helped my mom clean the bathroom. This was the stuff Toya did back in Guatemala-- the housekeeper. Dayana did all of this because in her mind the stakes were so high. She really did think she would be sent back. I had no idea. And this was not just some little kid thought she had. She told me that the adults warned her that might happen. Just because I remember Chito telling me that I had to be really good or-- because if I was not good they could send me back. Ugh. Yeah. But-- Dayana says she heard this from our Chita too. My mom was always the hardest relationship for Dayana to figure out. It did not help that her mom's depression continued and went undiagnosed for years. So life with mom could be unpredictable. Anything would set her off. My mom was so fragile. She seemed constantly aggravated and anxious. And she was usually unsatisfied with anything Dayana did. They would argue over the temperature of the dish water or the settings on the dryer Dayana being a little late when she picked her up from school. Always hanging around was the hurt my mom felt from when Dayana had refused to come to the US back when she was little. She would just get really mad and just you know say things like I should not have come here or-- I would just do things to upset her. Ever since I came to this country I would just upset her and I would do things on purpose to upset her. She said that to you that you should not have come here? Do you remember that? I mean-- or did-- Yeah yeah-- --was that something she said all the time? No not all the time but she would just say you know ever since you came you just do things to upset me-- things like that. When did she first say that to you? Oh I do not remember. It would-- she would you know-- she-- yeah I mean it would come up you know? Mm-hmm. I mean that would come up a lot you know? Another thing that would come up a lot was well you do not really love us. That is why you did not want to come with in the first place. I mean stuff like that has come up so many times. I mean it is just-- I mean it probably came up like not too long ago-- probably me as an adult like in my 30s probably. Well I remember when you did not want to come with us. You know it is just like stuff-- that stuff has come up all the time. It is just-- it is nothing new. I had no idea my mom had said those things. It felt to me like that was just a harsh thing to say to a kid here holding something against Dayana this thing she said when she was so little. But I also realized how much of a scar that was for my mom. When we were teenagers Dayana was always so busy. I never got as much time as I wanted. It still is sort of that way. I have to book her in advance just to hang out with her. I never really understood it but it makes more sense now how Dayana kind of turned away from home and started throwing herself into work. She got her first job at 15 so she could pay her own way more and help the household. When she was in high school it seemed like all she did was study. College too-- she had a full load of courses and a couple of jobs. Well yeah. Why did you feel you had to be the perfect kid? I-- I do not know. I-- I do not know. I just wanted mom and dad to love me. I got here late right? I got here when I was eight years old. They did not really have a relationship with me. So I wanted them to love me. When Dayana said I got here late it just cut me apart. It is like she is blaming herself-- like she had an appointment and she messed it all up and showed up late. I have always known my sister and I had different experiences but I am only now realizing just how different. Recently I noticed for example that my mom has always used with me the less formal and more intimate form of vos. Dayana instead has always been addressed as usted which automatically puts a distance between them. I talked with my mom about this and she said she did not consciously do it. I believe it but looking back she also said maybe she did that because ever since the separation she is felt Dayana no longer belonged to her. Also in almost every sibling squabble my mom took my side which turned the three of us into this uncomfortable little triangle. The two of them would fight so much I would get anxious and try to play the peacemaker. It did not always work. They yelled at each other got mad at me for taking the other side and I would end up feeling like I let them both down in some way. The older we got the worse it felt. As we were talking my producer Nadia Reiman asked Dayana if she could think of examples of how she and I were treated differently. She had a hard time deciding where to start. OK well first they-- you know they bought me a car and I was expected to pay car insurance. Cindy got a car Cindy got her car paid for her insurance paid for. Whenever I needed an oil change I took care of it. I changed the tires I did everything. Whenever Cindy needed an oil change dad would go do it for her. In college I had to pay for school. I had to work to pay for school. Cindy went to college Cindy got everything paid for. Not only that but she got spending money. Not only that but she ran up a phone bill. They paid for that. They did not-- they did not help me at all for undergrad. My mom says if Dayana remembers it that way she must be right though my parents did help her with grad school. And I know it is easy for some of this to sound like normal sibling stuff-- older kid little sister stuff. But one of the hardest parts of this is that it is hard for Dayana and me to tell what was about her separation and what was not. It would have been so easy for Dayana to resent me to be so mad at how I was treated versus how she was treated but that did not happen. Instead she doubled down on being my greatest protector and advocate. She did not like it when anyone said anything mean about me or when the neighborhood kids did not want to play with me. And in turn I would follow her around like a puppy dog. When we talked about this recently I kept asking her really? You never resented me? But in this very reasonable Dayana way she said no it was not you. You were just a kid-- but so was she. The way the separation-- our beginning-- has shaped the rest of our lives sometimes we forget about it. Sometimes we are caught off guard by it. But it never goes away. 11 years ago Dayana had a son Pablo. Soon after Dayana gave birth to him mom came to stay with Dayana to help her out. Things felt different like the separation was finally fading. My mom was treating her depression and was in a much better place. She and Dayana had been able to build a relationship. They would gotten close. One day my mom was changing Pablo's diaper. And I remember her specifically telling me what I did not do with you the time that I did not spend with you I will make up for it with Pablo. That was the hope anyway-- Pablo would help them finally repair this 30-year-old hurt. And then Pablo turned eight. I remember doing dishes and thinking wow Pablo is eight. That is what I came to the US. He really-- he is really just a kid you know? Why-- why did I go through so much? I started thinking like OK you know I tried so hard. Why was the eight-year-old trying so hard to make her mom happy? Why was not it the other way around right? Why was it me thinking I would better be good because they may-- they may send me back? When Dayana had Pablo she had a hard time leaving him with his nanny or even his grandparents. She did not like being away from him. When Pablo was a toddler she told me she was looking at getting him microchipped just to be sure they would not be separated. I was taken aback and sort of teased her. I was like he is not a dog Dayana. Is not that illegal? I was really really paranoid about somebody kidnapping him and taking him away from me. I mean I had a tracker on him for when he started going to school when he started going to preschool. There was a little thing little chain that he would carry. And if-- and I kept telling him if anything ever happens anybody ever takes you or you ever get lost you push this button and the police will come. I would have dreams that he was not with me that somebody would take him away. And I would be-- and I would look for him and I would look for him. And then it really really-- I really started obsessing with it. And I am still not OK with like leaving him in the house by himself or I still need to know where he is at all times. Dayana is type A in general but it is hard not to draw a line between her being left behind and this fear that she has of ever being separated from Pablo. I brought it up to her. To my surprise it was like a light bulb went off. She would never connected those things. And it made sense to her the idea that all of this was now shaping Pablo's life too a whole generation later. Two years ago there was something of a reckoning in my family at my birthday. It started out as an argument about family history like about my paternal grandmother's politics. But it became about all of this. Everything Dayana was feeling exploded. She finally told my mom how she felt how she had not been treated fairly since she was little. She talked about feeling lonely. She said she still felt like she needed to please mom and never could. My mom apologized. She asked for forgiveness but Dayana was so angry. Things have not been the same since. Like lately I have just been thinking like god if I would have just shut up and kept on living the way I was living our relationship would still be great. And-- yeah but I had to-- for some reason I had to get angry and I had to get mad. And I should have just let things go. Like why? Who cares right? Like I am 46. I have succeeded in life. Why-- who cares? I should have just let things go. Why did I have to bring things up that I was not supposed to? So do you regret it? I do regret it. Oh really? Yeah now I do. What do you think you ultimately want from mom? I just want her back. I just want us to have a relationship. But what does that mean though? Because-- I want us to be close. I want her to visit Pablo. I want her to give Pablo the time and the love she did not give me. That is all I want. That is all I want. At that birthday during that fight I did something I really had not done before-- I changed my role. Finding our way through all of this I would always tried to stay neutral an intermediary. But in this case I switched. I stood up for Dayana. I stepped in-between them not as a neutral peacekeeper but to defend my sister. I have been doing that more and more lately. Recently I was reporting and talking to a bunch of moms at the border in Tijuana. They worried they would be separated from their kids. I got really upset and kept thinking about Dayana about how she was left behind for so long. So I called her. I felt compelled to tell her what I would seen. She said she just felt awful for those mothers and their kids. Then I called my mom. She told me she thought it was irresponsible for these mothers to bring their children with them. It was dangerous she said and she insinuated that some of the women were lying about why they were leaving that this was all a trick to bring kids on a journey they should not be on-- which because of my reporting I knew it was not true. It kind of infuriated me. And so I said but mom these women do not want to leave their kids behind. You had to make a similar choice when you left Dayana and I do not think it worked out all that great. As soon 