Hanco runs a shop that sells Vietnamese sandwiches and bubble tea on a corner in Brooklyn. It is a neighborhood favorite lots of tables and sunlight streaming in through big windows crowded most of the day. Not long ago a customer brought in a menu from a shop that opened up just four blocks away to show to Hanco. Yeah. When I saw this I was really shocked. OK so here's your menu. Just read the list of sandwiches from top to bottom. Classic grilled pork grilled chicken sardine shredded chicken tofu. Now let us go to this other one and read. OK classic grilled pork grilled chicken shredded chicken tofu. Or go to the list of bubble teas. Here's Hanco's menu. Original bubble tea almond taro honeydew coconut coffee thai tea. And the competitive Henry's. Original bubble tea almond taro honeydew coconut coffee thai. Of the 42 sandwiches salads appetizers and drinks on Hanco's menu all 42 are on Henry's in the exact same order laid out in the same places on the menu posted 0.25 to 0.50 cheaper. And when you hold the two menu side by side it is the same font same colors maroon letters on white. Each one says in cursive free delivery on the upper right. The two menus look like copies except for the name on top. I guess they are being lazy. They do not want to be great creative. You are just like you know what let us just copy and paste. The three people who owned this new place have all worked for Hanco at some point or another. There was Henry there was Henry's mom and there was Hui. Hanco says in retrospect they were always asking how do you make this? What is the recipe for that? And at the time he thought they were just trying to be helpful until they opened up their own place and he put it all together. For two nights after he saw the menu Hanco could not sleep. He had trouble breathing. He wondered if he was having a heart attack. He was really upset. I understand like you want to start your own thing. But you do not have to be identical. Do something different. I mean even though if you get my recipe you stole my recipe. Or you did not steal it. You just know it. I teach you. You know it. You work here for many years you know the recipe. You start your own business. You open across the street the next block. I mean that is your choice. I cannot do anything about that. You know that is how it is. Why do you do identical? Why do you confuse customers? Because customers come to me is the the same as Hanco's. It has hurt Hanco's business. Sales are down 10 to 15 he said. Meanwhile up the street at Henry's things are going so badly them Henry and his mom left after just a few months. Now Hui ran the place alone. So I marched up the street to see what Hui had to say about all of this. Because Vietnamese sandwiches and bubble tea they are an idea whose time has come and not just in Brooklyn. They are popping up all over the country. You you buy Vietnamese banh mi sandwiches in Biloxi Mississippi right now. And bubble tea you can get it in Idaho. With all that potential and opportunity out there all that money to be made why did Hui and Henry imitate this one restaurant four blocks away so slavishly all the way down to the font on the menu? What were they thinking? And when I got to Henry's to ask this-- it is this tiny little shop-- what happened next was very very strange. There was a man and two women behind the counter. And they swore they had never heard of anyone anyone named Hui. No no they said This place had a new owner some guy in Queens name Joey. Does anyone work here who used to work at Hanco's? I brought a Cantonese translator with me because I have been told the Hui's English was not so great. Hui is Chinese not Vietnamese. I used to deliver food at Hanco's. And what is your name? Me? The guy behind the counter got a funny look on his face. Ling I am Ling. Ling L-I-N-G Ling. Yes Ling told me he had worked at this place since the very beginning seven months before. But no he had no idea who this Hui was. He had never heard that name. When I asked him if they knew anything about how they came up with a menu if they stole from Hanco's Ling would say things that seemed to indicate that he had no problem copying the menu. If you are like a kung fu student if the master did not teach you how are you supposed to learn? And then in the very next he would say. But I will not copy them. We do their own thing. They do their own thing. There is a difference between the two restaurants and we just made a new menu. Take a look at it. And in fact the new menu was glossy and multi-colored and did not look like Hanco's menu at all. Though of course it still contained most of the items from Hanco's menu. Stop talking about the past Ling kept saying. We do not know about the old menu and how it was made we only know about no. Back out on the street the translator his name was Lee and we could not figure out what just happened. Ling had told us that he thought it would be perfectly acceptable if they copied from Hanco. But then he also said that they did not copy from Hanco. Also somehow he had never heard of Hui . None of them had. Even though Ling had been at the restaurant since the day that Hui and Henry started it seven months before. None of it made any sense. And it was hard to let it go. They do not know who Hui is apparently. But Ling worked here with Hui . He did not know the name Hui  but he knew the old owner whoever the old owner was. But basically I am pretty sure he does know who Hui is by his body language. He was not answering. Other questions he was answering. He just with avoiding the question whenever I mention Hui . Do you think he is Hui? I do not think so. But that would be funny if he was. He did take a while to answer his name his own name. So I do not know if that is really his name. Let us take his picture. I pull out my digital camera walk back into the restaurant stand right in front of the counter facing Ling and the two other employees. I say nothing point the camera. I shoot. I walk out. Four minutes later I am back down the street inside the place where I started the first restaurant Hanco's. I show Hanco the photo and ask if he recognizes anybody. That is Hui with the white hat. I have never seen this one. This is probably his wife. So we had back four blocks in the other direction to Henry's store. And without the tape recorder on I explained to Ling that I know he is actually Hui . And I told him that I am not trying to embarrass him. But please could he just explain to me why he and Henry decided to knock off Hanco's menu so thoroughly and completely. He tells me basically that it was Henry's idea. Henry when I check with him says that it was actually Hui's idea. But neither of them could actually understand what the big deal was with copying a menu. All restaurants take from each other Hui told me. You will have two Japanese restaurants across the street from each other. They will both sell the same items. That is how it always goes. In fact Hanco the guy with the first shop in the neighborhood Hanco will tell anybody's who is curios that he got the idea for his place by visiting another Vietnamese sandwich shop in New York one called Nicky's. Sandwiches and bubble tea are this unlikely million dollar idea. It is this unlikely idea but it started at one job and it spread like a virus through Brooklyn infecting one small aspiring businessmen after another leaving a trail of jealousies and ambitions and hurt feelings in its wake. None of these three guys are talking to each other anymore. Apparently a million dollar idea can do that even if the idea does not make you 1 million. Today on our radio show we have stories of million dollar ideas some of them with enough juice in them that they are actually worth actual millions some of them only good enough to turn your life upside down and wreak havoc as you chase after them. At WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass our show in four acts today. Stay with us. Act One Going Up? There is a whole world of engineers and investors who are actively trying to invent million dollar ideas. And in that world there is something called an elevator pitch which is pretty much exactly what you would guess it is. It is the pitch that you would make for your product for your idea if you bumped into a rich investor on an elevator. Figure you have 60 seconds what is the vital stuff that will convince them. What are the details that you leave out? This is such a specific skill apparently. MIT actually has a contest for its students and faculty with thousands of dollars in prices for elevator pitches. There is a little video on YouTube encourage people to pitch in this contest.  Get it? Tim Rowe was a judge at this year's elevator pitch contest. He is an investor. And he runs what he describes as basically a big frat house filled with start-up companies called the Cambridge Innovation Center. He told me Elevator pitches actually do happen in real life. He is even witnessed one in an elevator. But usually they go like. You are walking through the halls at say MIT. And you see a professor there. And the professor is standing with a visitor. And the visitor turns out to be a famous venture capitalist. Right? And the professor turns to you and says oh Joe this is so and so. He is looking around for interesting things to invest in. And this is your moment right? Wait wait wait and you have actually seen this happen? This happens literally every day in Cambridge Massachusetts. There are probably 100 venture capitalist circling looking for the next thing to invest in. And so it is these chance meetings it happens regularly. The basics of a good elevator pitch he says are straightforward talk in a way your grandparents could understand do not expect the listener is an expert or knows scientific jargon. That is apparently a challenge for lots of engineers. You also have to explain how you and your team are qualified to actually accomplish the thing you are setting out to do. You have to prove you are an expert in field if you have got Nobel Laureates working with you it would be a good time to mention it. And finally engage the listeners emotions. Grab them from the start. At the MIT competition there was a pitch for medical procedure that Tim says Did that really well with a very simple gimmick. Here is the pitch. There was a space theme to the competition. So you will hear each pitch begins with a countdown. Three two one. Take off! This year Harrison Ford turned 67 putting him at a high risk for prostate cancer. If tomorrow he were to be sadly diagnosed with this disease he would discover that he has two main treatment options either undergo surgery to remove his prostate rendering him impotent or do nothing but be comforted by having sex. At Hydrangle Systems we do not want the Indiana Joneses if the world to have to choose between life and sex. That is why our team of biomedical engineers at the Johns Hopkins University has designed and created the Apex. The Apex is a probe-like device that is used during minimally invasive freezing procedures to protect the sex nerves surrounding the prostate and maintain patient potency. Let me just pause this for a second. So I heard that and I wondered how poor Harrison Ford get dragged into this pitch. Yeah exactly. But if you took Harrison Ford out of it it would lack that moment that causes you to set up and listen. Now I do not know that Harrison Ford ever had this procedure. I think it really has nothing to do with him. But it was a wonderful device. And really probably everyone in the room remembers that pitch a year later. The prostate cancer treatment market is worth 3.4 billion. The Apex will start generating revenue at the end of year two and is so transformative that the acquisition of Hydrangle Systems at any stage will allow for a quick return on investment. So men and women do not let prostate cancer be your temple of doom invest in Hydrangle Systems. And we will let you stay as active as Indiana Jones. There is more one more element that I really think is important in a pitch and made the difference between the pitch you just heard and the one that won that competition. And that is that what you are doing has to matter. Matter you mean like there is a lot of customers out there? Well no. That is good. Big makes money. That is important. That is mattering in one way. But I think there is so much going on in the world today there is so many choices we have about what to spend our time on that we tend to put a little extra energy into the ones where we say this is a problem that really needs attention. Right? So I worry about Harrison Ford's sex life somewhat. That matters I suppose. But they are probably problems out there that matter more. Really so you are almost saying that people who invest in stuff want to make the world a better place as part of their investing and that you have to take that into account. There are certainly investors who care only about the money. But I think that of the investors I know they would prefer to have an investment which both makes money and does something exciting that makes the world a better place. That is probably why most of us who do investing got into that. Really? Did not people get into investing to make money? I am talking about the investors who invest in new ideas the crazy new ideas if you will. I think if you were just purely interesting in making money you would probably end up on Wall Street. And if you are hunting around the halls of MIT meeting with the head of the chemistry department that kind of person is a little bit of a quirkier person and in my experience is someone who is more about the outcomes and not solely about the economics. Well then let us play the winner. And let me ask you what is this person doing right. Let us hear the pitch Three two one. Take off! The most widely used manufactured material on the planet is concrete. On average each person uses more than three tons of concrete a year. Unfortunately concrete manufacturing process contributes to more than 10 of carbon dioxide emissions worldwide. However they have been able to develop a concrete that not only cuts the carbon dioxide emissions by half but also it is five times stronger than normal concrete. Our design is unique because we have discovered how to change the very nanostructure of concrete. This approach is environmentally friendly and at the same time it reduces the costs of concrete manufacturing by 40. Given that the US market for concrete is over 100 billion a year this makes-- Actually let me stop so far. So what have you heard so far that is working? OK so it is just unbelievable. So first of all he is saying this is 100 billion market. So it is a lot of money. The greed gene the greed glands are flowing here. Second of all he is saying our product is cheaper than what is out there now. The single biggest motivator for a business or anybody to use a new product instead of the existing product is because it is cheaper. So that is a quick way into the market. OK so it is cheaper. Second of all if he said it is better but it is not cheaper that is trickier right? Well do I need it better? So the first thing it is cheaper. The second thing is it is also better. He said it is five times stronger than existing concrete. Wow. And then he gives you the it matters line. Right? He says that 10 of global production of carbon dioxide emissions is from concrete. And then here he gets to the point where he has the qualifications of the people that they are a team who can actually pull this off. We have a team of five researches including three superstar professors at MIT. I myself am a last year Ph.D. student working on innovative concrete. And we are looking for two more passionate people to complete our team for financial aspects.  Now you hear a lot of pitches. What are some of the weirdest pitches you have ever heard? Well this is actually very recent in the last few weeks. And so I hope someone listening to this program is enthralled with this idea and somehow finds the entrepreneur and invests in them. We did not. But this entrepreneur probably has a number of dogs and has a backyard. And the question is what to do with all the dog remainders left in the backyard. And what they invented was a cup that you can put over the dog remainder. And it liquefies the poop so that it will flow into the ground and I guess also fertilize the ground. And the way they describe doing it is that they have a series of high speed knives which move through the space underneath this cup through the poop in every possible direction while-- I think if I understood it correctly-- spraying the poop at high speed with water something of the nature. Ew. Well you say that but if you have this problem would not you want to make the poop go away? I do not know. There is just something so disgusting about that about this device. Then you have to like clean out the poo-encrusted device afterward. Well I think actually the high speed water actually cleans it. So I think it cleans itself. Ah. So I do not know why but it just seems really disgusting to me. Why did not you invest in it? I think maybe that is one of the things that it did not seem like something that we wanted to bank our futures on. We would probably have to go to conferences and demonstrate this on a regular basis or something. Ira the inventiveness of people in this country is just completely remarkable. I have lived all over the world and-- Wait wait I want to stay on the poo for a second. I feel like what you are saying is very uplifting. But I want to bring us back to poo. You know the problem with this what you are saying that is exactly the problem with this. If you got into business with these people you would be talking about poo all the time. Like your life would be filled with these poo discussions. And you would be constantly having to evoke the image in your head of poo dissolving underneath this cup over and over. Like that image would be in your head like every day. You would have to think about that. Like who wants to be in that business? Well you know people are in the septic tank emptying business. Right? I mean these are businesses. Somebody has to take care of them. Why not this one? Tim Rowe venture capitalist at the Cambridge Innovation Center.  Act Two The Invention of Cheese. We follow all these business pitches now with an anti-pitch from Kumail Nanjiani. It is very brief not from the MIT competition for a new product you may have heard of. Have you guys heard of this new drug called cheese cheese? You have heard of it? No OK. That is like the street name for it. It is like a new drug cocktail called cheese. And I read like four or five news reports on it that were like There is this new drug called cheese that is sweeping the nation. Kids in the Midwest are doing it. It is an epidemic. It is a new drug. It is an epidemic. Then I looked up what cheese is cheese is Tylenol PM and heroin. So really it is heroin. It is mostly heroin. Heroin's doing the heavy lifting in this drug cocktail. It is not a new drug. It is mostly heroin. I cannot put heroin on pancakes and go I have a new drug. I call it shake cakes. You eat them every day. If you stop you will get the shakes. Do not forget the special shake sauce it is maple syrup and heroin. Pour that on there. It is not a new drug is my point. It is mostly heroin. I think the last new drug was crystal meth which you had to make in your bathtub. And if you  up while you were making it everything would explode and you would die. That is how dangerous that drug is. Just trying to make it can kill you. And you make it just from shit you get at the store. To make cheese you still need heroin. Just do the heroin. You already have heroine. Just do the heroin. That my message to you guys tonight. Just do the heroin. That is my time guys. Thank you.  OK kids say no to drugs. That is Kumail Nanjiani performing at Comix in New York. You can find his tour schedule on Twitter. He is headlining his first show at the Hollywood Improve August 17. Coming up smoke your way to financial health That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that team. Today's show million dollar idea stories of great ones and less successful ones. We have arrived it act three of our show Act Three Get Rich or Die Trying. Chana Joffe-Walt has the story of our next million dollar idea a very very ambitious idea. This particular million dollar idea was to take something generally seen as bad and turn it good death. I think it is safe to say universally seen as a bad thing. So take that and make people see good in it. That was the plan. It started in Prague in 1999. A couple law makers begin unwittingly laying the groundwork for a million dollar idea by doing something tedious something lawmakers always do talking about the budget specifically talking about raising taxes on cigarettes to cover that budget. Czech reporters then began doing something tedious reporters always do randomly asking smokers on the street for their two cents. On a busy Prague street some shrugged saying at most they would cut down while others admitted once prices rose they would consider quitting for good. I guess I am going to have to quit. What can you do? I am a pension earner. And it really hits my pension check. I have already reduced the number I smoke to only ten a day. Definitely it is a good thing. I am for it. When the prices go up it will force me to consider whether I really want to put my money into cigarettes instead of for example sport. You know whose dog whistles that only dogs can here this kind of man on the street news clip where people are casually throwing around the words quit and put money somewhere else is a tobacco executives dog whistle. They pay attention immediately. And that attention is undivided. Those smokers in 1999 more than likely smoked Phillip Morris cigarettes. The company was the largest manufacturer in the Czech Republic by far and the largest in the world. And there was something specific about the Czech taxes conversation that got under the skin of Phillip Morris executives. It was this. Legislators were arguing that tax increases were necessary because smoking hurt the economy. People get sick from smoking. And in a place like the Czech Republic with public health care the government has to pay for that. This particular logic struck the Phillip Morris people as bizarre. Not just bizarre wrong. And so inspired by accuracy and the threat of taxes Phillip Morris came up with their million dollar idea. Well they commissioned a study to tote up the costs and the benefits to the Czech government of its people's smoking habits. Gordan Fairclough covered tobacco for the Wall Street Journal. And he says In its simplest form the idea was this death death saves you money the more complicated form a 28 page economic analysis. Could you just read the executive summary of that study just the bolded part? The bolded part OK. So the beginning of the study says Based on up to date reliable data and consideration of all relevant contributing factors the effect of smoking on the public finance balance in the Czech Republic in 1999 was positive estimated at CZK 5.8 billion. Quick currency conversion interruption CZK 5.8 billion in 2000 that is after 147 million a year coming largely from tobacco-related taxes but also from other things. So basically you know what they are trying to do here is tote up here the gains and losses to public finances from smoking. So if you have people smoking and their life span is not as long you record big savings on housing for the elderly for example . Because people die? Because people die. Because people die early you also pay less out in pensions and other social benefits to the elderly. People die early you do not have to pay health care costs for all their non-smoking-related illnesses that they would get later in life all of which in this study are seen on that kind of positive side of the ledger. On the negative side you have the costs of fires started by people smoking falling asleep in bed smoking doing other things with cigarettes. The financial implications of people who stop working earlier either because they die or they get too sick to work so the state then loses the income tax that they might charge those people. Also on the cost side is the cost of treating people for smoking-related diseases and for secondhand smoke. So the way these consultants tote that all up is people smoking is a net benefit a net financial benefit to the Czech state of that CZK 5.8 billion. The report is thorough. It begins by laying out its methodology then later its quantification methods concluding with a glossary that defines morbidity and mortality. Turns out-- who knew-- the technically uses of those two words are very different. And then five pages of references. Gordan Fairclough and I spent a long time reading through it together. So you do not have to pay that. You do not have to pay the monthly insurance payments paid from the state budget for each pensioner each retired person. Then you multiply that out by the 22000 deaths due to tobacco smoking in the Czech Republic in 1999 with a nice reference to an epidemiology one of the most famous of the tobacco controlled epidemiologists there. So this is a weird thing. To get all these numbers to make their argument Phillip Morris had to go to the only people who collect these numbers their enemies public health people tobacco control lobbyists basically anti-tobacco people. You know what the tobacco control people would tote up as the harm of smoking and Phillip Morris is toting up as the benefit to the Czech state. I read the report and could not believe that they had put it in writing. This is one of the tobacco control people Matt Myers. He works for the Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids in D.C. In the years leading up to the Phillip Morris study Matt and a lot of other anti-tobacco people had done some research that told them to ease up on the smoking is bad for you message and instead focus on a message that seemed like it would be a lot more effective. Tobacco companies are bastards and they are out to get you. For us a report like this was truly like manna from heaven. This report was a complete gift. The next thing I did was sit down with our communications people and say what can we do with this? The story ran in the Prague Post. Gordan wrote it up for the Wall Street Journal. It then quickly made it to CBS Evening News ABC World News Tonight in New York Times and USA Today among many others. Some select newspaper headlines Death in the Ashes Tobacco Blows its Smoke and Smoking Cuts Elderly Costs and Elderly. Matt Myers and several other tobacco people ran there own ran their own ad campaign featuring a corpse at the morgue with a price tag dangling off a grey big toe. Let me put it this one in one fell swoop it allowed us to counter over 100 million of tobacco advertising. And that felt good. Is was worth 100 million? Yes in critical respects. Getting our hands on that report allowed us to do with almost no funds what the tobacco industry had spend 100 million trying to do. Phillip Morris apologized then apologized again. Top executives repeated that they never authorized the study that it was done by a Czech subsidiary of Phillip Morris without headquarter's permission. They issued public statements such as All of us at Philip Morris are extremely sorry. No one benefits from the very real serious and significant diseases caused by smoking. And their public relations guy in Prague  did one recorded interview one poorly recorded interview with Czech Radio. We commissioned this study and it was not about health policy. But it was a part of an ongoing debate about the economics of cigarette excise tax policy in the Czech Republic. And I must say Phillip Morris deeply regrets any impression from this study that a premature death of smokers represents a benefit to this society. I talked with several Phillip Morris people from that time. Not one and them would allow me to record. So here's what I learned In the midst of the media disaster Phillip Morris set out to make sure this kind of thing never happen again. The company called a meeting in Switzerland all the bosses from around the world came in about 15 men maybe a women or two were there. No one quite remembers. And at that meeting the guys from headquarters announced to the room You are not to talk about the death benefit not in your reports not in public not ever again. We are not doing this anymore. The group listened to this for awhile. And then a single hand rose. Excuse me but they were the ones saying smoking costs the government more than it saves. Are we supposed to just let him lie? Then there were more hands. Yeah what do you mean? More than one person piped up with You are asking us to argue with one arm tied behind our back. And most popular of all in that room on that day But it is true. What we are saying is true. Early death does save society money. Gordan Fairclough a reporter with the Wall Street Journal would go to Phillip Morris headquarters during this time for interviews. And he says people really did seem incredulous at the negative response. I think they become kind of hardened to this. There is a certain psychological distancing that goes on by tobacco executives doing that work and selling this product knowing that it is in fact addictive and knowing that it has such serious health consequences. And I think that some of that allows you to look at a report like this and not think to the average member of the general public this is going to seem incredibly callous. It must be so strange for them too because there was such a long period of time where they were denying that smoking killed people. And now finally they are saying we are acknowledging it. We are writing the death benefit into our equations and you guys are still giving us crap. That is true. They must have thought that was fairly ironic that in fact here they are admitting that this will end everyone's life earlier and then they get slammed for it. But after that the tobacco people shut up about the death benefit they fell in line and they never publicly mentioned it again. The anti-tobacco people though kind of will not let this go. They could have called attention to the study declared outrage mocked it all of which they did do. And then they could have named the whole incident a success and walked away which weirdly they did not do. Instead anti-tobacco people have spent the last decade trying to prove that the data not just the moral question of counting deaths on the plus side of an economic analysis but the actual data Phillip Morris is using was wrong which when it comes to this study seems a little bit besides the point. Does not it? These guys clearly won this round clear victory for tobacco control people battle won. But they will not drop it. Instead Matt Myers with the Campaign for Tobacco Free Kids has been doing his own studies about whether or not smokers save the government money. And his number show they do not. What we thought the data showed and what it turned out that the data showed was that tobacco was an enormous net drain on the economy. I think the numbers are very wrong. But it seems like part of the power of your position here is that you get to say look at those guys measuring the value of your death and the benefit of your death that is ridiculous. And that is it. But then you are too. You are also doing your own economic analysis. We are very clear. Efforts to reduce tobacco use have nothing to do with economic costs. They have everything to do with quality of life. But you are doing economic analyses. You are doing cost-benefit studies yourself. We did not start out making that argument. The public health community began to look at the economic issues only because the tobacco industry argued that as a society we could not afford to reduce tobacco use. We have to respond to the tobacco industry's argument. In other words they started it. And now it is on. So here we go were they right? Does the fact that smokers die early mean that they save the rest of as money? Now Phillip Morris is obviously not the place you would go for an answer to that question. But luckily it is a question economists ask all the time about smoking and alcoholic obesity. And the way they 