OK Lorraine 17 years old. Wants to be a dentist which I did not even know that was a thing anybody wants in high school but shows what I know. Apparently there are armies of teenagers who want to put on a white coat and enlist in the international war between human beings and placque. I was in Saturday Academy which is NYU's dentistry program for high schoolers. It was virtual. What was the best thing about that? What did they do? What was your favorite part of it? My favorite part was filling cavities. They sent a fake tooth model thing. Like decay on the teeth you had to scrape it off. It was like I was an actual dentist. They sent the tools. It was fun. It was so much fun. So last spring junior year Lorraine started to get serious with her college applications. She is a good student great GPA. But she had a problem. Her dream colleges-- Cornell Columbia NYU-- they all wanted SAT scores 200 or 300 points higher than Lorraine's SAT scores. But then Lorraine got this crazy break. All over the country SATs were being canceled because of coronavirus. There was no safe way to fill a room with high school kids to take the test. And colleges started to change their admissions requirements. So I heard that a lot of schools were going test optional. Especially on TikTok that is where I would see everything-- college updates test optional updates. Test optional means the SAT test is optional. You can apply without submitting SAT scores-- or ACT scores for that matter. If Lorraine's dream schools were to go test optional it would magically vaporize the only obstacle standing between her and them and a life drilling into the molars of her fellow citizens. But most of the early schools to go test optional seemed to be out west she said. All three of her top picks were in New York. Every day she would go online to check the lists of test optional schools. And I would keep refreshing keep looking to see every single day see if any new schools were added. And were they changing every day? Yeah I feel like two three schools were added every single day. And then I remember it was spring break because I dedicated my whole spring break to studying for SATs. And then I remember I got the notification a little bell from Gmail from Columbia University because I signed up for their mailing list. And it was like oh yeah we are going test optional. And I was studying. I had the SAT book open. So I threw it across my bed. My mom was the first person I told. So I ran to her. I was like -- like I do not have to take the SATs and stuff. I gave her a hug. We jumped. And then I called my friend and I started screaming on the phone. We started dancing. Oh my god. It is like you got hit by lightning or something but in a good way. Yeah. I thought that maybe now without the SAT I kind of have a chance. I have a shot. Like shoot for the stars. This is my year. She had been planning to apply to 10 or 11 colleges. Now she upped the number to 17. And all across the country there were lots of kids doing that. But the pandemic has upended college admissions in so many ways that a huge swath of the country's high school seniors are having the opposite experience from Lorraine's. They are not applying to schools falling through the cracks ghosting their counselors who cannot just grab them in the hallway or pull them from class this year. Having tried everything else in response a few weeks ago in Fort Worth Texas high school counselor Valerie Gonzalez and a couple of the counselors she supervises hit the streets with a list of students' addresses to try to catch them at their homes. We are pretty nervous too because we have never done anything like this before. So we will see. Valerie's 25 the first in her family to go to a four-year college placed as a counselor in this high school by a nonprofit called College Advising Corps to encourage kids to be the first in their families. And she is pretty hardcore about it. Yeah I have actually definitely cried with students before when I have kind of told them why are you doing this to yourself? You have an opportunity especially even just to go to community college. Please do something to better your life. She throws herself into a job with such energetic thoroughness that before going door to door this morning she made little goodie bags to give out with face masks and stickers that she made by hand. She and another counselor check an address and walk up to a door.   Well there is doggies. Hi. Hello. So we are from the Go Center. I am Ms. Gonzalez. And basically we are just coming around. We wanted to give you this and invite you to our event. And basically do you need any help applying to college or anything? Or do you know what you want to do after you graduate? I might take a year off. You might take a year off? Yes. Might take a year off is not the answer Valerie's looking for but she is gotten a lot of it since the pandemic. At the high school she is at Western Hills the senior class last year at this point in the year 70 of them had applied to colleges in Texas. This year's senior class? Just 45. Yeah. Many of my kids either do not want to go to college because they are already working. Working to help their families during the pandemic. Or they just want to go to community college. And you are like well why? You have a 3.8 GPA. You could go to a lot of four-year universities on scholarship. Why are you setting your sights low? And most of them are like well I want to stay close to home or my mom is really concerned about COVID and she does not want me to go anywhere. And the other thing too is the cost. Some of my students are like why am I going to go to college? Why am I going to pay 50000 if my classes are going to be virtual and I am not even going to get to go to class with my professors? It is going to all going to be online. Let me take you on one last stop on this mini college tour. In the scrambled year colleges are seeing things they have never seen before. Lots of schools are not getting anywhere near the number of applications that they are used to especially less selective schools because of students like Valerie's. Some schools are down 15 20 and looking to take massive financial hits because of it. Meanwhile schools you might think of as having brand recognition and big flagship state schools they are seeing a surge in applications. Lorraine's first choice schools for example NYU applications were up 20 Cornell's up 31 Columbia is up 51 driven probably by students like Lorraine who were hoping that this is their year with no SATs blocking the way. But even schools with great numbers are not feeling great. Jon Boeckenstedt runs undergrad admissions for Oregon State which has 34 more applications this year than last. He also writes about higher education and talks to admissions officers around the country. Yeah we are all sort of confused and befuddled. And a few of us are frankly terrified by what these numbers mean. Terrified because usually when they say yes to a bunch of applicants they can predict how many of them are going to actually choose to enroll at their school. But this year the normal indicators they would use for that are gone. For instance did the student make a campus visit which means they would be more likely to enroll in the fall. Well those did not happen this year. Or they had a high SAT score. Normally that would mean more schools want those students and they would be less likely to enroll at Oregon State. But of course they do not have the SAT scores. And so as a result when Boeckenstedt offers a place in his first year class to thousands of kids-- We might have way too many students enroll in the fall. And then the residence halls are crowded and we do not have sufficient classroom space. And we just do not know how to handle the crush. On the other hand too few students enroll which is again scary. We are used to thinking of application increases as good things. And this year we just do not know what they mean. For today on our program college admissions in this pandemic year. So much is different this year. So much is unknown. And today on our program we have chosen to focus on one very specific part of the picture one of the most interesting things that got thrown into the air this year. And that is the SATs. For years there have been people saying that they are unfair. Schools should not require them. And now finally like this vast national science experiment most colleges have stopped requiring them. What is that look like? Will it actually change who gets into more selective schools? Have we crossed some line and we are not going back? From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. So for months now I have been looking into what is happening with college admissions since the pandemic with reporter Paul Tough who is been on our show many times who writes about education. And in fact his most recent book is on the admissions process and the students that that system is not working for. Hey there Paul. Hey Ira. So Paul one of the things you point out in your book is that this period when kids apply to college is this unusual moment probably the biggest moment in kids' lives in this country when they get a real chance at social mobility. Yeah going to college pays off in all kinds of ways. You are more likely to make more money more likely to get married more likely to live longer to say you are happy. But it also makes a big difference where you go to college. This Harvard economist Raj Chetty did a study and he found that for students who go to the most selective schools the Ivy League schools and schools like it have a one in five chance of making it into the top 1 of earners as an adult. If you go to a slightly less selective school you have a one in 11 chance of making it into the top 1. Go to community college it is a one in 300 chance. Do not go to college at all a one in 1000 chance. So this moment in high school when kids are sorted into more and less selective institutions it matters a lot. And that brings us to the subject of our show today the SATs. They have been a big part of this sorting for a long time. And for the last few decades there is been this debate about whether colleges should require the SATs. And one school after another has decided not to has gone test optional. Notably in 2018 the University of Chicago one of the most rigorous and selective schools in the country did it. And last spring the biggest public system in the country the University of California with over 225000 undergrads on nine campuses did away with the SAT. At the time that the pandemic hit about half of the country's four-year colleges were test optional. But still the overwhelming majority of the country's most selective schools including the Ivy League were not test optional. They still required the SAT. And there was a real question-- should they do it? And then with the pandemic they did. Another 600 schools suddenly did not require the SAT including pretty much all the most selective schools. And we are going to look in today's show at what that has meant especially for the kind of students who have been kept from those schools by the SAT in the past. And we are going to look at what is likely to happen with the SAT after the pandemic. But just to start here at the beginning we should explain for anybody who has not followed this why schools were questioning the SAT in the first place. And Paul you are going to take this part of the story. I will see you again in a couple of minutes. If you want to understand why people are questioning the SAT these days you should meet Daniela. She is one of those kids who seems destined for college. Her family immigrated to Riverside California from Mexico when she was eight. She started third grade there not speaking a word of English. And by the time she got to high school she was taking honors classes getting amazing grades even though she was also working 20 hours a week cleaning houses and standing on street corners flipping signs. There was a group of five students at the top of the class and Daniela was always up there in that group. For most of high school in fact she was number one. The only B I ever got in class was my senior year in my Spanish class. I did not really care too much about it just because I already knew Spanish. So it was not my focus. I cannot believe it is Spanish where you got your B. I know. I am guessing you are pretty good at Spanish. I was really good at it but I never showed up. But at the end of the day the participation was what killed me. I was destroyed. I cried. I was like no my only B. She wanted to go to an Ivy League college or one of the elite University of California schools like Berkeley or UCLA and be a doctor. And then she took the SAT. No yeah definitely the SAT was kind of humbling. I was like all these years I grew up thinking I was kind of a genius because everybody was telling me. And then the SAT was like no you are not. This was during the years when the SAT was not using the 1600-point scale that most people would know. But if you translated her score to today's scores it would be about 1180. That is a fine score better than about 70 of the students who take the test. But it is not the kind of score that straight-A students usually get. And it is not the kind of score that will get you into Ivy League schools or Berkeley or UCLA. The five students at the top of Daniela's class were all super smart and ambitious. They competed with each other usually in a friendly way. She was number one until that one B and then she slipped to number three. But when it came time for the SAT Daniela noticed that three of those five the ones who had more money the ones whose parents were doctors their families invested in the SAT. One kid's family paid for an expensive online course. One family hired a private tutor. Those students got top SAT scores. Only one of the five a boy got a score like hers. He did around the same score as me. And I saw him to be smarter than a lot of these people but he came from a lower class family a family that came from poverty as well. All the students that I saw do well came from money. Daniela was not the first person to notice this relationship between family income and test scores. It is been documented for years. Better off kids do better on the SAT for all kinds of reasons. Not just the private tutors and the 600-page study guides they are also more likely to live in better neighborhoods so they go to better schools. All of the advantages that go along with growing up with money feed into that test score. Still for Daniela it was frustrating. I am also wondering was there a way that that experience of getting the score that you did did it sort of change your feeling about yourself as a student? Definitely. I think it was disheartening just because it was kind of like where I first questioned whether I was at their same level type of thing. Yeah it definitely made me question a lot of my qualities or skills or-- yeah. Did you feel like you were as smart as them? I did. I felt like in class I performed just as well as them. But that test was saying otherwise you know? So when I got that test result I was kind of questioning whether I was. That is so interesting. It sounds like there is a side of you that was like oh no I am definitely as smart as them. But there was maybe another side of you that was like well wait maybe this is the real measure of who is smart and who is not. Was your brain sort of going back and forth between those two ideas? Yes definitely. That is exactly what was happening. One side was like no I have seen these people how they have analyzed an essay. I have seen how they have solved that problem. I know that I wrote out this research paper better than them you know? I have seen them perform and I have seen how my skills compare to them. And then but at the same time I would think maybe this test is actually testing who is smarter. And this whole time I have been like passing by on a fluke or on luck. Do you think there was something about like the way that the test was presented that made it seem like well maybe this is the real measure of who is smart and who is not? Yeah just the fact that this is what all these institutions are basing off entrance. If you do good you deserve to go to college. If you do not then it is not. So then I am here questioning should I even go to college? Am I even built for college? I do not even know if I will do good in college because I clearly cannot do good in this test. So yeah it is presented like if you do not do well you are not going to do well in college. It is not surprising that Daniela had that thought. For years that is how the SAT was sold-- as an objective measure of intelligence a scientific indicator of who would succeed in college more accurate than the grades that kids get in high school. There is a lot of research though including studies from the College Board the nonprofit organization that administers the SAT that shows that this is not quite true. Let me tell you the stuff that researchers mostly agree on. First that high school grades are slightly better than SAT scores at predicting how well students will do in their first year in college whether they will graduate on time. If you can only have one number to judge a student high school grades are your best bet. Second that if you look at the combination of a student's high school GPA and their SAT score then you can predict their college performance slightly better than you can with just their high school grades alone. What they do not agree on is whether that extra bit of predictive power you get with the SAT is worth the cost. Because there is a third thing that everyone agrees on and that is that SAT and ACT scores heavily favor rich kids much more so than high school grades. So if you use standardized tests in admissions you are probably going to reject a lot of perfectly good students who could succeed at your institution. And the students you are rejecting are more likely to be low income and first generation and non-white. The SAT is like a doctor's test that gives you a lot of false negatives. And students who are already underrepresented on campuses are more likely to be kept out of college by one of those false negatives. In Daniela's case when she saw her score she decided it would be hopeless to apply to all her first choice schools-- Harvard the other Ivy's Berkeley. She applied to computer science at UCLA whose average SAT was 300 points higher than hers and did not get in. As for the three affluent students in the top five the ones with the SAT tutors and courses they were accepted to Berkeley Penn and Harvard. The boy who came from the same background as Daniela went to Riverside Community College. And Daniela wound up at the University of California at Merced the newest and least selective UC school. And Daniela says that seems like what the SAT is intended to do. It is meant to weed out-- it is mean to gatekeep in my opinion. And do you think of it as like it is just sort of accidentally keeping people out or you feel like it is designed to keep people like you out of those colleges? I do not think it is accidental because I think that by now the test has been around long enough to whether they could see patterns. So I feel like maybe at first it was accidental. But now if they are seeing consistent patterns of students with certain socioeconomic backgrounds or ethnic backgrounds are doing not as good as others then it has to be intentional. The people who run the SAT and the ACT they would definitely say that it is not intentional that certain groups do poorly on standardized tests because they face other disadvantages that hold back their academic progress. But it is certainly true that for decades now these tests have kept excellent students like Daniela out of the best schools. Until just maybe this year-- when the majority of colleges for the very first time went test optional. The question is did that help? Are students like Daniela now going to actually get into these more selective schools? The answer is complicated. And Ira's going to pick up this part of the story. Thanks Paul. OK so what is going to happen to students like Daniela without the SAT blocking them from top schools? Well to give you a sense of that let us look at one of those selective name brand schools that saw an increase in applications this year thanks to test optional. Georgia Tech until this year used the SATs as one of the things that it looked at in screening applicants. Then they went test optional because of the pandemic and got 11 more applications and they got a more diverse application pool. Black students up 20 students whose parents who did not go to college first generation students up 20. This by the way is typical even in non-pandemic times. When a school goes test optional more kids think hmm maybe I can get in and they apply. And the diversity of the applicants also increases. The big questions next of course are number one would Georgia Tech offer those new applicant spots for the fall? And number two will they accept? Now question number one we actually now know the answer. They have sent out their offers to students. They did it about a week ago. Rick Clark the head of undergrad admissions says they have admitted 28 more Black students than last year 20 more first generation students. And I am pleased with that. I mean we have a relatively new president expanding access is a key part of his strategic plan. Wait so that was set as a goal in the fall? Yes. And now so here you are with these numbers. So things are going great right? That is great. That is great yes. I know. We are very very pleased. And now of course we are turning our attention to all right we have to convince these students to choose us. And that is where things get hard because of money. Georgia Tech has a limited amount of financial aid to give out. On average students only get half of what they need. Georgia Tech does not meet or commit to meeting that high percentage of need. Georgia Tech does not do that. We basically say here is what it is going to cost to come to Georgia Tech. If you are able to finance that education then you can obviously accept our offer. Whether or not they can make that kind of financial commitment and often in the end have to take loans to do it is going to be up to the family. So we make those offers understanding that we probably are not going to be able to yield them all. Are not going to be able to yield is admissions speak for they know the students are not all going to enroll. We know that from the very beginning. Even somebody getting state scholarships and Federal Pell grants could end up still needing 10000 a year for tuition Clark says. And facing that some students choose a school that offers more financial aid. But what is probably way more common everywhere this happens they end up somewhere less selective less prestigious close to home and cheaper which is to say it is not just the SATs that keep otherwise qualified low income and first generation students out of elite schools. It is also money-- specifically how much money colleges have to help those students. Until last year Angel Perez was in charge of enrollment at Trinity College where he saw this with every class he admitted. You know there were so many low income first gen kids in my pool that I could admit-- extremely qualified-- but there were only certain amount of dollars that I had in order to fully fund them. I am going to be back Paul Tough now who reported today's program with me. Because Paul when you wrote your latest book you actually followed Angel Perez during this process as he tried to enroll more low income and first generation kids at Trinity College. Yeah it was really hard. I mean there was no question that this was what he wanted to do. This is what the president of the college wanted him to do. But at the same time Trinity College was losing millions of dollars a year. And they are like many institutions a place that gets most of their revenue from tuition. He had a goal that he had to make to get a certain amount of tuition from all the students that he admitted. I think it was 19 million he needed to bring in. And so it did not mean that he only admitted rich kids who could pay a lot but it did mean that every student that he was evaluating that was the first question he had to ask. Is this someone who is going to help me with the bottom line or not? Again Angel Perez. And every time you are thinking about adding a student or subtracting a student you have to go back and run the econometric model to see financially where are you and whether or not you have blown the financial aid budget or whether or not you now do not have enough predicted tuition revenue to uphold the college's budget the following year. Paul can you just talk about this thing that you saw him do that he had students that he really wanted to bring to Trinity that he just could not? Yeah I mean it was especially at the last part of the process was when I saw it the most right? Because he started off just creating the class that he really wanted all these highly qualified students including a lot more low income students first generation students. But then it was right around this time of year. It was the middle of March. And everyone that he was admitting was making it harder for him to meet his tuition goals. Tensions were kind of running high. It was very emotional in his office with him and all of his admissions people. So the last weekend he and the director of admissions just sent everybody else home and they just sat together at their computer and went through one by one. And the last few dozen students that he cut were all low income ones who needed significant financial aid. So that is a normal year. Think about how many of those low income students these same schools can afford today Perez says with the financial problems that schools have had since the pandemic. Perez actually monitors the big picture with admissions around the country today in the job that he took when he left Trinity College a year ago. He is now head of the National Association of College Admissions Counseling. Even the wealthiest institutions with high endowments they have taken big hits this year. And they collected less tuition. They are doing budget cuts. They are laying people off. And so I am hesitant to say we will see dramatic shifts in one year and underrepresented students at these institutions because of that difficult financial component. He says he expects a small bump in the number of these students at certain kinds of schools like flagship state schools. But overall-- and this is important-- the number of low income students and first generation students going to college this coming fall is probably going to drop for the first time in years. How do we know this? Well a bunch of ways but most significant federal student aid applications FAFSA are down 10 this year overall. Lots of kids around the country are downgrading delaying or giving up on college plans because money has been so tight during the pandemic. I talked to one girl Abigail who took a job at Walmart's pharmacy to help her family rather than go to community college. And now she was like all right she is making money. Why change? I do think about college a lot still. Maybe my life would be different but I kind of like it how it is now. You kind of just realize that I like this lifestyle and I do not really feel comfortable going with something I do not know like college. But if I like how I am right now and the money I am making right now then I should not really go. So this fall expect some schools to see a small increase in students like Daniela but the overall number of students like her going to college next year probably will drop. Calling around to admissions directors one of the other things I was interested in was most of the best schools in the country were used to using the SAT as this tool to figure out who they were going to admit. For years these schools have resisted calls to change that. So what was it like for them this year to do the jobs without it? The answer of course varied from school to school. Jon Boeckenstedt who runs admissions at Oregon State University has watched and written about the politics of test optional for years. He likes test optional. In his career he is taken two schools test optional. He says this year for many of his peers he thinks it is a relief to have it gone. One of the ways that their schools were always judged was by their SAT scores when the SAT scores are published each year in places like the US News and World Report Ranking of Best Colleges. Yeah I think if you talk to admissions people they will say they are happy to be rid of the test. Because it allows them to make decisions free of that albatross hanging around their neck. They do not have to worry about the average test score going down. They can find students who are interesting and who would bring something really valuable to the campus but may not have that stellar score. In that sense he says the pandemic let some admissions people get away with something they would wanted to do for a while-- to ditch the SATs. Of course lots of admissions directors did not see the SAT as an albatross. They saw it as valuable and helpful as they made their decisions. One person like that is the head of Undergraduate Admissions at Yale Jeremiah Quinlan. He was lucid and unapologetic in listing the merits of the SAT in admissions at Yale. He says because they have got people applying from all kinds of schools all over the world-- It is useful to have something that is consistent among applicants even when we are aware of how limited and imperfect that metric can be AKA the SAT or the ACT. It could be especially valuable since our internal research-- we look at these things regularly-- show that the tests are predictive of Yale performance above and beyond high school GPA. He means in other words even though studies show that in general at most colleges your high school GPA is a better predictor of how you do with the particular population of students they have at Yale he says SAT predicts better how they do in their first year and over four years. And it is often common that strong test scores helped boost the case of a student from an underrepresented background who does not have other strong and compelling elements in their file and elevate them in the committee's eyes because the testing is the data point that sort of affirms their ability to do well on a college campus. He argues that at Yale they have figured out a way to keep using the SAT but still increase the diversity of their first year class. In the last eight years they have gone from 12 low income students to 21 and 12 first generation students to 19. Right now at the point of the year that we are in right now we are coming to the end of the selection process at most top schools around the country. They usually send out decisions to students by the end of March. Yale saw over 11000 more applicants than last year. Quinlan says they have been working six and seven days a week to get to them all. It is also a more diverse pool of applicants than in the past. But whether or not that will translate to what the overall admissions outcomes are still remains to be seen. Do you feel like not having the SAT is actually giving you access to students that you would not have had access to? And you feel like oh there is a plus sign to it also. Yes but I will have more to say about that when we get through the process and we can actually see whether or not those students are rising in our pool and getting admitted and they are ultimately coming to Yale. But I think it is clear that there are students who are in our pool this year who would not have been in our pool previously because of our test optional policies. I think the big question on a lot of the schools that suddenly went test optional this year was how hard would this be to do their jobs without the SATs where they come out of the process confident that they had chosen the best students for their schools? The nonprofit that does the other big standardized test the ACT test did a survey of admissions and enrollment directors asking about this. A third of them said going test optional this year made admissions decisions highly or extremely difficult. Of course that means 23 did not see it that way. The admissions directors that I talked to all said was not so bad. If anything it proved to them 