On a Thursday morning in August 2015 a staffer at a big hospital in downtown Houston St. Joseph Medical Center heard a Code Green on the intercom and did what they always did-- ran over to the room. Then it was a Code Blue. Code Blue means somebody needs immediate medical attention. Same room. And I just see blood everywhere all over the floor. I was actually shocked. It was just kind of smeared here. There was some there. But it was all over the floor. We had to put on-- we put shoe covers on in order to walk in the room. That was just how much it was. They walked in and saw a 26-year-old college student on the floor handcuffed with a bullet wound in his chest. He would been tasered by police before he was shot. And he still had the taser things attached to his chest. And I mean that was the first time I would ever seen what taser lines look like-- just a bunch of wires coming from him. And I remember the surgeon screaming at the cop to take his handcuffs off. He was like take the cuffs off now. We have no time to waste. And he said it multiple times. Really? He is cuffed on the floor? We cannot do anything with him cuffed. Just take the damn cuffs off him. Police had shot an unarmed patient in his own hospital room. The fallout from this incident was enormous. Federal investigators came in. The hospital's funding was threatened. It was so contentious that I recorded an interview with this hospital staffer and to protect their identity we have replaced the person's voice with an actor saying the exact same words. The story I am about to tell you is one that we put together in collaboration with The New York Times last year. The actor by the way is named Scott Shepherd. To explain what happened in that hospital room I want to back up to the day before 20 hours before the shooting and tell you about the patient. The doctor saved his life. His name is Alan Pean. He is alive and talking about what happened. And when he does before you get to the very interesting story about how he ended up with a bullet in his chest it is also incredibly interesting to hear him describe the day that led up to the shooting because during that day over the course of just a few hours basically his mind slipped away from him. Bit by bit he stopped understanding what was real and what was not real. And he describes what that feels like in this way I have never heard anybody describe before. It is This American Life from WBEZ Chicago. I am Ira Glass. Today's program My Damn Mind. We have two stories on our program today-- in one the brain working for you and the other this story the brain very much not working for you not being a helper not being a pal. And let us get right to it. This is Act One When Your Hospital-Borne Infection is a Bullet. The week before this happened Alan Pean was starting his last semester at college in a new school in a new city. He would just moved to Houston two weeks before anxious to do well. Alan comes from a family with a lot of doctors-- his dad his uncle. Both his brothers are on their way to becoming doctors. In this family of overachievers Alan's the one who is still figuring out what he wants to do. He plays video games with a group of friends from high school smokes weed soft-spoken thoughtful considerate. And he moved to Houston with a plan to get things done-- finish school get to grad school. He stopped smoking weed time to buckle down. And he was stressed out sleeping only four hours a night. But at the same time he had all this energy which I guess is something that just happens to him sometimes. I recognize it as a mania. OK Alan. You are manic right now. But I did not think much of it. I was like OK this is just going to happen for a little bit and it will go away. And that is because in the past sometimes this would happen for a couple of days and then it would go away. And it would go away. Exactly. So he is trying to hold it together. He is going to class. He is forcing himself to talk to people at this new school. He is making himself do all the things that he is supposed to do. And it is working. On August 26 the day before the shooting in his philosophy of science class lots of people want to be in his study group. And when class ended they made a plan to meet over the weekend. And everyone was exchanging emails. And I was like all right OK. So I will see you guys later. And you know it is like we were in the quad and I am walking out to go to my car. And I just continue walking. I feel great. This is good. I finally have my group ready to go. I am going to go ahead and get home and continue being productive. I have a book that I really like to read. I am going to go finish that. And then-- This is the moment that we are roughly 20 hours before the shooting in the hospital room. When Alan gets in the car he starts thinking about all the things that he needs to read and do and study and something in him just kind of tips he says. He starts to panic. But you know he gets home he starts to cook some food he tries to calm down. He is got a plan to play a video game online with his buddies. He hooks up the PS4 gets on FaceTime with his friends. So I am trying to play on the game but it is like my wires start getting crossed. Things start getting confusing. Confusing like I have this controller but then a thought would interject. He thought this controller somehow switches on a processor inside of him. Like I am this bionic being who had been reprogrammed by the enemy. It is like where you have the delusional thoughts competing with your rational thoughts. And then you disproving your delusional thoughts but then another one comes up. And it seems more likely. His computer he thought was not his computer. It was a state-of-the-art device that could summon drones to destroy his apartment complex. Meaningless coincidences seemed like signals that he was on a secret mission. Now Alan had had delusional episodes before-- two times. The first was in 2008 when he was a freshman at the University of Texas at Austin. It lasted about a week. Where I thought that I was President Barack Obama. That I was either a lookalike or someone that could be used as a replacement. But it is not so much like-- I should tell you that you are a light-skinned black man with short hair. You look nothing like President Barack Obama. Yeah. So-- The next summer it happened again. And it was more of a biblical-type deal this time Alan says a delusion with demons in disguise and he was on the verge of being sent to hell. Alan was briefly hospitalized diagnosed as possible bipolar and put on anti-psychotic medications for a while. And he recovered. Six years passed without another incident. But that night on the PS4 with his friends on FaceTime it was all kicking in again. And what are your friends seeing? Do they know you are going through this freak-out? They start asking Alan what is wrong? They had realized that I was acting strange. Like why cannot he log on to the computer? Why cannot he log on to the PS4 or whatever? Why cannot he do that? Oh because you are unable to do it? Yeah. I was like no. I should not do it because if I do they will triangulate on my position. But you did not say that to your friends? I could not tell it to them because I did not know who exactly they were. So he gets off the FaceTime call. It is now 13 hours before the shooting. And I was like who can I trust? Well obviously you trust your brother your unit right? So he is my little brother Dominique. And I call him and I tell him hey man I am having a panic attack. I am having a panic attack. And I do not know what to do. And I think it is getting worse than that. So he called me at 1000 PM. I had just got back from class. Dominique says actually there is a fair amount of how was your day kind of small talk with Alan taking these weird deep deep breaths before Alan actually admitted he was having a panic attack. And I was like oh OK. Well I get anxious kind of often too. So I walked him through some just relaxation exercises. So I was like take a deep breath-- in out. Lie on your back. Put some water on your face. Water on your face? Like cold water? Yeah. Cold water on your face. And he was like oh OK. Well put some cold water on your face. Cold water on your face. And I was like what? And I am like-- I actually go to say-- I am like is it because I am overheating? Like you are some sort of robot? Right. And he might also know that. And he knows what I need to do in order for my circuits to calm down.   It continues like this. The part of Alan's brain that looks at the world and draws conclusions about what he sees does not stop doing that. It is like he is still in there thinking and applying logic. It just keeps arriving at the wrong answers. So innocent statements said to him like I do not know anybody in Houston who can come over to your apartment Alan inserts into the delusion. I took that as code. There is no agents in your area that could come to your assistance. Then I am thinking like well wait a minute. Like what if-- what if he is not really my brother? It could be some sort of trap. Alan hangs up on his brother. Dominique gets their dad to reach out. Here he is. So I call him and I try to calm him through it on the phone to try to relax him. This is Alan's dad Dr. Harold Pean. He is originally from Haiti hence the accent. I ask him Alan how you doing? You are having some problem they are telling me and try to relax him to get his mind off. But he was very anxious. He was not able to focus to control it. And then suddenly he say well I think I am going to just go drive to the hospital or something. Alan does not tell his dad or his brother that he is having delusions. He does not say what he is really thinking which is that he is in greater and greater danger if he stays at his apartment that there are snipers outside watching the front of the building that if he walks out his front door he will get shot and they are moving in. I thought at that point that time elapsed too long and that they are closing in on my position and they are going to be there any moment. So I am talking with my dad and I call him Pop. So I am like Pop-- and then the following word in my mind was pop which made me believe that the phone was going to explode right? And then I run out throw my phone into the toilet and run out into the balcony and close the balcony door behind me. So I am on the balcony. It is the third-story balcony. And I am like OK well just remember your training. And I start to climb over on the other side and essentially let go and catch myself again on the second balcony area. And-- What? Yeah. I am just trying to picture this. So you are in a suburban apartment complex. You are on the third floor. You are on a balcony. You are holding on to it. You let go. And you are able to drop one floor down and catch-- Catch myself. And not break your arms? Nothing happened. Yeah. All my muscles must have been-- you are like high. You are just-- adrenaline pumping. That is what I am trying to say like an adrenaline high and it is just-- OK then? So then after that I catch myself on the second story. And I look down. And I keep telling myself just remember your training. You trained for this. And that refers to nothing right? What my football training? No I do not know. I never trained for anything. So I am just here like remember your training. You know so-- Yeah. And I look down and there is these two AC units down there. And I basically from the second story to the AC units I do a parkour stunt like jump off of it and then jump onto the sidewalk. And I start running. OK I know it is a cliche but the mind it is powerful. By the way this story about jumping down the balcony seems to be completely true. We checked with the property manager of the building. And for a bunch of reasons that I will not bore you with here the way Alan's apartment was locked the only way he could have gotten out was off the balcony. So after Alan action-heroes his way down the balcony he makes his way to his car-- not a direct path of course. Too dangerous. Evasive maneuvers under cover of night. He believes that he called in a drone strike using Google Maps and any second the whole apartment complex is going to be blown up. So he is racing against the clock. And it is interesting. I did not know what I thought a delusion would be like. I thought it might be like a hallucination or something. It might make no sense when you look at it later. But in this case it is a totally logical story with consistent details like a movie or a video game. I am kind of jogging running. And you are full-on delusion? You are not ever coming to-- Yeah. At this point I do believe I am a bionic person. I am a cyborg. I am a secret agent on a mission to break himself out from behind enemy lines. So I get in my car and I basically peel out. And I get to the gate. The gate of your suburban apartment-- Apartment complex. And I am like why is not the gate opening? They locked it. They locked it of course. You know so I just rammed the gate open. You rammed the gate with your car? That is right. Boom it opens. Get out. Take a left and there I am. I am driving. I am driving and I am having these thoughts like that place is about to explode. However as I am driving I tell myself you were supposed to go somewhere before. Where is the rendezvous point? And it is at the hospital. It is at the hospital that you are supposed to go to. That is where the good guys are. But then he has a moment. He remembered he and his dad had talked about going to the hospital for a different reason. I had a moment of clarity. I need my medication. I need that. It is like-- it is Geodon. It is an anti-psychotic. Then the delusion kicks back in. So he is driving looking for a hospital. Remember he is just moved to town that month. And he sees St. Joseph Medical Center Houston's oldest hospital and the only one downtown. It is like I just lost control of the car. I do not really remember-- for me it was like I was in the car and the next thing I know the car has crashed and I am falling out. That is it? That is all you remember of the accident? Yeah. How badly damaged was your car? The car was totaled. The car was totaled? Totaled. You just rammed into-- The side of a wall. He had actually hit a bunch of cars before he slammed into the side of the hospital at high speed. The front of the car caved in airbags inflated. Even in his psychotic state Alan wore a seat belt. I mean I am religious. I thank God that I did not hurt anyone else there. I thank God that people there just miraculously did not get hit at all. So you get out of the car. You walk to the hospital which is how far from you? 10 feet. I am at the hospital. I crashed into the hospital. And there is an EMT guy right there. The EMT sees that Alan just crashed his car and probably needs medical attention. They put Alan on a stretcher take him into the ER. This is where this turns from one kind of story a story of Alan losing control of his mind to the other story we are telling here of how you can show up in an emergency room needing psychiatric help and end up shot by the police in the hospital. And from this point in the story for the 11 hours before the shooting we do not have to rely on Alan's recollection. There is documentation of what he looked like from the outside to people who were not in his head people who did not think that he was a robot cyborg on a secret mission. We have Alan's medical records. He gave permission for the hospital to turn them over. And there is a 50-page report prepared by federal investigators of what happened from the time Alan arrived at the hospital until he was shot. Alan gets to the emergency room at 10 minutes before midnight. And St. Joseph is a big downtown hospital. It gets lots of trauma patients lots of mentally ill patients some homeless people. Staff often have to quickly assess what a patient needs to be treated for. And even though the staff notices all kinds of things that might lead them to treat Alan for his psychiatric problem they do not do it. What they treat Alan for is the car crash which must have seemed pretty urgent. The diagnosis in his medical chart is hand abrasion substance abuse motor vehicle accident. They do a CT scan of his head spine chest abdomen and pelvis looking for injuries. They test him for drugs and alcohol. Those come up negative except for marijuana which can linger in the body for weeks. Alan says that he tried to tell the ER staff what it is that he came for that he was having a manic episode. It is like I snapped back into myself. I just say I am manic I am manic I am manic. And I say it multiple times. And I am saying that. And there is people around me. There is nurses and stuff who are putting needles and things into me. And it never clicked. There is no mention of that in his medical records. And there is no mention of phone calls that his brother Christian and his father say they made at 100 AM and 114 AM respectively to alert the hospital about Alan's psychiatric issues-- though that is not unusual that phone calls like that would not be mentioned in the chart. But the medical records do include all kinds of things that could have tipped the staff off about what was really wrong. On Alan's arrival at the ER the first handwritten notes from a resident on duty include that Alan is someone who has manic depression. Then Alan is so incoherent making so little sense that the attending physician notes in the chart that he cannot get Alan to describe his medical history or even a basic rundown of his symptoms. By 130 in the morning the nurses' notes say that Alan is acting weirdly trying to pull out his IVs and his lines. They quote educate him on his behavior and ask him not to remove any equipment. He does not stop. He tries to pull out his own catheter. This continues for hours. He starts telling the staff that he feels all better no need for any equipment. But they still do not treat him like a psychiatric case. Alan and his family told me their sense of the staff's attitude was this is just a guy drunk or on drugs crashed his car. Happens all the time. Alan's put into a hospital room for observation of his injuries. His father booked a plane to Houston from their home in McAllen Texas. We decide to fly right away yeah 645. We went to Houston at 645 in the morning. Dr. Pean and his wife Paloma get to Alan's hospital room around 1000 AM. Well I say Alan we are here. You know we have come to see you. He say hi Pop. But he would not-- I say how you doing? He would not tell me anything. And he was different than usual. So I say well that is not him. He is totally withdrawn. Did not hug them hello. Alan explains why. I do recall my parents showing up. And I do not actually believe it is them. I do not think it is them. In Alan's mind he is still on his mission which is evolving. The TV in his room is sending coded messages. And the IV tubes he is hooked up to? They are putting the serum that I needed in order for the morphing process to begin to morph to look more like Barack Obama. Because if he is taken out they do not know where he is. But they need someone to speak out as though the government is still functioning as normal. Now his dad knows none of that. All he knows is something is wrong. He goes to the nurses' station. So I talk with the nurse and I told them look I think he is having some kind of anxiety or panic and I wanted to talk with the doctor. And I say to her that I think he may need some kind of psychiatric help. Did you say I want a psychiatric evaluation? That is right. I told her I think he needs to be evaluated by a psychiatrist. And what did the nurse say? Oh she just did not pay attention to me. She said he is going to be discharged. That is all she said. According to the report by federal investigators the nurse confirmed he did ask for a psychiatric evaluation and she did tell him Alan was going to be discharged. And I asked what medication they were giving him. They said they were giving him cyclobenzaprine. And I told her well I do not think that is appropriate. Maybe that will make it worse. What was your fear that it would do to Alan? That is a muscle relaxant. But some people it may cause psychosis actually because that is part of the side-effect-- confusion dizziness psychosis. I think it would probably make him more disoriented confused. But she said well that is what the doctor prescribed. Did you identify yourself as a doctor? Yeah. I told the nurse that I am a physician from McAllen internal medicine. But she just did not pay attention. She thought maybe I was lying. I do not know what was in her head. He said the nurse said to him-- maybe hearing his accent-- you might be a doctor somewhere but you are not a doctor here. So Dr. Pean and his wife figured OK no help here. They would drive Alan back home to McAllen and get psychiatric help there. They left to arrange for a car rental. The doctor did come looking for them according to federal investigators but they would already left. Alan gets shot in his own hospital room less than 40 minutes after they go. Here's how that goes down. I am going to read you a little bit from the 50-page report issued by federal investigators. Quote At 11 oclock the patient was encouraged to put on his gown after he had a shower but refused and started dancing in his room. The patient came out of his room naked four to five times. The nurse stated at this time the patient was calmly responsive. She stated each time she redirected him he would say yes madam. Radio. OK madam. When asked what year it was he said 1989. Some time later the patient came out in the hallway naked except he had shoes on. He was told to go back to his room and the nurse would come in to assist him with his gown. She stated she went to the room with another nurse and was trying to help the patient into his gown. They told him to turn around so they could tie the gown. The patient started to dance and would not comply. The nurse said the patient was acting inappropriately. She said he would not comply with her orders to turn around so his gown could be buttoned up. Do you remember why you were going out into the hallway naked? I do not remember-- I do not recall dancing but I do know that I was going out there because whenever I finished taking my showers well where is the suit? Remember he is morphing into Barack Obama. He is about to address the nation. You need a suit for that kind of thing. In the hallway-- I would expect other people to be there that would help me with the changing process just to look professional or to hand me my script. If the patient does not comply with orders it is protocol in the hospital to ring for security. And the nurse does that. Now at this particular hospital calling security usually gets you uniformed guards who do not carry weapons but also might get you off-duty cops who are on the security team. It depends on who is available. This time it is the cops who arrive in full Houston Police Department uniforms with guns. They go into his room and close the door. This by the way is not standard hospital procedure I was told. A nurse a doctor somebody treating the patient should have been in there with them. Now at this point once the cops are inside that room the story gets a little hazy. It is not totally clear what happened inside the room. Police turned down our interview request. And Alan's lawyers told him not to talk about the details either because the whole thing is going to court. But there are some things we know for sure. We know the cops were not in that room for long a few minutes at most. We know there was a scuffle. Several people told investigators that. And the staffer I interviewed whose voice we are replacing with an actor's said you could hear it from outside Alan's hospital room. We heard noise. And we could not identify exactly what it was. We did not know if it was maybe a table hitting a wall. it was just like a pop and all kinds of stuff. One nurse told investigators she heard a scream. On the day of the shooting in August the Houston Police Department issued a brief statement about what happened next. It is still on their website. It says when the officers arrived Alan attacked. Quote The patient suddenly physically assaulted Officer Ortega striking him in the head causing a laceration. At that time Officer Law deployed his conducted energy device-- that is the taser-- which had no apparent effect on the suspect who continued to assault the officers. Officer Ortega fearing for his and his partner's safety then discharged his duty weapon striking the subject one time. Alan disputes this account. He and his lawyers say he did not attack the officers first but they charged him first and he responded. Soon the door to his hospital room opened. That by the way is when the hospital staffer who I interviewed arrived in the hallway outside Alan's room. Again we have replaced the staffer's voice with an actor saying the same words and-- I hope this is not weird-- you are hearing my original questions from the recording of the original interview mixed with the actor's voice. Apparently they had probably just opened it. And the first thing I seen was a cop fall out of the room on the floor. So you are out in the hallway. Correct. Well I did not go that close to the room because when you see a cop with a bloody eye on the floor that states stay where you are. Do not go any closer. He was bleeding from his eye? His head. Like right above his right eye. We were not sure if it was the eye or the head. It was just this huge red fresh gash. It was big. This is from the account by the federal investigators. Quote Inside the room the other officer was standing over the patient who was lying on the floor. He had a taser on his upper chest. There was blood on the wall and floor. The patient was conscious trying to get up saying he was Super-Man and needed to get up. The doctor who rushed into the room and treated him told investigators-- again I am quoting the federal report here quote-- he heard a Code Blue page overhead while he was walking upstairs. He realized it was his patient's room and went to the floor. He went to the patient's room and saw him lying on the floor on his back with a drape over him. The patient was quiet. His eyes were closed. The doctor says he took the drape off the patient and saw he was handcuffed. When he asked what happened he was told the patient was just tasered. He asked if the patient was shot because of the blood and multiple wounds. The response was that the patient was tasered. When the doctor began to assess the patient somebody mentioned that he was shot. While Alan was recovering in the Intensive Care Unit police handcuffed him to his bed and restricted his family's visits to just 10 minutes a day and they could not enter the room. They had to look at him through a window. That is because police saw him as a criminal. They charged Alan with two counts of aggravated assault one for each officer. I could not believe it. Again here's Alan. I was expecting an apology. I was expecting 100 an apology. And that is not what happened. And I could not believe it. I could not believe it. I do not know if you-- how is it that you have these officers who shoot an unarmed patient in the hospital and then he is the bad guy he is the guy who needs to go to jail? And it is jarring. I just do not understand. Later when federal investigators asked Alan about the shooting he said quote He forgave the police officers. But what he cannot understand is why police officers were in his room when he was an ill patient trying to get well. So what were armed police doing in a patient's room? This is something a New York Times correspondent Elisabeth Rosenthal has been looking into. As I said earlier the story that you are hearing right now is a collaboration between our radio show and The New York Times. And when Elisabeth Rosenthal heard about Alan Pean she wondered how common this kind of thing was. Elisabeth is also a doctor and has worked in hospitals but none that allowed guns. And she just started calling hospitals and looking at the few surveys that exist on this stuff. The one national survey on this subject found that about half of all hospitals now allow guns. And the evidence suggests that that is about doubled in the past three years. Doubled. Lots of hospitals now have police and ex-military doing security with guns. Hospitals are not required to keep records on how many of their patients are injured or killed by those guns. But Elisabeth looked for that as well by digging through old police blotters court documents news accounts and surveys and found over a dozen cases most of them mentally ill patients. First on the very same day that Alan was shot there was another psychiatric patient who was shot and killed at a hospital in suburban Cleveland. And then just in January this year there was another patient with bipolar illness who was shot and paralyzed by security in a Virginia hospital. And then sometimes people die when they are shocked with tasers. So there is two cases one in Utah and one in Ohio where patients were actually killed after repeated tasering. Both were by hospital security. Both were psychiatric patients. Of course we all would hope that police would know how to deal with people who were mentally ill. They have to do it on the street all the time. But they do not always do it so well. In December The Washington Post published the results of a huge yearlong investigation into police shootings nationwide. They found that last year officers fatally shot at least 243 people with mental health problems. And in most of those cases the cops who pulled the trigger had not received any training in how to deal with the mentally ill. And their tactics escalated the situation rather than calmed it down. So why are hospitals turning to police? Why have the number of guns in hospitals apparently doubled in just three years? Well for one thing violence in hospitals has also nearly doubled in that same period. It is up 40 according to statistics gathered by the International Health Care Security and Safety Foundation. Most of that violence is against hospital staff. A study last year by the Occupational Safety and Health Administration revealed that there is more violence in hospitals than any other workplace. And the way hospitals have responded to this violence Elisabeth found is a hodgepodge. One national survey found that half of all hospitals have tasers. They have them partly thanks to an aggressive marketing campaign directed at hospitals by TASER International. In New York's hospital system which has several of the busiest emergency rooms in the country security carries no weapons. And lots of hospitals as I have said have decided they are comfortable with guns. Someone said to me-- and I think this is true. It kind of reflects the divide in American society right now about guns whether they make you feel safer or not. Right. And that just varies around the country depending on-- That varies a lot by your background where you live in the country. Do you feel safer when you see a person with a gun at the door of the emergency room? I think the second issue then is if you decide you need weapons in your emergency room or in your hospital how are the people trained who are using them? This may actually be a bigger issue than the guns themselves. Have the people carrying the guns been trained to work in a health care setting? Because it is different. It is not like law enforcement. When there is a patient who is psychotic or acting up from mental illness like Alan Pean there are standard techniques that nurses and hospital security use to get control of the situation non-confrontational ways of speaking to patients restraints medicines. Simply warning a patient that you are going to give them a shot can calm them down. And in her research Elisabeth found some hospitals that taught these techniques to the security officers when they brought in tasers or guns and set clear rules about when to deploy weapons and how armed security would interact with staff and patients. But that definitely was not every place. I mean that is the thing that shocked me. As I called around to different hospitals there was no pattern to this. It was all over the map. And sometimes there had been a lot of thought put into the process. And sometimes in fact there seemed to be very little thought. When it comes to Alan Pean's case in St. Joseph Medical Center the federal investigation notes that police officers were suppose