 Now then you have heard that there is no honor among thieves right? And maybe you have heard as well that for some people sometimes something is always going to pull them back in. Our first story deals with folk who live outside the tired constraints of law and legalities and the right thing to do. As such it does reference illegal drugs and ill-gotten gain but the squeamish innocence should not worry too much - this is public radio. O' My name is Brian O'Dea and I am 64.  In the '70s Brian was making good money at his job. O' I lived comfortably. I did not live extravagantly. I mean I had nice cars and I had a nice country house and I had a home and I had a nice boat. I had the toys. But I did not live extravagantly. I live a very private life.  Brian was a kind of guy that you could go to when you were in a jam. O' I had a lot of money and so I gave away millions of dollars and I got stiffed for millions of dollars. But I had a great time you know. I was just having fun I had kids.  Brian lived the sweet life because his day job was drug smuggling. He started out small time in Canada but quickly evolved into an international player who moved tons all across the world. O' I started bringing coke into LA and how I was doing that was I would go to South America and dissolve the coke in methanol. And then I would pour that methanol solution into fabric ruanas specifically or ponchos. And then I would just hop on a plane and fly those ponchos right into LA Airport. And they would go through my luggage now as long as they did not pick their nose or something after going through my luggage and their nose when numb from handling coke-laden material I was safe. I I would take that material soak it in methanol flash evaporate it off and be left with the pure cocaine back on the U.S. side.  But after a decade of the high life Brian wanted out. O' 1984 I just - I had such a bad habit I had to quit. For a couple of years I kept trying to stop and trying to stop and I would make it stop and start. And I realized I got to get out of this business. If I get out of this business I have a chance of quitting. As long as I am in this business I will never quit this. So I checked into a hospital got sober finished the 30 days I pulled out of there in my motorcycle and got hit by a truck and lost my memory. Had to go back in and do the program again.  Now that he was clean and sober he only needed one thing. O' I need money. When I got phone call from this guy who  grew up with in Newfoundland who I had serious issues with a few years earlier and he brought someone to break my arms he took a shot at me. And this is a guy I would never ever do anything with ever again. He phones me and says look I know we have had our issues in the past put I want to put all that behind us 'ecause I have got the offload of a lifetime. And an offload is a place where you can bring in drugs from the sea or air into a very safe location and transport it out of there without getting caught. And I said look I am sorry I am getting out of the business. And he said look you got the connections I know you do I know the boys can do it from Southeast Asia just hook it up. You do not have to do anything - hook it up you will get a huge payday here. This will be the once-in-a-lifetime opportunity just give it a shot and take a look at it. I could not help it. As much as I knew I should not do this I got sucked back in.  Against his own instincts he joined forces with his old enemy to pull off the score of a lifetime. O' That afternoon we were on a plane to Washington. And it was every single thing that he said it was. He was hooked up with this fisherman in Anacortes Washington it was a dry dock facility. It was private it was huge we could sail right in there tie up be looking like we were shipping fish from Alaska. None of us had ever seen anything like before so we said yes yes yes. And we began putting together a 75 ton buy of pot in Vietnam. We went out and raised about 15 million for equipment expenses and product purchases. We put together a team of 110 people all around the world and we began the procedure by organizing to bring in 25 of the 75 tons in the first shipment. They picked the load up over there was the plan. We would meet them in the Baltic Sea and then go up into a fjord in Alaska hid our boats repackage everything do the quality control barcode everything package it in wet-lock fish boxes so it looked like fish and then come down bring it down into Washington. This was the plan.  But when your score is worldwide it is hard to control it. O' Now 110 guys is a big herd of cats to keep in line. There was one condition that we had to bring into play here - nobody did cocaine. If you did coke you are out.  Everyone agreed let us keep this professional except for the guy who brought the deal to the table in the first place. O' Well this guy this Newfoundlander could not stop showing up at that house 'ecause we put money in his pocket with limos cocaine 2 in the morning making a lot of racket drawing heat.  So Brian had to tell them. O' You have to leave. We assured him he would be paid and he left. Twenty-five tons we get it we transfer it up in the Bering Sea we bring it up in the fjord we repack it in wet-lock fish boxes and shrink-wrap we barcode every box so they never have to be open and we can tell how much value is in each box. And we come down on a Saturday morning right into Anacortes to the dry dock and I had five tractor-trailers. And one-by-one we loaded those things up buddy and they took off to California. And then we started distributing it all over the country. Twenty-five tons of pot is about 75 million.  But that was only half the score. And they still had to pay off the loose cannon to keep quiet. O' This guy got wind that we had pulled the deal off and showed up in Anacortes looking for his money. So we had a meeting and had to decide what we were going to do with him. We still had another 50 tons over there. So were we going to put a million dollars or 2 million dollars in this guy's hands right now? Let him go nuts? Or we give him a smaller amount of money just keep a leash on him until we pull off the other load. And the boys decided that they wanted to give him 50 grand. I thought that was way too little and that was going to be a big problem but they wanted to do it so that is what we did - gave him 50 grand. And he was freaked out pissed off furious and took that Vons grocery bag with 50 grand in it went right to the DEA put it on the table and said I can tell you where there is a lot more that looks just like this.  Bryan and the crew had no clue that the whole score was now under heavy surveillance. O' And so for the next 10 months the DEA followed us. And they watched us put together that entire 50 tons.  But it is not as if these guys were not careful. O' Now we had scanners we had safe houses we had people listening to radios. But we could never isolate the the frequencies of the feds. We could not listen to the DEA the FBI  ATF - any of the federal police agencies we could not isolate radio transmission frequencies. So we could not program them into our scanners.  But with the right money you can get the right guy. O' We brought a guy up. He had a spectrum analyzer. And so now finally here we are just days before we are bringing the load in we are able to listen to the feds talk on the radio. Now up until this all of our communications back-and-forth had been done by radio using dictionaries. If I wanted to say something to you I would formulate a sentence and write it down. And then I would look up every word in that sentence in the dictionary and know what page the word was on and what number down on the page that word was and then I would speak to you like this - I would radio you on single-sideband and say - hello misty two misty two this is the KB KB calling I want you to check the following part numbers 102-8 297-19. And so what that meant was page 102 the eighth word on the page. Page 297 the 19th word on the page. It took a long time to have a conversation like that and we wanted to be completely clear now before we brought this last load down.  One less meeting face-to-face. But on they way... O' On route my radio picks up the DEA talking about following me in my brown suburban. I took off and I drove like a freaking maniac for about six hours non-stop. I took dirt roads side roads country roads every road. And if a car was coming a mile down the road as far as I was concerned it was a cop. I finally settled near Spokane about six hours later and called the safe house. And she said...   You are the fourth today call back in two hours - we are arranging a meeting. O' The meeting was set up in the parking lot of this country store in the middle of nowhere. And we had to make a decision what to do. So the first thing we did was call a private detective who was a former DEA agent to go to work for us and find out what the DEA knew. He told us they were flying up and down the inside passage looking for us. They knew we had the load. They could not find our boats and they were looking for us hard. We knew that they knew but they did not know that we knew they knew. That just blew our minds.  They had two options call off the whole deal or make a new plan to bait-and-switch. O' We went to a friend of ours and said loan us your boat will you? So he loaned us this 250-foot boat. We took off on that boat with another crew up to Alaska. As we were going up we are listening to them fly over us not knowing who they are flying over looking for us. So we get up there we offload all of the product off of the boats that were hidden in the fjord put it in our boat on this new boat and we sail it back down towards the inside passage where you cross from Canada into the U.S.  And once they cross the border it was time to drop the bait. O' We pull all of the boats they are looking for out into the open and tie them off together like they are doing something. We let them spot us. The radios light up - we are on them we got them stay back stay away just - we will watch them we got them now we will mark them. They are all on these three boats. The moment those three boats cross the border Canada into the U.S. all hell broke loose buddy - helicopters seaplanes boats FBI DEA ATF every acronymic policing agency in the United States.  Hundreds of agents swarm the boats with guns out ready to take down one of the biggest busts in history. And what did they find? O' There was fresh donuts and coffee waiting for them on the boat.  But no narcotics no contraband and no evidence. O' They were freaked. They knew they would been had. They knew they would been had. I personally was not there I was with the pot. The total value of the load was about 220 million.  And the DEA knew it had slipped right through their fingers. O' I am no fool OK. I may have done some stupid things in my life but fool I am not. I am not foolish enough to think for one second that you can throw a whole heaping plateful of egg on the face of the DEA and walk away unscathed. I knew that there was a hammer poised to fall somewhere at some point.  But for now he was celebrating his last score. O' I thought it would be my last yeah. It was my last. That was the only deal really that I ever did for the dough. That was the problem. I gave up the coke for the two years that I was doing that deal. But the moment the deal was done I went and bought myself a kilo. Eight days and eight ounces later kept getting progressively more and more insane. I would look out the window and the trees would turn into my wife and my kids. I would hallucinate and I would hit the floor and crawl across the floor and peak out the window. Every ashtray in the house had cigarettes burning in it. There were empties of liquor everywhere. I would walk by the mirror in the bathroom and catch a glimpse of myself in the mirror and just go into a panic not knowing who it was looking back at me thinking someone was there and it was me. It was the most horrific self-induced hellish time of my life that I could not stop. And then all of a sudden as I was walking by the mirror I felt like my chest exploded. And the bag of coke went up in the air and I can remember seeing the coke like snowflakes and I just collapsed to the floor. I had a heart attack. And that ended me in the hospital for a month. I went to NA AA CA Jesus put anything with an A behind it and I was going to the meeting because I just wanted to get sober. So when I finished my 30 days I hung around that hospital. And it was three years into working in this recovery hospital with drug addicts and alcoholics when the DEA showed up.  Three years later the hammer finally dropped. O' DEA showed up and said this as not about change or rehabilitation this is about crushing your life now do the right thing.  And they thought they had the one man who would break. O' They wanted me to cooperate more than anyone else because I was working as a drug counselor and they figured this would be their you know their prime witness and I was one of the management of the group. And they eventually indicted 55 guys - 53 of them cooperated talked two did not. I did not talk and my chief engineer Frank he did not talk either.  All the boys who thought they would all get off scot free all got hit with jail sentences. Brian served his time without giving anybody up but when he got out he was just another ex-con. It was time for another switch. O' April 2001 - I am struggling. I mean I would been out of prison for a while. And my wife said to me one day you know what Brian you need to get a job. And I said get a job who is going to hire me? I do not know how to do anything. I have never had a job in my life. And she said oh I see you had 110 people working in a secret corporation around the world doing 225 million in secret business and you do not know how to do anything. Sit down and write a resume and take the skills that you think are transferable from that business to the real world and see what you come up with.  So Brian came up with his next escape plan. O' So I sat down and started to write what eventually was to become a classified ad that I ran in the National Post. And it ended up something like this - headline former marijuana smuggler having recently completed a 10-year sentence incident free for smuggling 75 tons of marijuana into the United States I am now looking for a legal means to support my wife and my family. I am expert in all levels of security I am - great people skills computer expert speak three languages. And I put it in the classified section of the Financial Post. It started on a Monday morning my phone did not stop ringing for 3 weeks. And I got over 600 responses from all over the world. Got offered jobs from customs and immigration all the police agencies in the U.S. were reaching out to me smugglers organ smugglers dopes smugglers. It was really quite incredible.  And out of all the jobs he could have picked he picked  the one that fit his drug kingpin past the best - television producer. O' Last year did a big show for CBC Television. It was like The Apprentice for ex-cons called Redemption Inc. It was a giant success. And I am featured in this film called How To Make Money Selling Drugs and it has Woody Harrelson Susan Sarandon Eminem 50 Cent and me. And I realized what great good fortune I have.  Big thanks to Brian O'Dea. That is O-D-E-A for sharing his highs and lows with SNAP. That piece was produced by Jamie DeWolf with sound design by Renzo Gorrio and Pat Mesiti-Miller.   When SNAP JUDGMENT returns please do not look look in the back officer 'ecause I swear this is not my car that I am driving with the license plates with my name on it. When rust Me episode continues. Stay Tuned.  