 OK so I was in D.C. and I had just been robbed right? Somebody ran off with my wallet my ID my money my credit cards everything. All I had left was a suitcase full of dirty clothes and a plane ticket to Cleveland. And by the kindness of strangers I made it to the airport. And so I go up to the security line and the guy says let me see your ticket and ID. Well I did have the ticket but did not have any ID. But what did I find in my luggage but a brochure of the SNAP JUDGMENT program with my face on the cover. So I showed him that instead. And dude said I am sorry sir this is not a legal ID. And I am like look man this is all I have got right now you got to let me up on that plane. And he is like no no no I am sorry I am going to have to ask you to step aside now sir. And I am desperate right so I start stalling. I am stalling for time. Hey hey hey let me speak to the manager I need to speak to the manager. And he is ticked off. He is like all right all right. He gets on the walkie-talkie and we wait. And the people behind me are fuming. They have got places to go. I am slowing everybody down. This is not cool. And then I see her - a big lady in an official uniform. People parting to either side as she strides past and she looks almost exactly like my auntie. And at once I know everything is going to be OK. Call it reverse racism if you want to I do not care. She comes over looks me up and down and says what seems to be the problem? And I am like they are not trying to let me up on this airplane. And she is like for real? And I am like yeah talking about I got to have some official ID knowing good and well this is me right here on the brochure. She looks over at the dude who by this point he is kind of looking sheepish and she says you know you are going to make him late for his plane. And that is what I have been trying to tell him the whole time. She stamps my ticket waves me through and says next time sweetie might just want to bring some ID to the airport. Oh I will do not worry but how do you know I am not some kind of crazy? She just looks at me shakes her head and says baby I trust you.   Today on RX and NPR we proudly present Trust Me. Amazing stories where people extend the most important thing of all to someone else whether they are worthy of it or not. My name is Glynn Pure of Heart Washington and this is SNAP JUDGMENT.  