 Welcome back to mpatico episode. Today we are digging into what it is like to find yourself on someone else's wavelength to feel that connection to someone other than yourself no matter how briefly. And we are bringing it back way back - think origins of man back. That is where we are headed with our next piece a story told by a woman who always always felt more than a little removed.   I really did not understand fully that I was different because I really felt like I was part of everything around me. I really did not understand that I had a separate body so I felt you know the plants around me. I felt the animals around me. I had cross-sensing as well so I could for example I could see very loud noises...   ...Taste sounds.   It is really difficult to explain. It is almost like trying to explain a color somebody's never seen. It is a very integrated experience. This overstimulation problem leads to difficulties communicating with people. I had a really difficult time in school. On a sensory level public school is a real nightmare. It smells bad the clanking of the lockers are loud the halls make noise reverberate. You sit in a hard chair at a hard desk looking at a hard chalkboard.   People really could not tolerate the ways that I was strange. They really did just think I was weird. A lot of the things I did with great intentions and an open heart were misunderstood. One example comes to mind. When I was in third grade I was really struggling by then.   So I had this great idea that everyone likes dogs and dogs learn really fast. So I will just be a dog in class and everything will go better. My teacher will have an easier time. The kids will like me better.   I got down on all fours and did a dog smile and sort of opened my mouth and put my tongue out and crawled around and approached people in a friendly manner and wagged my tail and...   ...Sat down on my haunches and paid attention when it was time to listen to the teacher.   Well she yanked me up by my ear and threw me in the corner and yelled at the class to quit laughing. Certainly my family were not immune to misunderstanding my intentions and I was often at odds with them. So I was going outside in the nighttime to sort of calm down and I scooted around the house and looked in the window and was able to really see my family in a way that was I guess a lot clearer because I had a lot less sensory input. I could look in through the window and see my family and feel closer to them than if I had been in the same room. It was a convenient barrier that allowed me to turn down the volume on all my senses so that I could relax and see things a little bit I guess like most people do. I left home at about 15. At that point in my life I knew people were not feeling connected to me. I just decided to leave. I went down to the end of the driveway and stuck out my thumb and...   It was roughly five years I was homeless off and on. I went all over the country that way and I really cannot believe I am still alive to be honest. I ended up in Seattle. I stayed on the streets. I remember in a really cold December I spent most of my time in the stairwell of a church up on Capitol Hill just sitting on a cardboard box flattened out on the concrete. And being homeless was really terrible - hot cold loud hard. I used to go to the clubs talk my way in just because there was something about that level of - maybe it was the beat of the music that was really persistent and almost familiar maybe like a heartbeat or something very primal about it. It was really comforting to me so I would go to clubs. And I liked to move with the music and somebody said you are a good dancer. You should make some money with that. And I said no not if it is what I am thinking of . And they said well you know you cannot really be snobbish about this. You are homeless. And I thought well that is true. So yeah I ended up as an erotic dancer for a while. Interestingly once again looking through the glass at people - that was the setup but was more or less a stage surrounded by windows. People put quarters in and the little shade lifts up and you have so many seconds per quarter or something. Anything like a wall or a window would serve as an artificial barrier or a means of containment. I did not feel like being homeless was a good life for me but I did not think there was a good life for me in any context. I was starving for nature and so with one of my very first paychecks I decided to brave the bus system and go to the zoo. It was a really major undertaking because when I get really overwhelmed my senses start shutting down one at a time. So first I will lose my hearing. I will lose my sense of touch. My sight gets down to the size of a dime. So here I am on the city streets sort of trying to look around through this dime-size hole of vision for the bus number how much money I put in. Luckily I get off on the right stop. Then I have to go figure out how to get in the zoo. But then when I turned the corner and saw the gorillas I just sat there. I just sat there that day. And I sat there for hours and I just watched them. And there was just this epiphany this flood of identification where I thought these are people and more importantly these are people that understand me and they are people that I am going to understand for the first time in my life. I am guessing that is what most people feel like with each other - most human beings feel like with each other. But I had not felt that before. It was just amazing. They did not look me right in the eye for about an hour and a half. They very tenderly waited and kind of felt where I was eventually glancing over at me really quickly and then putting their heads down again. It was just a very slow-moving tender social interaction. It is so much different. The way that it was set up at the Seattle Zoo they had really big windows. I think that was the one time I felt that glass was an unfortunate body because I wanted to be with them. It is as if you were going home after years and years of being in the war and you get home and your entire house is glassed-in. You cannot find the door. You cannot go in through the window. You just press your face against home.   I went every day that I could possibly go just to sit there just to sit there and stare at the gorillas - not stare at them rudely but just sort of diffusely stare if that makes any sense and watch what they were doing. And the public would just sort of vanish. Everything just slowed down. Watching the gorillas interact with each other was really heartwarming because even though they had squabbles you know they were still so much a part of each other. They really - I believe that they experience reality a lot more like I did or a lot like other autistic quote unquote autistic people where they do not get the sense that they are just one individual person sort of floating out there some kind of discrete consciousness in a body. So their behavior was really inspiring to me. I was really delighted to see that the gorillas made nests every day. When I was a kid I remember making just those kinds of nests. I would weave branches together put in leaves make it really comfortable. I think the reasons that both of us did that is because we find smaller and smaller places to try to avoid feeling intensity of any kind. I was so obsessed I would start to grab zoo workers that were walking by and pepper them with questions. And they were really patient with me to their credit. There were people who saw how devoted I was to the gorillas and their well-being and eventually I got to work with them. It led to me going back to school which I never thought I would do. I found a master's and Ph.D. program.   It was after being there for probably - I guess it was about 10 years at that point at - you know watching the gorillas and directly applying what I had learned from them in my human interactions. And I had a really bad week but there were always those times where I felt like I took many steps backward. So that was one of those weeks. And I always wanted to just go see the gorillas when that happened so...   The gorilla I was closest to Congo  who was about - I think he was about 33 at the time - who had had a terrible terrible life he saw me that day that I had this terrible week and immediately he knew there was something wrong. He furrowed his brows and came rushing over to the window and searched my face and then he could tell that I was just crushed. And so he pushed his shoulder against the glass and motioned with his hand for me to put my head down. And I put my head down on his shoulder and cried and cried and he just...   ...Made gorilla contentment noises while I cried and cried.   I probably stayed with him like that with my head on his shoulder for 30 minutes or so. I think it was probably the first time I was genuinely comforted by another person. Congo really set the standard for what social interactions should be like between me and another living being. You just cannot worry about looking like a fool. You cannot worry about getting hurt. You cannot worry about whether you are right or not. It just boils down to wanting to be connected at all costs at all risks. I no longer wanted to allow the permeability of my spirit to seek smaller and smaller shelters. It requires a completely open heart. I felt like I found a way to go home through the glass.   Here's what is even more amazing - Dawn went on to get a master's degree and a Ph.D. in anthropology. She was finally diagnosed with autism at the age of 38. She is worked with the Jane Goodall Institute and she is published a whole slew of books. Find out all about her truly miraculous work at our website snapjudgment.org. That story's produced by Anna Sussman with sound design by Renzo Gorrio.   When SNAP JUDGMENT returns someone is looking for a miracle and they find it.   On mpatico episode. Stay tuned. 