 Welcome back to the SNAP. My name is Glynn Washington. On today's AI - artificial intelligence episode we are diving into stories from real people who have seen the soul of machine and they have returned to offer warning. We sent SNAP JUDGMENT'S Stephanie Foo on assignment to virtual reality.  My dad and I did not have much in common when I was growing up but we did share one hobby - computer games. We would play games together where we would decapitate monsters with names like Putrid Defiler.   Now you die.  So when I started playing The Sims he did not get it. The Sims for those who do not know is kind of like playing with a hyperrealistic dollhouse with mini people or Sims living their everyday lives. I already have to wash dishes and pay bills in real life my dad would say. I do not need to do it on a computer game. And he would go back to looting villages but that is just why I liked it. I liked controlling these little people making them do grown-up things - getting jobs making money. OK let us be honest I was 12. Mostly I just liked to make the woo-hoo which is what it is called when two Sims have intimate relations. I also liked doing things like buying leopard print sofas and starving my children to death which sounds heartless but I am going to blame my behavior on the game. Sims were almost impossible to feel personal affection for. The Sims' AI was pretty terrible back then and it was hard to actually like your Sims because they were so dumb. You just want them to cook breakfast and they would set themselves on fire. If you did not tell them to go to the bathroom one time they would pee all over the living room. And so after I started to think the funnest part of The Sims was manipulating them to commit suicide I through The Sims away and did not play the game again. And it was not long after that that I stopped playing computer games entirely. As I entered adulthood I learned what actually being a grown-up was all about. It was about making money and maximizing productivity. I work a lot. Sometimes I do not have time to eat let alone play video games. In fact I probably would have never played the game again unless work asked me to. SNAP assigned me a story about The Sims for this episode. While I downloaded the newest iteration of the game The Sims 3 I read the game's message boards. I was disappointed. A lot of the users were saying the Sims were still super dumb. But I did get a little rush when the game started and I heard the classic kitschy theme song. One of the first things I noticed with the new Sims is I can make a Sim that looked like an Asian girl. And I could even give her an outfit with clothes really similar to ones I have in my own closet. So I decided to make a Sim-me - a Sim Stephanie. When it came time to build her personality my boyfriend helped me pick traits similar to my own. Sim Stephanie is ambitious very excitable and of course a workaholic. One of her life goals is to be a journalist. And then I saw that the Sims had free will now. There was this slider where you could control the amount of free will they possessed so they could be more independent and do things like use the bathroom without you telling them to. I gave Sim Stephanie the maximum amount of free will. Then I made a Sim boyfriend for her who resembled my own boyfriend. The first thing I did was I suggested Sim Stephanie flirt with my boyfriend's Sim. And thankfully they started getting really into each other. And then right before they had their first kiss my Sim excused herself ran into the next room clapped her hands and did a happy dance before turning to make out. And this is super embarrassing but the thing is I actually did do that in real life before me and my boyfriend's actual first kiss. And then Sim Stephanie continued to do happy dances about many things - getting a phone call bedtime her waffles. I laughed but a dark shameful part of me recognized her behavior as familiar. I started to get self-conscious. Is this how people saw me? I look ridiculous. I mean God waffles are super good but I think maybe I need to calm down about them. Then Sims Stephanie got her first journalism job. She wanted to be successful so badly that after she came home she would still write articles late into the night. But it got to the point where she would be writing at midnight and then she would be miserable and exhausted all of the next day. She would show up late for work. She would take it out on her boyfriend. I tried to get her to stop working and go to sleep but she would not listen to me. So I would start yelling at the screen what is wrong with you? You are screwing yourself over until I realized wait a second. I did this in real life yesterday. This was getting creepy like some meta-nightmare where I had to watch a birds-eye view of all of my own flaws. In a manic moment of paranoia I wondered if somehow a chain of meta-meta-ju-ju existed where perhaps there was an uber-Stephanie watching me and face-palming herself over all the stupid stuff I do every day. Yelling no no do not eat those cheese fries. You will break out. No. Eventually though Sim Stephanie fell into a groove - balancing work and life. And her relationship with her boyfriend actually started to resemble my own in this really comforting way. She would work late but since he was less work obsessed he would play guitar into the night serenading her and making her snacks. I kind of felt like I appreciated my real boyfriend more watching it. But what was the deal here?  Everyone on the message boards said that The Sims 3 AI was terrible. So I went back and reread the comments from the disappointed users.  None of the parents got a single promotion.  My Sims will spend a lot of time woo-hooing like three or four times a day.  I discovered my Sims flirt with people who are not their partner when I am not controlling them - unhappy face.  Sims have always had problems surviving or doing anything without help. The message from the developers is clear - free will is a very very bad thing. Control your Sims at all times.  And they did. Many of the players took away their Sims' free will. Not really because The Sims 3 AI was bad - because it was so good. They saw themselves in their Sims and they did not want themselves to fail. I thought there was something incredibly dark about that. I do not believe in fate myself. I like to believe that I control my own destiny. So I thought I was above that. I would not take away Sim Stephanie's free will. And so one night Sim Stephanie have been working really hard for several days and her happiness levels were low. She desperately wanted to have fun. She started playing computer games to relax for a couple hours. But I knew that if she completed this one task by tonight she could get a promotion and a huge raise tomorrow. I thought we could really use the extra cash. I thought I would like her to be a little more productive. And that little slider was just begging to be slid. So I turned off her free will and I forced her to finish her work. Sim Stephanie did what she was told but her happiness plummeted. She sat there resentful exhausted miserable and I knew exactly how she felt. I felt like I would just punched myself in the gut. I had taken away Sim Stephanie's free will as punishment for playing computer games. And I was playing computer games right now. I was supposed to be so much smarter than Sim Stephanie. Sim Stephanie stayed up all night once because she could not find the bed. But even she knew that finding the next big story was not worth sabotaging her own happiness. Even Sim Stephanie knew that she did not need any more fancy couches. Sim Stephanie knew how to be a human knew how to be a happy grown-up better than I did. She - I - we know now that happiness it comes first and sometimes it is OK to just relax maybe even play a computer game.   Thank you Stephanie Foo. It is happened a full hour of SNAP into the matrix. But do not worry there is plenty more where that came from - full episodes pictures movies stuff available right now at snapjudgment.org. What? You want special stuff? Special stories and such - just Like SNAP JUDGMENT on Facebook follow SNAP JUDGMENT on the Twitter. That is not the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. You know the Corporation for Public Broadcasting cannot dance but there is much love to CBB. WBEZ Chicago is the place. WBEZ here in Chicago. PRX the Public Radio Exchange is old-school. Sitting around the fireplace playing board games popping popcorn listening to the radio at PRX.org. And you know this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact you could have no friends no friends at all until your father brings you home a brand new friend in a box. And when you turn her on your new friend could get up look at you walk out of the door then talk bad about you behind your back and you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 