 We are going to kick things off in the first place you think of when you think of artificial intelligence. That is right Knox City Texas population 1219 on the way to the West Texas plains. SNAP JUDGMENT's Julia DeWitt has this story.   Lyndon Baty was a little boy who never knew what it was like to talk to other kids.  I was only allowed to visit family. Anything could kill me. If I became sick I mean I was going to die.  Lyndon was a kind of real-life bubble boy. He was born with something called polycystic kidney disease. Among other things it meant that he was extremely susceptible to illness. Everyday germs flu germs cold germs they could kill him. This is Lyndon's mom Sheri.  If you had a cold or runny nose or anything you just could not come in. I mean everybody knew the rules. If you had been sick think you are going to be sick anything you just could not come in the house.  Most kids with Lyndon's disease die in the first 14 days of their lives. So it was kind of a miracle that Lyndon survived at all. But everything changed when Lyndon was 7. He got a kidney transplant. And with his health stabilized now the question was how can Lyndon live a normal life? And a key part of any normal childhood is going to school with other kids. So his parents took a deep breath and sent him off to his first day of school. L.  I mean I would never seen anyone you know my size really except for my two brothers. I mean I had never communicated with anyone outside my family.  Lyndon's little brother Sheldon had told him all about school. But on his first day he still knew basically nothing about what it would be like. Most kids they would be nervous. But Lyndon... L.  So I was like OK bye mom. Bye. And I went outside. I made new friends. And it was amazing just to play with them - run up and down you know climb the jungle gym swing go down slides. It was amazing to do that. S.  I was worried sick. I thought I was going to have to pick Lyndon up by noon because it was just going to be too much. No I picked Sheldon up at noon because he was literally sick from worrying about Lyndon.  Over the next several years it became clear that Lyndon could have a normal life. He still had to get regular lab workups and he could not play on all the sports teams. But he was a hit at school. He had friends good grades. After an irregular childhood Lyndon was now just one of the kids. Then in eighth grade after seven years in school Lyndon started getting sick - little things a cold a flu. But it was always something. And then right at the end of the school year Lyndon got some news - his body was rejecting his transplanted kidney. S.  We wanted him to go through the eighth grade graduation ceremony. So we did that on Friday night. Got up real early Saturday morning and we left for Dallas. And we did not come back home 'til the end of August. We spent that summer of 2010 fighting that rejection.  The doctors in Dallas pumped Lyndon with drugs to stop his immune system from attacking his good kidney but nothing worked. At the end of the summer when everyone else was getting ready to start high school the doctors removed Lyndon's transplanted kidney and Lyndon went home to Knox City. He went back on nightly dialysis and his immune system was wiped from all the immunosuppressants. He would not be starting freshman year with his friends. L.  I can only imagine you know going to high school you know tubing down the river getting their driver's license - little things like that that teenagers are supposed to do. But now I am never going to communicate with them whatsoever. It is tough to describe when you were one of the most socially interactive kids at the school and then all of the sudden that is pulled away from you.  Lyndon tried to reach out. He tried to talk to people through his brother Sheldon. But his friends were now at the high school campus and Sheldon was still in middle school. And the longer it went on the darker it got for Lyndon. L.  I woke up in the morning. I gloomily walked around. All I wanted to do was find some way for me to go to school. But there was no way. And I was just depressed. I mean I would wake up and just kind of coil up on the couch and have no reason to do anything. I mean I really did not care if I died.  Lyndon's parents were absolutely desperate. There had to be some way to get Lyndon near his friends again. Then one morning in his office Lyndon's dad Louis got a call. When he went home for lunch he told Sheri what he would learned. S.  And I looked at him like he had lost his mind completely. A robot? I was like no. I thought he was joking at first. And it is like you are kidding me. Just stop. I mean it is not funny to tease like that. He said no seriously. L.  I am like yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I mean I could not say yes enough times. But dad said it could happen. Now do not get too hopped. We do not know. Within two weeks I had a robot.  This guy had come by the special ed department with this robot called a VGo. It was not designed for kids like Lyndon specifically but for anyone that needed a proxy like say if someone's working remotely. It is not like a walking talking like C-3PO robot. It is basically just Skype on wheels. There is a screen at the top that shows Lyndon and a camera so that Lyndon can see what the robot can see from his laptop at home. It is shiny white very impressive for its simplicity. Lyndon could maneuver it remotely using the arrow keys. The night before his first day back at school Lyndon was so excited. He could barely sleep. S.  He got up like at 5 or 6 that morning and waited. He did not have to go to school 'til 9. L.  Mom made me get dressed. But I put on a shirt did not put on pants. Put on some boxers. They are not going to see my pants anyway.  He got set up at his desk logged on. And there on his screen gathered around the robot was his entire school staring back at him. L.  It was the first time anyone had saw it. It is like kind of woah woah. Woah.  They had not seen Lyndon for a really long time some of them for years. And there he was. Or there he was on a screen. At first nobody really knew what to do. What do you say to a robot? L.  A kid by the name - actually a senior by the name of Austin Valiment  he came up and said Lyndon I missed you so much and hugged the robot. But then I turned and ran into a locker. Very clumsy with it.  And then it dawned on Lyndon - he would never been to the school before. He did not even know where his classes were. Also he was pretty bad at driving the thing. L.  Ran into walls lockers chairs girls boys mainly girls but that was probably not by accident.  The high school is actually just one hallway with no stairs which worked in Lyndon's favor. They put signs with each teachers name on the classroom doors so Lyndon could find his way around. But the robot still had its limitations. Like without arms it could not open doors. So Lyndon resilient kid that he is came up with a fix for that. L.  I just ran myself into the door. I would back up all the way to the hallway and then just have a big knock. And it is like Lyndon's here. First day that first class was just like it was kind of boring 'ecause all he did was lecture so I logged onto the Internet.  So what other kinds of things could you get away with with the robot? L.  What did not I get away with the robot. I would just mute it and go grab something to eat and then like during class I would be like eating crackers. And also - also in that time I am on ESPN.com reading about the Mavericks.  Being at back school was not even really about school anyway. Just being able to be there wheel between classes. Well his parents noticed an overnight change in Lyndon. He was still sitting at home but the robot made him feel like he was at school with his friends again. Gave him a reason to get up in the morning and a chance to do things like talk about the football game last night and joke around in the halls. L.  They would play jokes on it and it was just kind of practical jokes. Just anything they would do to me. One time they stuffed it in a locker. Luckily you could hear the ramming. Little stuff like that is really fun. They do not mean it in a bad way they are just having fun with Lyndon and not a robot. Which it is a robot but they are having fun with Lyndon.  Lyndon could also do things that other kids could not do. Like that prank that everyone dreams of - sneaking into school at night. L.  Turn him on like I do in the morning. I ended up contorting the robot enough to open a fridge. It was like amazing what them teachers have in there. Junk food. I mean it was like what you would expect like the freshman to have. It is like oh my gosh teachers. Teachers think that is bad for us?  Look at their fridge.  And when Lyndon got really courageous he even tried to talk to girls. L.  That did not go too well. But I tried and really did not really succeed.  What did you do? L.  I just tried to flirt with them but it did not really - it is better when you are there. You need to be there.  But things got better with girls. In fact at the end of his sophomore year Lyndon was asked to prom. L.  I think I was the only sophomore that went. She was the best looking girl there. I am telling you all right now she was the best looking girl there.  Did she ask you? Did she ask the robot? L.  No she asked Lyndon. She asked Lyndon not the robot Lyndon. She asked me through the robot. She is like can you come? Like not robot. It is like OK you want the robot? It is like no I want you. It is like oh you know of course you know. It is like OK I am going to go to prom. Mom I am going to prom.  Whenever there was a chance for Lyndon to do things like a normal kid his parents let him do it even if there were some risks. And the school got onboard too. They made extra accommodations for Lyndon so that he could actually go to prom in person. S.  They even had the prom outside 'ecause he could be out in the open air. He just could not be confined in indoor spaces with a lot of people.  Do you think he had that feeling that she was like being nice to him? S.  You know it was not like a girlfriend kind of thing I mean it was more of a friend. But heck he was game for anything. He was like hey I have got the cutest girl in town taking me to the prom. I am going.  Who cares. S.  Who cares.  The next year Lyndon's junior year he got up the courage to ask a girl to prom himself. Lyndon was psyched but... L.  Two days before prom I end up developing peritonitis. It is an infection in my dialysis tube.  The doctors in Dallas told Lyndon's mom get him down here. But his mom and dad said... L.  No you do not understand. He has a prom in two days. It is like OK we are going to start him on this medicine. It is like as soon as prom is over you get him here. It is like I do not care if we are down there by 2 a.m. We are going to prom.   So you went to prom with the infection? L.  Yes. I was walking probably sideways and a little crooked but still I got to walk up with her. I rode in the car and it was very fun to do. My dad said it is like OK Lyndon we really need to go. It is like OK. I told her bye. We just left for Dallas. Straight there. I think we stopped at Dairy Queen got some fries.  Is that strange going from this like teenager thing to the hospital? L.  Probably for quote normal kids with good health - yes that would be weird for them. But to me it is completely normal. It is my life and I have lived it and that is my normal. I am just going to tackle life as I go.  Now in Lyndon's senior year the robot stays docked in the closet. He is still waiting for a transplant but his health has gotten good enough so that he can actually physically go to school. L.  Yeah I am going the whole nine yards. I am doing everything they are doing. I am having myself a senior year. I am doing senior skip day I am going to the lake that day.  I will not go  'ecause I cannot but I will do everything in my power to do everything my classmates are doing. My grades are down but I am still making A's and B's in everything. But my grades are not as important to me than my social life I am having right now. Just do not tell my parents that.  On my last day in Knox City I went to a high school football game with the Baty's. Football games for them are a family affair. Sheldon plays for the Knox City Greyhounds. Lyndon who is fanatical about sports is the announcer for all the home games. While the other boys get ready to play and cheer from the stands Lyndon sits up and in the plywood announcer's box.  His running commentary echoes out over the field. I have to head back to Dallas so I leave Lyndon in the booth to finish out the game. Alone with mic in hand yelling back out over the stands filled with his friends as the sun sets over the prairie.  Much love to the whole Baty family. Live your life. Live your life. Live your life. When SNAP returns someone fights the AI by taking power into their own hands and one of our own is sucked into a videogame kind of like what happened to Tron when I episode continues. Stay tuned. 