Intro Alright. Okay. All right.  Intro You are listening to Radio Lab.  Intro Radio Lab.  Intro Shorts!  Intro From WNYC.  Intro Yeah.  Intro And NPR.  Jad Abumrad Three two one hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radio Lab  Robert Krulwich The podcast.  Jad Abumrad And today on the podcast well first we have got a story from an old producer of ours Lulu Miller.  Robert Krulwich She is not old she is just has not been with us and now is at school.  Jad Abumrad Right she is-  Robert Krulwich She is actually kind of young.  Jad Abumrad Chronologically she is not old.  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad She is old to us.  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad She is an old soul. In any case this is a story about some of the sticky issues that result when you try and empathize with another being.  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad It is a very different story than one we have ever told. It started for Lulu when she spoke with... Well she will handle the introductions.  Lulu Miller Can you introduce yourself?  Jeff Lockwood Award winning author fantastic husband  Lulu Miller Dad of the year.  Jeff Lockwood Dad of the year. No I am Jeff Lockwood. I am a professor at university of Wyoming. I-  Lulu Miller Jeff is an entomologist.  Jad Abumrad You mean like a bug guy?  Lulu Miller He is a bug guy. And mostly he studies crickets and grasshoppers. And this story involves a kind of cricket that is well different. The Gryllas.  Jeff Lockwood Yeah the gryllacridids yeah.  Lulu Miller And are they related to katydids?  Jeff Lockwood So the way you think of a gryllacridid is like a cricket on steroids.  Lulu Miller Okay.  Jeff Lockwood Sort of like the Hulk Hogan of crickets.  Lulu Miller First of all he says they are a little bulkier than your average cricket.  Jeff Lockwood And they tend to have very strong jaws very strong jaws.  Lulu Miller And mandibles that are really sharp.  Jeff Lockwood Sort of like a serrated knife.  Lulu Miller And most of all they are vicious.  Jeff Lockwood They all had to be caged separately. If you put them together they would fight.  Lulu Miller To the death?  Jeff Lockwood Yeah.  Lulu Miller Wow.  Jeff Lockwood And so when I would go in in the mornings-  Lulu Miller And reach into one of their cages as soon as they saw him coming they would fly into this-  Jeff Lockwood Rage. It is really sort of a show stopper. They will sort of rear up on their hind leg-  Lulu Miller Beat their abdomens on the ground-  Jeff Lockwood Flare out their wings-  Lulu Miller And then clamp onto his fingers.  Jeff Lockwood They would draw blood.  Lulu Miller Wow.  Jeff Lockwood So I use this this glass probe on the big boy at least until the point at which he snapped off the end of the glass rod.  Jad Abumrad Holy moly.  Jeff Lockwood So I ended up with actually there are two that were very large. I would just take their cage when I went in and and pop it in the refrigerator and go get a cup of coffee and within 15 minutes because insects are cold blooded they would be anesthetized by the cold and I could lift them out.  Lulu Miller That is cheating.  Jeff Lockwood Well that was my solution for them. The little guys I could manage. The big ones a little bit of chill in the morning is all it took.  Lulu Miller So the point is these creatures were completely alien to him. There is like about them he can relate to but over time the more he studied them the more he started noticing things that made them seem way less foreign.  Jeff Lockwood See I kept them in these .  Lulu Miller For example as soon as he put one into a new cage it would make itself a little nest.  Jeff Lockwood And once it has that little nest built that is home.  Lulu Miller In a very real way because by moving them around to different cages he soon realized-  Jeff Lockwood That they could differentiate their nests.  Jeff Lockwood They can actually tell the difference between their nest and another.  Jad Abumrad And how do they do that?  Jeff Lockwood They secrete a pheromone a chemical and each cricket is able to self identify its own odor.  Lulu Miller Whoa.  Jeff Lockwood It gave me the sense and I think there is something to this that they had a kind of capacity to recognize self.  Lulu Miller Oh interesting.  Jeff Lockwood We do not see that much in insects but they had what appears to be a capacity to say this is mine.  Lulu Miller And then he began to think differently about that crazy rage too. 'ecause if if you think about it here's this creature it is completely vulnerable to attack.  Jeff Lockwood They really do not have a very good defense for themselves. They do not excrete nasty chemicals they do not sting they cannot fly. So it is not going to go flying away either.  Lulu Miller So maybe that rage is their only strategy.  Jeff Lockwood Which again drew me into thinking that I understood them.  Lulu Miller Perhaps these little guys were-  Jeff Lockwood -more like me than many other insects that I would worked with.  Lulu Miller So he grew to really like them. But then one day...  Jeff Lockwood I would been working with this particular gryllacridid-  Lulu Miller Trying to move him from one cage to another-  Jeff Lockwood And he was agitated and had decided to go on the offensive which involved trying to come out of the cage. So he was scrambling up the side of the cage-  Lulu Miller And to keep him from getting out Jeff slammed the lid down.  Jeff Lockwood 'ecause he was just at the edge-  Lulu Miller And caught him between the lid and the edge of the cage.  Jeff Lockwood And I you know quickly lifted the lid up and he fell back into the cage and I looked down at him and what had happened was I had ruptured his abdomen.  Lulu Miller A split right down his belly.  Jeff Lockwood And some of the viscera and a kind of globule of yellow fat that was leaking out oozing out of his body. I felt guilt. And then of course I felt sorry for an animal but what really struck me was what he did next which was curl his head downward toward his abdomen pause for a moment and then began consuming his own innards.  Jeff Lockwood Consuming the viscera that was oozing out of his body. And so he was literally cannibalizing himself.  Jad Abumrad Wow. That is disgusting.  Jeff Lockwood It was horrifying. I had sort of felt like I had come to know them.  Lulu Miller Yeah.  Jeff Lockwood And then this this was just so out of the imaginable.  Lulu Miller But the instant that word popped into his mind unimaginable he had this sort of Pavlovian reflex and he thought of this guy an old professor of his.  Jeff Lockwood Doctor LaFarge.  Lulu Miller Lafarge.  Jeff Lockwood He was one of my mentors at a Louisiana State University.  Jad Abumrad You said this was a teacher of his?  Lulu Miller Yep. Insect behavior.  Jeff Lockwood He was one of the younger faculty members when I was there. Mid thirties slight of build but incredibly intense.  Lulu Miller He is kind of an expert in animal violence. And the thing he harped on over and over the thing he was trying to pound into their brains was-  Jeff Lockwood Objectivity. To separate one's emotions and interests from the object of study. And he had these wire rim glasses. And I remember if he would ask you a question-  Lulu Miller like why does the gryllacridid do it is crazy war dance?  Jeff Lockwood And you tried sort of reading in will intention mental states-  Lulu Miller Maybe because it is angry or scared?  Jeff Lockwood He would just drop his chin and look over the top-  Lulu Miller And tear you apart.  Jeff Lockwood His job in the classroom was to make us good objective observers.  Lulu Miller And Jeff Jeff stayed in touch with them over the years.  Jeff Lockwood I wanted to be good at this-  Lulu Miller As he set up his own lab.  Jeff Lockwood You know I had a stake in earning his respect.  Lulu Miller And so that day as he is watching the gryllacridid consume its own guts thinking okay what would Lafarge see in this?  Jeff Lockwood So my my sense through my research is that what this gryllacridid had done was perhaps to have detected the odor of its own fats. It sort of drew the conclusion that this must be something good to eat without sort of grasping that it was its own self. The smell of its own fat triggered a feeding behavior that is highly adaptive. You know to feed on fat. Fats are very hard to get hold of out in the world. And so when you smell fats it is like us and donuts right?  Lulu Miller Yeah. Go for it.  Jeff Lockwood Triggers feeding. Yeah. It triggers feeding.  Jad Abumrad So clearly these things do not quite have a sense of self.  Jeff Lockwood Right. So maybe they are not just like me-  Lulu Miller Which is always Lafarge's point do not put the creature in your box. It does not want to be there.  Jeff Lockwood It is sort of a moral danger almost to sort of not allow the organism to be what it is. It is almost to sort of possess it or to own it and to really treat the insects sort of with a deep respect right is oddly enough to treat them objectively. You know he was one of the professors who actually engendered a kind of good fear and he was the kind of person who you wanted to please.   Is that better? A little louder? Yeah maybe a tiny bit? Is that okay?  Lulu Miller Oh that is great.   Great.  Lulu Miller But then years later something happened that challenged Jeff's ability to do this to be the kind of scientist that Lafarge wanted him to be.  Tamra Carboni We are recording over here?  Lulu Miller And there is really only one person who can tell us this part of the story.  Lulu Miller Will you introduce yourself?  Tamra Carboni Okay. My name is Tamra Carboni.  Lulu Miller Tamra is actually not a scientist. She worked for the Louisiana State Museum and back in 1989 she and Dr. Lafarge whose first name is also Jeff we are working together on this termite problem. The termites were getting really bad in the French Quarter and it was her job to preserve the historic homes. And Jeff was studying the termites.  Tamra Carboni I never imagined that I would be fascinated by termites but I was so-  Lulu Miller He made it-  Tamra Carboni -fascinating. Yeah. Fascinating.  Lulu Miller But then one night in July...  Tamra Carboni July 25th.  Lulu Miller They met for dinner to talk about how the project was going.  Tamra Carboni And we were walking home. Well he was walking me to my house around 10 30 at night and I think it must have been raining or there was a threat of rain because Jeff was carrying an umbrella and I could hear footsteps behind us very determined sounding footsteps. And we got to a corner across from my house. And at that point this person came around us in front of us and he said close your eyes. And in the process of closing my eyes I saw the gun.  Lulu Miller So she closed her eyes in a second later she felt a tug on her purse.  Tamra Carboni I could feel him take hold of the straps and I was not going to resist. And as I felt him do that I could hear Jeff say do not do that.  Lulu Miller At that instant...  Tamra Carboni I do not remember the shot at all. You know I felt Jeff move and I guess at that point I opened my eyes. This guy had already run never took my purse. I saw Jeff running toward my house and I just ran after him. I had no idea he was shot but he got onto the porch and he collapsed on his back and at that point he was gushing blood and I was trying to get Jeff to understand that help was coming and I kept saying you are going to be okay. They are on their way.  Lulu Miller And did he say anything?  Tamra Carboni He could not talk. He just he had this kind of stare and I just watched him die.  Jeff Lockwood The news came by a phone call and it just seemed you know it was just kind of one of those classic unreal moments. Something about this must be wrong. It was not Dr. Lafarge or he was not really killed. It seemed particularly hard to grasp.  Tamra Carboni In one minute I am with this vital person and the next minute he is dead.  Jeff Lockwood Sadness anguish confusion.  Tamra Carboni I was hysterical crying. I was in shock.  Jeff Lockwood They never found his killer.  Lulu Miller Never found out anything about him who he was why he would do this.  Jeff Lockwood It was just this seemingly senseless act.  Lulu Miller And that is how Jeff understood it for years that it was senseless. But over time something odd started to happen. Lafarge started appearing in his brain telling him that that word was not good enough and he began to ask himself again how would-  Jeff Lockwood Dr. Lafarge want me to think about this?  Lulu Miller How would he think about his own death?  Lulu Miller Okay so I wonder if if you do have the essay with you... So he writes an essay will you read the last four paragraphs of the essay?  Jeff Lockwood I will one two three four. Right?  Jeff Lockwood The year after I left Louisiana and came to Wyoming as a freshly minted PhD  Lulu Miller The first thing he does is he takes Lafarge's attitude on violence.  Jeff Lockwood Violence is the baseline strategy for most encounters between and indeed within species.  Lulu Miller That it is not some evil outlying thing but instead a baseline strategy for all animals. And in that light he looks at the actions of that night sort of dispassionately. First he figures this kid was probably mugging them because he was poor.  Jeff Lockwood Hopeless poor angry-  Lulu Miller Scared.  Jeff Lockwood The woman became tangled in the strap-  Lulu Miller Dr. LaFarge having his own instinctual reaction stepped between them.  Jeff Lockwood Said do not hurt her. You can have the purse. I can picture him doing this.  Lulu Miller But perhaps that action itself scared the kid.  Jeff Lockwood The young man drew a gun and fired point blank.  Lulu Miller I showed the essay to Tamra.  Tamra Carboni Yeah well no that is not I mean I do not think and I do not know if he stepped forward or not. You know again my eyes were closed. I could feel some kind of movement. I certainly do not think he stepped between. There was not enough space for him to step between us.  Lulu Miller For Tamra who is been over the event a million times in her head it does not add up so easily.  Lulu Miller First of all when Dr. LaFarge spoke to the kid-  Tamra Carboni It was not exactly a command. It was more like do not do that it was like do not be an idiot. Do not do that.  Lulu Miller It was not really threatening. It was more like look logically let us not do this. And while she gets that the kid might have been scared and not been intending to shoot.  Tamra Carboni If he never ever could imagine himself shooting somebody he would not have had a loaded gun. I cannot relate to this person. I cannot imagine doing violence to another human being or killing them. I cannot relate to that at all.  Lulu Miller And over the years her friends and family coworkers tried all different kinds of ways to help her make sense of it. Nothing really helped.  Tamra Carboni But there was someone that I worked with my boss actually who had been in Vietnam and he took me aside and he said you know you will never understand this.  Lulu Miller You are not going to understand it.  Tamra Carboni Yeah.  Lulu Miller Like do not even try?  Tamra Carboni I do not think there is any sense to be made out of it.  Jeff Lockwood If we just stop there then it is to say that that it is somehow unnatural or inhuman and in fact in a weird kind of way it is profoundly human.  Tamra Carboni There is no way I could understand it.  Lulu Miller In the end. The essay itself kind of falls short and Jeff admits that.  Jeff Lockwood It just is not sufficient.  Lulu Miller But he says there is a way of understanding this event. He just has not gotten there yet. But it is out there.  Jeff Lockwood Yeah.  Lulu Miller It has to be.  Jeff Lockwood And Dr. Lafarge would have I think said this as well.  Lulu Miller But for the moment...  Jeff Lockwood I think I can say that I understand another being eating its own leaking entrails at a level that I cannot understand one of my fellow beings you know pulling the trigger killing a man that I love.  Jad Abumrad thanks to Lulu Miller and to Jeff Lockwood his original essay first appeared in Orion Magazine. It is called The Nature of Violence. Definitely worth the read.  Robert Krulwich You will see I am of the school that says that you cannot really make sense of it.  Jad Abumrad Violence like that?  Robert Krulwich This is just a hint of the danger of living in a profoundly disordered world but to looks-  Jad Abumrad I think I am of the school though that you have to try to make even if there is no sense to be made.  Robert Krulwich I do not know  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Matt Pritchard This is Matt Pritchard a Radio Lab listener in Pittsburgh Pennsylvania. Radio Lab is supported in part by the Alfred P Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Cool. I think that is it. Thanks.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.