 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT the AI episode. Today we are exploring people facing off against an alien intelligence of our own creation. And for our next story SNAP's Stephanie Foo brings us to the heart of the battle.   A few years ago Colin was a guy in his early 20's who was kind of broke.  Freelancing and it was just me working on my own. And that is not fun and you end up sitting in a cold room all day. And you are hungry and you are getting the 2 sandwiches at Safeway.  So Colin did what you do if you are a broke 20-something living in Silicon Valley. He started applying to tech companies. And he hit the jackpot and scored an interview at Rumble Space which by the way is not the real name of the company.  Yeah Rumble Space is a social network - a famous one where you can post pictures and talk to your friends. And you can find like-minded people for better or for worse.  Colin was going to be working in the security department keeping dirty content off the site things like violent or pornographic images. How it worked was Rumble Space had a database of phrases images videos that had been previously flagged as inappropriate. So if these inappropriate things were uploaded again Rumble Spaces's software would detect them and automatically delete them.  So I am the human side of this automatic tool making sure that Rumble Space is deleting the right pages it is not going haywire.  Sounded easy enough. Plus he got to work at Rumble Space where hot young people sat on bouncy balls instead of chairs ping-pong tables were everywhere.  And it is just food everywhere. See that was worth it. I could have been paid 5 an hour and still done that.  But the job turned out to be a little more complicated than Colin had thought. It was not just like clicking yes that is a naked person. Delete it. No that is a buffalo. Keep it.  There was a really big gray area that the computer just could not really handle because it did not understand context. It was constantly a game of telling the computer yes you are right but it is a little more complicated. So for instance there was an image that was reposted millions of times that was a young boy naked. I do not know why he was naked. And there was like a puppy biting his penis which the computer has as bestiality.  And this is a complex issue because deciding what to do with pictures like these was tied into Rumble Space's terms and conditions which you agreed to when you joined the site. And the terms and conditions say things like you cannot upload pornographic images. So Colin had to figure out OK the little boy's naked but is it pornographic?  It was not being shared because it was intriguing or sexy. It was being shared because it was funny.  So since it was just funny Colin just deleted the picture. If it had been pornographic he could have deleted the user. If it looked like the user was spreading child pornography the user's information would actually be sent to the government. And yes Colin did have to see that kind of content every day.  This one video and screenshots from the video started getting reposted thousands and thousands of times. And it was a child-abuse video. And we ended up having to see that a lot. Those I had to normally take a deep breath and go get my eighth cup of coffee - the free coffee. The first couple weeks of the job I would definitely come home and just sort of sit down and have to process for an hour or two. I would come home and I would lie down face down on the bed or just kind of sit there and sigh a lot. After work I would be sitting watching TV and then it would just pop in my head like just out of nowhere. The images would just sort of flash. I had a few nightmares. And so that was sort of frightening because it was like my brain's generating this. And I sort of came to terms with you know if I did have a nightmare about it it would be the same thing as if you were looking at pictures of puppies every day. And of course you would have dreams about puppies and of course you would see that stuff when you close your eyes. So I sort of justified it that way. I do not think it made be pessimistic about all of humanity. I just realized that when people are awful they are more awful than you imagined before.  Colin started to feel isolated like if people would ask at parties what do you do he had a hard time answering that question. If he answered honestly sometimes it would not go over well. Like at one party.  These two girls just - they came up to me and they said never talk about that stuff again and you single-handedly ruined the party. I just was like I did not make - I did not gain any fans tonight.  And if Colin's tone sounds a little jokey to be dealing with this sort of material that is because that is how he and his coworkers were able to deal with the content they were presented with.  A lot of the times we would be in meetings and you would be in a room with you know 15 people with the laptop plugged in projecting horrible stuff on the walls. We would be in a conference rooms so we would have to cover the windows for other employees. And after it is on the wall for a few minutes something clicks and you take a step back and you realize how absurd it is that this has been on the wall for so long and you are treating it so normal. One person would laugh and the whole room would just fall apart. Meanwhile there is like the worst image on the Internet on the wall. I mean that was the best way to survive. You had to laugh about it.  With time Colin kind of got used to seeing the images everyday. But he could not get used to the idea that somewhere the evil things in the pictures were taking place in real life and he could not do anything about it.  When you see that stuff so often you feel a lot more helpless about stopping this stuff. You never really seem like you were winning the fight. You would tackle one weird image one week and the next week you would be 10 more completely weirder and worse images.  To make matters worse the computer often was not smart enough to pick out all of the bad guys. But even though Colin spotted them sometimes he could not delete the pictures unless the computer caught them first. He actually could not do very much at all without first consulting a chain of his superiors.  That really got under my skin. It was annoying because you knew the AI had limitations. Like it did not know when someone was bad. It is going to take engineers a long time to create a creepy radar for computers. I think as a human you have a lot better understanding of context. So there was a huge rape case in the media and people were going after the rapists on Rumble Space. And we had to defend them. And I did not want to and I did not see the point of it. I thought why not just delete their pages? Instead of deleting the accounts of the perpetrators we had to delete the accounts of angry moms who were writing to them threatening them. They were threatening with cutting off their junk and that technically was an abuse of the site's terms and conditions. So I had to act as an extension of the AI. So we kicked off a lot of moms that week.  Colin did not think that was fair. And he was not going to put up with it anymore.  And so I started taking action on my own one day. It started with some trolls making fun of this mentally disabled woman. They were from all over the world and they were coming together to make fun of this woman. And I started deleting them. And they would come back the next day and I would delete them again. It was amazing 'ecause I was watching them all frantically trying to figure out what was happening. If one of them was reporting the other one and they just turned on each other. Rachel you were never our friend. I hate you. It felt good. It actually felt like I was contributing to the health of the Internet. So yeah from then on I would do the work I was supposed to do and then I would sort of allocate a few hours a day to doing my own little detective work. Here's a racist group - bye-bye. You are gone. Posting children's beauty pageant photos - you are gone. Dogfight groups - you are gone. Here's a diaper fetishist OK. Bye.  Sometimes he even deleted people who seemed like they could be terrible.  Weird creepy guys who had not done anything technically wrong yet - they had the possibility of you know going further to the dark side.  So you were like trying to preempt their evil.  Yeah a little Minority Report-ish.  But when you went rogue and you were like - you are bad you are bad you are bad - like that is your definition of bad.  I mean that mentally disabled woman would have kept getting made fun of if I had not stepped in and done my vigilante work. I think yeah I did a small amount of good. I think for the most part I deleted people who deserved it.  Colin could have lobbied for and filled out paperwork for each individual case. But what kind of vigilante would he be if he got bogged down by bureaucracy?  With Batman I am sure he could have accomplished a lot by lobbying and using his money for political you know starting a PAC.  But of course Batman does not do that because he does not want to fix the broken system. He wants to bypass it entirely to enact justice because he is friggin Batman. Except what happens when Batman gets unmasked?  Alarms were going off in another side of the company because I was in sort of a part of the site that I should not have been in. So my boss sat me down and he told me whatever you are doing you are doing it wrong and you should not be doing it. You are all over the damn site. The job that you are supposed to be doing - we are looking at your numbers and they are really really low - like really low. I do not know why they did not fire me. Yeah after that meeting the chance to renew my contract came up and I just - I did not take it. I did not really want to be there anymore. And I do not know - I just sort of realized I would done everything I could do.  But even after Colin left he could not stop thinking about the bad guys out there on the news on the Internet.  After I left I kept finding pages. And you know before I knew it I would have 30 40 tabs open n my browser and e-mailing my old coworkers being like hey delete this guy. Like I could not stop. Like it was in there. I just wanted to keep it - I just wanted to keep the site safe.  And not just the site even bigger than that.  I was out having lunch with someone and I saw this guy walking behind these teenage girls aiming his iPhone at their butts. And I was like I had seen a lot of photos like that on the site. And I just shout - I was just - I do not know what happened. I just shouted from my seat hey stop that. And he looked at me and I sort of like pointed my eyes and pointed at him like I see you. And I said stop it. And I sort of walked out and kind of watched him go down the street. I almost wanted to keep going after him and like grab his phone and like throw it in the sewer but I did not.  Why not?  Why did not I go assault the stranger? In the office and being separated from these ne'er-do-wells by a computer screen and thousands of lines of code you are definitely - you feel safe. But yeah out in the real world you cannot just go about being a - sort of a self-appointed - you cannot be a hero all the time.   Thank you Stephanie Foo and thank you as well to all of our friends on Rumble Space. And when we return virtual Stephanie Foo - oh yes when SNAP JUDGMENT the AI episode continues. Stay tuned. 