 Hold it hold it.   OK so what I am about to tell you is illegal which is as it should be. So please do not under any circumstances attempt to re-create this at home. Back in the day I met this guy with whom I did not hit it off with. He thought I was a moron. I thought he was a blowhard - whatever. That is not the illegal part. This is - one day I go to a backyard barbecue and I see this guy. This guy sees me. His eyes narrow. My eyes narrow. Then he says hey man want to play some jarts? Sure fellow. I will play. See jarts are these weighted darts that you throw onto a target on the other side of the lawn kind of like horseshoes only they are big darts. And what this guy does not know is that I am a jart master. Everyone gets to have a talent. Jarts are mine. But then he says you have got to play our way - whatever. I am going to school this clown.Then I see what they are doing. These are not jarts like I know. Instead they have taken lawn darts and filed them until they are impossibly sharp flying spears. And like an old-fashioned duel they march several paces away from each other to either side of the lawn turn and toss these sharpened darts directly at the other person. Whoever moves out of the way loses. Whoever has a jart land closest to them without moving wins. To sell these jarts is now officially a federal crime. It is the most insane craziness I have ever heard of. So I grabbed five jarts. I walk to the middle of a yard and stand with my back to this guy. He calls out seven paces. We step away from each other - one two three four five six seven. We turn around. I look at him and I do not know what I am more scared of him hitting me or me hitting him.I am holding the red jarts clutching them so I go first. Normally I can drop one of these babies inside a Coke bottle from 15 feet but not when they can pierce flesh. The guy stands there big goofy grin on his face waiting not a care in the world. My hands sweating. I look down the lawn. I wind up and I let fly. Wide wide wide - not even close. Everybody laughs - all right. Honestly I am relieved until the guy squares up looks down at me exact same goofy grin on his face as before cocks his arm back and I run away screaming do not shoot. Do not do it - uncle. Dang it do not shoot. Everybody laughs again at me except for the guy. He is like dude I cannot believe you stood there as long as you did. You know I am not a very good shot.   And we both start giggling at our collective stupidity. We get to talking you know about music film sound politics - whatever - giggling the whole time. And I tell him dude look I am moving California. Look me up if you ever get that way. And surprisingly he does exactly that. And tentatively at first but then in earnest we started making stuff together - music short films. We have some adventures near homelessness. We council each other through breakups marriages towering failures. I will run for mayor write screenplays. We have these epic screaming matches computer crashes car crashes create music TV shows. This is the guy that sings in my wedding. He is at the hospital at the birth of my child. Now this is the guy on the other side of this glass  right here.  Go blue M. Go blue.  That is the uber producer Mr. Mark Ristich.   Big kisses.  So of course I tell you that to tell you this. Today on udly present Simpatico amazing stories from real people operating on the same wavelength even if they do not know it. My name is Glynn Washington and yes I know exactly which frequency you are vibrating to because you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT.   I am going to kick today's episode off with a story about vibration and what happens when you are extremely sensitive and when you are not. SNAP JUDGMENT's Joe Rosenberg brings us priceless works of art a mysterious Japanese businessman 20 million on the line and the most ancient and honorable form of ritualized combat. 