 Welcome back to RX and NPR the Joy and Pain episode. My name is Glynn Washington. And I think it is funny that when you turn on the TV looking for a love story they always want to have some super young people moaning and weeping about whatever problem they got themselves into that week. But if you really want to know about love Snappers you have got to talk to the elders. SNAP JUDGMENT's Julia DeWitt brings us this story all the way from the southern hemisphere.  Meet Frank and Wilma.  You start.  Me start?  Yeah.  I am not the most important person.  OK.  You start.  My name is Frank.  And we live in New Zealand. My name is Wilma. I am his wife. We are 46 years married.  They live in New Zealand but they are originally from Austria. And they are getting on in years so Frank's hearing is not great. Wilma often talks for him.  I am his translator.  A few years ago before their life together was turned on its head Frank and Wilma had a big house kids grandkids. Frank owned his own company.  A nice garden swimming pool. We had a good life style here in New Zealand.  But then on one otherwise totally regular morning.  Frank was eating bacon and eggs and it hit his gallstones. And he had such a pain so I had to bring him to the doctor.  When Frank went to the doctor the x-rays also turned up something else. Frank had lung cancer. It was actually kind of of lucky because they caught it early and they could jump on it quickly. It looked like the cancer went away.  But two years later I was chopping firewood and suddenly I could not breathe anymore. So they pulled me to the hospital did a scan and an x-ray. Then they told us I got another cancer on the sack of my heart and I have three months to live.  They asked the doctor if there was anything they could do but it was too late for treatment. Frank was terminal.  Was like somebody - a kick in the stomach you know.  In that moment their future together evaporated. Still - and you can feel it right away when you talk to them - they are matter-of-fact kind of people definitely not the type to wallow. You pull yourself up you fix things. Nothing is the end of the world. Except now it kind of was. And they were not sure what to do about that.  My GP  asked me if I am depressed if I need any depression tablets or something you know. I mean it would not help would not make any difference you know. I mean I was not depressed. I was just pretty confused. Let us put it this way you know.  Maybe you were depressed but you know...  Maybe.  ...Depression does not exist for us.  No no. It was quite a confusing situation.  Suddenly what seemed so important the day before it did not matter anymore.  I did not have anything to lose. I mean yeah. I mean if they tell you you got three months to live what do you have to lose now?  He is giving away all his things because he said well I do not need a cold pack. I do not need a fishing gear. I do not need my tools. I do not even need my clothes because I am going to die anyway.  Of course Wilma was not going to die. But when people asked her about her plans for after Frank was gone...  I did not know. I really did not know. I said well I will make a decision when the time comes. For me the only thing was important that Frank had the rest of his life a good life. You know I cooked everything he really liked which I should not have because he put weight on. He got up to 100 kilo and nearly killed him with the weight. And there was nothing which I actually denied for him. Whatever he wanted to do we did. So I said to my husband OK what do you want to do?  Well I said I would like to have one nice holiday together with you because we are living 45 years together. I said I want to go on holiday with you.  Frank and Wilma packed their bathing suits and hopped a plane for Fiji for a six-week tropical vacation. And if you have three months to live well you splurge.  We went in a special resort.  One of the expensive places.  I tell you one thing you would not believe how fast it goes. We are paying 24000. I never would have done this in my life.  Twenty-four thousand dollars is a lot of money for Frank and Wilma. What little reserves they had left after doctors bills they were burning through it.  It was like a honeymoon again.  Yeah. Yeah it was like a honeymoon.  He could go deep-sea fishing you know that comes on top. That is not included in the package. And I said well why should not he have it you know? It is his end so do whatever you want to do. And he was lucky. He catch some nice fish which satisfied him because my husband likes to fish.  Fishing yeah. And lying on the poolside hanging on in the pool. Yeah.  But in the midst of it all Frank and Wilma never could totally forget that time was running out.  He had a couple of bad days and I thought OK that is how it starts. That is how it is.  Then after their vacation together Wilma and Frank went to do the last thing left that Frank wanted to do before he died. They went to go see their grandkids.  The younger one said when we left...  Yeah.  ...She said to her grandfather she said you know she said Opa I will tell you something. You are not going to die on me because I want to come on holiday in Christmas time on your place. You know and that was a bit hard because this time we thought well OK there is no Christmas anymore you know.  I tried to make it pretty fast. I said goodbye you know to make it fast you know just to...  You do not make it too hard for the kids.  Yeah.  And when we came home after about six weeks we were waiting for him to die and we were waiting and waiting.  You know the problem was always thinking when does it start. Do I wake up tomorrow with pain? I can take a bit of pain you know. I am not one of the guys who cannot take pain you know. But the waiting time that was the worst part of it.  I was waiting for every breath he did. If he stopped breathing - because sometimes because after lung operation he stops for a couple of seconds. I woke up. So I touched him and then he made some movement. And I said OK it is not happening. Every day is it happening tomorrow? Is it happening tonight? Until I said after two years I had enough. I said something is definitely wrong. I want somebody to look at this because I cannot go on living like this. Is he going to die or is he not going to die?  Wilma rang the hospital and they sent someone over to see why Frank was not dying.  And he said you are good. And we said what do you mean you are good? He said did not they tell you? You have not got any cancer. And I said you are joking. He said nope. I rang the lung specialist. I said OK I want to talk to him. He got us an appointment for the next day. And when we came there he did another heart echo.  Or x-ray.  And he said no. He said that was a wrong diagnosis. You are not having any cancer on the heart. And we could go home.  And my wife went berserk. And she said OK I want all the statements whatever from day one when my husband was diagnosed with cancer.  Medical reports. Well I stood up and left. I had to go because otherwise I would have done something which I almost probably ended up in jail. I did not even say goodbye. I just had to go out. And Frank went with me.  I felt relieved of course you know but...  I feel relieved too.  Yeah.  But you know I do not forgive them for the two years.  Yeah. It was two years of hell.  And you know what the worst thing was? He stopped smoking when he had the lung operation. When the doctor said he has three months to live he started freaking smoking again. And I hate this you know.  That is the only hobby I have you know.  He said smoking is his only hobby he has. It is a stupid hobby but OK he can have it. And I should actually charge the doctor for the wrong diagnoses 'ecause he started smoking again you know. It cost me again a fortune.  Frank and Wilma were ecstatic that Frank was going to live. But now they had to face another harsh reality. After that lavish vacation they were broke. And now that Frank was going to live everyone had an opinion about how Frank had gone about dying.  A lot of people said why did they do it? They said we are idiots because we spend all the money. But well maybe we were.  Oh no. We are right Frank. Look at us. We are both happy.  But on the other hand you know well we did it this way you know. And OK we cannot change it anyway.  Yeah and it was our decision and that is it.  Yeah. Now I think life is more important than money. Yeah it is more important.  Yeah. Life is definitely more important.  Money is good if you have it but if you do not...  Yeah exactly.  ...If you have enough.  Because you can do certain things which you cannot do without money.  Yeah.  But even though they live in a much smaller house now and they are still in debt that time when they thought Frank was going to die it was also kind of a refresh button for their lives.  We know we might have if you like it but having a couple of years together you know so...  And we enjoy each other. You know we have enough money to eat. And well we do not have any money to go on holiday but you do not need a holiday really. That is good enough for us you know. If we can stay like this for another 10 years we are happy.  The relationship started brand-new. We started a brand-new life more or less.  Yeah said we would go for another 45 years.  Yeah.  Big love to Frank and Wilma. But Frank for the love of God lay off the smokes man. He as not going to listen. That piece was produced by Julia DeWitt.   You have reached the end of the episode but not the end of the relationship because SNAP will always be true. Get the SNAP JUDGMENT special hookup on Facebook. Our Twitter handle is snapjudgment. SNAP was produced by myself and those in love with the idea of love. Now did you go over to your lovers place only to discover another car in the driveway? Who is that? Rest assured it is not the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Much love to the CPB PRX the Public Radio Exchange WBEZ in Chicago is the radio station for lovers. You may have observed that this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact you could fall in love with that beautiful woman at the coffee shop and then work to get her fired so you could meet her somewhere respectable instead. But when you tell the manager that she gave you a soy latte Americano instead of a soy latte espresso Americano he could tell you all right I am going to need for you to stop hassling my girlfriend. It would be OK if you found another coffee shop and everything. And still you would not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 