 Now our next partner in crime story - this is a family tale but one member of this family she did not know whether she wanted to be part of the partnership.  When I was a little girl my grandmother she would always tease me and ask me if I was an Afghan girl or an American girl. And I always said I was an American girl.  Ariana Delwari was named after a country she had never seen - Ariana is the ancient name for Afghanistan but she grew up in California 8000 miles from Afghanistan. As a kid she did not know about the decades of wars that began the year she was born - the Soviet invasion and then the Taliban.   Ariana's music has started to get attention in Afghanistan.  I am becoming more so of a public figure in Afghanistan.  But recognition comes with a price.  There have been death threats against Afghan actresses. And Pakistan's famous singer this woman was killed for being a singer. So there is definitely a strong stance against music. Sometimes it scares me a little you know sometimes I think about the danger of that.  But she kept singing she kept making music. And then she was invited to sing at Afghanistan's first rock festival. She sang her songs for crowds of young Afghans mostly men.  I wrote a song called The East about a young boy who becomes a member of the Taliban. He is a refugee and his mother is a widow. And he is offered money and boarding to become a member of the Taliban. And he looks back on his life as an adult and sees his own son and realizes he is been killing his own people. And at the end of the show I had young men coming up to me on the verge of tears and saying I was a refugee I had an experience like that your song touched my heart. So I feel like it if it can do that there you know my hope is to be able to take that into the provinces and reach the hearts of young Afghans who may be more on the fence.   The provinces are where the real threat of Taliban controlled lives. They are dangerous for a musician and a woman. But it is also where her songs might do the most good. And like her father Ariana feels a calling.  I think my dad - sometimes he says things like you cannot go to the provinces and play shows like are you crazy its Taliban-run you know. But I think he understands I have to do it. He has the same cause and he cares about the same people for the same reason.  To be honest with you I am more worried about Ariana around here because she is a woman - art and particularly music they do not appreciate. But I do not discourage her because I do believe that her music and her songs and lyrics about peace and unity in Afghanistan are valuable.  My father and I are now kind of working together.  Banking and music are very different. Her contribution is more enjoyable more - I wish I would have been an artist like her.  But the beautiful thing that is happening is together we are covering different bases.  We have serious challenges and problems. I have a legacy to follow I think Ariana also will have the same - to follow a legacy of making contribution to where ever we live. I think that is wonderful.   You can find out more about Ariana Delawari's story along with her music in a documentary she is made on our website snapjudgment.org. You are listening to artner in Crime Episode. And do not go anywhere because when we return the uber-producer is going to take us for a ride in the way-back machine. Stay tuned. 