 So our story is going to start with this guy.  Good Lord I am practically making love to this microphone now.  His name is Jonathan Rendell.  I am a deputy chairman of Christie's in America who spent a lot of his time in the late '80s early '90s selling material to Japan.  Material meaning art.  And in the mid-90s to the mid-2000s going back to Japan to get everything back that I would sold to them 10 years before. The extraordinary thing was you would go to a trunk room...   ...Which looks like that last scene in the Raiders Of The Lost Ark you know those things in boxes going on forever. And open a box and in the box would be a work of art or several works of art and you would pick the object up and you would look on the back of it and you would find your handwriting from 10 years ago.  That is so surreal. It really is like kind of this weird ebb and flow of prestige between people and so long as you are the middleman you know you will be all right in the end.  Yeah absolutely. The beauty of the bubble market.   But of course Christie's did not have this wonderful pie all to itself.  It is a market that is really a duopoly between two auction house giants. There is Christie's and then there is the other place.  You mean Sotheby's?  Yeah.  It is like saying my opponent instead of - yeah.  No that is actually how one normally refers to it - the other place. So it is sort of a friendly-ish rivalry. I would not say it was entirely friendly.   In Sotheby's and Christie's you see there was one collection they both had their eyes on.  The Maspro Denkoh Corporate Collection was a jewel in the crown. It had everything that one wanted to sell at that precise moment. You know the Cezanne the Picasso the van Gogh - they are trophy names.  And most importantly...  It was 20 million worth of business.  There was just one problem. Mr. Hashiyama the CEO who had founded the collection he was really chummy with Sotheby's. They would known him for years. If Christie's wanted that 20 million worth of business they were going to have to win him over.   It was very very hard job for me - Mr. Hashiyama.  This is Kanae Ishibashi. She worked at Christie's Tokyo office alongside Jonathan. Just think of her as the client whisperer. She would been paying visits to Mr. Hashiyama since almost her first day on the job but he would been proving tricky.  He really does not sort of talk about business. We talked about art and music and you know his great passion for dinosaurs. You know we could spend hours laughing. So he told me that when his company was listed in a stock market which was a very very important incident he chose the insurance company by throwing dice.   Yes so when I heard that story I was - I found it really funny. And you know he is bit sort of eccentric and all that but we could not really read where his mind was.  First of all how many - over how many years were you doing this?  I think we would spent six years.  Six years?  Yeah meeting with Mr. Hashiyama before the auction.  That is incredible. And meanwhile though you are not the only person meeting with him I would take it?  No no no no. Sotheby's they were there all the time.   And after both houses had finally given their big presentations on why Mr. Hashiyama should choose them and not you know the other place...  He came back with this extraordinary request.  I received a call from Mr. Hashiyama in the office and he said in order to determine which auction house to handle collection I would like both of you - Christie's and Sotheby's - to play the game rock paper scissors.  Yes you heard her right.  Rock paper scissors shoot.  Mr. Hashiyama wanted the two biggest auction houses in the world to play a 20 million game of Rochambeau.   I think there was a moment of silence and surprise and then - what?  That is it. I did not really reply back to him. I could not really answer him like why are you doing this? And you know we cannot really do that. I could not believe it.  You know we did not know what to do. But it was very clear that it was a very serious request from the client. And so when a client asks you to do something you just get on and do it.   Here's how it would work. Each side - Christie's and Sotheby's - would have the weekend to come up with their choice of quote unquote weapon. Then on Monday morning they would meet at the Maspro Denkoh offices in Tokyo and there they would duel.  This was one game. And Kanae's job was to write down one word on a piece of paper and that word had to be either rock or paper or scissors. So we started compulsively playing rock paper scissors trying to work out how do we win this? Is there some secret to this? How bad are you going to feel? How idiotic are you going to look in front of your colleagues when you have lost a collection for a child's game?  I do not really remember those three days. I mean I was under enormous pressure to think what would be the best strategy. But my struggle was always that I knew that there is no strategy because it is just a pure chance. So constantly whenever I had some moment on a train or walking in streets I suddenly sort of thought about rock paper scissors. I had to contemplate between choices. I think it is paper. No no no I think it is rock. Then I said you know no no no no I should not do it because there is no answer. There is no answer. Let us stop. But then even though I tried not to think about it I could not really forget about rock paper scissors from my mind.  Do you think Mr. Hashiyama - do think he was like just like sitting back rubbing his hands together like mischievously?  I do not know. I do not know. I really do not know.  And meanwhile of course she was getting all kinds of advice.  Every time I walked past Kanae I was constantly like why do not we go with rock? You know it is the strong thing.  And then there was this guy.  My name is Nick Maclean.  Her boss at the Christie's offices in New York. N.  Where we ran the Impressionist and Modern Art department.  Did you have an opinion about which to choose? N.  No but obviously the first thing I did when I got home I was telling my wife about this and my daughters.  I am Flora.  I am Alice.  They were 11 then. They are 20 now. And the fun fact about them is... F.  We are twins.  Are you identical twins? A.  Yeah. F.  Very identical. N.  One's left-handed one's right-handed. F.  Mirror twins. A.  And we were in the kitchen of our home in New York and he was saying of what a bit of an issue. Sotheby's is going to get this deal. We are like oh yeah we hate Sotheby's. N.  And they came back to me quite promptly and said you know Dad everybody knows you start with scissors. A.  Yeah scissors is the pretty standard move.  N.  So I said well how does that work? And they said well most people like the idea of going with rock. A.  But because they were like super clever Sotheby's we are like oh they are going to bluff.  So Sotheby's would choose paper? N.  But you then double bluff by going scissors and scissors cuts paper. And I said all right that sounds good. I said what if they go scissors? They said you go scissors again. A.  Because that is what I would do. F.  Yeah. You just stick with scissors and see what happens.  At which point Nick called up Kanae.  And he said Kanae scissors. I think scissors is a thing. N.  And at that point we get into the Theater of the Absurd. You know we are about to do this massive piece of business and we are listening to the advice of 11-year-olds.  Would you have been willing to go with Alice and Flora's choice regardless of what it would have been? Would that have struck you as like a... N.  At least I would have had someone else to blame if it was wrong.   But I would not feel with my gut that you know scissors are the best choice. Or rather I would say I reached the point where the situation got beyond my capacity. I think I did not quite sleep a few days but on that Sunday evening I slept for few hours. And then suddenly my husband came up in my dream. He said Kanae and he told me what choice I should come up with. Then I woke up and I saw the window and the sky was beginning to light up. I did not look at the time but I felt really sort of refreshed. Somehow my husband's voice really struck me and I did not even think about you know right or wrong. But I felt that it was a choice for me and I would go for it.  So Monday morning the car comes to pick me up with her in it and we start driving off towards the Maspro Denkoh office.  And did she tell you what she decided?  No.  She did not?  No she was keeping her cards very close to her chest.  Did you prod her like oh come on Kanae just tell me?  Yeah of course. But you know you try and get a secret out of her. She will not tell you.  At that point would you have...  Happily got out of the car and walked away? Yes.  Why would you want to walk away though? I feel like the tension might be unbearable but how could you possibly not want to be there in that room?  Yeah but it might be like watching a kitten being steamrollered as well because if the pressure was big on me it was absolutely massive on her. So she had prepared herself and was sort of entering a semi-Zen state.   So we arrive. We are shown to a waiting room then the two people from Sotheby's arrive.  Do you recognize the two people from Sotheby's?  Yeah you know I knew who they were. But it is hardly the moment for you know hi how are you? More sort of a grunt. So we sit one side of the table. They sit the other side of the table and there are two accountants and a fax machine.  And somewhere on the other side of the fax machine - Mr. Hashiyama himself waiting for the results.   And we are told to write down the word.  And Jonathan actually looked at me and beneath the table he showed me rock and - with his hand and his eyes were very sharp and he nodded to me once. I think he nodded to make sure that it was a good decision.  And she is just saying nothing? So...  Nothing nothing. And she goes ahead and writes down a word.  Can you see what word she wrote?  It is in Kanji. I do not read Japanese. But looking at the face of the accountant holding the piece of paper you could tell nothing. He was totally inscrutable. He looks at it for what was probably 30 seconds and your heart's in your mouth.  And then Maspro - a person opened the envelope and he said Sotheby's - paper Christie's - scissors.  And then they look at Kanae and say you won and it was like a huge weight had gone off her shoulders.   But after we went outside of the building we screamed.  Saved by Kanae completely saved by Kanae.   Would you be deputy chairman of Christie's if you had gone for rock?  No I suspect I might still be there but I probably would not be quite where I am now.  Really? It really would have had that kind of effect?  It would have been - it is a huge career block. You just lost a great big deal. F.  Obviously he should have come to us first. A.  You never go paper. F.  Paper just sounds that it is not going to win. A.  It is a weak move.  Wait why not paper? Because the other person's going to stick with scissors? F.  It is just a weak move.  Whether Mr. Hashiyama himself would agree with that we do not know. But Kanae would meet him again at the art auction in New York.   And normally you know clients they demand the very best restaurants in New York. But he said well I would have a steak. So we went to the real sort of New York steak steakhouse having clam chowder and steak together. And it was a very simple dinner but it was very nice.  Did he ever talk about rock paper scissors again? Or did you ever bring it up?  No he never brought it up and I did not talk about it. But two years later Mr. Hashiyama passed away and that was the last time I saw him.   Today Kanae Ishibashi has quit the auction business entirely. She now runs a music school with her husband in Tokyo. And as for Nick's twin daughters Alice and Flora shortly after the art auction Time Magazine ran a section called Quotes of the Week. N.  The Pope was there Arnold Schwarzenegger I think the president and Alice Maclean. F.  She has it framed. A.  Yeah it is framed  in the house.   What was her quote? N.  Everybody knows you go scissors.   A special shout-out to Carol Vogel over at The New York Times who first reported on this story back in 2004. For a link to her original article and more check out our website snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Joe Rosenberg with sound design by Leon Morimoto.   Now when SNAP JUDGMENT returns a woman wonders if the only way to feel human is not to feel human. Discover the amazing answer when mpatico episode continues. Stay tuned. 