 OK so a love story. All right I am in Kyoto. I am at this party and there is this woman. She is tall for a Japanese lady - 5'10'' - 5'11'' - she is got everything working - the boots the hair flawless complexion the smile. I have to say something to her. The Detroit in me would never forgive myself if I do not step up. So I roll up. . Start talking to her and she acts like she cannot understand my Japanese. I am like whoa whoa whoa whoa. I am not fronting like I am this tremendous linguist or anything but you could understand what I am saying. She looks at me and smiles. . Fair enough she says but I just do not understand why anyone would travel halfway around the world to use the same tired lines as everyone else. Snap. . All right good point. But you just stand right there - I am going to say something interesting now. Stand - and I do not know what I started blathering about but she says let us go for a walk. And in a very non-Japanese way she asked me what is happening back at my house. I do not know. Let us go find out. We get back to my crib and this is the part NPR told me to cut out of the story right? Let us just say it was guns blazing - papow . The next morning I am like no way. This is how it happens with me now? This woman's way out of my league but she is super nice crazy intelligent model pretty - what gives? I look over at her - she turns to me puts her hand on my cheek and says . I have a boyfriend. And I knew it had to be something. It was not like I had a boyfriend - it is like I have a boyfriend. Wow. Shoot. That is a shame. But it is been really great getting to know you. And he is in the Mafia the Yakuza. Right right OK but what is that got to do with - and I have to tell him about what just happened with you and me tonight. What? The the Yakuza - hey hey hey - this me and you think nobody has to know. I have to tell him and he is going to want to talk to you. No no no no no no no no no no. . Keep your crazy games to yourself. She starts getting dressed. Thanks for a wonderful evening - do not do it. She opens the front door. . She hails a taxi and she is gone. And it is not one hour later that my phone rings. This primal scream - these threats. And the guy he finally breathes and tells me that I can either come see him or he is going to come see me. And I cannot have the Mafia coming to my house. I cannot I cannot I cannot I cannot. I tell him I am going to come see him 11 oclock that night. Of course he manages a nightclub. What else would a gangster do? Of course - want to meet him at the club and face my certain doom. And all day long I sit there. No food no drink - just me thinking how not to get killed. He gave me two choices. I had to pick a choice - here or there - he cannot come here so I got to go there but when I go there he could have his boys ready and I am going to die. The clock is ticking away. And I decide - you know what? He says 11? So I flipped the script and knock on the door of the gangster club at 7 p.m. Someone opens up. I see some minions sitting down at a card table - I am about to ask for their leader and this dude - he kind of strolls from behind a curtained-off doorway - tailored dark suit manicured hands shirt collar open 'ecause he does not wear ties. He is got two underlings on the left two more on the right - cool brother. I look at him. He looks at me. And the cool explodes into another primal rage crazy screaming fit. . He runs towards me and he is shouting and crying in front of his boys. I do not know what he is saying. And I am trying to tell him how sorry I am. I did not know. It is a crap situation and he deserves better. . Why? Why? Did she tell you why? And then he leans on my shoulder and sobs big racking shutters of grief and I comfort him - even as he tells me he has to kill me. No. See killing me will not solve anything. She is setting you up and you deserve better. We have to at least give you a beating. But that is what she wants you to do. Is not that what she is counting on? We - you and I - are not going to give her the show she is looking for - look at me. It ends today. All right? All right? . And we bro hug it out. And I am on the way back down the stairs when I hear him say my home address into his phone and I almost  my  pants - before I realize he is not calling his boys on - he is calling them off.   Now Glynn that is all well and good but why - why did you tell me this story? OK well let me assure you there are more people who have almost been killed by gangsters for love than there are prince charming stories. Believe me - but you would never know. The man does not want you to know. He wants you to believe that your relationship history is the problem. It is not. So today from PRX and NPR we are calling this episode No Perfect Love. My name is Glynn The Truth Doctor Washington. Set your online dating profile to back in a minute 'ecause you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT. 