 Robert Krulwich                     I guess my first question is what conceivable set of circumstances led to you doing what you did? Kurt Braunohler                     I just thought it would be a weird thing to do. Kristen Schaal                        Yeah. Kurt Braunohler                     Yeah. It is like well that would be ... we do not know if it is funny but we tried it out. Kristen Schaal                        Yeah. Is it gonna be weird? We will do it. Kurt Braunohler                     Yeah. Is it gonna alienate half the audience? Yeah. Let us do it. Kristen Schaal                        Let us do it. Kristen Schaal                         Thank you so much. Kurt Braunohler                     We are so- Jad Abumrad                          Okay. Wait just to set things up. Robert Krulwich                     I think you better. Jad Abumrad                          Those two people that you just heard. Kristen Schaal                        Kristen Schaal. Kurt Braunohler                      And Kurt Braunohler. Jad Abumrad                          They are comedians. Kristen Schaal                        Good. Robert Krulwich                     That is it. Jad Abumrad                          We first heard about the bit you are about to hear from Jesse Thorn. Jesse Thorn                            Yes. Jad Abumrad                          The host of the Sound of Young America. Jesse Thorn                            Yes. Jad Abumrad                          Great show. Are you rolling over there Jessie? Jesse Thorn                            No. We are recording it. Okay. Checking my phone. Okay yeah. I am rolling. Kristen Schaal                        Thank you so much. Robert Krulwich                     So you set it up. When Kurt and Kristen walk on stage what happens? Jesse Thorn                            Well there is a couple of jokes up top. They joke about this TV show that they hosted in the '70s. Kristen Schaal                        called Uncle Ben's Farmyard Courthouse. Kurt Braunohler                     It explained the American judicial system using a courthouse made completely of animals. Kristen Schaal                        Yeah it was canceled immediately. Kurt Braunohler                     Yeah I think that was- Jesse Thorn                            The audience is kind of laughing at the jokes thinking like Oh this is going to be a regular comedy sketch. Kristen Schaal                        We are gonna just sketch tonight. Okay. Kurt Braunohler                     All right. Here we go. Kristen Schaal                        Are you ready? Kurt Braunohler                     Are you ready? I am ready. Kristen Schaal                        Okay. Kurt Braunohler                     Okay. Jesse Thorn                            Then they go into this song. Kurt Braunohler                      Jesse Thorn                            Kurt does this maniacal singing and clapping and Kristen is doing this horsey dance. Kurt Braunohler                      Jad Abumrad                           It just keeps going. Kurt Braunohler                      Robert Krulwich                     How much longer can you do this for? Jad Abumrad                          And like why? Kristen Schaal                        Repetition Jad. Kurt Braunohler                     When we do it we ... it is like after the third repetition people will laugh. They get it like Oh they are just gonna do that. Kristen Schaal                        Over and over. Kurt Braunohler                     Then somewhere around the fourth time- Kristen Schaal                        Then it is not ... it is really not funny. Kurt Braunohler                     Really not funny. Kurt Braunohler                      Kristen Schaal                        The audience is quiet feeling like I am done with it. Kurt Braunohler                     I am done. I do not wanna watch this anymore. Jesse Thorn                            Why are they still doing it? And then- Kurt Braunohler                     Then that changes to actual hatred. They are like You stupid people. You two stupid people. But somewhere between 9 and 11 then they are like I like these stupid people. Kristen Schaal                        Oh my god they are so stupid. Then they are like God. Kurt Braunohler                     . Jesse Thorn                            Then you get this next level which is they cannot continue doing this. Then they do continue doing this. And then they do continue doing it. Kurt Braunohler                      Jesse Thorn                            Like they really - their eyes are starting to cross. Kurt Braunohler                     At that point Im dripping sweat. Kristen's angry that I have gone that long. Kristen Schaal                        I am just like Looking at you. Looking at you. Jesse Thorn                            I mean you can hear Kurt in that thing like losing track of the song because he is going into some kind of fugue state. Kurt Braunohler                      Kurt Braunohler                     I have had her on stage whisper Stop it. Kristen Schaal                        Yeah.  Im working my ass off. Kurt Braunohler                      Jesse Thorn                            This is maybe my favorite thing in the history of the world. Jesse Thorn                            What I love about it is that your brain is trying to make it into what you want it to be which is a joke but there is no joke happening. So what these two people are doing is creating the expectation that the expectation is going to be broken but then breaking that expectation that the expectation is going to be broken by just delivering the thing that they have been delivering over and over for the past 10 minutes. Jad Abumrad                          What is the longest you have taken it? Kristen Schaal                        10 minutes in Australia because you were drunk. Kurt Braunohler                     Yeah. It seemed like 10 minutes. We cannot be sure if it was 10 minutes. Kristen Schaal                        You were drunk. Kurt Braunohler                     It seems like there is no way it is 10 minutes. Kristen Schaal                        I will tell you what it was 10 minutes. And the audience went crazy.  Jad Abumrad                          Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich                     I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad                          This is Radiolab. And today  Robert Krulwich                     Today it is all about Jad Abumrad                          Loops. Robert Krulwich                     Things that happen over- Jad Abumrad                          And over- Robert Krulwich                     And over- Jad Abumrad                          And over- Robert Krulwich                     And over- Jad Abumrad                          And over- Robert Krulwich                     And over- Jad Abumrad                          And over. Coming up loops that hurt you. Robert Krulwich                     Strange. Jad Abumrad                          Loops that heal you. Robert Krulwich                     Dangerous things. Jad Abumrad                          Loops that scare you. Robert Krulwich                     Loops. Jad Abumrad                          And loops that eat you. Robert Krulwich                     And loops that incomplete you. Jad Abumrad                          The what? Robert Krulwich                     Shh.  Robert Krulwich                     So where are you guys? What- Christine Campbell                 We are in San Francisco. Robert Krulwich                     In San Francisco. So you are not in Texas. Christine Campbell                 Yeah. Mary Sue Campbell                No. Just sounds like we are in Texas. Christine Campbell                 Yeah. She is from Texas. Robert Krulwich                     Oh. Jad Abumrad                          Can you guys actually just if you do not mind introduce yourself so we know just we have your name and all that. Mary Sue Campbell                Sure. I am Mary Sue Campbell. I live in Novato California and my daughter Christine is- Christine Campbell                 30 years old I live in San Francisco. I was raised in Novato in the house that said . Robert Krulwich                     Shall we begin? Christine Campbell                 Okay. Robert Krulwich                     Tell me the beg- how the story starts. Christine Campbell                 From the beginning. Mary Sue Campbelle              Well I think it was odd. Christine actually called me Tuesday morning about 10 oclock and just said Oh what are you doing mom? And I said Oh I am just gonna go out in the yard and do some yard work and run some errands. And she                                                   said Well you ought to do the yard work early because it is gonna be hot today. Jad Abumrad                          So we are in the summertime. Mary Sue Campbell                It was summertime. Yeah it was August. Christine Campbell                 It was August. Yeah. Mary Sue Campbell                August 24th. Apparently what? 10 minutes later? Christine Campbell                 About half an hour later yeah. Mary Sue Campbell                Half hour later she said I called her. Christine Campbell                 She had left me a voicemail something like Hey Christine it is mom. Something's not right. Something's wrong. I need you to call me back. So I gave her a call back. She said Something about the house is not right. There is things look weird                                                 in here. What is weird? What are you talking about? Then she said Well I am looking at the calendar and it says August 2010. I am like Uh-huh. Mary Sue Campbell                Next. Christine Campbell                 She is like Well that is not right. I said Well yes it is it is August 24th 2010. As soon as I said that out loud I grabbed my purse to leave. Oh my god she is had a stroke. That was my first reaction. Oh that makes me feel emotional. And so - Robert Krulwich                     Christine said she walked out of her house to the car keeping her mom on the phone. Christine Campbell                 What else do you see? I am just trying to keep her talking to me. Robert Krulwich                     All the while her mom is telling her one thing after another just does not look right. Christine Campbell                 She says There is a strange black truck on the driveway which is the truck that belongs to her boyfriend that has been parked there for 10 years. I am of course increasingly  I mean I am just freaking out at this point. Robert Krulwich                     So she hangs up with her mom and then calls the paramedics and a half hour later Christine arrives at the hospital. Christine Campbell                 By the time I walked in she had been there for five or 10 minutes at the most. As soon as I walked in the doctor greeted me and said  Jonathan Valeos                     I said  Robert Krulwich                     This is her doctor Jonathan Vlahos. Jonathan Vlahos                     Christine it is immediately evident it is not a stroke not an infection. Christine Campbell                 That is a huge relief. Jonathan Vlahos                     But I said  Christine Campbell                 Said Your mother has transient global amnesia. Jonathan Vlahos                     Transient global amnesia. Robert Krulwich                     Transient global... Jad Abumrad                          How did those words hit you? Christine Campbell                 I will be honest with you. I had no idea what that meant. I think the word I heard the most was amnesia. Jonathan Vlahos                     You mother has lost her ability to form new memories. Christine Campbell                 She cannot remember. Jonathan Vlahos                     But  Christine Campbell                 He said it is not going to last forever. It usually lasts between 1 and 24 hours and we are not sure what causes it. Jad Abumrad                          And its at this point where the story goes from something kind of frightening to something a little more surreal. Christine Campbell                 Yeah. So when I came in  Jad Abumrad                          Her mother is sitting up in bed. Christine Campbell                 She is a smiler. She immediately started asking questions. Mary Sue Campbell                Okay. So what is the date? Christine Campbell                 I said well it is Tuesday August 24th. Of course we have a video on YouTube of this. Mary Sue Campbell                My birthday has already passed? Christine Campbell                 Yep. Mary Sue Campbell                I am trying to remember if I remember that. I am trying to remember the last date I remember. I do not remember my birthday. Christine Campbell                 Yeah. We hung out. You came over to my house and we watched a video that I made for you when I was in Texas. All of your sisters and some of your brothers said happy birthday to you on the video. Yeah. We still have the video so you can watch it again. But you are gonna remember eventually. They said it is just temporary. Mary Sue Campbell                Where was it? Was it at home? Do I  Christine Campbell                 You are at home. Yep you are at home doing some gardening. You called me and you are feeling confused. So I called the paramedics have them come and get you. Then we came here. Did a bunch of tests on you. Mary Sue Campbell                Okay. So what is the date? Christine Campbell                 August 24th. It is Tuesday. Mary Sue Campbell                I am trying to remember the last date I remember. I mean I do not remember my birthday. Christine Campbell                 You do not remember your birthday yeah. Mary Sue Campbell                Yeah. That must have just been recently. Christine Campbell                 Yeah. A couple weeks ago. Jad Abumrad                          Now you might have missed it but this conversation they are having just started over. Mary Sue Campbell                Since August  Jad Abumrad                          Because every 90 seconds Mary Sue's memory resets. Christine Campbell                 August 24th. Jad Abumrad                          What is strange is the repetition like we started that last clip you heard with her saying this. Mary Sue Campbell                I am trying to remember the last date I remember. Jad Abumrad                          90 seconds later after her memory resets she says  Mary Sue Campbell                I am trying to remember the last date I remember. Jad Abumrad                          90 seconds later  Mary Sue Campbell                I am trying to remember the last date I remember. Jad Abumrad                          And as you watch this video for a few minutes you realized what is happening here is that Mary Sue Christine Campbell                 Do you remember what day of the week it is? Mary Sue Campbell                No. Jad Abumrad                          ...is in a loop. And it goes like this. First the date. Mary Sue Campbell                Okay. So what is the date? Christine Campbell                 August 24th. Jesse Thorn                            She then responds in almost the same way every time. Mary Sue Campbell                My birthday has already passed? Christine Campbell                 Yep. Jesse Thorn                            She is missed her birthday. Mary Sue Campbell                 my birthday. Christine Campbell                 Yep. Mary Sue Campbell                Darn. Jad Abumrad                          Every time she says that darn in exactly the same way. Like if you fast forward Mary Sue Campbell                It is already past my birthday. Christine Campbell                 Yeah. Mary Sue Campbell                Darn. Jesse Thorn                            She must enjoy her birthday quite a bit. Christine Campbell                 You are gonna remember it eventually. Jad Abumrad                          Then she laughs. Mary Sue Campbell                Hey. What happened? Jad Abumrad                          Then they recap. Christine Campbell                 You are working in the garden and you gave me a call. Jad Abumrad                          Christine explains the whole thing. It is usually when she says the word paramedics. Christine Campbell                 So we called the paramedics Jad Abumrad                          Right there. Christine Campbell                  ...and have them come and pick you up. Jad Abumrad                          That Mary Sue's eyes get really wide in this look of sheer utter disbelief. Christine Campbell                 Yes. Mary Sue Campbell                Yeah. Is not that creepy? I mean every single time when I watched it. Jad Abumrad                          You say that over and over. You say Is not that creepy? Christine Campbell                 Yeah I was just gonna say. Mary Sue Campbell                This is creepy. Christine Campbell                 I know. Jad Abumrad                          90 seconds later  Mary Sue Campbell                This is so creepy. Jad Abumrad                          90 seconds later  Mary Sue Campbell                This is so creepy. Jad Abumrad                          It is often at this point right after creepy that she resets. Mary Sue Campbell                Okay. I do not know what day of the week is. Christine Campbell                 Its Tuesday. Mary Sue Campbell                Like somebody put it on rewind. Jesse Thorn                            Over and over and over again. Mary Sue Campbell                  Is it after my birthday? Christine Campbell                 Yes. Mary Sue Campbell                Darn. Mary Sue Campbell                I had repeated the birthday so much that the nurse apparently was behind me mouthing the words Oh did I miss my birthday. Christine Campbell                 Yeah. Its almost like Groundhogs Day in here. Mary Sue Campbell                Yep Groundhogs Day. Christine Campbell                 This is like every two minutes we are doing a loop. Mary Sue Campbell                We ask the same thing again. Christine Campbell                 Yes. We have had the same conversation over and over again every two minutes for the last two and a half hours. Mary Sue Campbe                  Two and a half hours? Get out of here. Christine Campbell                 Yes I know. Mary Sue Campbell                Same thing. Two and a half hours? Christine Campbell                 Same thing. Mary Sue Campbell                I say the same thing for two and a half hours? Christine Campbell                 Yeah. We cannot seem to talk about anything else. That is what we are talking about today. Mary Sue Campbell                What day of the week is it? Christine Campbell                 Tuesday August 24th. Mary Sue Campbell                I missed my birthday. Christine Campbell                 You did not miss it. You were there. Yeah. I am sure you had a good time. Mary Sue Campbell                Watching it I wanted to slap me. You know? I wanted to reach out and just slap me and say Damn it I just told you that. Christine Campbell                 For the record I would never slap my mother. Mary Sue Campbell                No she would not. No she would not. Robert Krulwich                     Okay. our big question here is clearly this is a person who is lost her memory. Why would her behavior for one cycle to the next be so precisely and consistently the same I mean sometimes exactly the same? Jad Abumrad                          Yeah. Why? Christine Campbell                 I think what it is is one of the things the nurses said is that when you have something like this your true self comes out. Robert Krulwich                     Huh. Jad Abumrad                          Your true the word true is interesting. So  Mary Sue Campbell                Yeah. Christine Campbell                 Yeah. Yeah. Well she said- Jad Abumrad                          Is that what we are seeing on the video is your true self? Christine Campbell                 Oh yeah. That is my mom through and through right there. She is- Jad Abumrad                          What Christine means is not the repetition but that her mom keeps asking so many questions. Christine Campbell                 She is inquisitive. She just wants to know what is going on across the board. Mary Sue Campbell                Yeah. I love problems. I love puzzles. Jad Abumrad                          Are you like a Sudoku fiend. Mary Sue Campbell                You know I am I am - I hate to admit this. Christine Campbell                 Oh god. Mary Sue Campbell                I play escape room games on the Internet. Jad Abumrad                          Escape room. What are those? Mary Sue Campbell                They are stupid little games where they have little hidden pixels that you find you are stuck in a room and you have to get out. You have got to find the key to the door. And there is all these little hidden places. Robert Krulwich                     Oh that is just the perfect metaphor then. Christine Campbell                 Oh yeah. Mary Sue Campbell                Yeah. I was my own escape room. Christine Campbell                 Do you remember what day of the week it is? Mary Sue Campbe                  No. I have no idea what day is it? Christine Campb                    Tuesday. Jad Abumrad                          There is a different way of seeing this. First of all Jonathan Vlahos that ER doctor who is seen a bunch of these cases he said Well that puzzler instinct that is not just Mary Sue. Jonathan Vlahos                     What everybody does is struggle over and over again with where am I and when am I. Jad Abumrad                          It is just the brain in survival mode. Another thing that everybody does and he is seen about six of these patients so far is that everybody not just Mary Sue but everybody becomes  Jonathan Vlahos                     A broken record right down to the phrasing of the sentences. Jad Abumrad                          Which creeps them out a little bit. Jonathan Vlahos                     It makes the brain seem a little bit more like a machine. You know you give the machine the exact same set of inputs. Jad Abumrad                          Every 90 seconds give it the same doctor the same hospital room same beeping machines. Jonathan Vlahos                     And see if the output ever varies and  Jad Abumrad                          It does not. Jonathan Vlahos                     It almost seems like the patient has no free will. Jad Abumrad                          And so sometimes in the back of his head he thinks God if I had that condition and someone videotaped me Jonathan Vlahos                     I would love to see my own tape. Robert Krulwich                     Why? Jonathan Vlahos                     You know I think I wanna see could I somehow escape the loop or would I end up with the rest of us. Jad Abumrad                          Now thankfully according to Jonathan what normally happens in this condition is that as time goes on  Jonathan Vlahos                     That 90-second loop  Jad Abumrad                          ...starts to slowly expand. Jonathan Vlahos                     It is actually more like two minutes or three minutes. Jad Abumrad                          Eventually four minutes. Jonathan Vlahos                     Now it is five minutes. Jad Abumrad                          For Mary Sue after a few hours as her loop got longer and longer her old memories start to creep back in. Christine Campbell                 By that evening she was remembering up until like that Sunday. Jad Abumrad                          A few hours later her memory began to extend into Monday morning. Christine Campbell                 By the time we left the hospital she remembered Monday night. Jad Abumrad                          And then finally  Robert Krulwich                     Shall we begin? Christine Campbell                 Okay. Robert Krulwich                     Tell me how this story starts. Christine Campbell                 From the beginning. Mary Sue Campbell                Well I think it was odd. Christine actually called me Tuesday morning about 10 oclock and just said Oh what are you doing mom? And apparently what 10 minutes later  Christine Campbell                 About half an hour later. Mary Sue Campbell                Half hour later she said I called her. Christine Campbell                 She had left me a voicemail Robert Krulwich                     I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad                          I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich                     We will be right back. Voiceover                              Message one. Kurt Braunohler                     This is Kurt Braunohler. These are the words you have told me to read. Radiolab is funded in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. Christine Campbell                 Hi. My name is Christine Campbell. Mary Sue Campbell                This is Mary Sue Campbell. Christine Campbell                 Here we go. Mary Sue Campbell                More information about Sloan at- Christine Campbell                 WWW Kurt Braunohler                     Dot Sloan Dot Org. Christine Campbell                 Thanks. Kurt Braunohler                     Hope that was dumb enough for you. Voiceover                              End of message. Robert Krulwich                     Hi. I am Robert Krulwich. Radiolab is supported by WIX.com. Use WIX's artificial design intelligence to create a professional website right from your phone. Just tell WIXADI about your self or your business it will create the perfect site for your needs based on billions of combinations. Just go to wix.comradiolab to get 10 off when you are ready to upgrade. That is WIX.comradiolab. Jad Abumrad                          Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich                     And I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad                          This is Radiolab. This hour we are talking about  Robert Krulwich                     Loops. Jad Abumrad                          Loops. Robert Krulwich                     Loops. Alex Bellos                             Okay. Jad Abumrad                          Loops.  Robert Krulwich                     Heres one for you. Alex Bellos                             I mean zero is the obvious loop. And its loop shape is part of why zero is zero. Jad Abumrad                          Who is this? Robert Krulwich                     This is Alex Bellos. Alex Bellos                             And I am the author of Here's Looking at Euclid.  Alex Bellos                             When I was a kid I used to think zeros just like a hole with nothing in it. But actually zero was chosen by the Indians as kind of reflecting the eternal cycles of the faces of heaven.  Alex Bellos                             The Romans and the Greeks and the Jews we did not have a zero. We just had ... everything started at one. One reason why we did not is that we are kind afraid of the void.  Jad Abumrad                          Afraid of the void what like  Robert Krulwich                     Well I mean how would you describe something   Robert Krulwich                     ...that is not there?  Robert Krulwich                     There is nothing to say. Jad Abumrad                          And that is scary somehow? Robert Krulwich                     Yeah. It is an emptiness and a nothingness. It means you are so alone you do not even know where you are. Alex Bellos                             This was a psychological barrier to us grasping the zero. In India everything and nothing was the same thing. They have this sort of fluidity. They grasped this idea of nothingness was something. Robert Krulwich                     Oddly enough the way they decided to represent the nothing was they took a little piece of nothing and they drew a circle around it which turns the nothing into a something. Alex Bellos                             It is a loop. Robert Krulwich                     And it is a loop.  Alex Bellos                             This idea of eternity and continuity and infinity is actually contained with the numeral for zero.  Alex Bellos                             I mean I kind of love the idea that actually heres the most mystical magical spiritual digit of them all. And its  we use it every day. William Basinski                     See. We rolling? Mark Phillips                          Yeah. William Basinski                     So here's two of the workhorses. These are like my old  Jad Abumrad                          Next up a story from reporter Mark Phillips. William Basinski                     All right. As you can see here there is all these containers of tape loops. Jad Abumrad                          Okay. So set this up. Who is this guy? Mark Phillips                          His name is William Basinski. He is a musician who makes this really hard to describe music.  Mark Phillips                          He is been doing it for about 30 years. Basically what he does is he takes a little bit of classical music or muzak records it onto tape analog tape. William Basinski                     Seeing here. This might be terrible. Mark Phillips                          He loops it. William Basinski                     See if I can find something from- Mark Phillips                          He cuts the beginning the end tapes it together into a circle threads it through a tape machine messes with the speeds. And you get something that sounds like this.  Mark Phillps                           This little phrase that just repeats. William Basinski                     Over and over and over again. Mark Phillips                          And never changes. William Basinski                     You know Loops are everywhere. They are cycles. They are in nature. They are just universal. And if you can find a loop that can repeat without becoming redundant then you can sort fall into a different space and time even. Sort of like a bubble of eternity or something I do not know. Mark Phillips                          So that is what that sounds like. William Basinski                     Well in the summer of 2001 I was archiving all these old tape loops transferring them to digital. Mark Phillips                          And something kind of weird happened. He grabbed this one piece of tape. William Basinski                     Put it on.  William Basinski                     It was this wonderful grave very stately loop Id totally forgotten about. And I set it up and turned on the CD burner and left the control room went to the kitchen got some coffee and came back and I started realizing something was changing. I looked and I could see the tape was shredding. Mark Phillips                          The thing to understand about tape is that when you record music onto analog tape onto a bit of it that music- William Basinski                     What it is is it is iron oxide powder glued to just a piece of plastic. Jad Abumrad                          So the iron powder is actually the music? Mark Phillips                          Yeah. William Basinski                     But after 20 30 years Mark Phillips                          The glue looses its strength Willaim Basinski                     And the dust falls off Mark Phillips                          Onto the floor. Jad Abumrad                          His music was actually falling on the floor? Mark Phillips                          Yeah. William Basinski                     And I thought Oh my god. What is gonna happen? What happened was in the course of about an hour... Mark Phillips                          The music disintegrated. You put more loops on and it kept happening. The really interesting thing was while some disintegrated quickly some slowly they all sort of had the same pattern. Jad Abumrad                          What do you mean? Mark Phillips                          Just listen to this one.  Mark Phillips                          This is one of his loops at the beginning. Jad Abumrad                          Okay. Mark Phillips                          After it went around and around for 20 minutes or so the dust started to fall off and then it sounded like this. All the notes are still there but the tails  Jad Abumrad                          Are getting shorter. Mark Phillips                          Yeah. That is what would always happen. William Basinski                     The sustains and decays of the notes seemed to fall away like from the back moving backwards backwards. Mark Phillips                          It gets shorter and shorter. Instead of being held for four seconds it is held for three seconds two seconds. Finally you just really hear  William Basinski                     Like the attacks and the accents. Mark Phillips                          Just the beginnings of the notes. Only the beginning. William Basinski                     Those seem to hold on. Mark Phillips                          At least for a little while. William Basinski                     I was thinking Wow this is like I am recording the life and death of a melody. It just made me think of human beings and how we die. Mark Phillips                          You can really hear the disintegration on this particular loop. I think this was number five. It starts sounding like the rest like this. But after just 15 minutes it is basically completely gone. The tape on this one you know tape is normally brown. Right now it is clear like scotch tape. Jad Abumrad                          The dust is gone. Mark Phillips                          Theres a little bit of brown here but now it is just clear. Jad Abumrad                          It is almost all gone.  Robert Krulwich                     This next loop is a sly one. You are gonna have to wait a bit for its loopiness to kick in. Jad Abumrad                          Ready? Lynn Levy                               Born ready. Jad Abumrad                          Producer Lynn Levy. Craig Smith                            The smell of a dead whale is - you have to experience to know what it is like. It is like nothing I have ever smelled. Lynn Levy                               This is Craig Smith Professor of Oceanography. Craig Smith                            It is really putrid. Lynn Levy                               Back when Craig was a graduate student Craig Smith                            This is in 1982. Lynn Levy                               He heard there was a dead whale floating off the coast of San Diego. Craig Smith                            About a third out of the water with sea birds on it pecking at it. Jad Abumrad                          How big? Craig Smith                            Around 25 to 30 feet long. Lynn Levy                               So what is that like a train car? Craig Smith                            More like a size of a small yacht I guess. Jad Abumrad                          Woah! Lynn Levy                               Big freaking whale. Jad Abumrad                          Yeah. Lynn Levy                               And Craig wanted to sink that whale. Craig Smith                            No one had ever studied what happens when a whale sinks to the sea floor. People just speculated about it. Jad Abumrad                          So no one had ever followed it down to the bottom? Lynn Levy                               No one had followed the whale to the bottom. Jad Abumrad                          Huh. Lynn Levy                               Right? Craig Smith                            So we towed the carcass out to sea. Lynn Levy                               They had all these little scraps of steel that they tied to the whale's tail one at a time. Craig Smith                            About 2000 pounds. And Lynn Levy                               Nothing. Craig Smith                            It was not enough to sink the whale. Lynn Levy                               Whale kept floating there like a big smelly balloon. Its belly was all full of.. Craig Smith                            De-compositional gas. Lynn Levy                               And the captain of the ship goes Well Craig Smith                            I have a big rifle let us bring that out. So he got out his rifle. Lynn Levy                               And all the other guys in the boat take out their guns. Jad Abumrad                          Shooting the whale? Craig Smith                            Yeah. Lynn Levy                               This also does not work. Jad Abumrad                          It does not work? Craig Smith                            It did not really do anything. Lynn Levy                               But Craig tried again and again. Eventually not with that whale but with others he got to see something so cool. Craig Smith                            So a whale dies and sinks down into the dark. And.. Lynn Levy                               And then? This incredible cycle begins. Craig Smith                            Within minutes scavengers will be at the carcass. Lynn Levy                               Lots of them. Jad Abumrad                          How do these little creatures see the whale if it is so dark? Lynn Levy                               They smell it. Jad Abumrad                          They smell the whale? Lynn Levy                               Mm-hmm. Craig Smith                            Within hours it may well have hundreds of hagfish on. Lynn Levy                               They are terrifying.. Craig Smith                            These eel-like animals they have grinding plates instead of teeth. And they burrow into the carcass. Lynn Levy                               Hundreds like a hagfish convention. Craig Smith                            This writhing mass of eels. Lynn Levy                               What does that look like? Craig Smith                            Well it looks like a giant Medusa head. Lynn Levy                               Over the next few days a bunch of other scavengers show up. Craig Smith                            Including stone crab shrimp sea scuds sharks crustaceans. Lynn Levy                               Huge feeding frenzy flesh flying everywhere. Sometimes the hagfish get kicked off and they try to defend their territory. Craig Smith                            Hagfish have a very interesting ability to produce mucus. You can put a couple of hagfish into a bucket of water and kick it and they can produce enough mucus to essentially turn the bucket of water into something like gelatin. Jad Abumrad                          Wow. It is like Medusa head in a cloud of mucus. Lynn Levy                               And all that is just the first stage. Craig Smith                            The mobile scavenger stage. Jad Abumrad                          Okay. So what happens after that? Craig Smith                            Well after the mobile scavenger stage is enrichment opportunist stage. Lynn Levy                               At that point Craig Smith                            The whale is beginning to look pretty dilapidated little bits of whale soft tissue get implanted in the sea floor. Lynn Levy                               And so the ground around the whale becomes its own little ecosystem and a bunch of new animals show up. Craig Smith                            They are worms. They are wriggly little worms. Lynn Levy                               Just like tons of them. Craig Smith                            We can get thirty or forty thousand of them per square meter. Sometimes the sediment around whale fall looks like a lawn of grass where these worms are just wriggling sticking up out of the sediment and waving back and forth. Jad Abumrad                          What color are these worms? Do you know? Lynn Levy                               I think they are white. Jad Abumrad                          So field of white worms white grass. Lynn Levy                               It is kind of ghostly. Jad Abumrad                          Yeah. Lynn Levy                               And finally the last stage. Craig Smith                            Something we call the Sulfur-loving stage. At this point the whale looks like a skeleton just covered with this actually beautiful mat of white bacteria. It is fluffy and just looks like a polar bear's fur. Jad Abumrad                          Covering the bones of the whale? Lynn Levy                               Yeah. Craig Smith                            Think about a whale's skeleton draped in a polar bear fur coat. Lynn Levy                               Sulfur is coming out of the bones and the bacteria are just clustering around sucking it up. For years. When you step back and look at it these dead whales they become like planets. And you find creatures living on them that you do not find anywhere else. Craig Smith                            There are now about 55 species that have not been found in any other habitat species of animals that only live on whale falls. Jad Abumrad                          Does that mean that these creatures like the whale is their entire world they do not know anything else? Lynn Levy                               For some of them yeah. Jad Abumrad                          What do they do the rest of the time? I mean this cannot happen that often. Craig Smith                            Well that is a good question. Maybe that they are living as fugitive species. Lynn Levy                               In other words they just drift around sort of waiting. Can I say hoping? For . And when that happens Craig Smith                            They grow quickly produce hundreds thousands maybe even millions of larvae that they then broadcast out into the water column. Lynn Levy                               Then their babies drift around in the darkness waiting until . Craig Smith                            Few of them find another such habitat tens or maybe even hundreds of kilometers away. Lynn Levy                               And repeat. So altogether how long can a whale fall last? Craig Smith                            Well a whale fall can last a large whale skeleton out of a blue large blue whale or a fin whale can support a community for 50 to 75 years. Lynn Levy                               Wow. Craig Smith                            Which really astounded us. Lynn Levy                               And how does that compare to the life span of the whale? Craig Smith                            Well it is probably pretty comparable actually. Whales live on the order of 50 to 70 years. Lynn Levy                               There is something poetic about that the idea that for the same amount of time that the whale lived it is gonna support this life. Craig Smith                            Yeah it is very appealing. Jad Abumrad                          Thanks Lynn. Radiolab will continue in a moment.  Jad Abumrad                          Okay. Ready? Robert Krulwich                     Okay. Jad Abumrad                          This is Radiolab. Robert Krulwich                     Oh okay. Jad Abumrad                          Yeah you start. Yeah. Robert Krulwich                     Okay. This is Radiolab. Jad Abumrad                          Today we are talking about loops. Robert Krulwich                     I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad                          Im Jad Abumrad. This is Radiolab. Robert Krulwich                     It is all about loops. Jad Abumrad                          Yep I am Jad. Robert Krulwich                     And I am Robert. You are listening to Radiolab. Jad Abumrad                          Today we are talking about loops. Robert Krulwich                     I am Robert. Jad Abumrad                          I am Jad. Robert Krulwich                     And it is all about loops. Jad Abumrad                          Yep. I am Jad. Robert Krulwich                     I am Robert. Jad Abumrad                          We are talking about loops. Robert Krulwich                     Speaking of things that happened over and over and over again. On the show here- Jad Abumrad                          Hello. Robert Krulwich                     Here he is again. Steven Strogatz                      Hi Jad. Jad Abumrad                          Hey Steve. Robert Krulwich                     Steven Strogatz. Jad Abumrad                          How are you? Robert Krulwich                     Mathematician Cornell University. Jad Abumrad                          How is it going? Steven Strogatz                      I am good. Jad Abumrad                          Steve told us a story about a mathematical loop. Robert Krulwich                     That threw mathematicians all over the world Jad Abumrad                          For  a loop. Jad Abumrad                          The story starts way back with a guy named Steven Strogatz                      Gottlob Frege. Robert Krulwich                     Gottlob Frege. How do you spell Gottlob? Steven Strogatz                      Yeah. It is not Gottleib. It seems to be L-O-B at the end unless it is a typo in every book I have ever seen. Robert Krulwich                     Now to set this up very quickly Gottlob Frege was a mathematician back in the 1870s and '80s and he had a dream that mathematics could unlock the secrets of the universe that you could maybe even build a machine feed it some basic mathematical rules and it would just start churning out discoveries. Jad Abumrad                          Would not even need a human being. Robert Krulwich                     That is how powerful he thought math could be. Jad Abumrad                          But that led him to a question. If math is the most fundamental thing in the universe what is the most fundamental part Robert Krulwich                     Of math. Steven Strogatz                      What is at the foundation? Is it numbers? Is it one two three? Jad Abumrad                          Well that is what you would think. Robert Krulwich                     But Gottlob Steven Strogatz                      He said No there is a deeper thing than numbers. The deepest thing of all is what today we call sets. The set of things. Jad Abumrad                          The set. Steven Strogatz                      Yeah. So what is the set? You could... Robert Krulwich                     Steve explained it to us using of all things Sesame Street. Jad Abumrad                          Really old episode. Steven Strogatz                      As far as just to set it up here it is two people working at the Furry Arms Hotel there is Humphrey  Humphrey                             All right Ingrid  Steven Strogatz                      Who is got a green nose and a pink face and his girlfriend... or I actually know what she is. She might be his wife Ingrid. They are hotel keepers and Ernie is in the background. Ingrid and Humphrey are taking an order. Humphrey                             Hello. How may I help you? Steven Strogatz                      Room service order from a room full of penguins.                              We are hungry. Steven Strogatz                      Humphrey says I will take your order Mr. Penguin sir. Humphrey                             What would you like?                              Fish. Humphrey                             Fish.                              A fish. Humphrey                             Fish.                              Fish. Humphrey                             Fish.                              Fish. Humphrey                             Fish. Steven Strogatz                      Then Humphrey says Let me check if I got that right. Humphrey                             Fish fish fish fish fish fish.                              You got it. Steven Strogatz                      Then he calls over to Ingrid who is gonna call it into the kitchen. So he tells Ingrid. Humphrey                             Fish fish fish fish fish fish. Steven Strogatz                      Ingrid says Fish fish fish fish fish. Ingrid                                     Fish fish fish fish fish. Humphrey                             No. Steven Strogatz                      Humphrey No. That is not right. Humphrey                             Fish fish fish fish fish fish. Steven Strogatz                      Because she only says it five times. But then Ernie explains- Ernie                                      Excuse me Ingrid and Humphrey I have a better way for you to do this. Humphrey                             A better way? Ernie                                      Mm-hmm. Count the fish. Humphrey                             Fish? Ernie                                      One. Humphrey                             Fish. Ernie                                      Two. Humphrey                             Fish. Ernie                                      Three four five six fish. Ingrid                                     Holy macro. Steven Strogatz                      They both realized Ingrid and Humphrey how powerful this is. They said Does it work for? Humphrey                             Does it work on other stuff? Say cinnamon rolls? Ernie                                      Yep. Humphrey                             Spark plugs? Steven Strogatz                      Spark plugs. Ernie                                      Absolutely. Humphrey                             Wow! Ingrid                                     Wow! Steven Strogatz                      That is the point that what cinnamon buns and spark plugs and fish the sets have in common is that there are six in each. If you try to say what does six really mean it is the thing that those sets have in common. Robert Krulwich                     According to Steve it is not so much the number six that is important here. Jad Abumrad                          Yeah. That is just the label for this characteristic that all these piles seemed to share. Robert Krulwich                     It is the pile itself the set. Jad Abumrad                          That is the most basic thing. Robert Krulwich                     So Frege said- Ingrid                                     Holy macro. Robert Krulwich                     Well this is it. Sets are Steven Strogatz                      The bedrock. Robert Krulwich                     That I have been looking for. Steven Strogatz                      Yeah. We can build the rest of math on top of this. Robert Krulwich                     Yeah. Then I can make my math machine that will solve the universe. Steven Strogatz                      And I think he published a book showing how this might work except that Russell- Robert Krulwich                     Bertrand Russell the mathematician. Steven Strogatz                      ...then found a devastating paradox that ended up well annihilating what Frege had tried to do. Jad Abumrad                          Russell's paradox has now become known as  Steven Strogatz                     The barber paradox. Robert Krulwich                     It is a little thought experiment. So in this case the set is a town  Steven Storgatz                      Yep. Robert Krulwich                     A town with people. Steven Strogatz                      Yep. Jad Abumrad                          One barber. Robert Krulwich                     With the following rules. Steven Strogatz                      In this town the barber shaves everyone who does not shave himself. Sounds reasonable right? Robert Krulwich                     Barber shaves everyone who does not shave himself. Jad Abumrad                          So some people shave themselves some people go to the barber. Steven Strogatz                      That is the universe. We are in a town where everyone who does not shave himself is shaven by this barber. Now the question is who shaves the barber? Jad Abumrad                          Who shaves Steven Strogatz                      Remember the barber has the property that he shaves everyone who does not shave himself so he cannot shave himself. On the other hand- Jad Abumrad                          Could not he Steven Strogatz                      ...if he does not shave himself then he is one of those people who does not have himself and is therefore shaven by the barber. Jad Abumrad                          Well maybe the barber... here's two solutions for you guys. The barber could not shave could not he just not shave? Or maybe he could- Steven Strogatz                      No. Everybody in town shaves. Jad Abumrad                          Maybe he could set up some sort of mechanical device that is like one those . Robert Krulwich                     No no you cannot do that. You cannot change the rules. Steven Strogatz                      Yeah you cant answer sensibly what happens to the barber. Robert Krulwich                     No one has. Steven Strogatz                      There is nothing to say. He either does or does not shave himself by ordinary Aristotelian logic because the barber cannot shave himself and he cant not shave himself. So there is something  Robert Krulwich                     That is what ruined the machine that would solve the universe? Jad Abumrad                          Wait but this seems  Robert Krulwich                     I think you could ruin an afternoon or maybe you have to wait for a couple of hours like after lunch before you go swimming. But I cant see that overthrowing all life's work. Steven Strogatz                      It does. It does. It turns out to be very very problematic for the foundations of math. Jad Abumrad                          Because what this barber paradox the reason it was so annoying to mathematicians was that math is supposed to be this logical thing right? Logic is the lifeblood math. Yet here you had this little bit of math that was illogical a self-contradicting set. Steven Strogatz                      A self-contradicting set. Robert Krulwich                     But Bertrand Russell the guy who came up with all this he did not lose faith. He felt this is just a problem with set theory. Steven Strogatz                      Then he spent a long time trying to make a theory. I think he calls it a theory of types instead of sets. He had certain admission rules that he thought would prevent paradoxes from happening. Jad Abumrad                          For a while it was looking pretty good. Under Bertrand Russells system- Robert Krulwich                     There was no logical problems no paradoxes until  Jad Abumrad                          This scrawny little German guy comes along. And you say his name Gdel? Steven Strogatz                      I hear it often pronounced... Well I do not speak German but mathematicians often say like the woman's piece of clothing from the old days. It sounds like girdle girdle. Robert Krulwich                     I see. Jana Levin                              Gdel. Jad Abumrad                          There is kind of or or something in the middle. Jana Levin                              Yeah umlaut. Jad Abumrad                          This is Jana. Jana Levin                              Jana Levin. Jad Abumrad                          She has written a book about Gdel. Jana Levin                              I am a Professor of Physics and Astronomy at Barnard College. Jad Abumrad                          She says the point at which Gdel enters our story it is 1930s Vienna Austria. Jana Levin                              He had just recently finished what would be equivalent to like a doctoral degree a PhD. Jad Abumrad                          Smart dude. Jana Levin                              Kind of a rising star. It was no question that people around him understood it. Jad Abumrad                          He was also maybe A little bit off. Jana Levin                              He had real breaks with reality. He was in the biographies they call him a paranoid schizophrenic. But he seemed more of kind of obsessive depressive. I do not know if my armchair psychology terms are accurate. He was in and out of sanitoria. He had real difficulties being sure what was real. Jad Abumrad                          The only reality he really trusted was math. Jana Levin                              Circles. Jad Abumrad                          Shapes. Jana Levin                              Prime numbers. Jad Abumrad                          Formulas axioms. Jana Levin                              Right. Jad Abumrad                          At a certain point he got into paradoxes. Perhaps it was the barber paradox that lured him in we do not know. But he began to think about and actually experiment with some of these paradoxical loops. Jana Levin                              He took something like the paradox of the liar. The paradox of the liar says this statement is a lie. Jad Abumrad                          This statement is a lie. Jana Levin                              Right. If it is true then it is false. If it is false then it is true. Jad Abumrad                          This statement is a lie. If you think about that too much you might explode. So Gdel was interested in that phrase and for various reasons he took it tweaked it a little bit to come up with- Jana Levin                              The following statement. This statement is unprovable. Jad Abumrad                          This statement is unprovable. Jana Levin                              Which is very important to know is if it is provable then it is unprovable. Jad Abumrad                          Obviously a little bit of a word game. But Gdel thought forget words. What would happen if I converted this statement into math? Because in math things are either provable or unprovable. They cannot be both at the same time. It is either true or false. And if its true? Well then damn it  Robert Krulwich                     You should be able to prove it. Jad Abumrad                          Yeah. Jana Levin                              So he said I am going to assign a special number unique number to make that a purely mathematical statement by coding it in a very clever way into arithmetics. Robert Krulwich                     To be honest we do not completely get this part. Jana Levin                              It is very very clever. Robert Krulwich                     But once he did his mathy stuff he had a rigorous mathematical statement right there on the page. He looked at it and he realized that what he just said in math  Jad Abumrad                          Is that the following statement. Jana Levin                              This statement is unprovable. Jad Abumrad                          Is Jana Levin                              It is true because it is actually unprovable. Jad Abumrad                          Meaning in math this statement actually is unprovable because it is true the logic of math will not let you prove that it is true. So it might be true. We will just never know. Steven Strogatz                      Nothing like that is supposed to happen in math. Things are supposed to be true or not true. Robert Krulwich                     And you are supposed to be able to prove every true thing says Steve. If there is something true that you cannot prove that means that the math is strangely woefully incomplete. Steven Strogatz                      It is always called this incompleteness theorem. That is the phrase. The Gdel incompleteness theorem is that if you have a system of axioms that are consistent meaning they do not contradict themselves they are necessarily incomplete. That is there are certain statements you can make within that system that you cannot prove or disprove. And all of math has this character. This is the big shock. This is not just about word games about logic puzzles with barbers. This is as devastating for even just counting. For one two three four. In other words math is shot through and through with these kind of statements that you cannot either prove or disprove. Seriously the deep thinkers at the time were amazed at this. It was recognized as one of the great ideas of the 20th century for sure maybe of all time. Steven Strogatz                      Maybe I should make it more concrete. There is a question that as far as I know is still not solved. Jad Abumrad                          Steve gave us this example of a problem. Robert Krulwich                     Something called Goldbach's conjecture. Jad Abumrad                          That kind of gives you a sense of what incompleteness feels like. Robert Krulwich                     So Goldbach's conjecture says that you can always write any even number as a sum of two prime numbers. So let me give you some examples of that. Like say 12. Remember first of all prime number means you can divide it by one and by itself like seven is a prime number you could divide by 1 and 7 but nothing else. So 12 which is an even number is 7 plus 5. Jad Abumrad                          Those are primes. Steven Strogatz                      Those are both prime numbers. Let us try another one. How about 24? That is 11 plus 13. Robert Krulwich                     Right. Steven Strogatz                      Okay? Or 36 19 plus 17. Any even number. Now this has been checked out to I do not know what billions trillions maybe hundreds of trillions. So no one has ever found a counter example to Goldbach's conjecture. And here's the thing. You might think that either it is true or it is false. It might be that this statement every even number is a sum of two primes. It might be neither true nor false but what we today call undecidable. Undecidable is a term that comes from Gdel. Jad Abumrad                          Undecidable. Steven Strogatz                      Yeah. I mean supposed in some ethereal or transcendental sense like that is supposed that there is God and God knows that this is true. Then what about us here among the world of human beings? All we can do is check each even number. Every time we check it is true. That would never constitute a proof because we would never run out of numbers. Robert Krulwich                     If you then say that to understand everything you either have to defer to God who does understand everything if you believe in God. But if you do not believe in God you then have to live with mystery and not knowing. Steven Strogatz                      Mm-hmm. Robert Krulwich                     Yes that is all you can say? Steven Strogatz                      I am gonna say yes I am gonna say uh-huh. Well I think you have encapsulated it perfectly. I think that Gdel himself was I think a believer in all kinds of mystical things. For him this was very freeing and liberating because it meant that there were... that we could not be mechanized. There was profound mystery forever. Jad Abumrad                          Hold  hold on. I am on your team here but let me just point out something. Gdel when he died he was not exactly liberated. He was a paranoid - he thought people were trying to poison him. He starved himself to death. He was not exactly liberated in the end. Robert Krulwich                     Well but I choose to believe that somewhere in his tortured mind and I guess his mind was pretty tortured there was a little fellow humming a song a song of liberation.  Jad Abumrad                          Thanks to Steve Strogatz. He has a new book called Infinite Powers How Calculus Reveals the Secrets of the Universe. And also thanks to Janna Levin her book about Gdel is called A Madman Dreams of Turing Machines.  Robert Krulwich                     And finally our last loopy piece. Jad Abumrad                          Yeah. And this one like the last one involves things feeding back on themselves kind of like your classic positive feedback loop. Robert Krulwich                     Which is what exactly? Jad Abumrad                          Well it is like what you can do with audio you take a speaker and a mic you put the ... you feed the sound from the speaker into the mic and then back into the speaker and into the mic it multiplies and multiplies and then you get something like   Robert Krulwich                     Painful. That is horrible. Jad Abumrad                          Yeah. It can definitely be painful. But that kind of feedback loop like in the case of our next story can also take the pain away. Melanie Thernstrom              Yes. Jad Abumrad                          Comes to us from this lady. Melanie Thernstrom              I am Melanie Thernstrom. Jad Abumrad                          She is a writer. Melanie Thernstrom              The author of a book on pain called The Pain Chronicles. Jad Abumrad                          Which is a book that began as a chronicling of her own pain which she is been suffering from  Melanie Thernstrom              Every day. Jad Abumrad                          For the last 15 years. And what sort of pain? Melanie Thernstrom              Pain in my neck and right shoulder and right side of my head. Robert Krulwich                     All at once? Melanie Thernstrom              Yeah. It is all at once. Robert Krulwich                     Oh my gosh. Jad Abumrad                          Did it start with something? Did you hit it there? Or how did it start? Melanie Thernstrom              It did not start with an injury of any kind but it did start at discreet time. Jad Abumrad                          Goes back to 1997. She was in upstate New York at a country house on a date. Melanie Thernstrom              It was our first date and I wanted to impress him. So I swam across a pond about a mile across  Jad Abumrad                          Was this your idea or was this his idea? Melanie Thernstrom              It was my idea. Jad Abumrad                          Wow. That is a different kind of first date. And you made it all the way there and back? Melanie Thernstrom              Yes. And nothing happened but that night  Jad Abumrad                          When she got into bed  Melanie Thernstrom              I was kept awake by this strange burning sensation in my shoulder and neck. I did not get the head pain for four more years. That particular pain never went away and got worse over time. Robert Krulwich                     Burning. So it was like a nerve was being  Melanie Thernstrom              Yeah. I mean eventually I got an MRI a couple years later and there was nerve impingement in my spine. There was  Robert Krulwich                     Over the years she says she is tried everything. She is tried drugs and she is tried physical therapy. She is tried distraction. Melanie Thernstrom              Like I will go to a matinee and if it is a scary movie I just do not stay focused on the pain. Jad Abumrad                          So distraction can work. Robert Krulwich                     But then she says as soon as she gets out of the movie it is back. Jad Abumrad                          And it is angry for being ignored. Melanie Thernstrom              Sometimes Id have the sensation like that that right side of my head was dying. The nerves were dying. Like a dead tree and that image would kind of frighten me. Robert Krulwich                     And that thought she would find that that thought would  Melanie Thernstrom              Make the pain worse. And making the pain worse will inspire further negative fantasies. Jad Abumrad                          Which will make the pain worse. Melanie Thernstrom              Which will make the pain worse. Jad Abumrad                          Which will inspire more fantasies. Melanie Thernstrom              Yes. So the loop goes. Jad Abumrad                          Positive feedback loop. Melanie Thernstrom              Yeah. Robert Krulwich                     In a negative sort of way. Jad Abumrad                          Right. Eventually Melanie decided Okay I am gonna write a book about this. Let me do some research. Melanie Thernstrom              I was reading a lot about self-inflicted pain and religious rights. And I actually went to witness a Hindu festival Thaipusam in Kuala Lumpur. Jad Abumrad                          What she saw really changed her mind about things. You can see video of this festival on YouTube. Robert Krulwich                     What you see is a dense crowd of folks. In the middle of the crowd there are these monks doing insane acts of devotion. Melanie Thernstrom              They literally thread needles through their tongues pokes skewers their cheeks. Weighted fish hooks dangle from their backs. Jad Abumrad                          And yet she says when she would look in their faces they seemed relaxed. Melanie Thernstrom              Like their eyes do not tear up. They do not gasp for breath. Jad Abumrad                          Like really relaxed. Was not just that they were tolerating the pain it actually seemed like they were not  Melanie Thernstrom              In pain. Jad Abumrad                          At all. Melanie Thernstrom              And I would think Okay this person here has a skewer in his mouth. Im in pain? This is pathetic. You know you cannot become a religious Hindu in order to experience this analgesic kind of it that is cheating. But I did feel like Okay so one way to describe it is faith. For every way that you can describe in religious terms there is also a way you can describe things in scientific terms. Sean Mackey                          Yeah. The reality is all of our pain is in our head. Jad Abumrad                          Which brings us to this guy. This is Sean Mackey. Sean Mackey                          Chief of the Stanford Pain Management Division. Jad Abumrad                          He will tell you that one of the most basic facts about pain is that it is not purely physical. Sean Mackey                          We have got signals coming up from the body that are sending us a message. Jad Abumrad                          Like if you whack a toe the signal shoots up some nerves in your leg into your spine. Sean Mackey                          And those signals converge in our brain. Jad Abumrad                          Before you even feel a thing  Sean Mackey                          There are multitude of what I refer to as little amplifiers throughout our brain that turn up and turn down the overall pain experience. Jad Abumrad                          These amplifiers are things like your mood. Sean Mackey                          Anxiety depression. Jad Abumrad                          Attention. Sean Mackey                          Expectations. Jad Abumrad                          All of these things feed back onto that signal coming up from the body. They can either boost it up up up up past a certain point where you get a sensation of pain or they can deaden it down down down down down down down to where you do not feel anything at all. Rober Krulwich                      Huh. Jad AbumradL                          Point is pain is a conversation between the brain and the body. Sean thought What would happen if I actually let people see that conversation? Could they you know Sean Mackey                          Take control of it. Melanie Thernstrom              Yes. Jad Abumrad                          So he did a study and Melanie signed up. Melanie Thernstrom               Mm-hmm. Robert Krulwich                     So describe what happens in this experiment. Melanie Thernstrom              Youre put in this MRI machine. Sean Mackey                          We put somebody into a scanner. Jad Abumrad                          A brain scanner. Melanie Thernstrom              And you have a screen in front of you. Jad Abumrad                          What you see on the screen is something that normally only the researchers would see. You see your own brain in real time. Robert Krulwich                     Yeah. Well you are not seeing the whole thing. You are just seeing one piece. Sean Mackey                          Called the anterior cingulate cortex. Melanie Thernstrom              There are many parts of the brain that respond to pain but that is the one that  Sean Mackey                          It is an area that has been shown to be involved with pain perception turning pain up and down. Melanie Thernstrom              It is thought to give pain its emotional valence its negativity. Jad Abumrad                          And do you actually see an image of this little piece of your brain right there in front of you o the screen? Are you looking at your brain? Melanie Thernstrom              No no. Sean Mackey                          That is confusing to everybody. Instead we give a visual metaphor. Melanie Thernstrom              You see an image of  Sean Mackey                          Fire  Melanie Thernstrom              Flames. Sean Mackey                          ...in an ice cave. It is kind of a cartoon flame but it looks realistic. Robert Krulwich                     So are these flickering flames do they leap into this... do they leap? Melanie Thernstrom              Yes. They leap. The more activation there is in that region the higher the flames go. Jad Abumrad                          So Melanie is lying in the scanner watching her own pain flames. Sean gives her a set of instructions. Sean Mackey                          We say Okay. We want you to imagine that you are sitting in a nice warm soothing jacuzzi. Melanie Thernstrom              This burning is a warm bath this burning is very relaxing. I am relaxing into it. Jad Abumrad                          Yeah. But pretty soon it was like Hot. It is kind of hot. It is scalding me. I have to get out. Before she knew it the flames were  Melanie Thernstrom              Growing. Robert Krulwich                     So Sean said Okay. Okay. How about you are lying on a beautiful beach? Jad Abumrad                          Yes. Melanie Thernstrom              This burning is a pleasant suntan. Sean Mackey                          And the sand is nice and warm and pleasant. Melanie Thernstrom              Im gonna look so good in my new bathing suit if I just keep getting burnt like this. Jad Abumrad                          Yeah sunburn hot. All right  Melanie Thernstrom              Then the flames would kinda go crazy. Jad Abumrad                          Her thoughts keep slipping out of her control. Melanie Thernstrom              If  Jad Abumrad                          Every time she would see those flames rise she would think Oh no the flames were rising which would make them rise even more and then more and more until she had this bonfire on the screen. Melanie Thernstrom              You are immediately struck by  they look like the flames where you are burned at the stake. I have been reading a lot of lives of saints at that point. Robert Krulwich                     Then Melanie had an idea. She said Why do not I take this negative image and flip it? Melanie Thernstrom              Then I started trying to move into the idea of being a saint or a martyr. That I believed that I would have no pain and that I was protected by my faith. Jad Abumrad                          As Melanie started thinking about this she could see the flames  Melanie Thernstrom              Dying down. Jad Abumrad                          Just a little bit. Melanie Thernstrom              Which is odd because this is not... you do not know me but this is not actually part of my fantasy life. Jad Abumrad                          But she thought Okay I will try this. Melanie Thernstrom              Let me keep going in that kind of feeling. So I was trying to pick one of the few prayers I knew. I mean I did not... I am half Jewish and half Christian. So I was not settled in onto what kind of martyr I was. I started thinking Should not I really be a Jewish martyr since if you are half Jewish your mother is Jewish. It is the right side. Really I am Jewish more than Christian. Then I started thinking about Jewish martyrs and what prayers did they say. Jad Abumrad                          As she added and revised details  Melanie Thernstrom              That continued to make the flames go down. Okay. I am in the right brain state. Let me do more of that. Jad Abumrad                          So Melanie finally decided Okay. I am gonna be this one particular Jewish martyr. His name is Akiba ben Yosef. He was burned at the stake by the Romans for teaching the Torah. There is a particular legend that just as the executioner is about to set fire to the logs right underneath his feet Akiba stared the executioner in the eyes and smiled. The executioner was like Why are you smiling? You are about to be burned alive. And Akiba said All my life when I said those words you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart with all your soul I was sad because I thought when shall I be able to fulfill that command? Now that I am giving my life and my resolution remains firm why should not I smile? Robert Krulwich                     And by the time Melanie had this fantasy built up in her mind she looked over at the flames and she noticed they were almost gone. Melanie Thernstrom              Like zero you know zero pain. Jad Abumrad                          For the first time she would taken control of it. Melanie Thernstrom              I felt like Wow! I am watching my brain thinking my thoughts. And I am changing my thoughts by thinking and watching myself do this. Jad Abumrad                          So you were looking at yourself looking at yourself looking at yourself looking at yourself? Melanie Thernstrom              Yes! Sean Mackey                          It is like peering inside and seeing the ghost in the machine. Melanie Thernstrom              I felt you know like someone taking their first step on the moon like I am watching my brain thinking my thoughts. And I am thinking my thoughts changing my thoughts by thinking and watching my thoughts watching my brain changing my thoughts by thinking and watching myself do this. Robert Krulwich                     Well I need to establish this that once you were... did your two sessions and you are in between exercises without all these gizmos could you address your pain better? Melanie Thernstrom              No. Like you think Well okay. Cannot you just get the feedback from your own body? But somehow this sensation is not quite direct enough that I think that you could do it without the visual feedback. Jad Abumrad                          But for that moment in that machine? Melanie Thernstrom              It was um power. Jad Abumrad                          Before we go a very special thanks to our singers who joined us this hour from the New Music Ensemble at LaGuardia High School. They are                              Kelly Ethemeu                              Julian Sotto.                              Eli Greenhoe.                              Julia Egan.                              Ruby Frume. Jad Abumrad                          Those guys wrote and performed all the music between the pieces. You guys rock. And thanks to the guy who teaches them and who organized this Mr. Robert Apostle.                               Stop! Robert Krulwich                     And let us begin. 