 Radiolab The Beauty Puzzle  CHAPTER 1   People Jad Abumrad  Robert Krulwich  Bethel Habte  Patty Brennan    Whose pad is this?   I think thats mine   Oh my gosh Bethel your handwriting   Its awful   Your handwriting is not awful. Its actually very elegant   Is it?   Legible not so much. But    Jad here this is Radiolab. So not too long ago Robert and our producer Bethel Habte   It has a nice lean to it   Pulled me into the studio to walk me through this story that they had been working on together for quite some time.   Everybody hears everybody?   Yes. Here we are.   Alright. So shall we start this?   Yes. So what are we doing? You guys are just gonna tell me the story or    I think Id rather tell you a riddle   OK   Once upon a time birds evolved. They evolved from dinosaurs. So they were originally scaley things and the scales turned into feathers and the feathery things began to fly and we call those things birds. But they have  Im gonna just ask this to you out of the blue because its a basic appendage. How many birds   Have    Penises?   Oh. OK   And by the way before you answer there are like 10 to 20 thousand different kinds of birds by modern times. So again how many of those species   Have   Penises?   How  what percentage of currently existing birds    Modern bird species have    The male ones obviously   The males of course   Penises as we would identify    Yeah like little things that hang out    Yeah we dont have to talk about it    Yeah yeah yeah. Those things   This is making me so awkward   Is this making you uncomfortable?   You know making this draft I was saying the word penis like so many times   At one point she wrote on the page do you know how many times weve said penises on this? 27 in four minutes.   Ok yes yes so how many birds have penises?   Well I have absolutely no frame of reference to answer this question. I dont know. Im gonna throw out a number 40 percent.   No   No 70 percent lets say 70   No   Uh. 30   Lower    10?   Lower   Wow. Five?   Lower   One   Three   Three?   Three percent   Yeah 97 percent of birds dont have penises   Wow   Yeah   So we learned this little fact from a scientist named Patty Brennan   The thing thats so weird about birds is precisely the fact that they lost the penis   Well you just said  you just used an interesting verb. So you say the birds lost the penises so does that mean that earlier editions of birds did have them?   Thats right yeah. So penises are a widespread trait of all vertebrates right? Except for you know some amphibians and fish    And according to Patty if you go back 200 million years or so birds were like all those other creatures.   Yeah. Basically a hundred percent of them had penises   Exactly right.   But then over time in the vast vast majority of birds   The penis was then lost.     Now    Why would that be?   Well thats the question.   How do you lose the penis? Like it seems like a pretty handy thing to have when you want to put your sperm close to female eggs   So the 97 percent of birds that dont have a penis now what do they have?   They have a kind of hole  both birds the males and the females have these holes and they sort of open up and then they line them up   Yeah. Its called a cloaca   Oh they have a cloaca   They have these cloaca and they just briefly touch their cloaca when theyre mating and thats it. Thats it.   And it works just fine but if youre thinking about the engineering like what appendage is going to be best for you to make more babies penis is the one.   Because it gets your sperm closer to female eggs   Oh   So for all of these penises to just vanish like she says like evolutionarily that just doesnt make any sense why would you lose these thing thats so useful?   So for there to be selection for the penis to go away theres gotta be a very important reason.   Whats the reason?   Well theres a few possibilities.     Number 1.   People have speculated for example that it might have been sexually transmitted diseases. Youre putting this penis way deep into the female. And then youre pulling your penis back into your cloaca like there could be potentially a very easy exchange of sexually transmitted diseases.   Because youre like digging the germs deeper I guess   Exactly. Yeah yeah yeah.   So even though the penis has its advantages obviously maybe its slowly went away because the birds that had the penis kept getting these infections.   That could be.   But so far nobodys found a link between penises and STDs.   So then the other possibility thats really intriguing actually  Music In   is that maybe its because penises are heavy     And birds had started flying and getting rid of the penis wouldve been an easy thing for lowering your body weight.  Maybe they lost them so they could fly farther.   But I dont believe that. I mean I think thats unlikely to have been a strong enough selection because ducks for example are among the most long distance migrants and they still have penises.   They are in the three percent.   And sometimes they have penises that are bigger than their own bodies so...    They do?   Oh my god   They do yes   You mean you watch a penis go by with wings kinda?    Pretty much!  RK Oh my God.   Yeah so I think the record is a male that had a 43 cm long penis and this is a male that was only about 40 cm long himself.   So apparently you can have a pretty large penis and fly just fine. But oddly enough the ducks are also sort of a key to a third theory for the disappearance of the penis.   So yeah I was going to say my favorite actually is this idea that actually it had to do with female choice against males that could controlled reproduction.   To explain Patty actually thinks that the original bird penises    Back when they had penises   Yeah. Might have been a lot like the modern day duck penis which is essentially a weapon.     And so one of the things that we learned when we were studying the ducks is that the males have evolved this erection mechanism that is crazy. They have an explosive erection mechanism. What that means is that the male actually averts his penis and ejaculates in a third of a second.   Basically a pistol penis like a pew    Exactly yeah. It just goes pachoing  yes.   Wow.  What that does though is it allows this males to forcefully inseminate females even when females dont want to be inseminated right so if this male is anywhere near a female hes just going to go pfff you know push right through. And so as you can imagine thats not you know thats not something necessarily desirable for females. Oftentimes the females will be struggling right. Theyre trying to get away from these males that are trying to forcibly copulate.     So Patty thinks what might have happened here is that female birds trying to get away from males with large penises and these really violent ways of approaching reproduction began systematically choosing gentler and smaller males with smaller penises.   Right. So so if females start selecting males that are less violent less sexually violent that that might lead to the disappearance of the penis.   What I think you just said is over time because the ladies were discomforted the gentlemen changed and lost their penises.   Yeah. You got it.   Shes saying that females essentially castrated the males?   Well this is a slower process than that    I mean over time.   Over time. Castration over time.   Yeah   Yes I suppose    Now what makes    What evidence is there for such a thing?   So none in a way because were talking about penises which are soft tissue and they dont fossilize so even if we went back into the fossil record it would be really hard to find evidence of what was happening so thats the part is difficult you know its kind of like a wonderful story that I think makes a lot of sense given what we know about the way these penises work now but we can only speculate.   I like this idea   Good   But is this just a one-off? I mean what about gorillas and moose who fight and clash their horns I mean theres so many species where it just seems like the females have zero choice.   So I know that there are a lot cases like that bedbugs are especially horrifying   Horrible   Google it   Oh yeah dont even talk about bedbugs.   But there are actually a lot of cases where when the females do get to choose they choose in ways that completely change what we see in nature.   And we found a group of scientists who now argue that if you look around nature you will see females driving evolution in ways that I certainly didnt expect. And when they get into the details of how this actually works I think its going to flip your idea about evolution in a way that you are totally unprepared for.   Do they have evidence for this idea? Because I gotta say that you havent yet convinced me of the first thing you said that females have evolved the penises away.   Well because that was a guess. Patty said that was a guess.   She said shes guessing yeah.   Fair enough. I will introduce you to a bird called a bowerbird that I think well it speaks for itself in these regards.   And its also its penis-less    CHAPTER 2   People Jad Abumrad  Robert Krulwich  Bethel Habte  Gail Patricelli  Richard Prum    They are really cool birds. They have beautiful plumage. The satin bowerbird is a beautiful iridescent blue with violet blue eyes.   This is Gail.   Gail Patricelli and Im a professor of evolution and ecology at UC Davis. Do I wanna say that again without stuttering on and?   No no thats fine.   Anyway so the bowerbird   What makes them most amazing is that they build bowers   So a bower these things the birds build its basically a structure made of sticks which can be up to three feet tall   Three feet tall?   Yeah. This tiny little bird making this huge    You could put a five year old in it in some of these things   Wow   Yeah and it looks like a nest   But its really a kind of seduction theater with one seat. And that and thats for her.   This is Richard Prum of Yale University. Hes a biologist there. And he says that on and around this bower   The male will array a whole bunch of found objects   Precious objects   Beautiful things   Parrot feathers and berries and flowers and leaves   Stuff that the bird gathers from the forest so these structures can be very ornamented and elaborate   And every bowerbird species has its own like style.   In some species it will all be blue everything. Blue feathers blue flowers and then of course blue trash like drinking straws and bottle caps.   And the male bowerbird basically dedicates his whole life learning how to build these structures. Like take the satin bowerbird.   They take seven years before they reach sexual maturity. And during that period of time they look just like females and theyll often fly around the valley and get courted by adult males. So they play the role of the female and learn how courtship works from other males in the valley and then when they get a little older as teenagers theyll start building practice bowers and theyll court each other.   And so eventually once a bowerbird figures out how to make a really good structure  CLIP David Attenborough A female has arrived   Females show up   So theyll fly down to the bower and theyll often check out the bower itself is it symmetrical is it well-built  CLIP Attenborough She seems interested.   And if she likes what she sees shell enter the bower.   Now this is where things get interesting because the bower has a very particular and purposeful architecture.   So one of the classic bower designs is called an avenue bower. So its two parallel walls of sticks that are close to one another and the female sits between them.   There are different variations on this basic design but   In all cases the female is in a protected position.   Theres always some kind of barrier or wall between her and the male.   So if the male wants to try to force himself on her for whatever reason he has to run around the back and she can just fly away out the front   Even as hes trying to win her attention completely hes built a building that keeps her at a distance?   Absolutely. The bower is like insurance against date rape for the female. It allows the female to observe him at an intimately close distance for as long as she likes while still maintaining her freedom of choice.   So the female if she likes the bower shell settle into this protected space where she can back out whenever she likes and then  CLIP Attenborough Time to begin the show.   So hell start out with his own displays   Many of them will make very loud  electronical sounds   Buzzing and whirring sounds    And they do imitations of kookaburra you know    Sometimes the imitate  cockatoos. Then along with singing they dance.   They puff up and they run vigorously back and forth right in front of the female and shes standing between the walls of the bower   So the female watches all this from her safe spot for as long as she likes and she can decide she would like to mate with this guy or  CLIP Attenborough No. Not good enough.   Up and fly away all of a sudden.  CLIP Attenborough For the female the moment has gone.   Now whats particularly interesting here is that Gail has done studies that show when the males pay very close attention to the female    Like when the male really watches the body position the way that shes postured that can actually signal whether shes interested or not.   The males that respond the most to those signals are the most successful in mating.   In other words if the male makes his move too early and too aggressively shes gone. And that male doesnt have any babies.   Huh.   But it also seems like the females are kind of toying with the males like seeing what theyre willing to do for them like if you watch video of this you can see in one bowerbird she comes in. He like lifts up his wing like a cape then just like sort of rotates his wing like this like  its so funny.   Oh. Like a matador kind of?   Like a matador. Totally like a matador. And then right after that she like picks up a blueberry from the ground and then she drops the blueberry. And then he does the matador thing with the blueberry in his mouth.   Like he has a rose in his mouth   Thats hilarious. Shes like you know its alright but    This is good but like    Itd be so much better with this.   It seems to be all about her.   I see what you mean. In this case yeah the females are definitely driving the bus here.   And when you start to really think about the implications of this about it being all about her that can lead you to a fairly deep rethink of the of the very basic rules of how evolution works.   Really?   Yeah.   Meaning what?   Well normally the classical argument and youve heard it like the reason this male bird is so colorful so red or whatever the reason peacock has these gigantic and beautiful feathers on its tale is sort of a signal that the male is sending to the female of fitness. Look at me I am healthy to have a tail like this I dont have parasites Im strong Id be a great mate.   Like survival of the fittest.   Right.   But let me ask you you just heard the bowerbird story. You have these females with these crazy tastes. Like this one likes blue only blue. And this one like iridescent shells so its shells shells shells shells shells. And this one likes green leaves but they have to be right side up and never right you know upside down. Are these fitness signals or is this more like art?  MUSIC IN   Maybe she just likes blue or she just likes shells.   Wait. Youre saying that these birds have evolved then based on whims and tastes?   Well Rick and theres other scientists like him say   Absolutely.   Yes. Its about beauty.   Im really focusing in on aesthetic choices. Choices that are based on what it is the animal likes.   Wait I thought the whole Darwinian thought was well yeah okay there might be beauty there but on some level the logic behind those beautiful things is survival survival of the fittest. This does not sound very Darwinian.   Well.   Since you dropped the name -   I propose that my view is the legitimately authentically Darwinian view.   CHAPTER 3A   People Jad Abumrad  Robert Krulwich  Bethel Habte  Kim Bostwick  Richard Prum    Darwin he had an idea about beauty?   Oh yes. He  he actually    Do you want to read the quote?   Did I bring it here    Yeah you brought it. Yeah.   Okay. Page 397 Descent of Man. Stripes and marks and ornamental appendages have all been indirectly gained through the influence of love? Huh. Jealousy. Through the appreciation of the beautiful and through the exertion of a choice. Oh interesting. So hes saying that its love jealousy and beauty. And choice.   Yeah. And choice.   Yeah that is definitely not what I learned when I learned about Darwin.   So its over 130 years later and Im still pissed.   He thinks there was some kind of plot to reduce Darwin's idea into something smaller and eventually eliminated entirely.   I would like to go historical. Lets go about what Darwin said.   Okay.   Lets go with what Wallace said. And then lets go     ... to the 20th century and where we got so screwed up.   Okay.   So Darwin spent 20 years working on his theory of natural selection. He was not particularly noisy about it because he knew it would very much disturb his wife who was quite religious and other people in his church. So during the 20 years while Darwin was working away at his book     ...this other guy comes on the scene. His name is Alfred Russel Wallace. Kind of skinny and scrappy and self-taught. 14 years younger than Charles Darwin. But Wallace also ...     Went around the world collecting specimens.   And he also came up with a theory of natural selection.     Independently.   What was their relationship to each other? I mean did they  were they friends were they collaborators were they    Well you know they were close collaborators.   At first they kind of both got credit for the idea but a little later   Darwin rocketed out his book into  into press.   When he published his On The Origin of Species a very popular book   Darwin got the lions share of the credit as I think rightly so. Because hed been working on the idea for literally for decades.   Then 20 years later Darwin dies. Meanwhile Wallace   Lived until the dawn of World War I.   And during that time this is Rick's argument after Darwin died Wallace kept saying over and over and over again that when it came to female choice   Animals didnt have the sensory and cognitive capacity to make aesthetic judgments in nature.   So these elaborate decorations and be  artistic behaviors   Could only evolve if it communicates information about vigor quality and general fitness to survive.   And Rick would say that because Darwin was not around to argue back...   Wallace may have lost the  the battle over credit for the discovery of adaptation by natural selection. But he won the war over what evolutionary biology would become in the 20th century. We have inherited both the science and the culture of flattened dumbed down and ideologically purified version of Darwins actual richness.   Whoa those are  those are fighting words.   Well you see Rick is pretty fired up about this. And he is written a book Evolution of Beauty where he argues that ever since Alfred Russel Wallace scientists have been trying to squeeze everything they see in these male patterns male dances male songs male plumages into a single explanation. A dogmatic category called fitness. And that female choice they claim is always always about fitness fitness fitness. But Rick argues No. No that is  that is a stretch. There is no way to boil down all this variety into fitness.   Im not saying that the emperor wears no clothes. Im saying that the emperor is wearing a loincloth. And what I mean by that is that humble garment covers about the same percentage of the human body as the idea of adaptive mate choice covers all the ornaments of  sexual ornaments in the world.   Oh my god! What you just said is that most or most of...   Vast majority. So let us  another way ...   Most of what you see in the world you think is  is desire of  the desire between creatures expressed in  in beautiful forms.   Absolutely. And...   Not of fitness. Not that oh shes just looking at him thinking Hes strong. Hes genetically trustworthy. None of those just I love him!   Yeah.   Yeah so he is saying most  most of the time when you see the ornaments that is not fitness at all that is beauty?   Yeah most.   That is what he says.   Most.   Yeah.   He is big time on most.   Well how would you even know that? I mean as a human how would you ever even know the inner workings of another creature's mind? To know enough to say what it is that is driving them or not?   I asked this very  I  no I asked this very question to ornithologist Kim Bostwick.   Right   Isnt it impossible for you as a human being to have any idea what a lady animal wants to see in a guy if that lady animal is a peahen which you are not. Or a trout which you arent.   Oh yeah. I am ready to answer this.   Okay.   Here it is. I do not know what she wants now but I know historically shes wanted exactly what you see in those males. The peahen has wanted that big ol tail. Shes wanted the show. Shes wanted the blue chest. She has at some time or another in the last I dont know how many thousands of years she has wanted everything you see on him from the fancy feathers to the white skin around his eye to the iridescent blue the shaking thats what she has wanted in the past.   How do you know that?   Because its there. Seriously.   Is not there some lawyer in the room that can say Wait a second wait a second! Is that -- what do you mean because it is there?   How else did it get there? Well how else did it get there?   Well it couldve gotten there by accident.   By chance?   Yes.   Yeah so you just happen to have this like fine nano-structured iridescent colors in your feather because like 42 interacting genes across five different chromosomes came together to give you iridescent blue? No.   The way you get to iridescent blue says Kim is you start small.   You give your female a bunch of choices which are the males in her block.   So imagine a female surrounded by a bunch of males who are all just boring or grey or black or whatever. Then totally randomly a male shows up who just happens to have a little bit of blue on him. And she notices.   When the sun glints off of his black plumage theres just a little hint of blue in that black. Its kind of a glossy shiny blue black. And shes like Mmm. I like that. I like that. That is a little different than everybody else and I like it.   And who knows why it could be totally random too but for whatever reason she decides to mate with the blue guy.   Mmm. I like that   Because she is passing on his genes her sons are like gonna be a little bit blue too.   Her offspring are gonna have those beautiful genes and we already know that the females chose him because he was attractive and so shes gonna have attractive sons. And her daughters are gonna also find those traits attractive.   And so what you get generations after generation of females who say   Mmm I like that.   I like that. I like that. I like that. I like that.   And then off it goes. Youre -- you are creating -- youre evolving the males to please the females.   And it all just starts with ...   I like that.   But I like that does not feel to me opposite of fitness. Like I like that could be a desire that is driven by instinct. I mean could not like a Wallace person walk in and be like Yeah she likes that because she was designed to like that. She is not thinking about the  the why there she is just having a desire. But behind that desire is maybe a drive to get her to the male that is the fittest. Like and I  and I  frankly it could be the same with us too. With people. Like the  what we find sexy might have a deep logic to it.   A hidden  a hidden logic.   Yeah I see that.   A deep hidden logic to it that maybe in the end is about fitness.   Okay that is a perfectly reasonable objection.   Thank you.   But what if I told you about an animal who has a fierce desire for beauty and this particular desire for beauty is so strong that fitness is out of the picture?   It is another bird?   It is another bird.   Big surprise I know.     Dont hate them because theyre beautiful Jad. Well just take a break. Well take a break and after that well come back with another bird.  CHAPTER 4   People Jad Abumrad  Robert Krulwich  Bethel Habte  Kim Bostwick  Richard Prum    Jad.   Robert.   Bethel.   Radiolab.    Bird battle?   Bird battle. And were about to introduce our third bird.   Yeah you want me to go?   Yeah. Go ahead. Go.   All right. OK so theres a bird out there called the club-winged manakin     And this manakin lives in the jungles of I forgot where she was. Somewhere in the jungles .   South America.   In South America. I think Colombia.   Well okay. So the  the club-winged manakin has a very small range in Colombia and Ecuador.   Is it a big bird small bird?   No. Very little.   Its a tiny bird. The males   The males are mostly red   Hes got a bright red head   Kind of an auburn body and black and white wings with little flecks of yellow underneath them. So these are small birds lot of color. And   The female can raise the babies all on her own.   So she doesnt need guys except for the sexual act.   Right.   He doesnt have to provide for her he just has to attract her.       So to that end this is what our little red Romeo will do. He will sit on a branch in the Andean jungle and he will wait awhile until a female shows up.     And then when she does...   He has a courtship display. And he bounces back and forth on the perch. And while hes bouncing around   Every so often he stops lowers his head sticks his butt up in the air.   Gets his wings all positioned and he throws them up.   Behind his back.   And then he is  he vibrates.     Or just shivers. He shivers his wings together. So that the only things that touch are those feathers across the back. The tips of those funny feathers are going knock-knock- knock-knock-knock-knock-knock-knock. They knock 39 times in a row. And it takes about a third of a second for those 39 knocks.   Their wings vibrate so fast that they make this sound.   Can you make a  can you make the sound that   Tick tick tick     Wow!   It is impossible for a human to make with their voice.   Is that seriously the sound it makes?   Yeah!   Yeah. It is like a truck backing up.   Exactly.   Eeeee!   So he is not using his voice for that? It is just his wings?   Hes got this instrument     Yeah. Its called strigulation. This is a cricket-winged manakin would be a perfectly good name for this bird.   In any case something about that sound that specific sound excites the female. We do not know why or when it started but somewhere in the bird's past a female decided she liked that sound and so the males just started to make it. But here's the thing in order to make that sound?   Yeah they really have paid. They have paid.   Because to vibrate your wings that fast 107 times per second you need a wing bone that can really control. And so the club winged-manakin has done something unheard of. Their wing bones went solid.   Its just like a rock inside there.   This is a big deal because all flying birds have hollow wing bones.   Right. So they can fly so theyre light.   Yeah. Well actually even velociraptor and t-rex have hollow forelimb bones right? So this is a feature that predates the origin of birds and the origin of flight. But this guy has given this up in order to make these extraordinary wing songs.   Well does not that hurt your ability to fly?   Yes. Yes. They are slow heavy unable to leap buildings in a single bound.   Well its the cost of doing business for a  a displaying male right?   Think about that. You are in a crowded forest. Lots of competitors lots of predators trying to eat you. And you have made yourself slower more vulnerable. And it gets worse. Because the manakins have to start this process of building these hard bones really early like when they are very very tiny in the embryo.   Before the embryo has become either male or female.   So youve got an embryo that can go either way and theyre already making the big bones. And some of them are gonna be male but some of them are gonna be female.   So by choosing males with weird wing bones because they make great songs the female also has daughters with distorted and inferior wing bones that they will never use.   Both the females and the males get these thick bones. So she is choosing to hear that sound and has designed him to produce that sound. But in the bargain he comes out with heavier bones and can fly less well and weirdly enough she comes out with heavier bones and can fly less well. So both of them are hurting their chances to survive for the chance to hear the beautiful tone that she wants to hear that he wants to give her.   Wait what?   Wait. So she has heavy bones too?   Yeah   Yep   But she doesnt use them?   Nope   Nope.   Rick saw it immediately. Like I was like Oh this is weird. The females got the bumps on her bones too and he is like  decadence! And I was like What? What are you talking about decadence? Hes like The females have it but they dont use it! Shes bearing the cost of her own choices! Decadence! And this was like 20 years ago    You science people have such strange moments of ecstasy.   Oh yes.   So when he says decadence what did he mean?   So everybody in the population becomes worse off because females are so choosy and choose beauty.     So from Rick's point of view you have got a contest going on here. Two primal drives. And on one hand there is the desire to survive. Survival of the fittest right? And according to that logic the manakin should go for things that make him swift and powerful and agile. But on the other hand there is a second drive to see or in this case to hear something they like. Something beautiful. And in this case that second drive is so strong that it is winning. It is pushing the birds like away from fitness.   So - so weve gone through the math and others have as well and there is nothing in theory nothing to prevent this kind of process from leading to extinction.   Oh my god.   Right?   You just  wait youve just turned what I formerly think of Darwinian evolution on its head. Like weve always been taught that what these animals are doing is theyre adapting as best as they can to new and changing conditions and theyre getting better. But here you say that they are so hung up on desire and beauty that they even are willing to get worse.   Right. Well you know thats why this example is checkmate.    CHAPTER 5   People  Jad Abumrad  Robert Krulwich  Bethel Habte  Jerry Coin  Richard Prum  Kim Bostwick   But there are biologists     Eminent biologists.   Hello?   You dont want to be sucking a lollipop or whatever youre doing there Jerry.   Like Jerry Coin of the University of Chicago.   Im not - Ill be through with it when I go on the air.   Who disagree with Rick.   What is it is it a lollipop or    No its a cough drop   Oh it is a cough drop. Okay.   So Jerry read Rick's book and was not - not convinced by the argument.   Well I think its a good book but its not a great book. Its good because it has really great stories about mating behavior which are accurate stories as far as I know. And theyre quite absorbing Prum is a good writer. The reason its not a great book is that its tendentious that is its written to promote a cause.   Which is that of course that males with beautiful ornaments are shaped by female sense of beauty not fitness.   I think the word fitness is a huge problem. And I dont use it anymore.   That  you cant just say that and have it accepted by scientists unless you contest it okay? And that is the problem   For Jerry when it comes to the stories that weve just heard like the bowerbird or the manakin he thinks that -   More is going on here than what Richard says in his book you know?   Take the female bowerbirds preference for bowers that keep her apart from males.   I mean Richards explanation that it allows the female more time to choose. It doesnt freak her out because she feels protected. That might be the right explanation. But we dont know. I mean it could be that females have an innate preference for being sheltered because it gives them a sense of security. She - like cats. Cats like to be in boxes right? Because they feel sheltered and they feel safe and it could be that female bowerbirds are the same way. And that will lead to exactly the same situation but with a completely different explanation. And its not just a random aesthetic phenomenon.   Or he says maybe some female bowerbirds like blue so much because blueberries are really good for them and they are innately drawn to blue because of that.   Or go to the manakin tale with that you know 1500 Hz tone. Rick says simply delights the females but -   Suppose that the females prefer males that have a certain frequency of wing-beating because they were attuned to that frequency perhaps because it indicates something in their environment thats useful to them like the presence of a predator   It could be anything really. The sound of something manakin-friendly animal or a protective animal or maybe the call of their own baby the baby chicks.   And so they just have their nervous system innately tuned to that frequency. Thats called sensory bias and thats another theory of sexual selection.   Jerry does not dispute the fact that female birds like bowers they do. Or that they like the beautiful tone they do. He just thinks that there might be a reason behind their liking. And that reason could include fitness.   Correct yeah. I mean ...   But are you  are you hoping I guess? Is that the right word? Hoping that there might be a parasite signal involved here? Like you do not know. You just want to ...   No I dont know. I mean thats my whole point and thats why I dont think I dont propose my own theory of sexual selection. Im not sure which one is  does account for these manakins with the heavy bones. We just dont know.   Oh my God! This conversation were having keep ending up in the same place which is we just dont know.   Well it  the difference between me and Dr. Prum is I admit I dont know.     The suggestion is here is that Rick is clinging to a faith in one explanation. For Wallace it was fitness for Rick its beauty. But its still that dogmatic insistence.   I just think that adaptation by natural selection fitness is  is pretty boring.     You know? You know 150 years in we have  we have  we have whipped that pony quite a bit and we made a whole bunch of progress. But you know what? There is this huge world of opportunity in aesthetic evolution that  that has been missed.   In fact Rick would say the whole point of a sense of beauty is that it can be many many different things. It is funda  beauty is fundamentally subjective.   So the aesthetic model requires that we put the subjective experience desire itself at the center of our  of our scientific explanation     Can you even have a science thats based on subjective experience?   I think that -- that a science of subjective experience is not only a good idea it is necessary to understand the natural world.   Yeah. There is idiosyncrasy.   Again ornithologist Kim Bostwick.   You cant take the individuals out of it.   So you dont  is that science or is that just its just saying okay it really comes down to she the carp likes what that male carp has she the worm likes what the worm has she the bird likes what the bird has. And then you have a trillion explanations each one different and depending upon the lady a different one so you dont  doesnt it worry you that to call beauty and desire a category an explanation as to not tell you very much?   That doesnt worry me at all. I  that doesnt worry me at all. I you all of us we are individuals. We have unique histories. And life on this planet has a unique history. Science has a hard time dealing with unique instances. But biology is just in your face with it. There are individual females making choices. If that individual female had not made that choice history might have been different and the species might look different. And that is true. Thats just true.   In  in physics and in chemistry there is this sort of conceit that what a scientist is supposed to do is take all this variety that you see in front of you and say Look I can boil this down to a rule which is always true.   Yeah which transcend ...   And usually it is one rule. And transcends...   Yeah. Transcends everything.   So  so what the job of science usually is is to find some kind of oneness inside the manyness. But now we have got nature and living things. And they have this crazy spectacular variety. And now you have got a group of people who say You know maybe we should not even try to explain all this with one rule or one paradigm. But you know I wonder if um  if thats still science. Or is it more like history?   Hm.   What if every species or every animal comes with its own story?   Oh thats interesting.   So its once upon a time and then a once upon a time and a once upon a time and a once upon a time and a once upon a time and a once upon a time   This was reported by you   Yeah   Robert Krulwich and Bethel Habte. And Bethel produced this story. Thank you Bethel.   Sure thing.   And special thanks also to Jessica Eurinsky for her works on peacocks and Michaela Gunther for her work on hyenas. We didnt mention the peacocks and hyenas as much as we thought but we are very grateful to both of you.   All right well we should say goodbye.   Goodbye.   Well to    To our audience?   To our audience.     Im not done with you.   No okay.   Im Jad Abumrad.   Im Robert Krulwich.   Thanks for listening.  