 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR the Partner in Crime episode. My name is Glynn Washington. And public radio listeners we are going back now to the place where a lot of you were pointed at and made fun of because we know our demographic here. I know you. We are going back to high school. And as you might recall back in high school that even worse than being called out was not being noticed at all. Sage Tyrtle tells us her story.  So I am 12 years old and I am the ugliest fattest kid at my school. And one day I am standing outside of class and this girl comes walking up to me. And I have no idea what to expect. But experience has taught me it is likely to be bad whatever it is. And she stops and she says you seem really lonely. I see you every day eating lunch by yourself in that library reading a book and I think you should eat lunch with me and my friends. And inside my head there is this like chorus of singing angels. But to her I just say yeah I would really like to. I start eating lunch every day with Marta and her friends. And soon Marta and I are best friends. We spend every single moment together at school. We play endless games of backgammon listen to Depeche Mode's Some Great Reward on the record player and we laugh. And I bloom into a new girl with her. And the years pass and now we are 15. And Marta gets a crush on the most boring boy in the entire world Scott. He has beige clothes and beige skin and a beige mind. Suddenly she is playing backgammon with him during lunch. That is a two person game. And now when I call her after school her phone is busy. So I commit the ultimate betrayal. I hold Scott's hand all throughout the school performance of My Fair Lady. And if we adjust for inflation imagine I have just told you that Scott and I made love in the aisle all throughout The Rain in Spain Falls Mainly on the Plain. I mean this is the enormity of my betrayal. Marta finds out. She corners me at school and she screams at me for 20 minutes. And everything she says is right. And all I can do is stand there saying please tell me what I can do to fix this. I will do anything. And she walks away and she stops and turns back. And she says nothing. There is nothing that you can do. For the next two weeks I cry in the bathtub and the grocery store and math class. And my dad is like Sage you will find another friend. And I am thinking it took me 12 years to find the first one. I am going to be in university before I make another friend. And also I wish Marta dead in this great variety of interesting ways like when she is savaged by wolves in our little suburban park and there is a thread of blood trailing out of her mouth. Two weeks later Marta has a brain hemorrhage. She is in the hospital in a coma for a month - a grinding awful month. And my dad says you cannot go visit her but you can send her flowers. So I do. I send her flowers. And Marta spends the next year in the hospital learning how to write and talk and eat all over again. And then she does come back to school. And I am standing outside class and I am waiting for it to start. And she comes walking up to me. And her gait is unsteady and she is wearing this big plastic helmet to protect her head. And I have no idea what to expect. And she stops in front of me and she says I just wanted to say thank you. After all those terrible things that I said to you you sent me flowers and that really meant something to me. And I am looking at her and thinking I could live to be 102 years old and I will never be as kind as this girl. And then she invites me to her house. And all through that fall and that winter we play backgammon and we listen to Depeche Mode on the record player. And it is really frantic and it is really forced. And there is always this shadow Sage and this shadow Marta. And they are laughing together and we are not.  Thank you Sage for sharing your story with the SNAP. It was produced with the assistance of Anna Sussman and Julia DeWitt. 