 Listener-supported WNYC Studios.   Wait. Wait. You are listening ...  OK.  All right.  OK.  All right.  You are listening...  Listening...  ...To RADIOLAB.  RADIOLAB.  From WNYC.  C?  Yep.  I am Lulu Miller. This is RADIOLAB.   And today we are going to start with...  Lulu?  I am just recording your furious typing.   ...A very busy photo editor.  My name is Kainaz Amaria and I am the visuals editor at vox.com.  Are you exhausted? Were you up late?  Yeah. I got to say I am not very lucid. So I was...  I caught her in this kind of bleary moment because the afternoon before January 6 she had been sitting in her D.C. apartment doing her visuals editor thing TV on...  We were covering the vote count.  ...Watching the live feed of the Senate floor...  And we knew that the protest was happening.  ...Keeping an eye on the photos coming in through Twitter....  Crowds getting closer and closer to the Capitol building...  Through the wires...  Barriers being torn down.  And at some point when she was looking at the TV...  The live feeds shut off. There was just a title slide. Congress is temporarily out of session.  As we now know this was the moment that the people outside the Capitol got in.  Right.  And suddenly Kainaz is staring down this vortex of photos coming in.  Thousands of images.  Damn. I mean is it really? It is like thousands?  Yeah.  Photos of broken glass smoke angry faces - and her job is to start picking the very small fraction of them that will make it to our eyes.  And actually the first image that really stopped me in my tracks was a pro-Trump supporter with a flag standing on the staircase inside the Capitol and it is from a really low angle. And there is a look in his face - I am not sure if he is cross-eyed or there was a flash - but there is a feeling in that photograph of we are here now. I mean you know good images show you what is happening. Great images have metaphor and make you feel what is happening and put you in that moment as if you are there and that was the first photograph I saw that made me feel worried for the people in the building.  So she decided to run that one because she thought it gave audiences a clear sense of what was really going on.  But you know picture editing is very subjective. You know there is this element of my own filter.  That filter is something Kainaz talks about a lot in her work. She writes and speaks beautifully about how if you want to see deeper into a photo you need to think about that filter. Ask yourself who put this photo in front of me? What do they want me to see?  How am I implicated in what I am seeing?  And she says that that day her admittedly subjective filter was trying to show the rest of us an accurate range of what was going on and also...  What it feels like to be there.  So she said no to tons of photos that were too blurry too busy...  You know your eye does not have any place to land.  ...And yes to this very small handful that she thought captured the feeling.  Men scaling the walls congressional members taking cover people looting the Capitol but feeling completely OK with having their picture taken and smiling in a sense of like there was no fear of consequences for them.  And then this one image came to her attention.  I did have one slight hesitation of the police drawing guns so close to a protester's face.  Is this the one that - it is the three policemen. Two of them seem to be pointing the gun just a foot or so away from this guy his face through a broken window. Is it that one?  Yeah - or less than that. Yeah.  Yeah - really close. And it struck Kainaz in that great-image way. It made her feel.  The closeness of that moment was really strong and it gave a sense of how dangerous this was. It is a moment captured in time that is just before something which gives you that sense of tension and fear.  And the true sense of yeah I guess like no one knowing how this is about to go down.  Exactly.  But on the other hand...  I mean what if this was the moment right before that man died?  And you did not know yet?  I did not know yet but what if the family saw this photograph?  Right. And is the moment right before potential unknown but if a person's living is that - it is like an ethical call versus a legal call? Like if the person were dead that would be something you could not do or could not do without permission? Is - how do the rules work right there?  Yeah. I mean this is the thing with ethics right? There are no rules.  Yeah.  There is conversations.  Kainaz said she had a lot of conversations about that image with her team with herself. And eventually...  I felt that his face was sufficiently sort of ambiguous.  ...She decided to publish it.  Yeah.  Are there images you think just should not be shown that we should not see?  It depends on the story. It depends on the time. And that is why I think there are no black-and-white lines.   Talking with Kainaz made me look at all the images that have been coming in the past few days with new questions I guess. And it also got me thinking about this piece that Jad did a while ago that is about those lines - that crawls under them twirls them throws them in a blender all toward this question of what is OK to see? And who should really be deciding that? And I am going to just play it for you now.   OK. So here's how I got to you.  OK.  I have a former producer and now a good friend Pat Walters.  Oh yeah.  You know Pat.  Yes. We corresponded and then he came to see me speak in San Francisco.  Yes. And it was based on something he saw you talk about which is why I am now contacting you.  Interesting. OK.  Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  I am Robert Krulwich.  This is RADIOLAB. And today a story about a set of pictures.  Pictures.  Yeah. And a set of questions about those pictures regarding who gets to see the pictures and who gets to decide who gets to see the pictures.  Do we get to see the pictures?  Well that is kind of the question...  .  ...So I am not going to answer that yet. But I should say that there are some moments in this story that get a little - what is the word?  Heavy.  Heavy yeah - so be forewarned. But we will start with the picture-taker.  My name is Lynsey Addario and I am a photojournalist.  She is been covering war for the last 15 years.  I have done military embeds infantry units patrolling going in house-to-house searches.  She is worked in - well everywhere - Sudan Libya Lebanon Pakistan a million places. She is been kidnapped twice. She is won a Pulitzer a MacArthur and she is been called one of the most influential photographers of the past 25 years. In any case this particular story can you set it up a little bit?  Sure. So in December of 2009...  She was taking pictures for Time magazine. She was in Afghanistan Garmsir district Helmand Province stationed at a base in the middle of the desert.  I was embedded with the medevac team. And their role is to go in and pick up injured troops out of the theater of war.  This is a small team of basically helicopter pilots medics doctors.  Basically whenever there is an injured soldier these teams are called - whichever team is closest to the injured.  We are talking like helicopter dropping into...  Oh yeah. I mean this is fast.  So Lynsey had been embedded with this team for a couple of days and not much was happening.  So you are just sitting around reading magazines and then rereading the same magazines.  And one night really late...  But I think I was lying in bed and I was totally - like if I was not asleep I was on the verge of sleep when they - someone ran and was like...   ...There is an alpha.  Alpha is like...  Alpha means the most gravely wounded. Like you have seconds to get there. I mean it is life or death.  So she grabs two cameras her helmet body armor runs out to the Black Hawk.  I strap myself in and we take off. And I think it was about a two-minute flight which is so fast. And I remember I was shooting the fields as we flew in because I was trying to focus and see what I can see. Luckily they had lent me a set of night-vision goggles which was really nice of the military because you cannot see anything without them in the middle of the night because they are using night vision so they do not ever turn on the lights.  So if you were to look through the camera directly you would see...  Nothing.  ...Just blackness.  Nothing. So what you do for a photographer is you put the night-vision goggles in front of the camera lens so it looks green. It is fluorescent green.  Does that mean that the picture you get is green?  Yes.  Huh. So they fly for two minutes through the pitch black land the helicopter - she has no idea where.  And everything is happening extremely fast. I am trying to focus as I am looking out the helicopter door. And suddenly in my view finder I see a man sort of wrapped - I think he was wrapped in a blanket. And he gets put right in front of me on the floor of the Black Hawk. The first thing I thought is I think he is already dead. He seemed completely unresponsive. And he seemed so young. I just remember looking at his face and thinking God what are we doing here?  Within seconds they are airborne again flying back to the field hospital. Lynsey takes pictures on that brief flight back - grainy fluorescent green images of the medics tending to the soldier checking his vitals.  We land at the field hospital.  They rushed him on a stretcher into the hospital tent.  And the whole team of medics Navy nurses the anesthesiologist - everyone is there. They carry him inside and put him immediately on the table cut his clothes off. They are cutting his pants off open up his shirt. And the room starts filling up with everyone because everyone has heard that there is an alpha. And so troops come in from across the base sort of in support.  She says within minutes the room went from just a handful of people - five six - to a dozen 20.  And it is - you can hear a pin drop. I mean the room is silent except for the doctors. You know they are trying to resuscitate him. He had lost I think eight or nine pints of blood. They are bringing in blood. They are bringing in all sorts of things. And I...  Are you shooting this whole time?  Well yeah of course. You know I am basically trying to be invisible because it is so sensitive to be a photographer in that situation. What I do - I do not shoot like bang bang bang bang bang bang bang. You know I shoot one frame and then I put my camera down. And I shoot another frame. Because you can hear the click of the shutter and it is like exponentially louder than normal in a situation like that.  Well did you get - did anyone give you a look of like...  So...  ...Back off or anything like that?  Well at one point I was shooting for probably I do not know five or six minutes maybe. And an officer walked over to me. And he said hey stop photographing.   And...  Really?  Yeah. And I put the camera down. And I looked at him and I said I have permission.  She had worked all that out beforehand as part of the conditions of her embed.  We had had all these conversations. You know what happens in the case of this? What is my access? What can I do?  But at this point she says the room was full of people from across the base who did not know any of that did not know who she was that she had permission. And so she was sort of at this fork in the road.   There were those like that officer who clearly felt...  Put the camera down.  Stop.  Obviously this is not the time to argue or to be disrespectful. So I did not say anything else. I put the camera down.  But she says the moment she did that...  Several other troops said no let her shoot. This has to be documented.  Oh that is interesting. So you have one guy who says you cannot take a picture of this...  Right.  ...Almost like anything but this.  Right.  And then another guy is like no this especially.  Right right. First of all the guy who said no was being protective. It made perfect sense for me. But I think the guys who stood up and said this has to be documented - I think at some point everyone realized like look this war is not going away. We are losing so many lives and limbs and no one is seeing it.  And keep in mind this is 2009. This is just the tail end of an 18-year ban where the news media could not even photograph military coffins. In any case the officer let it go. Lynsey continued to take pictures for about another 20 minutes. She took pictures of the doctors cutting open the boy's chest massaging his heart.  At some point I remember someone - one of the doctors looked up and said does anyone else have any suggestions basically for how to save him? And everyone said no. And they sort of disconnected the - I mean he died. People were looking down and then they were looking at each other. And someone went to go get a flag an American flag to drape over his body. I continued photographing. And there was a moment where the whole room was silent and people stood around his body draped with a flag and said a prayer. That to me is one of the most powerful images that came out of this whole series.  There is this old idea in photography called the decisive moment - that the world is filled with these far-off realities. But every so often a photograph can capture a moment that boom takes you there. This is one of those photos. In the picture you see all these men and women standing in kind of a loose semicircle. Some of them still have their blue surgical gloves on. They look totally spent. They are all looking in different directions. And they all look like they are not even there like they are totally lost in their own thoughts.  Their attention is clearly inwards.  Yeah.  I am sure all those troops were like God that could have been me. Why could not we save him? What are we doing here in Afghanistan? Is this war worth it? And to read the expressions on their faces. Like it is even - you can be at war as a journalist but never actually get to the heart of the war because we do not have access or people do not open up. And I felt like I really had reached a - like the crux of the war.  Interesting.  It was war.  You would see an essence of something.  Yeah.  But then came a problem. Any photos that she had taken that included that soldier's face or any other identifying marks like tattoos - and he did have tattoos - according to the rules of her embed she could not use those photos without the soldier's permission.  Right.  And you never got to speak to him?  No.  So was it days later weeks later months later where you began to ask yourself can I...  No...  Who do I talk to?  ...It was minutes later.  Minutes later.  I mean it is - the military does not let a journalist cover something like this without coming directly to that person. And so literally like I followed the young man's body out to the morgue. And they had to walk him outside. And I remember it was - the moon was so bright that night. And I was shooting with the moonlight as he was being carried outside. And then I went back to the tent where I was staying. And within minutes the military PAO the Marines' public affairs officers came and said you know you cannot send those images out without permission from the next of kin.  That is the rule. If a soldier is unconscious and then dies before giving permission...  I have to then go to the next of kin. And I said of course I understand. You know I am not doing anything with those photos in that moment. I signed this piece of paper. When I give my word I keep that word you know?  Sure.  But then the other side of me was like fuck you know? In Vietnam no one was signing pieces of paper. And in Vietnam no one had to go to the next of kin before they published anything. And that is why the American public I think rose up against the war in Vietnam because they saw the most graphic devastating images that were uncensored.  So then what do you do in that circumstance? I mean I imagine you go to the next of kin right?  Well you are not allowed as a journalist to reach out to the next of kin. They asked me are you interested in being contacted by the next of kin if they are willing to speak to you?  Oh so you cannot even actually call?  No no. They will not give you the information.  Oh.  But I said you know of course I would like to be contacted by the next of kin and please pass my information on. And I was sort of just waiting.  I mean at this point were you thinking the pictures would ever see the light of day?  I had no idea. And...  A few days later...  ...Maybe less than a week.  ...Her embed was over. She was flying to JFK on her way to meet her family for Christmas.  And I had voicemails on my telephone.   And I listened. And it was his father. And he left me a voicemail. And he said I understand you were with my son when he died and I would like to talk to you. And this is my phone number.  Wow.  I sort of choked up just listening to his voice anticipating how difficult that phone call would be.  That phone call and all the fallout is coming up.   Hey. I am Jad Abumrad.  I am Robert Krulwich.  This is RADIOLAB. So Lynsey Addario the photographer has these photos these intense photos of a soldier dying but she cannot use them without getting permission from the next of kin.  Right.  A few days later...  I had voicemails on my telephone. And I listened and it was his father.  His father's name is Todd Taylor. His son's name was Jonathan Taylor. And just to jump ahead for a second as we were talking about the phone call and the fallout from that phone call I had all of these questions about what Todd Taylor was thinking questions about his son - things that Lynsey could not possibly answer. So at a certain point in the interview she just told me...  I do not know. I mean you could maybe interview him.  Do you think he would? I mean is that...  Well...  Is there any prohibition on me talking to him?  Well I would be happy to give you his information.  Yeah I would be - I would love to talk to him.  Yeah. I mean you can try.   Lynsey put us in touch and I will just tell you about the visit for a second. Todd Taylor was willing to talk. He had two conditions. Two right. One was like if I am doing a story about these photos of his son I should at least get to know his son a little bit. And the second was that I come down to Florida to meet him and his family personally.  The destination is on your left.  All right. So I did. Hey.   Good morning.  Good morning. How are you?  Doing good. Doing good.  Good to meet you.  Did you have a...  The Taylor family live in a section of Jacksonville that is near a naval base so there are a lot of military families there.  Come on in meet all the doggies.  Todd is actually ex-Navy himself. No no no. No jumping.   He introduced me to his three giant boxers. No jumping.   Or they sort of introduced themselves. And then...  This is my daughter.  Hi. Nice to meet you.  Good to meet you.  My youngest that is Lauren. Yep Jad.  I am the youngest yeah.  Met his daughters.  I am Lauren Taylor. I am 16 going on 17.  Oh God. You had to add that in.   My name's Mackenzie Taylor. I am Jonathan's other sister and I am 20 years old.  That little voice you heard in the background is Easton . He is about 2.  That is one of the babies she watches. Hey handsome.  Mackenzie works as a nanny.   My name's Paige Larson. I am Jonathan's stepsister and I am 21.  My name's Sue Taylor and I am Jonathan's stepmom.  And then of course...  I am Todd Taylor. I am Jonathan's dad. We are here in my house in Jacksonville Fla. And today is Jonathan's birthday. It is April 8.  2015 - so he would have been how old today?  Twenty-eight years old today - 28.  When I got there they pulled out photo albums of Jonathan. We all sat at the kitchen table and looked at pictures.  Right there.  Pictures of him as a baby.  Of course that was very young.  Toddler.  This was on the Disney cruise I took them on.  Adolescent.  Kennedy Space Center.  Teenager - see him running track.  He liked cross-country.  Going to prom.  That was Jonathan's girlfriend.  The thing you notice immediately in all the pictures...  He had big blue eyes.  He is got these eyes that are not just blue - they are really blue like if you boosted the brightness in Photoshop or something.  Yeah that is - I forgot. I think we are on vacation here. But...  The other thing you notice...  His facial expressions are really funny in some of these.  Yeah he was a big class clown.  A lot of goofy faces.  Very goofy.  Oh big goof-off.  Yeah. Goofball yeah. Definitely knew how to make anybody laugh.  Full of energy always into stuff. He kept the boys away too .  Definitely. Most definitely. He made sure if I had boyfriends he would call them just to see what grades they had.  Really? He would check on their grades?  Yeah kind of give them a little interview.  I do remember he was very protective. If I had a crush he would be like oh no you are not going to have a crush. No no boys.  There was one time before he left for Afghanistan I got really sick with a fever and I remember him holding my hand just so he can make sure that I was OK and took care of me.  They told me story after story about how he doted on his sisters how he loved to read and wanted to become a history teacher after his four years in the Marines. And inevitably the conversation turned to the day that they found out he died - December 1 2009. They get a call from Jonathan's mom saying - it is that classic scene - oh my God there are two Marines at the door.  And we just kind of like left everything.  Sue Todd the girls jump in the car race over.  They all wanted to get out. And we are like no because we did not really know what was going to happen.  Yeah.  So we made all the girls stay in the car.  And I remember walking in the door and everyone just had this look on their face like the world had just ended. And  I remember asking what happened when my mom had told me he was gone. The first thing I did was run to his room because everything was the same before he had left. I remember opening his closet and grabbing one of his shirts and just holding onto it because it still had his scent on it. That night was really hard.  One thing that had never occurred to me - totally caught me off guard in thinking about those pictures - is that when those Marines came to the door and told them the news well they did not actually give much news.  This right here was one them. This is what was read.  Todd actually read me the circumstances-of-death statement.  Hostile action result of multiple traumatic injuries received as a member of a dismounted patrol that was struck by an IED while conducting combat operations in the Helmand Province. That was it - on patrol night patrol. That is all I had.  So you did not know anything?  That is it.  Jonathan's unit was still in Afghanistan so he could not talk to anyone. He had no clue what happened to his son. So when that casualty assistance officer told him actually there was a photographer in the room with your son when he died...  Automatically I was like - I wanted to call her.  Earlier in my conversation with Lynsey I would asked her. What do you remember of the call?  So the call - I went to my mother's house in Connecticut and I asked my mother to be left alone which in a big Italian American family means...   Does not happen very often.  It is not a small request.  No. She sort of looked at me like what? And I went up into the guest bedroom and I called him. And he picked up. I think he thanked me for calling him. I do not remember exactly what we said but I said you know I was with your son when he died and I will give you as much or as little information as you want. And he said I want to know everything.  Because I was not there. I was here.  He said I want to know every single thing. I want to be with my son.  Just to lose him and not be there for him - that was hard really hard.  And I felt sort of very awkward because I felt like you know why was I privy to this moment and he as the father could not be privy?  The most important question to me was did he suffer? Do you think that he suffered?  I said no.  She told me Mr. Taylor I do not think he suffered. I think he was in shock.  I told him everything - how much blood his son lost how long did they try to save him. And at some point I said look I have these pictures. I have all of these pictures. I shot everything. And I need your permission to publish the ones that show his face.  Oh yeah. She asked me for my permission. And...  He was quiet.  I said - I told her yes. But...  But he said I - can I see them?  ...I wanted to see them first.  Before I give permission I want to see every photo. And I said you know I am not sure you want to see these photos because they are graphic. But he wanted to see the - he wanted to see every photo.  All of them?  Yeah.  Course we were on the phone. I could not show them pictures. And legally I needed permission from Time magazine to show them anything because you know as a journalist you cannot show anything to anyone until it is published. You do not show people pictures of journalism before you publish them.  This is one of those cardinal rules that is drilled into every journalist's head. If you show a subject the raw stuff before it is out there you are kind of giving up the only independence you have got. That is why she says ordinarily...  I would never ever ever show.  Just to play it out for a second if he - to be cynical about it if you show him the pictures he might take away permission that he might have otherwise give you.  Yes exactly. Exactly. You can say as a publication no I will not show you those pictures before. You have to just say yes or no do you give your permission?  Like in a way if you get down to it I feel like one of the fundamental layers here is just like a question of whose rights when it comes to that information is more important?  I could hear an argument that says the battle is important. It was authorized by public figures. It is carrying America's message into the world. And should not Americans see what goes on?  Yeah but I could hear an argument that says should not a dad be able to protect who sees his son in that situation?  Yeah.  In any case Lynsey called her editors at Time. They had a series of conversations that went all the way up to the editor of Time.  We had a very intense conversation and we collectively made a decision to show him the photos.  To say that decision was unusual from their perspective would be severely understating it.  When I first got these from FedEx I knew they were coming and I was actually scared to look at them. And I saw my son there and I just kept looking and looking. You can see these were the - in the medevac when they got him on. You can see the night-vision lens. There is Jonathan's body chest. There is his face. There is the oxygen - still had his watch still. See his eyes closed there? That was...  Yeah.  So many hands in there working. You can see they are doing CPR there. Now here you see - right leg is really mangled and broken. That is really why he lost so much blood. It was all right in here.  Some of these pictures are...  Oh there is some of them that are...  ...Really hard to see.  Yeah. But even though they show the ugliness of war I have got a piece of Jonathan. This is my treasure. I will show you one of the pictures that - to me it is - it always stands out.  He brought up the picture of the prayer - all those people standing in a semicircle with faraway eyes.  Right here. You can just see a little different in their faces here. I mean he meant something. He was somebody.  Yeah.  He was not just a number.  Todd said he wanted people to see this picture and the others.  To convey what is happening over there - this is going on every day.  And he says for him it is not a political thing. You can feel however you want to feel about the wars we are in. For him it is about people seeing what is actually happening.  I mean I wanted to let people see the sacrifice that these boys do.  It took Todd and his family over a month to decide what to do about those pictures whether to grant Time permission to run the photos or not. He says ultimately he called Jonathan's mother over.  Her and her husband and my wife and I we all discussed it.  And ultimately he said no. And it was a lot of back-and-forth.  He said no to showing any pictures at all.  Well he cannot say no to any pictures because those...  Oh because there was pictures without the face.  Yeah exactly. He said no to any pictures with the face or identifying marks.  We decided really that we did not want these pictures to get out for fear that his sisters - somehow they would get back to them. And that was the big thing. I did not want them to be able to see this yet. As their dad I want to protect them from seeing certain things. So we decided not to do it.  Time had planned to run a whole photo spread on the medevac team trying to save Jonathan Taylor's life.   But since they now could not use most of those photos they had to make the photo spread more general.  What had been the - basically the death of a soldier ultimately became a photo essay on the medevac team. And those pictures were maybe two pictures or three pictures in that spread but they were not the focus.  The prayer photo is in the news spread because in that photo you cannot see his body because it is covered with the flag. There are no identifying marks. But somehow in that context it is not got the same impact weirdly.  Because you are seeing the after without the before?  Exactly. And you know...  Let us see here.  Todd showed me the original photo spread because they had sent that to him.  You know?  Again super unusual. So this is the - this is the feature they wanted to do.  Yeah. And see the pictures are so much more clear. This is kind of the layout that it is going to be. They call it 29 Minutes graphing it out...  Minute by minute.  ...This whole process.  So there you see all the before pictures that lead up to the prayer. And what it seemed to me is like if you do not see all that stuff the wounds and the blood and the tenderness as they tried to comfort him and then the emptiness they feel when they could not save him - like if you do not see all that you are not really standing with them in that prayer at the end. You are still seeing them across a space.  Yeah that is interesting.  In the original spread you are there in that room.  And they did a - they did a great job you know?  It is really powerful. And I could not help but think that like maybe this would have created that conversation that Lynsey talked about just a tiny bit and like how weird that I am one of the only people to see it. And to know that like I - the only reason I can describe it to you is 'ecause I am on the radio.  You know I will always feel like journalistically we sacrifice - you know we did not tell the story as powerfully as we could have. But we had integrity and I feel like we treated everyone with respect and we kept our word.  Lynsey and Todd now stay in touch over email once or twice a year. And in terms of keeping your word Todd has made a deal with his daughters that they can see the pictures when they turn 21. But interestingly the three of them do not agree as to whether they want to. Paige and Mackenzie who are about to turn 21 say they do not want to see the pictures.  I just could not handle it.  Yeah. Do you feel the same way?  Yeah I think for me I just do not want to see him in pain you know?  That is Mackenzie.  Yeah. My thing is I just do not want to see it because I would rather just remember him in one piece how he was. I am just too sensitive.  That is Paige. Now Lauren the youngest...  For me...  She says she needs to see those pictures.  Because I want to know what he went through. And I like constantly knowing things. And I do not like things being kept from me. And I just want to - I guess I just want a visual of...  It sounds like a... She says she knows he is gone but she still somehow needs proof - not that it happened she knows it happened - but so it feels real.   OK. So big thanks to Pat Walters Kira Pollack the Taylor family and of course Lynsey Addario. She has a book out now called It is What I Do which is sort of a memoir about her war photography and how it is changed her life. And that book is filled with her photography.  Anything like the ones we did not see?  Well there is some amazing pictures in there but nothing like these ones. So yeah that is it. I am Jad Abumrad.  I am Robert Krulwich.  Thanks for listening.  And Lulu here again. Big big big thanks to Kainaz Amaria for making time for me during a really busy moment. To find out what she is up to you can follow her on Twitter. And I highly recommend you listen to her interview on On The Media where she talks about a really troubling double standard in a lot of U.S. newsrooms. Big big thanks to her. That is it. Goodbye. Thank you for listening.  Hi it is Caroline  from Nashville Tenn. RADIOLAB was created by Jad Abumrad and is edited by Soren Wheeler. Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser are our co-hosts. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Matt Kielty Tobin Low Annie McEwen Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Jonny Moens. Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 