 OK so I was only 13. But this day deacon had specifically asked me to stand in the back of the church with the ushers. Mr. Musselman  was out sick. They needed extra help. And yeah I was proud. We waited the men and I as pastor concluded his offertory message. And he said something I had never heard before. He said...    Brethren you get to decide your place in God's kingdom.    If you hurt for the Lord right now know that he has saved a space for you at the right hand of Jesus.    So when you put your envelope in the offertory plate you are choosing just how close to the Lord you are going to stand for eternity.   Mrs. Ruth  played a hymn on piano. And that was our cue to enter the hall and start passing around the offering plates. And this was a new vantage point for me. Before I would always been seated giving up my own pitiful offering. But today standing over the congregation watching the plate pass from hand to hand I saw other people making their final last-minute calculations about how much to place in the envelope massaging their forehead pens poised over checkbooks whispered conversations between husbands and wives deciding exactly how close to Jesus they could afford to stand. I refused to look when the plate came to my own mother and father. I just kept it moving to the next row.   Then the music stopped. And we were finished. I took my own envelope thought about it and I stuck the remainder of my allowance inside. I wanted a good spot in the hereafter. And I had to wait until special music was over before I brought the offering plate back to the counting room. And maybe they did not hear me come in - maybe. But I saw the pastor and the deacon laughing as they counted up the envelopes.  This looks like it is going to break records pastor. You should have used that line about standing close to Jesus a long time ago . And they both laughed and laughed some more. I dropped my offering plate on the table and walked back out. I sat down in my seat. I did not hear anything - did not hear the announcements did not hear the sermon did not hear the closing hymn. And I did not know why my hands had tightened into fists. Really I do not know what I expected - that prayers would be murmured over the offering strict silence maintained head bowed holy contemplation. No I do not know. It is just that after that tiny peek behind the curtain I felt that I would slipped over a line and my world of five minutes ago was distinctly different than my world of right now. Today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR Rites of Passage amazing stories about the things you just got to go through before you can get through. My name is Glynn Washington and I promise we will let you know when the change comes because you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT. 