Cheryl says that when her first son was born he was everything to her the center of her world and he seemed happy. He was affectionate seemed to be very attached to me. He seemed to be a normal child. I do not remember seeing a lot of aggression in him when he was littler. That changed with the aggression when he was two when his little brother was born. Of course lots of kids act out when younger kids arrive in the family. But he was extreme. He would pinch him. He would squish him. He would try to hurt his little brother. Cheryl says very quickly it got the point that she and her husband could never leave the two of them alone to play. But they just thought you know he is hyper. Some kids are hyper. They could handle it no big deal. AS he got older there was other stuff like that. At three and four he would come out of preschool and scream and yell at her no matter what happened at school that day. And there was never any reason for his behavior. He just showed significant aggression towards me and towards his brother. And it was every day. When I look back I realize that we have been walking on eggshells with this child since he was very little. How old was he when he first tried to kill his brother? That happened this summer so he was seven. He decided to hold his brother under water in our backyard swimming pool. I was standing there about five feet away and felt some kind of commotion and turned around. And my son popped up out of the water hysterical. My younger son popped up hysterical. He would been clawing and scratching at his older brother feet trying to get his older brother to release him. Cheryl separated the two boys and the older brother started yelling at her about his feet. And he was screaming at me and telling me that I was a bad mother for not attending to his bleeding feet because I was taking care of my younger son and his hysterical screaming and crying and like he was trying to catch his breath. The older boy had been attacking the younger one for years. But this seemed different. This was new to take things so far that his little brother thought he might die-- no kidding. And just as disturbing was the older brother's attitude afterwards. He did it and never acknowledged the danger of what he did. It never hits him that he could have killed his brother. It never seems to bother him that that was a possibility. Later did he show remorse? No he never has. When we would talk about it with therapists he would just sit silent and not really participate in the conversation. He did not defend himself and they did not deny it. He just sits silent. Since then there have been other incidents. Twice he is pinned his little brother to the bed with a pillow over his little brother's face suffocating him. Each time he kept going when Cheryl yelled at him to stop. She had to shove him off. He also has a two-year-old sister. He is thrown her across the room. And there are creepy moments like Cheryl would wake up sometimes during the night and he would just be standing by her bed watching. One night after he had done that she found a pole near the bed. So he had been in my room for a while while we were sleeping. And I found this pole on the floor and realized that he had been at some point holding it in his hand while standing next to my bed while I was sound asleep and my husband was sound asleep. And it is an incredibly unnerving feeling to know how vulnerable I was at that moment and what could have happened what choices he could have made at that moment. And I do not know what was going through his mind. He told me the next morning that he wanted to wake me up. And I said well why would you have the pole? Well I was going to use the pole to wake you up. After that she and her husband installed alarms around the house one on his bedroom door one on his sister's bedroom door one on their bedroom door one that goes off if he tries to go downstairs plus security cameras 24 hours. And my younger son sleeps on my bedroom floor. And when you say an alarm goes off I do not know whether to picture a car alarm like a big loud like woo woo woo sound or just like a buzzer goes off next to your bed so you know something's happened. It is the woo-woo sound. Yeah it is loud enough that you can hear it from down the hallway. His bedroom's on the opposite side of the house. So when it goes off in the middle of the night we hear it. It is a sound that I hear in the shower. It is a sound that I hear in my dreams sometimes. But yes we all know when that sound goes off that it is time to be prepared. Have you thought to yourself oh no. Am I raising a psychopath? Absolutely. Cheryl and her husband have taken him to specialists psychiatrists psychologists a neurologist a neuropsychiatrist. At five her son was diagnosed ADHD. He is been diagnosed with conduct disorder oppositional defiance disorder mood dysregulation disorder. He is on the autism spectrum. He is been on meds since kindergarten. They have tried removing privileges removing toys punishing him with an earlier bedtime taking objects out of his room. They are going to keep an even tone of voice with him when he acts up. They have tried a system of rewards where we get stars and presents for doing what he is supposed to. He is now eight years old. Cheryl's been keeping a blog about all this. Cheryl is not her real name by the way. And she does not give her kids' names out either. And reading about her family's daily life on the blog it really struck me how her older son takes real pleasure in the chaos that he creates like in the morning when they will all getting ready to go to school making loud noises throwing food. Do not roll your eyes! What you are hearing is from the security cam in the kitchen. Just on Tuesday there was multiple threats to kill his brother. And he was throwing glasses of water across the room. And his little sister was yelling mean mean and stop it. You are mean. You are mean. And he will go from one sibling to the other. And I am protecting one sibling and he goes after the other. And the more tense and stressful it gets the more giddy and happy and he finds humor in all of it. How much of it is he likes the attention and how much of it is-- and it is weird to use this word for a little kid-- but just pure sadism? Like he likes tormenting you all? It is a really hard one to judge. I do believe that he enjoys going after his brother purely for the sadistic nature of making his brother feel unsafe. Do you think that he does things to you because he likes seeing you suffer? Yes I do. Of course nobody ever wants to say a kid is just bad. And the traits that we have in childhood do not necessarily last into adulthood. There is a study that looked at teenage boys with psychopathic traits. They found that only one fifth of highly psychopathic teenagers continued to be highly psychopathic once they grew into adulthood. Among people who study and treat kids like this there is a relatively new classification for children who do not have remorse and do not feel empathy for others. It is CU short for callous unemotional traits. Dan Waschbusch is a psychologist and researches these kind of kids. And he says that at this point we do have techniques to get these kids to follow rules better by giving them rewards. But getting them to learn empathy that is a whole other thing. I think that is a very difficult thing to treat. It is hard to see how you even directly address that. I do not think there is been a lot of progress in that. Which leaves Cheryl and her husband in a very tough situation. And as her son has gotten older and bigger things have gotten worse. He is gotten harder to manage. A few weeks ago Cheryl was trying to hug him on the bed. And he took his knee and he jammed it up and broke my nose. Do you think it was accidental or intentional? It was intentional. I do not know if he planned on breaking my nose but I know he planned on hurting me. He laughed. So since your oldest son broke your nose while you were hugging him what is it been like to hug him? It is very difficult. He has since tried to come into my bed and he will say I want to snuggle. I want to snuggle. And it is something that I have to choose to do because it is not a natural reaction any longer. I have to actually make the conscious decision to hug and love the child. I have read articles about children like him that their best chance at life is to continue to get that unconditional love and so my husband and I make a concerted effort to grab him and hug him and love him despite everything that we have been through. But I can tell you as a parent I had never expected to have to force myself to hug my child in the morning. Of course lots of parents experience less extreme versions of what she is going through. Most parents have moments when they think oh my kid is a monster. But usually that goes hand in hand with it is a phase. It is a bad day. People have faith that their kids are going to change. Well today on our program we have stories of children who make it very difficult for their parents to believe that and parents who really wonder can my kid change? And we ask are there kids you cannot do anything for? Today on our program Bad Babies and the bad children they grow into-- sometimes anyway. Very important. It is not all doom and gloom on our program today. We have stories of children who do not stay so bad as they get older who end up in fact super close to their parents. Today's program I promise you will end with a hug. That is not a spoiler. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Baby Not On Board. So talking with the mom who you just heard Cheryl this week I found myself thinking about this interview that I did years ago. The writer Doris Lessing had just publish this novel called The Fifth Child. And I got a chance to talk to her. And this by the way is how I sounded on the radio back then when I was 29. In the legend of the changeling an unlovable child is left by the fairies in place of a real human child. Doris Lessing has updated the changeling story in her latest book called The Fifth Child. OK I am going to stop the tape right there. Yes I was not so good. Anyway The Fifth Child is about what happens in a family when a baby is born into it who is not fully human. That is the story. He is born this goblin-ish sort of human and is a malevolent force from the beginning. He kills the family pets with his bare hands. From inside his crib he injures his older brother by grabbing him and spraining his arm. And what I found myself remembering this week is how the mom in that book is treated. Everybody blames the mom for how the kid turned out-- to her face and sometimes more subtly. They act like it is her fault that this goblin is a goblin. And Lessing told me in the interview that this part of the story actually came from real life. And in fact I have seen it in more than one family. One of my friends had a couple of children perfectly normal children and the third child was-- no one ever found out what was wrong. But it was not a normal child. And she went around the usual round of experts and psychiatrists and God knows what. And she said to me it suddenly occurred to her that all this time it was taken absolutely for granted in some way it was her fault. It was her psychological attitude and so on. And she said to one of them in a moment of revelation how is it that no one has ever one said to me how clever you are to have given birth to two marvellous normal children. All you have ever said to me-- or suggested-- is that I am a criminal. There is this is set psychological set an emotional set that women get blamed for things like this. I feel judged as a mom all the time. Again here's Cheryl the mother from the top of the show. I do not think there is a day that goes by that I do not feel that judgment. I feel judgment from family from friends from strangers from school administrators from teachers. I live in this constant state of guilt and judgment that I feel that if I did something different or did something better that perhaps I would not have this problem. And then I have to remind myself that I have two other beautiful children that do not behave the same way. So I must be doing something right. A couple weeks ago you wrote on your blog I feel like I have failed my child. I cannot shake that. I want to kick and scream and fight and find the next thing to try to make it better. But I know in my heart he is who he is. And reading your blog in a couple of different spots it seems like you go back and forth between those two feelings-- on the one hand blaming yourself for not doing a better job at getting him to change and on the other hand feeling like you are doing everything you know how to do. And I am wondering lately which of those two feelings are you feeling more? Today I feel like a failure. Why? What happened today? Oh well today was a very rough day. He is mean. He is called me a jerk. He called me many names tried to hurt his brother the same things that happen on a daily basis. Just today was-- it gets old. Do your little kids have the feeling that you cannot protect them? I believe that they still feel like I can protect them. I believe my younger son feels like he can protect me. He did not want to leave this morning because he is afraid that my older son will get me. Her younger son is six. There are oftentimes when I tell him-- we have this code word where I tell him to take his baby sister to what we call the playhouse. And what that means is he has to take them to her bedroom and then he blocks the door because my eldest son is out of control. And until I can get someone there to help me or get him under control his job is to protect his little sister and kind of play with her. And then sometimes in those moments he does not want to leave me because he feels like he needs to protect me too. And he feels this need to be the protector. That does not seem good. No. It is a terrible situation for him to be in. She says that all this takes a toll on the two younger kids. Her two-year-old daughter can tell when the eight-year-old's voice changes and he is about to do something mean or destructive and will start yelling at him to stop. Both children were noticeably more relaxed and happy she says when the eight-year-old was recently in a hospital for 10 days. His meds were being adjusted. And Cheryl and her husband feared that if their oldest son gets to the point where he is bigger and they cannot control him how can they keep him at home? You know it is a miserable way to live. And it is very difficult to have to choose. Do you choose your eight-year-old and keep him home because it is hard to send him away? Or do you choose to protect your other two children and send him away so that they can live a normal life? How do you make that decision as a mom? And I feel like if I do not find a way to save him that I will lose him to the demon that is within him. And hopefully I do not lose one of my other children or myself in that process. If you want to read her blog it is very well written. It is at myfamilymyvillage.com. There is also a link from our website thisamericanlife.org. Act Two The Road to Badness. So when does somebody turn bad? When does it happen? Can you truly be said to be bad when you are you know 10 or six or-- OK here the answer's going to get more obvious-- when you are two or six months old? Well I do not think a baby can be bad in a sense of being malevolent getting delight from the pain and suffering of others. We just do not see that. Paul Bloom is a professor at Yale who does experiments with babies to try to understand their sense of right and wrong good and bad. He wrote a book about it. It is not that there is a desire to cause pain and suffering. It is not like what he said about the Joker in The Dark Knight that some people just want the world to burn. You do not see that in babies. But what you see is selfish desires. They want food. They want attention. They want comfort. And they do not care what anybody else wants. Also research shows they are nicer to people they know. They do not give a damn about strangers. And they are racist. Babies are racist. OK not exactly racist. But they prefer whatever race of people they are used to seeing and being around. If they are raised in a multiracial setting they are fine with all the different races that they are used to. Thinking about this as much as you do when do you think people turn bad? I do not really think of that as the right question. I think that to a large extent we start off bad. We start off with these powerful selfish impulses. And what happens mostly through acculturation and development is we become good. We become more generous. And a lot of the evil in the world is caused by people who for whatever reason missed out on us. They missed out on getting their morality expanded to care about other races. They missed out on the capacity to exercise their self-control. So to some extent and this is an exaggeration but to some extent the most evil adult in the world is a two-year-old who never grew up is a two-year-old who never managed to get control over his impulses. There is some studies that suggest that the peak of human violence is at age two. We are most violent of all at that age. There is a really nice passage in your book where you write quote Families survive the terrible twos because toddlers are not strong enough to kill with their hands and are not capable of using lethal weapons. Having had two-year-olds I truly believe that. Paul Bloom. His book about all this is called Just Babies-- The Origins of Good and Evil. Act Three The Devil Went Down to Jersey. Now the story of a bad baby who stopped being bad as he aged. And the best possible thing happened-- all those disturbing incidents they turned into stories that people tell. Jonathan Menjivar got them on tape. The bad baby in this story he is now a grown man in his '30s. His name is Chris Gethard. And all his life there is been this lore in Chris's family about what a monster he was as a kid stories so crazy they sound mythical. People even use the word evil. All this happened when Chris was around two and three growing up in West Orange New Jersey. And he remembers it at least the feeling of it. I do very vividly remember having this joy that I could create chaos is how I would phrase it as an adult. Being bad was fun to me-- getting people angry and crying. And I will go so far as to say I do also remember in a way that is like sociopathic I remember feeling like I ran the show. Like I am in charge. I am in charge here. I get to cause things. That means I am in charge. That is fun. The person little Chris had the most fun with was his mother Sally Gethard. Chris really made Sally suffer. There was a level of wisdom and aggression towards my mom that it kind of keeps me out. Take this story. One day Sally took Chris to the local AP in West Orange to do some grocery shopping. You have to know my neighborhood. This was not just a supermarket. This is a supermarket where her father had been the produce manager for decades. It was a supermarket my own father worked at while putting himself through college. So we went there one day. And she put me in the top part of the carriage up in the part where the baby sticks his legs through and you wheel him around. And we had two cats. So the first thing she bought was a whole bunch of cat food. She just loaded up the cart with cat food. That is the only thing in the cart. Now we are going down this aisle. And there is these two old Irish ladies in my very Irish neighborhood where again everybody knows everybody. And I had been totally fine. I would been having a pleasant day with my mom. And I just started screaming just crazy over-the-top screaming to the point where my mom was shocked. And she is going what is the matter? What is wrong? And these old women I have their total focus on me because I am causing this scene and I just bust out screaming with I do not want to have cat food for dinner again! Please do not make me have to have cat food for dinner again! And in like a whiny voice you know? This is of course Chris's mom Sally Gethard. Like I do not want cat food for supper again. And you know you cannot explain to people. You start dabbling trying to explain that no I do not feed him cat food you know? And they are looking at this little innocent child. Of course they are going to think it is true. It was almost like he was out to sabotage me. And that is what I mean. He was 2 and 12. How do you think of these things? However it came to Chris's tiny conniving brain this was not an isolated incident. One day Sally's mother was coming over and she says this thing happened that made it seem like Chris wanted her his mother to get in trouble with her mother. Chris had played nice all day. He seemed excited to see his grandma. She came in the front door. We had a staircase up to the second floor. And he was sitting up at the top of the staircase. The minute my mother walked in he started yelling in that little whiny voice again me not a 'somamma' bitch.  What did he say? Me not a 'somamma' bitch. He could not even say it right but he knew. I mean had I ever called him that? Oh maybe. But I had not just then. Then my mother would tell me that is why he is the way he is because you yell at him and you say things like that to him. Oh my god. It was like he set me up. Chris was destructive too to himself and everything around him. He would shove things up his nose. He would eat dirt. He once covered all his stuffed animals with Vaseline. He broke pair after pair of Sally's glasses. He would snap them in half and throw them across the room with real intention and anger. He was like the Hulk in a diaper. This is Chris's dad Ken. Chris when he was real little like that he had a bit of a temper. I am sure you heard the story about his devil mark. Yeah you heard that right. Several people told me Chris was born with this V or triangle-shaped birthmark his devil mark. It sat right in the middle of his forehead. Apparently the birthmark was not very prominent unless I was angry at which point it turned bright red. And my mother has actually said that it glowed. When Chris got angry and the devil mark was glowing he would bite too. Sally says Chris's older brother Greg was often the victim. When he would bite Greg's fingers he would just clamp down clamp down. And I mean I hate to even say this but I would smack his face to try to get him to release. I mean Greg would be screaming. I would be screaming. And then when he was ready he would let go and just walk away like he did not do anything. All these stories about Chris they have become these little jokes in the family. But Chris's behavior really weighed on his mom Sally in a way I think any parent who is dealt with a difficult childhood would understand. It is just the piling up day after day of dealing with a little monster doing it full time. It breaks you. I feel so bad because I was always yelling. And my husband would come home. I would just sit at the table and cry because I really-- he loves when I tell these stories. He being Chris. He thinks that they are hysterical. But sometimes I felt like such a failure. You know why does my own kid hate me? And just torment-- it broke my heart. Sally had had it. She was crying every single day not sure when or if Chris would ever stop being such a pain in the ass. And then finally one day Chris's dad Ken decided that he would had it too. He came home and my mom was crying. And I was walking around being all cocky about it. And it was just like enough's enough. And he called Chris over and he said to him-- All right you. I have been telling you I am going to take you down to the bad boys' home unless you straighten out. Now I am taking you down. I made him get in the car with me. The bad boys' home. It was not a real place of course. But just about a mile away from Sally and Ken's house right on Main Street in West Orange were these old factories where Thomas Edison used to have a complex. It is a national historic park now where you can see Edison's old lab. There are phonographs and movie cameras and all sorts of stuff he made there. But right next to the Edison complex is a bunch of blooming degrading totally abandoned warehouse buildings that Edison left behind. Those buildings they were where Ken was taking Chris. And I drove up to the back of them. All right you want to be a bad boy. This is where you have to live now. And I opened the door. He was like get out! Get out! Get out of the car! And I was like I do not want to! And he was yelling at me to get out. And apparently at one point I went I want to go home! And he yelled this is your own home now! This is the bad boys' home. This is where the bad boys live. You are a bad boy. This is your home now. You live here now! And I always remember the story being that he put me out of the car and started to drive away. That is not true. That part's not true OK. No that part's not true. I mean he very clearly made me think he was going to leave me inside this abandoned warehouse. I am not real proud that I did this. But when you are dealing with a three-year-old logic does not always apply. Whoa dude. Whoa. I wanted to see the bad boys' home so I asked Chris to take me out to West Orange back behind the old warehouses. They are five stories tall lots of broken windows. This is worse than I remember. There is bullet holes. Those are bullet holes. There is multiple bullet holes. You told me I had to live here. This is insane. I am really glad we came here. I am glad this is still standing. Why? What is it about seeing it again? I do not think I have been on this block since that night. I do not think I have actually been behind this building. And it is just so funny because I know my dad and he is so nice. It is just so amazing to me that three decades ago there was a night filled with such rage that we were back here and he was screaming at me. I must have been such a nightmare for that to have to happen. That is terrifying. This is not cool. Parents take note-- the bad boys' home this entire scheme it did not work on baby Chris. It scared him. But after a couple days he went right back to his devilish ways. And then when Sally sent Chris to preschool the old Chris just disappeared. He turned into a nice little boy. He made friends did not bite anyone. He was sweet with Sally. The idea that she maintained any affection for me is a miracle. And I am actually now-- I am like a mama's boy. I once broke up with a girl because she accused me of having an oedipal complex. That is how much-- Really? --I love my mom. She was wrong. I want to be very clear. I do not have an oedipal complex. But my mother and I are really kind of insanely close right now and have been for most of my life. It was just this one to two year stretch where I really challenged her to have love for me based on how I behaved. Chris is a comic now and he is still doing outlandish things. But the only person they are hurting is Chris himself. Recently he burned his body slightly from frostbite after sitting on stage for 45 minutes completely nude in a tub of ice cream and chocolate sauce. He was supposed to be a human sundae. You could even take a bite if you wanted. It was gross and weird and maybe a little scary and funny everything Chris Gethard has wanted to be since he was a little boy. Jonathan Menjivar is one of the producers of our program. Chris Gethard's first comedy album called My Comedy Album comes out next month. Coming up a kid runs the cost-benefit analysis of getting spanked and comes out for spanking. More Bad Babies in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today's program Bad Babies stories of people trying to figure out what to do so their kids are not so bad. And the question with some kids is there nothing you can do? We have arrived at act four of our show. Act Four This is Gonna Hurt Me a Lot More Than It is Going to Hurt You. About a year ago there was this story in the news about a man in his early 30s who was going to be adopted by his long-lost foster mom now that he was an adult. They had not seen each other in a long time. On the CNN story about this they met up at the airport. It was all hugs and kisses. The man is Maurice Griffin. The mom in the story is Lisa Godbold though she was Lisa Harris way back when Maurice lived with her. The TV report said that they had been pried apart. That is Maurice had been removed from Lisa's home by the foster care system. One of our producers Sean Cole caught this story on CNN when it aired. And there was something about it that stuck with him. Something that confused me actually. It was the reason Lisa and Maurice have been pride apart which when I first heard about it seemed to upend the very physics of both parenting and being a kid. The short version is that Maurice when he was eight or nine years old asked Lisa and her husband his foster parents to spank him when he was bad. In the TV story Lisa says he very much wanted that which A I found hard to believe and B what mother and child foster or otherwise have a rational discussion about the rules of engagement for when he misbehaves? And that was just number one on a list of a million questions I suddenly had. Mom what time do you want to be done with this? So I went out to visit them in San Jose where Lisa lives and they told me the story starts around 1983 or '84. Lisa says she never even considered being a foster mom or adopting until she heard about Maurice. He was only three or four at that point staying in a group home. I just remember that he was a really adorable little boy-- kind of shy and a little bit skittish. And I fell in love. I will be honest. I mean my parents were taken out of the situation altogether. There was no chance of me going back to them because of the abuse. They had abused you? I do not remember but I am pretty sure there was abuse. Almost immediately Lisa thought her family would be a great fit for Maurice partly because Lisa's white and her husband Charles Harris who is passed away now was black. So their sons were mixed race. Maurice is mixed race. Looking at a picture of the three boys you would never guess which one came from a group home. The Harrises started visiting him once a month. Really after about the third visit we were just like let us just get on with this. Let us just be a regular family. And maybe we were naive but we just did not feel that he was this very troubled very damaged kid. We just really felt like he needed very specific attention and he needed good boundaries. But for some bureaucratic reason it took five years to get Maurice released into the Harrises' care. During that time they went through the orientation and licensing process to become foster parents and started taking in other foster kids to get some experience. In orientation they learned that California law prohibits using corporal punishment on foster children-- no spanking. And spanking Lisa says was a value in the Harris household. They were Christians and firmly believed he that spares the rod hates his son but he that loves him chastens him betimes. That is from Proverbs 13. Betimes just means early. Moreover Lisa says her husband Charles truly felt that if his sons were not disciplined this way they could actually be in jeopardy later on. You know my husband came from a place where living in the segregated South disobeying your parents or disobeying a teacher or disobeying the white man could cost you your life. My husband saw lynchings. It was his core belief that sometimes especially a boy needs to be spanked because the world does not give timeouts. I am sure you have your opinions on spanking. I have my opinions on spanking. To state the obvious it is a hugely controversial issue even though a Harris Poll last year showed 80 of American households think spanking is appropriate sometimes. That said there are entire anti-spanking organizations who will point to countless studies about the negative effects of spanking on kids. There is also an army of pro-spankers readily available to debate those folks. What is not up for debate though is that in California spanking your own children-- be they biological or adopted-- was and is legal as long as it is not excessive and you do not leave a mark. And the Harrises spanked their kids but only under certain