Sarah Erush was a pharmacist and head of the Drug Information Center at the Hospital at the University of Pennsylvania. And in that job she had to do one of those tasks that you never heard of but then when you hear that this job exists you think oh right of course. Somebody's got to do that. Namely when patients had a bad reaction a surprising reaction to the drugs that they were on Sarah Erush was the person who was supposed to make sure that the Food and Drug Administration was notified about it. The FDA keeps track of these things drug injuries. It is part of monitoring whether drugs are safe. And so one day in 2002 she got this unusual call from somebody at the FDA about one of the most popular drugs in the country-- acetaminophen. Acetaminophen is the active ingredient in Tylenol. And every now and then Erush had sent in a report about some patient reacting to acetaminophen. And they said we were looking at your reports on acetaminophen and we were wondering if you had ever really sat and collated this data. And we said no not really. We have been reporting it all along and we look at it when we report it. But we never really looked at it in aggregate. In aggregate-- they never looked at all the cases together as a group. And they said well we have been looking at it in aggregate and we think it is really interesting. And we think you might want to do that. And we thought that was kind of an odd request. And so I said well why would we do that? What are you seeing? And they said well we do not really want to tell you that. We want to see if you think it is compelling as well. So they sort of opened the door and said you should go look but they did not tell us what to look for. Which was a really good scientific method because they did not tell us what we should go find which would have biased us towards the data. They just said you should go look. It is interesting. Sarah got off the phone and told her office-mate the FDA wants us to look at our acetaminophen cases. And her co-worker was all why? They had no idea. Not a clue. We really did not. Till we started looking at it and then this little light bulb kind of went on in the back of our heads where we said hey we do remember that one odd case. Oh we do remember that other odd case. Oh we do remember that third odd case. And then it started to occur to us we have a lot of odd cases. Sarah Erush found 23 people in four years at just one hospital who said they took just a little extra just a few more pills than recommended for a few more days and severely damaged their livers. Three of them died. Two had transplants. Now most of these 23 were either chronic heavy drinkers or had a lot of alcohol around the time they were taking the pills which makes acetaminophen more dangerous. But it was not every case. Some did not report any drinking. And what surprised Sarah Erush most of all was the amounts-- just how easy it was to take too much acetaminophen. It used to be touted as the safest pain reliever you can buy. I mean that was the big push on selling Tylenol. It is the safest pain reliever you can buy. And in fact when we would interview the patients and say you know the label says how much to take. Why did you take more than that? And the answers were always because it always says it is the safest thing you could buy. I figure if two were OK then I would take three. When we would say you know you realize you are here because here you have a high acetaminophen level and that is affected your liver And they would be aghast. They would say from Tylenol? This is from Tylenol? How could it be from Tylenol? I thought that was harmless or it was so safe it could not possibly happen. I did not take that much. That would be the first thing they would all say. I did not take that much. And when you would ask how much it was more than the recommended dose but they really did not take that much more. Erush says she is also surprised how many doctors she meets who do not know this kind of reaction can happen if a patient takes just a little bit too much acetaminophen. I am stunned and amazed still how physicians will almost routinely throw in Tylenol when they are treating pain. Well here why do not you take this on top of everything else because it is only Tylenol. It is fine. It is safe. My own mother she had bone pain from cancer and they had her on lots of big painkillers. And they said oh and we are going to give her 4 grams of Tylenol a day too. And I said why? And they said oh it is good for bone pain. I said no it is not.  A it is not and B I do not want my mother taking 4 grams of Tylenol a day for no good reason whatsoever. She is also on morphine and I think that'ill probably do it. Over the last nine months our radio show has worked alongside the investigative reporting organization ProPublica-- who is been at this even longer-- looking into acetaminophen and Tylenol interviewing dozens of doctors and scientists. ProPublica went through hundreds of documents. And what we have concluded is that while Tylenol has built its reputation on the idea that it is safer than other over-the-counter painkillers it is less safe than many of us believe. Now I want to be very clear about what I am saying here. Taken as recommended Tylenol-- or any drug containing the active ingredient in Tylenol acetaminophen-- is considered safe by most doctors and experts. The problems that we are talking about with the drug probably affect much less than 1 of all the people taking acetaminophen and Tylenol. After all one out of six Americans take acetaminophen in any given week-- 50 million people according to Tylenol's manufacturer. And as a pharmacist Sarah Erush says sure we should keep it on the market. No question. It is the best medicine out there for lots of situations. Mild chronic pain like for geriatric patients two Tylenol a day. They can take that for a lot longer than they might be able to take two Motrin or Advil a day because of the risk of GI ulceration. In a pediatric hospital she says it is the best thing to give a kid for fever. Will not upset a stomach. It will not interact with other drugs. It does not put them at risk for Reye syndrome the way that aspirin would. But all that said it is very easy overdose on acetaminophen. Over 150 people in the United States die on average every year from accidentally taking too much of the drug. 150 people. That data comes from the federal government from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. Federal government data also shows that every year 78000 people land in the emergency room and over 33000 people are hospitalized either from intentional or unintentional overdoses of the drug. Will Lee is one of the liver specialists and researchers who is been calling attention to the dangers of acetaminophen. He is at the University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center and talked to reporter Sean Cole. In one of the articles we actually printed up the little coupon that I got with my Zocor prescription that says 2 off on your next acetaminophen bottle. And one of the things on the coupon it says safest. Not safer or not safe but safest. Well this is the number-one drug killing Americans every year. Over-the-counter drug killing Americans. Over-the-counter drug. Not the safest. Not the safest for sure. So I guess that is-- if you think I have a bee in my bonnet that is probably where it came from. That assessment that acetaminophen kills more Americans than any other over-the-counter pain reliever comes from two big databases the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention-- that is part of the federal government-- and the American Association of Poison Control Centers. The company that makes Tylenol McNeil Consumer Healthcare does not agree with that assessment. A spokesperson said in an email that in their view we here at This American Life cannot responsibly say on the radio that acetaminophen kills more people because those two databases quote simply do not contain the information needed end quote. And in fact it is true that epidemiologists have pointed out that those databases might not accurately count all of the people who die as a result of taking other over-the-counter pain relievers. But that is a theoretical possibility that lots of people may be dying from those other over-the-counter painkillers. There are not studies-- or anyway we could not find any-- which locate real people who died this way and find more of them dying from over-the-counter aspirin or ibuprofen or any of the others than die from acetaminophen. We asked McNeil for studies like that and they did not send any. Just last month McNeil the maker of Tylenol and its parent company Johnson  Johnson announced that they are putting a new warning onto the caps of Extra Strength Tylenol saying in bright red letters Contains acetaminophen and Always read the label. The new warning does not go so far as to say that a relatively small overdose can kill you. Most people already know that acetaminophen can be dangerous. According to a national poll commissioned by ProPublica and our radio program 86 of Americans know that Tylenol can cause severe liver damage and 23 of the public knows that it can kill you. But I think that many people do not know just how little extra it takes to be dangerous or to kill you. Certainly I have say none of us who worked on this story here at our radio show knew this before. And why not? Well today we explain how we got to this point how one of the most widely-used over-the-counter painkillers in the country acetaminophen also kills so many people. And many of us had no idea. And so even though a lot of you already know that acetaminophen can be dangerous we are going to spend an hour on this today. Because number one over 150 people are dying every year. It seems completely unnecessary. And number two the story of how this drug has been regulated by the Food and Drug Administration-- when we heard it I have to say we were shocked at the government's behavior and we think that you will be shocked. And so from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Our show today on all of these things. Stay with us. And I turn things over now to the reporter who is been looking into this for our radio show Sean Cole. So here's a little drug regulation lingo for you. I know that is why a lot of you tune into this show. That small margin of error between a safe dose and a potentially harmful dose of acetaminophen? That is what the FDA would call a narrow therapeutic index. And the other over-the-counter painkillers do not have it. I will let T. Miller explain this part. He is one of the ProPublica reporters who spent a long time on this story. So with a drug like ibuprofen Advil it can cause stomach and gastric problems at the recommended dose. Aspirin same thing. But it takes a lot of ibuprofen to kill yourself. In fact there is not a lot of cases on record of anybody dying from ibuprofen toxicity. In the only case he could find it took 20 times the recommended dose to kill someone. Same with aspirin. You have to take six or eight times the maximum recommended dose for it to become toxic to your system. With acetaminophen just twice the maximum safe dose or even less taken over several days could possibly get you into serious trouble. Now I should be clear that there is no hard and fast number for this. Nobody knows for sure. One of the most prominent doctors researching right now is Will Lee who you heard from earlier. His data shows if you take twice the maximum safe dose-- maximum safe dose printed on the bottle is 4 grams-- if you take twice that amount you are in the danger zone. McNeil who makes Tylenol said pretty much the same thing in an email but later changed their estimate to at least 10 grams a day for at least two to three days. 10 grams a day is 2 and 12 times the maximum safe dose. But the danger zone might start at a much smaller dose. The FDA has said that just 5 grams a day could hurt your liver. That is just one gram more than the safety limit listed on the bottle. A gram. That would mean the difference between a safe dose and a dangerous dose is two Extra Strength Tylenol tablets. Just two tablets. That number comes from the FDA's national database of adverse drug events. That is cases of people who were injured by medicinal drugs. The agency cites it in a report prepared in 2008. But now here's a caveat-- not everyone who takes a little more than they should will get into trouble. It seems that some people are more susceptible to liver damage from acetaminophen than others. Some people can take twice the safe dose or even more than that amount and be fine. This is all according to the FDA and Will Lee and Sarah Erush told us this as well. But the science is still really preliminary. And truthfully this would not be as much of a problem if it was not for you. And me before I started working on this story. A lot of us just take too much of this stuff thinking that if two pills work fine three must work better. We found five separate surveys including one performed by McNeil that show about a quarter of us take more than the recommended dose of over-the-counter drugs. That would mean because acetaminophen is taken by 50 million people every week a quarter would be 12 million of us routinely taking more than the recommended dose. I talked with Dr. Mel Wilcox about these surveys. He is a gastroenterologist and liver doctor at the University of Alabama at Birmingham. He and a couple of other researchers published a paper analyzing two of the surveys 9000 patients in all. And he says the numbers confirm what he sees in his practice all the time with over-the-counter painkillers. Just in talking to people oftentimes people would take it two to four times higher dose than on the instructions. Two or four times? Yeah. Yes. So not insignificant. Remember two to four times with acetaminophen could put you in the danger zone. Well we saw one here probably I do not know six months ago or so. I happened to be covering on the weekend and it was a young woman who came in with liver failure. I cannot remember the exact reason for the Tylenol but it was something related to pain-- back pain headache something-- and clearly taking more than the standard dose. And died. She died? Right. Do you know how much more she was taking than the-- No the family did not really know other than she was taking more. She was comatose essentially when I evaluated her. And you are sure it was not a suicide? Generally suicides on the medication is pretty obvious and the family would tell you. It is the ones like this young lady that really were taking it more for a pain issue that are more troublesome. The connection between acetaminophen and liver damage-- this is not news. Case reports started showing up more than four decades ago. As long ago as 1975 the British medical publication The Lancet said quote Liver damage has been observed after absorption of as little as 6.2 grams. 6 grams a day would be the equivalent of four extra strength Tylenol beyond the maximum safe dose on the bottle. Those cases started appearing at the exact same time that acetaminophen was getting more and more popular. Tylenol went on the market in the 1950s but it really started taking off in the '70s largely based on the fact that it was better than the alternatives because it did not upset your stomach or make it bleed like aspirin can. Acetaminophen really did seem like the safest of all possible painkillers. And then in the '80s aspirin was linked to a rare but possibly fatal disease in children called Reye's syndrome which gave Tylenol even more of a marketing edge. In fact the fight over our pain medicine dollars got so heated and expensive that it came to be known as the Aspirin Wars. This Aspirin Wars thing was something I would never even heard of but it turned out that was something that the McNeil Consumer Products Company was obsessed by. Pat Malone is a lawyer in DC. He has represented plaintiffs in about a dozen lawsuits against McNeil so he is had to bone up on a lot of this history. And they quickly developed their competitive advantage over aspirin not based on working better for your headaches and your aches and pains but just because supposedly this stuff is safe. Because if you remember back then the television was just constantly bombarded with--  Recommended the most by doctors Used most by hospitals. Tylenol. Tylenol. Look. Last year hospitals dispensed 10 times as much Tylenol as the next four brands combined. Hospitals can trust Tylenol to give effective relief without the stomach irritation possible with aspirin or any other type of pain reliever. And it worked very well. And any time one of these reports would percolate up in the medical journals about somebody taking Tylenol for therapeutic purposes and winding up with their liver wiped out that was a threat to McNeil's image. McNeil Consumer Healthcare declined after many requests to let us interview someone there. And when we emailed them this quote from Malone the company wrote back and reminded us that Malone has represented people who have sued McNeil and that he quote Therefore represents a particular point of view. The company goes on. The fact is that doctors still recommend Tylenol more than any other brand of pain reliever and do so based on their knowledge training and experience end quote. The federal government got involved with all of this in the 1970s with the risks of acetaminophen. Back in 1977 a panel of scientists convened by the Food and Drug Administration said the potential harm from an overdose is so severe that it should have a much stronger warning label on the box. And the warning should state quote Do not exceed recommended dosage because severe liver damage may occur. Ninfa Redmond was one of the people who came up with that wording. She is a toxicologist one of seven members on the panel. She says her group met every two months for three or four years poring over reports and studies about 50 different ingredients in over-the-counter painkillers-- acetaminophen but also aspirin caffeine which is in some drugs-- lots of things. The result was a 1200-page report with recommendations about each ingredient. But they did not just recommend this warning label for acetaminophen. They added an extra special emphasis. We used the word that it was terribly important or-- I am trying to think of the word that we used. Um-- mandatory-- obligatory is the word. And the only time in the whole report that I can remember that we used the word obligatory was in the warnings for acetaminophen. And I remember there was a total unanimity on this opinion. The panel was well aware of all the advertising about how safe acetaminophen was. In fact in their recommendation they say quote Some advertising for acetaminophen gives the impression that it is much safer than aspirin and implies that the toxic effects of the drug are less than those encountered in aspirin. To be clear the report said that at recommended doses acetaminophen was quote Relatively free of adverse effects. But Ninfa Redmond says she was troubled by the reports the panel was reading. About suicidal intentions and overdose by accident. And they were just so numerous and so easy to have an overdose for either one of two reasons. Either because the person has not calculated how many milligrams he should have taken or takes much more because the headache persists. Of course as we mentioned before a lot of people disregard over-the-counter drug labels or just do not read them. But a lot of people do read them and warning labels are still the FDA's main tool to deal with problems like this. But when it came to printing what was supposed to be obligatory language onto an actual box of acetaminophen the process broke down. The next action the FDA takes on issuing a warning is not for 11 years. In 1988 the FDA declares that yes a warning label is needed for acetaminophen products. And they did put one on acetaminophen products but they did not go as far as Ninfa Redmond and the panel said was necessary. Nothing about the liver at all. And then another 14 years went by. 2002 the FDA convenes another advisory committee-- just for a couple days this time-- and that panel recommended basically the original warning again the same one that Ninfa Redmond's group insisted upon 25 years earlier. And again no action by the FDA. It took seven years-- so 2009 we are talking now-- for the agency to finally require that liver warning. We asked Ninfa Redmond what could have taken the FDA 32 years to mandate her warning language. But she said her involvement with the process ended in 1977 when they submitted the report. In fact Redmond did not even know it took that long for the FDA to take action. She only found out when she got a call for this story. It is very surprising and it is sad. Sad? Why? How many people may have died as a result of that. It is only a hypothetical question. It is a question to myself that has no answer. Have you been asking yourself that since finding out that it took that long? Yes. Dr. Kennedy the FDA commissioner at that time on the 8th of July said it will take two years. It is in the press. It is either in The New York Times or The Washington Post and that he hypothesized it. Let us double let us triple that-- so six years would have been enough. Nothing that I can hypothesize will explain the 32 years. So why did it take that long? This American Life and ProPublica have been asking that question of pretty much everyone we can get our hands on for the last nine months and no one has a simple explanation. But after all of the reporting that we have done the main answer that has risen to the top is that acetaminophen was just one little drug ingredient competing for the attention of an enormous inefficient bureaucracy. Beginning in 1972 the FDA actually set up 17 panels of experts-- Ninfa Redmond's was just one of them-- to look at all of the over-the-counter drugs that went on the market before drug review laws tightened up. So these were all of the drugs the FDA had never formally approved as both safe and effective. There were two or three hundred thousand of them. But they all boiled down to just 731 ingredients. They would decide whether the drug was safe and effective and appropriate for over-the-counter use and in what quantities and at what frequency and for what duration. This is Thomas Garvey. He is a doctor. These days he consults with drug companies about their products and he is testified on the side of people suing McNeil over acetaminophen poisoning. But in the late '70s and very early '80s he supervised drug reviewers at the FDA. And he says the process of getting to the final list of rules-- or a monograph as it is called-- on a given drug at the FDA? He says it is byzantine. And then there was a tentative final monograph and where comments were collected and then a reappraisal and a rebroadcast of the revised tentative and on and on and on. And you know people would send in voluminous responses which had to be understood and addressed and responded to. And that took a lot of time. That was one reason for the delay. All this vetting and opining and drafting up rules and synthesizing comments and everything that all was supposed to take five years. 10 years in the job was still only 116 of the way done. Things were going so slowly that another government agency the General Accounting Office stepped in to do a review of the review to see what was taking such a quote inordinate amount of time. And looking through it there was a lot of dysfunction at the agency at the time. Priorities have little meaning the review says. The OTC division is not using its staff efficiently. Stuff like that. But in the end the review of the review found that the FDA's strategy was reasonable. It was just a crazy huge job. The 2008 FDA report cited quote limited financial resources and large workloads as obstacles. The FDA also refused after multiple requests to give us a recorded interview for this story. But ProPublica did an off-tape interview with Dr. Sandra Kweder one of the FDA's experts on acetaminophen. And she acknowledged that the agency moved too slowly getting the final rules written for dosage and labeling and all that. The rules for acetaminophen are still only at the tentative stage. The drug approval process is usually slow but not usually this slow. The FDA began with acetaminophen over 40 years ago in 1972. In that time science has mapped the human genome eradicated smallpox. We have cloned a sheep-- and yet we still have not come up with rules for safe usage and labeling of one of the most popular drugs in the country of which more than 20 billion doses are sold each year. Former FDA official Tom Garvey. Now I must admit this one is remarkable for its duration of gestation. It is like a vastly overdue child. I mean this is remarkable and unusual. There is no question about that. During the early years of this long process the maker of Tylenol McNeil was understandably not so thrilled with the idea of a liver damage warning label. The brand finally had a significant piece of the painkiller market and the company did surveys that showed the warning label would scare people away from the drug. Not only that but when the 1200-page report from Ninfa Redmond's group came out in 1977 it became a weapon in the Aspirin Wars. Bayer Aspirin cited the report in a full-page magazine ad. It said quote Leading medical experts have expressed great concern about the occurrence of liver damage with acetaminophen the chemical name for the ingredient in all Tylenol products. And then it quotes the obligatory severe liver damage language. And then-- big finish-- Now makers of Tylenol it says let us look at your advertising again. Safer than aspirin? Just as effective? Shame on you. Losses McNeil told the FDA are already in the millions of dollars. That was just one point McNeil made in a lengthy response it sent to the FDA about the report from Redmond's panel. Here's another-- McNeil said that the proposed warning label was unfair that acetaminophen was being singled now since aspirin can also hurt you. So if that kind of If you take too much then this bad thing might happen language is appropriate for acetaminophen the company wrote then it is appropriate for aspirin too. McNeil went as far as to suggest several hypothetical warning labels for its aspirin competitors. One of them read quote Do not exceed recommended dosage because serious potentially life-threatening changes in body chemistry respiratory failure coma convulsions and cardiovascular collapse may occur end quote. Again Tom Garvey who was at the FDA back then. It was kind of a why are you doing this to us when you are not doing it to the others? And what did you make of it? I thought it was nonsense. That is not their job. Their job is not to make sure that the other drugs are labeled correctly. Their job is to make sure their drug is labeled correctly. And they were not doing that. They were instead saying you should label the other guys too. Well they were confusing issue. Intentionally do you think? Or was it-- Well what do you think? Do you think? And I guess I keep trying to get at why. Well I do not think we need to dig very deep about that that the most transparent of motives can be adduced. And say what that is if you could. Well to do God's work. No you nitwit! To make money. To make money. Well I mean is not it the job of these firms to make money and to maximize profits for the shareholders? Is not that what they are supposed to do? Here's McNeil's version of all of this. First to Garvey's point the company writes quote Thomas Garvey has been a paid witness for individuals who have filed lawsuits against McNeil and his statements do not accurately reflect our conversations with the regulatory agency regarding label changes. We are a company of caring people who believe deeply that our first responsibility is to the families and health care professionals who rely on our products. We stand behind the safety profile of acetaminophen when taken as directed and over the years we have led the efforts to educate and warn consumers of the dangers of acetaminophen overdose end quote. But the way McNeil would tell the story of the last four decades of regulation is that the scientific research was not always so clear-cut. For instance all of the studies that measure how many pills lead to liver failure-- well when people overdose they sometimes misremember how many pills they took. Or they lie. And for years McNeil officials and the scientists and doctors who testified on the company's behalf argued that most if not all cases of acetaminophen overdose were suicides people intentionally swallowing lots more of the drug than anybody would take for pain relief. McNeil itself has funded studies of acetaminophen that back up its point of view. Again McNeil declined to give us an interview on tape and it objected to the tone of the written questions that ProPublica and the show submitted to them. In a letter back to us it said our questions were quote inflammatory misleading and unwarranted. And along with the written responses to our questions we received an eight-minute recording of a statement read by Ed Kuffner the vice president of Over-the-Counter Medical Affairs and Clinical Research. He says as more data piled up the company's position evolved in the way it should according to the science. Opinions about medicine labels they have changed over time as have the labels. We believe that any label change should be medically accurate and it should be based on research. And this is from slightly later in the tape. After careful consultation with the FDA over the years we have made changes to the labels of Tylenol in an effort to help consumers understand how to use the medicine safely. The FDA recognizes that labels will change over time and that a label change does not mean that a prior label was inadequate. In fact label changes are an indication that our medical understanding is evolving and that the public health system really is working. But while McNeil says it always took new data into account as it emerged here's how that looked in practice. OK please take your seats. Please take your seats. This is the 2002 FDA advisory meeting where McNeil to its credit got in front of the warning label issue after many years and called on the FDA to mandate a specific liver damage warning for acetaminophen. Today we are recommending an organ-specific overdose warning. These labeling and education-- This was the company's VP of Research and Development at the time Debra Bowen. This meeting was convened after more evidence started showing up of people accidentally overdosing on acetaminophen. There was a big 1997 paper by researcher Will Lee and the numbers from Sarah Erush who you heard from earlier. In fact this whole day was devoted to the problem of accidental overdoses. And even at this meeting McNeil still held that most acetaminophen overdoses in adults were not accidental but suicides. Harm is rare and is caused by overdose. Serious harm caused by inadvertent misuse is very rare. Sarah Erush the University of Pennsylvania pharmacist who got the call from the FDA she was at this meeting presenting her findings that half of the overdose cases she saw were accidental. And she says yes it is a drug company's job to defend its product but she wishes McNeil had shown more interest in the data that she and some of the other scientists and doctors were there presenting. So they really seemed to me to try to be bulldozing over what we were just-- we had a crack in the door open and saying hey there is something over there. You should take a look at it. And they were just trying to keep that door shut as tight as they could. So I think that is all I got out of that meeting was I thought you are not even listening. You need to listen. There is some interesting stuff here. I think that was the thing that bothered me the most is it was still-- you must have it wrong was their attitude as opposed to wow this is really interesting. Can we take a closer look and see if we can figure this out together? I have partnered with the pharmaceutical industry in my past life to do research and things and have encountered companies or facets of companies that are very much like that. So it was very offensive to me that they did not want to take that tact. I ran this quote by McNeil officials. They pointed out that they did in fact reach out to Erush for more information