At this point lots of people have heard that mosques and Muslim businesses around New York City have been watched by undercover officers and informants. The Associated Press won the Pulitzer Prize for a series of articles documenting the extent of the surveillance by the New York Police Department-- 53 mosques 8 Muslim student groups and 263 so-called hot spots. And people feel surveilled. Ramzi Kassem a law professor who does workshops for Muslims to know their legal rights says that when he gives the workshops at a mosque often there is a sermon first. And occasionally-- That sermon kicks off with a preface that is explicitly intended for the informants in the room where the spiritual leader is saying if you are with the NYPD or you are with the FBI welcome. We know you are here. We hope that you will benefit and grow spiritually as a result of this sermon. One Saturday night in Queens in a Muslim community center the handwritten sign outside says Know Your Rights. Three dozen people show up. Their kids run around before it starts. Coffee in the back. It is a workshop run by Kassem and another lawyer Diala Shamas who work with a project called CLEAR from the City University of New York law school to give free legal aid to Muslims who get caught up in counter-terrorism surveillance investigations. What we are here to talk about today is what many of you have either experienced or heard about and that is the situation where you have officers from the NYPD Intelligence division that show up for example at your home dressed in plainclothes or FBI agents that show up at your home at your masjid at your place of work. And they start asking you questions about who you know what the imam said at the mosque on Friday what your political views are what websites you visit. Kassem and Shamas told me that sometimes they ask for a show of hands at these workshops and they learn that every single person in the room has either been visited by law enforcement like this or know somebody who has. So what we want to do today is nothing controversial. We just want to arm you with the knowledge of your rights so that you know how to respond when you find yourself-- if you find yourself -- in that really uncomfortable situation where you have an FBI agent at your door or an NYPD detective at your workplace asking to talk to you. The two attorneys start with a demonstration of what happens in one of these encounters. Diala Shamas plays the plainclothes FBI agent who comes to the door. Kassem plays the guy at home. We are first going to do it the wrong way. This is how this interaction should not happen. Knock knock. Yes? Hello. Hi. Is this Ramzi Kassem's house? Yeah this is me. Great. Can I just come in? Sure. Of course. Yeah come in please. Thanks. Who are you? I am sorry I did not-- Oh I am-- My name is Diala. I am with the FBI. I am just here to ask you a couple questions. Oh wow. FBI. OK. Sure. Nothing to worry about. Just a standard you know we are getting to know the neighborhood. I am new here so-- Later in the discussion afterwards the audience points out that this was a mistake. He should have asked for ID before letting the FBI agent into his home. And he does not have to answer any questions. He could have even asked for a warrant. The crowd also points out that he seems very nervous-- another mistake. So do you go to that mosque down the street? Yes Dardal? Dardal? Yeah. Yeah. OK and who is the imam there? Um what-- why are you--? Oh I am just curious. You know it is part of my-- I just want to make sure that I say the right thing when I meet the right people. Oh OK. Yeah he is been the imam there for a number of years and he is from Egypt. I cannot remember his name. OK. You cannot remember his name? Yeah. Yeah. Oh OK. So is it Mr. Abu Jamil? Um no-- I do not think that is him. He is one of-- he is one of the leaders. He is one of the organizers there. The agent asks who else lives in the house. She asks what does he think about the political situation in Egypt? Do you-- do you have an ID? Yeah. Yeah sure. Sure here's my ID. They talk a little more about politics. The agent thanks him for his cooperation says she may come back with more questions. OK. Thank you. Thank you Agent. Have a good day. You too. Now--  You should not be applauding that performance.  What went wrong in this?  there was a lot of volunteering information . So the brother's pointing out that there was a lot of volunteering of information. So it is difficult right? Because I was being sort of friendly. And why would not you volunteer that information if you do not think that you have done anything wrong? I was just asking a couple of seemingly benign questions just trying to get to know the neighborhood. And the only problem with that the two lawyers tell the crowd is that the more you say the more you could accidentally be incriminating yourself. Especially dangerous they say were those moments in the demonstration where Kassem was nervously stumbling around not sure what to say trying to remember. --more specific. Under federal law in the United States lying to a federal agent is a federal offense. It is a crime. And it is a crime that is being charged since 911 disproportionately against Muslims. So the moment that you have that interaction with the federal agent-- let us say I did not remember something. Diala asks me a question-- oh you are friends with Cyrus? Where were you last Tuesday? And I say oh I think we were camping. But maybe she spoke to Cyrus before and Cyrus said something different. So all of a sudden there is a discrepancy. Either I am in trouble or Cyrus in trouble. And so even having that very basic conversation-- Because of this he tells the group over and over he says this-- if the FBI or NYPD comes around asking these general questions it is best to get a lawyer. We are not saying never talk to them. That is not what we are saying. What we are saying is do it in a way that is responsible. And the only way you do that is by bringing in someone that can help you even out the balance of power so you do not do it at a disadvantage. You are not an untrained civilian talking to trained FBI interrogators who know the law and you do not know the law. This lesson does not go down easily with everybody here. Somebody brings up the question of what to do when an officer on the street asks to search your handbag. A man says well if you have nothing to hide let them do it. A woman says if I say no it will just make them more suspicious of me. Another man says in these situations he does not want to do anything that might antagonize them. . What the gentleman here was saying is these are basically really tense situations and you do not want to aggravate the agent you do not want to offend them you do not want to be-- you do not want the situation to escalate. So be polite but be firm. Do not be like me. As you all saw I was not confident. I was very nervous. I let her run all over me. But you can be polite you can be firm and you can exercise your right. And it is nothing controversial. It is what Martha Stewart does. When she was approached by the FBI she did not talk to them directly. She retained lawyers. When President Clinton was under investigation he had a team of lawyers. So that is the safe responsible way to do it. And it is not being uncooperative. It is actually the most American thing to do. It is an uneasy time between some Muslim communities and law enforcement right now. Kassem and Shamas do a whole workshop on what to do if you think that there is an undercover informant infiltrating your mosque or student group. They say maybe 10 times this past year some group has come to them with that worry. It is hard for some people not to feel a little paranoid. And if you cannot imagine how somebody gets to that point what the experience is that drives you there we have a story today about what happened at one mosque where an undercover informant went in and things seemed to go very badly wrong. Not just from the point of view of the congregation. The informant is not happy about how it worked out and we presume the FBI cannot be too pleased either. They have alienated the very people in the Muslim community who wanted to work with them. Beyond all that it is a compelling and very weird case. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act one-- Gym Rat. So a caveat before we start this-- although the tactics used by the FBI in this story are tactics that they use in other cases this story is not about how things typically go in an FBI investigation. This is an outlier. It is a cautionary tale. Is a case where we can watch everything go wrong. It happened in California in Orange County in 2006. And at that point at least one homegrown terrorist had come out of an Orange County mosque and gone to work with Osama bin Laden was on the FBI's most wanted terrorist list. And relations between the FBI and Muslims in Orange County California were already on edge before this story began. So on edge that the head of the FBI for Los Angeles Stephen Tidwell decided they should do a town meeting at a mosque in Orange County. It was the Islamic Center of Irvine where he said emphatically that the FBI was not monitoring Muslim student groups in the area or the mosque itself. The crowd did not buy this. Somebody in the audience told Tidwell that it would be naive for them to believe that the FBI was not monitoring the mosque. Everyone should understand that they were being monitored he said. Tidwell interrupted- Look-- one. No you are not.  If we are going to come to mosques to come to service we will tell you we are coming to service. MAN 1 You will send your agents without anybody knowing. The man in the audience replied you will send your agents without anybody knowing. But what I am saying FBI we will tell you we are coming for the very reason we do not want you to think you are being monitored. That was June 5 2006. As best as we can determine from people at the mosque and from testimony in court two months after Tidwell reassured them that the FBI would not monitor them without telling them the FBI placed an undercover informant in the mosque. And this is where our story begins. Sam Black is our reporter. The informant in this story is named Craig Monteilh and like a lot of people who go undercover to catch criminals he used to be a criminal himself. He is done time for forging checks embezzlement and grand theft. At one point he made a living stealing cocaine from drug dealers. As I reported this story people who know him described him as a snake a chameleon a thug scam artist and quote a piece of . And Craig says some pretty far-fetched things like this list of aliases. He told me he used all of these in undercover stings. Italian drug dealer Vincent Donado. A Russian hitman by the name of Ivan Chernyenko. Colombian drug dealer Pedro Hernandez. A Bulgarian drug dealer by the name of Sergei Gurd. Also I went by Polish names. One was Lech Vlesky. It is unclear if any of these are real. But some of the unlikely things Craig says do check out like the fact that he worked on a counter-terrorism operation for the FBI. The Bureau has confirmed this. In 2006 the FBI enlisted him to go undercover to catch people who were recruiting and training terrorists. Craig says it all began at a strip mall Starbucks where he met with two FBI agents Paul Allen and Kevin Armstrong. He says they told them they wanted him to go undercover. They would pay him to infiltrate the Muslim community in Orange County. Which is a funny thought because Craig's not the most inconspicuous guy. I am 6'2 260 pounds. It is not fat. It is lean body mass. I bench 500 pounds. I have 21 and 12-inch arms. But according to Craig the FBI wanted to use his lean body mass to their advantage. I was to lure Muslim males into the gym using my physique to see what actually is the real pulse of the Muslim community. They told me what I did was vital to America's national security and to do exactly what they said. And did they have particular targets in the Muslim community in mind? No. They said the targets would come to me. The FBI would not talk to me for this story because the operation is still classified and because it is the subject of a lawsuit. But the FBI later confirmed in court that Craig was an undercover informant. A district attorney also stated in court that Craig did work with Agent Kevin Armstrong and that Craig had given the FBI quote very very valuable information. The FBI also confirmed one other thing-- the name of Craig's operation. Operation Flex. F-L-E-X. One Thursday in August 2006 Craig showed up at the Islamic Center of Irvine one of the biggest mosques in Orange County and met with the imam there. Craig told him that he wanted to convert to Islam. The next day after Friday prayers Craig stood on a stage in front of hundreds of people and declared that he was now a Muslim with a new Muslim name-- Farouk al-Aziz. People who were in the mosque that day remember it well the first time they saw this new convert Farouk. Picture like a 300-pound linebacker that has a ridiculously wide frame and then huge massive legs. His biceps were just like my whole thigh basically. He was a big guy. At the beginning I was kind of you know kind of scared from him.  He was kind of scary to me looking. Over the next few weeks Craig started showing up at the nearby 24 Hour Fitness a gym where a lot of the guys from the Irvine Mosque would work out. And when he was not at the gym he was at the mosque. He attended prayer five times a day. One of the people who noticed Craig was an Egyptian guy named Ayman. He asked that I not use his last name. Every day you would see him in the mosque. Every day you would see him. But he would be sitting alone. You do not know if he has friends or if he is struggling to understand what is going on. You feel bad. This guy he is new to Islam. Probably either he is afraid or curious or something. I do not know. You do not know. You just want to be as friendly as you can. Ayman lived in a house just around the corner from the mosque with a few other Egyptians. One day he decided to introduce himself to Craig. I believe it was after the Dhuhr prayer which is the one at 1 oclock. I went to him and I said hey salaam alaikum peace upon you basically. And hey my name's Ayman. He says it is been about four weeks right? You are still here. Craig remembered this too. I said yes. He said well usually people just new converts after a few weeks they leave. They fall by the wayside. I said well not me. I am a real Muslim. And I told him here's my number. And I wrote my number on a piece of paper. If you have any question about anything like in your head about the religion or if you need anything that I can help you with I would love to. He said well we are Egyptian. We get together after prayer on Fridays and during the weekends and we all barbecue have food together. Maybe you can come by and we will talk to you more about your faith and how you can grow as a Muslim. From there when I went home I thought I am really in. Craig's new friend Ayman lived with four unmarried Egyptian men all in their late 20s or early 30s. One was an accountant. Another worked for a logistics company. There was a guy who worked in pharmaceuticals and an IT consultant. They each traveled occasionally sometimes for work or sometimes back home to Egypt. Craig says his FBI handlers suspected the roommates might be a terrorist cell that would radicalize him so he arrived at their house ready for anything. Well first of all they made some Egyptian food which was very good. Delicious food. And we sat on the couch for about maybe a couple of hours just had conversation. And they would play their Xbox while we are having conversation in a very competitive way. I was engaged at the time but I used to play more Xbox than spending time with my fiancee. It is like 80 Xbox and everything else comes second. That is Ayman again. He and his friends were ridiculously obsessed with Xbox. They would play tournaments for five hours a day and they only played one game. FIFA Soccer. That was the only thing. We played a lot of FIFA. We still play a lot of FIFA. Yasser AbdelRahim was one of Ayman's roommates a tall athletic guy who worked as a tech consultant. He would lived in the US for about 10 years. Yassir and Ayman considered their house a brotherhood but as he told me and my producer Brian Reed not really the militant terror cell kind Craig was looking for. We would all just hang out together and a lot of my friends would actually kind of come in and say this is kind of like the frat house right? But obviously we did not drink so-- A frat house without alcohol. A kosher frat house yes.  Craig's plan worked. Yassir and Ayman started inviting him over more and more. They would hang out together get coffee go to the movies. When Craig got sick they went to his house to keep him company. They bought him books about Islam and brought him back gifts from their trips to Egypt. Here's Ayman and then Yassir. He was a super cool guy. You know he would initiate conversation we would talk about stuff. But he was very comfortable around us. He was very cool around us. He would joke around. He would tell us about what he did some of the issues that he was going through. He said he was going through some rough patches from a family perspective going through a divorce. We tried not to speak in Arabic as much when he was around because we did not want to give him any feeling that he is uncomfortable anything like that. We talked about the gym. We went and worked out together. You know obviously when you see a big bulky guy you know what I mean that is just like very cool. I barely can lift five pounds. We watched TV or sometimes we would watch Arabic movies because he would be interested in actually seeing some of that. We never treated him as an outsider. He seemed like one of the boys. But Craig was at work-- watching taking notes and recording with a hidden microphone. It would be on the whole day. I would get into my car in my garage I would turn on the device and I would say something like Farouk Al-Aziz May 4 2012 545 AM and I am hot. Meaning it is beginning. The FBI has publicly confirmed that Craig recorded audio and video during this operation. That means presumably the smack the Egyptians talked during Xbox tournaments the discussions of movies and their personal lives the exercise tips that Craig gave them at the gym. The Egyptians would play pickup soccer on the weekends with a bunch of other Muslim guys. Craig went to some of these games but he never played. Instead Craig says he used the opportunity to jot down license plate numbers and film the game so his handlers could see who associated with whom. According to Craig he also brought his handlers things from the Egyptians' house that might have their DNA or fingerprints. They instructed me to get because Ayman smoked a cigarette butt from his ash tray in his room and certain items from his bathroom like a toothpaste tube. So you would sneak around their house and steal these things from their rooms? Yes. Meeting Ayman and Yassir it was hard to imagine why the FBI was monitoring them. They just seemed like normal guys. The FBI of course would not talk about the case. And they would not even talk in a general way separate from this case about how they choose who they are going to investigate. So I called Trevor Aaronson to help me make sense of Operation Flex. He is an investigative journalist who is analyzed over 500 FBI terrorism convictions looking at how informants are used to find suspects surveil them and build cases. I told Trevor what Craig said that the FBI went into the Muslim community without any specific suspects. Trevor said that is possible but it is also possible that Craig was not told who the targets were. It is possible that the FBI had information that Craig is not aware of. In the cases we have looked at it is really uncommon that the FBI would spend lots of time with someone who was so unfruitful. If they are spending months and months and all they are doing is playing soccer the FBI will move on. If Craig was spending that much time with them it is worth noting that most likely they had enough for what they call a predicate which is a reason that they were investigating them. You know that there was a phone call that was overheard or there was some kind of correspondence with someone overseas that the FBI is monitoring that made the FBI agents suspicious of this particular group. In addition to Trevor my producer and I talked to five longtime FBI agents now retired who all oversaw informants. They could not comment on Operation Flex specifically and none of them knew first-hand about these Egyptian guys but they gave us similar theories. Basically they said if the FBI has even the smallest reason to suspect you a reason you might not even be aware of yourself they have to check you out. Maybe you happened to phone someone the FBI is monitoring. Maybe they got a bad tip. One of the ex-FBI agents said to me Do innocent people get investigated? Sure every day. They cannot weed them out without looking at them. Though one agent said it was possible that this was a case that just went awry that was badly managed and did not follow FBI protocols. Months passed. People noticed that Craig was acting more devout. He began reciting prayers aloud dressing in traditional robes and showing up so early for 500 AM prayers that he would get there before the person who unlocked the mosque every morning. They also noticed something else. Slowly and surely enough during some times when we were having coffee came the question of jihad. Yassir one of the Egyptians had actually been asked questions about jihad before. Non-Muslims bring it up with them sometimes. Like he will be on a plane and the person next to him will ask about it. So he and his friends told Craig what they always tell people-- that jihad is not what you see on the news. Jihad is really about each person's internal striving to be a good Muslim. It is not holy war. Here's Ayman. The reality is if I am new to Islam I would be very curious about this stuff too. I would be very curious about this stuff. That is what the media talks about all the time. So he must be very curious you know. I think there was a survey. If you mention Islam the second thing you think about in the American psyche was terrorist. So you know for me it was somehow normal if you look at it from a curiosity viewpoint. But it was not normal how obsessed he was with it until we started being you know this guy is-- there is something very very  up about this person. He just would bring these odd things in the middle of the conversation out of nowhere. For instance the guys would be talking about food or sports. But yet he would always bring politics into conversation. Ah jihad suicide bomber. So what do you want-- for example. I am being sarcastic. What do you want to eat Farouk? So what do you think about Hosni Mubarak? You know what I mean? Just out of nowhere. Craig talked to his Arabic teacher Mohammad Elsisy about his new obsession too. He invited me once to lunch yes. And he focused the topic in the lunch about jihad. And I keep turning his attention into the essence of Islam. And he keeps again bringing it back to jihad. And he kept asking about jihad over and over and over. And I told him Farouk get over it get over it get over it. It alarmed all of them. At one point Yassir confronted Farouk-- that is Craig. I even told him. I am like Farouk this needs to stop because this is not the right direction. This is not what Islam's about. So if somebody's teaching you this let me know because we need to correct that immediately right? And did he seem receptive? He did. He did. And I told him at this point people are starting to wonder about what is going on where you are learning this stuff from. So we need to kind of understand. And he was like yeah I am not going to talk to anybody about this. I do not know. Maybe I was reading some incorrect stuff. But Craig did not listen. He did not stop talking about jihad. He says this is what the FBI wanted because he says he was great at it. I would have to in a very strategic way get their views on jihad. And I got so good at it in their view that they wanted to enhance it. So I was to speak to I think 10 Muslims a day regarding jihad. Since the FBI is not commenting I ran this by Trevor Aaronson the journalist who is examined about 500 counter-terrorism cases to see if it was possible. He said that in all of those hundreds of cases he is never heard of a quota like this. The ex-FBI agents I spoke with had not either. Though Trevor says that once a sting operation gets going it is common for undercover agents and informants to bait suspects by asking them about jihad. That happens in almost every undercover sting operation. I can tell you that in many of the cases I have looked at that is mentioned in the criminal affidavit in some way. And I think when that is submitted at trial that is a really damning piece of evidence for juries today. Craig took this strategy and ran with it. Mohammad the Arabic teacher heard complaints from his friends. It was to the limit that one of them told me he keeps calling him by phone and keeps saying to him Jihad jihad. I was like you know wait a minute. He would whisper jihad into the phone? Yeah into the phone. I asked Craig did that happen? Probably. I am not denying it. I may have been-- we had a conversation or something and I had done something ridiculous like that. But I do not deny it. I am sure I probably did OK? What were you trying to accomplish with that? Whatever individual heard that and they did not quickly report me they are automatically a suspect. Every single conversation is a conversation that the FBI or prosecutor can say well you heard him say this numerous times and yet you did not do the following. And so that is what you were trying to do? Of course. If you did not think Craig could get any less subtle here's another tactic he would try. I would say let us meet tomorrow afternoon at the gym. We will work out together. I will teach you some things on how to get your forearms shaped a little better your biceps stronger or bigger. And at these workouts I would ask very sensitive questions regarding Islam. For example-- So what do you think about Osama bin Laden? Ayman was working on his biceps when Craig asked him this. I am like dude. OK. Osama bin Laden is a bad guy. He is a mother-. You know what I mean? All that we are suffering from right now is because of Osama bin Laden. And your question right now is because of Osama bin Laden. You know what I mean? All of these new laws that they start acting about just searching and sticking their finger in your butt is because of Osama bin Laden. So you tell him yeah Osama bin Laden is the bad guy. One day a guy named Riaz Surti showed up at the gym with a friend. Riaz had owned a halal KFCTaco Bell nearby. Craig hopped off a stationary bike and introduced himself to Riaz as a fellow Muslim. Here's Riaz. Then I left to go stretch out and then I came back. And then he leans to us and then he says I met the sheikh in Afghanistan. The sheikh? The sheikh yeah. I met the big guy or the sheikh in Afghanistan. What did you think when he said that? Oh we knew that he was referring to Osama bin Laden. He was bragging. He was smiling that he met the sheikh. It just became very clear to us. Craig told us he has never been to Afghanistan. But he was trying to see if these guys at the gym who he would never met thought it would be cool to hang out with Osama bin Laden. They did not think that would be cool. So instead Riaz says he wanted to get Craig to leave him alone. So every time he saw him he would tell him the dirtiest jokes he could come up with. I did not want him to think I was a good Muslim. I just felt like his goal was to get us involved in something that we were not involved with. What did you tell him? Like did you hear about the doctor who was having sex with his patients? And he said no. And I said he is a very interesting doctor. And then he looked at me. It was a veterinarian. It worked. Craig left him alone after that. About eight months into Operation Flex Craig says his handlers told him to start talking to people about an actual terrorist plot a plan to blow up buildings in Southern California. That happens in lots of FBI stings. The informant suggests the plot to the suspect not the other way around according to Trevor Aaronson again who studied hundreds of terrorism convictions. Of about 500 terrorism cases since 911 about 50 defendants have been involved in cases where the informant came up with the idea and provided all of the means. But ex-FBI agents I talked to said that in a well-run operation the informant is not supposed to suggest the plot out of the blue. First the suspect would have to declare his intention to commit an act of violence. Without that the whole case could get thrown out of court as entrapment. The person Craig suggested his plot to was a guy named Ahmad Niazi Niazi is the only person we know of that Craig helped catch the only person the FBI arrested as a result of Operation Flex. Craig had met Niazi one night at the Irvine mosque. Mohammad Craig's Arabic teacher introduced them. Niazi was a family man very different from the Egyptian Xbox players. He had a wife and two young kids and taught at a nearby language school. Niazi grew up in Afghanistan but he would lived in California for eight years. He and Craig went out for coffee and they hit it off. They started hanging out a lot sometimes with Mohammad. One Friday the three of them were driving to a mosque where Mohammad was scheduled to give a sermon. Niazi did not want to do an interview for our story but here's Mohammad. Niazi was sitting in the backseat and Farouk was sitting in the passenger and I was driving. And here's Craig AKA Farouk. And I started to bring up what should we really do as Muslims now that our brothers and sisters are being blown up in Afghanistan and Iraq? And I told him Farouk we are living in Irvine the most peaceful city in all America.  He was like I just do not like the way that American government is handing situations outside and stuff. And I was like OK and what? Are we supposed to just stay here watch our national championship games play Xbox and everything else while our brothers are being killed? And he started talking about some jihad. I mean I became very aggressive. And I told him Farouk what are you trying to get into exactly? I said we should carry out a terrorist attack in this country because I am tired of just staying around doing nothing. I have got access to weapons. I know how to do things. We should bomb something. Silence was out there in the car. I did not say a word until we arrived to the mosque. I refused to talk at all. The first thing that came into my mind I thought that he is a straight-shot terrorist. And at that point I felt kind of scared from him. He scared me. Mohammad glanced into the rearview mirror and saw Niazi staring back at him. He looked shocked. Craig's head was down. He was now playing with his phone. No one said anything for the remaining 20 minutes of the ride to the mosque. The drive back home was the same. After they parted ways with Craig Mohammad and Niazi talked about what had just happened. They decided they had to do something so they did what all Americans are supposed to do in this situation what law enforcement officials tell us we should do when someone says he has access to weapons and wants to use them. They reported Craig to the FBI as a potential terrorist. Coming up what happens exactly when you turn in someone to the FBI who is working for the FBI? Sam Black's story continues in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program-- The Convert the story of an FBI undercover operation from 2006 that went very badly is I think a fair way to say it and the uneasy relationship between some Muslims and the FBI and why that might be. And as I said at the top of the show this is not a typical FBI investigation the story we are telling today. It is hard to say exactly what constitutes failure if you are a government informant but I think that being turned over to authorities as a possible terrorist yourself by the people you suspect are terrorists-- that is got to