Back in the 1970s the Atlanta Journal Newspaper several times a week for years published this column called the Georgia Rambler. Charles Salter wrote the column. Basically he would get up in the morning say goodbye to his wife Sally get in his car and head out on the road to some small town sometimes without much of a plan at all not even sure where he is going to end up. I would look at a Georgia highway map. And Sally would say honey where are you going this morning? And I said I think I will go east. And I would would go over to a town 50 80 100 miles from Atlanta and I would see the county agent or the cafe where the guys and gals would gather to drink coffee and talk. And I would say you all have probably read Rita's Digest. For a long term they had an article called The Most Unforgettable Person I Ever Met. Well who in your town who is the most unforgettable person you ever met? Who would you talk about if he were at a convention 1000 miles away. I wish you fellas could known so and so back home. I was seeking good stories from ordinary folks. There was the 55-year-old man who never wore shoes and the pharmacist who discovered in an old ledger there seemed to be a recipe for Coca-Cola. And the country father of five who told the Georgia Rambler that when he goes to the sales barn to buy a small calf I call it buying me a lawn mower. When the grass dies down thanks to the calf I kill my lawnmower and eat it. There is Pete Ware Justice of the Peace in Troup County who said that he did 40 of his weddings after midnight including shotgun weddings. Though he complained to the Georgia Rambler that people these days are too lazy to bring shotguns to their shotgun weddings. And also was lucky enough to hear about haunted houses. Yeah I have been reading your columns and it seems like a there is a lot of haunted houses in Georgia. Yes and I had a lot a funny interviewing a woman who was in the Marine Corps with Lee Harvey Oswald. And down in . I sort of forgot he was trained as a Marine. Yes. And his nickname was the creep. And they were on the rifle range one day and the devil winds were blowing out of the desert. I forget the word for it the Spanish word and he was still shooting while the others were smoking cigarettes and drinking coffee. Because they could not shoot accurately with the wind blowing from the side. And he kept hitting the bull's eye. OK full disclosure Charles' son Chuck is married one of the producers of our radio show Lisa Pollak which is how we heard about the Georgia Rambler. And when all of us here at our radio show-- you are listening to This American Life by the way from WBEZ Chicago disturbed by Public Radio international-- when all of us heard about the Georgia Rambler and this idea that you would get out of the city and just drive into some small town at random walk around and talk to people until you find a story and get all these people from these towns with just a couple hundred a couple thousand people all over Georgia talking about life where they live it just seemed like a really fun thing to try. So these last few weeks nine of us flew down in Georgia. It was producers of our radio show plus comedian and author Eugene Mirman and we brought the son of the Georgia Rambler Chuck. There are a 159 counties in Georgia. We picked nine counties from a hat. We used an Atlanta Braves baseball cap for that. Each of us went to a different county spend just a day of two and we ended up with so many stories that we cannot come close to fitting them all into one show. Though we can fit seven which we bring you today. And we will just kick things off here. We will start things off with Dave Kestenbaum who is usually a correspondent for NPR's Planet Money who we took off the economics beat and sent to Georgia to look for some story or person that is unforgettable. And Dave you went to Meriwether County right near the western border of the state. Yes and the people of Meriwether County were extremely friendly. They were happy to give directions or recommend a place for lunch. But they were completely at a loss when I asked the one question that mattered. Who is the most unforgettable person in town? Unforgettable people would say In this town? Someone showed me a phone book. It was thinner than your finger. The Rs Ss and Ts were all on the same page. There was one person who came up over and over again lots of people mentioned his name. The gentleman in question is dead. Though I suppose if people talk about you after you die that is pretty much the definition of unforgettable. People said he helped the poor he was a good good man and everyone knew him by his initials My friends and neighbors-- FDR. --11 years ago I came to live at Warm Springs for the first time. Franklin Delano Roosevelt came to Warm Springs Georgia 41 times. Yes people count. He set up a polio treatment center here. The locals say proudly this was a place he could relax. He would get a fiddle player to come and play at night. But Sylvia Bishop Wright she lives in an area called the Cove she told me FDR liked to do something else something you do not read in the history books. When Roosevelt was coming down here he especially liked the moonshine in the Cove. Roosevelt liked Moonshine? They called it stump juice because they would hide it in the old stumps. In a tree stump? In a tree stump. They would just hide it down there. Am I telling things I should not be telling? I was pretty sure this did not count. You cannot go to some small town in search of someone unforgettable and come back with Franklin Delano Roosevelt the former President of the United States someone everyone already knows. But then I thought wait Roosevelt would have been drinking during prohibition when it was illegal to sell alcohol illegal the manufacturer it to transport it we wrote it into our constitution which FDR swore in his oath of office to preserve protect and defend. I got more interested when Sylvia left me a voicemail later that day. They David hey. This is Sylvia at the newspaper. And you know how you get to thinking about things. You know when we were talking about the booze you know the stump juice and all and about how Roosevelt liked it. But I am telling you I do not want anything said about Roosevelt that would be wrong. These folks down here will fight you about Franklin D. Roosevelt. Then silence like she would covered up the mouth piece. There was a second voicemail from her. David this is Sylvia again. I was interrupted right in the middle of my message. But like I said these people down here love Franklin D. Roosevelt. You know his little white house is about three miles down the road. And I guess that is why people knew him on such a personal basis because he was such a good man and so friendly. And they loved him as president absolutely. He came down here before he was president also and made friends with everybody. But I just wanted to make sure nothing bad was said about FDR. I went to that place that Sylvia mentioned the little white house where FDR used to stay. He actually died here. The place is a museum now. And I asked about FDR and moonshine. Two guys told me Yeah that is the local legend. But they did not know if it was true. Clearly this is not a question historians have devoted much effort to answering. It is the 1930s version of did you inhale. Did you sir drink moonshine. Well did you? So now I found myself driving on the back roads into the Georgia woods to see if some president drank moonshine. I stopped at a small house this looked like it had definitely been there since FDR died. A tiny Porsche with three people just sitting on it. I waved as I walked up. They waved back. There was an old man an older woman and a younger guy Roland Brown This is the cove. This area is where they call the cove. I took a breath and asked did FDR come here to get moonshine? Well I was not here. I could not tell you about that. Is that something you have heard? Well I as not going to tell you that. I do not know. . You could go over the mountain and talked to Mr. Bunn-Wright's daughter and she might tell you. Mr. Bunn-Wright played the fiddle for him. He lived out here. One of Mr. Bunn-Wright's daughters is the only one left living I think. And the woman's name I am looking for? Aunt Nee is what we call her Aunt Nee Newman. I do not even really know what her first name is. I drove over the mountains and found Aunt Nee's house. The doors were locked no cars. I stood there for a minute knocking trying all of the doors but the house with silent. I gave up and drove away. On the right side of the road I saw a woman working in a field. What the hell I thought I rolled down the window. Do know someone named Aunt Nee? Aunt Nee? Yes she said. She is my Aunt Nee. The woman pointed back to the house on the hill where I just knocked on the door. Aunt Nee she explained is hard of hearing. I might not get her to the door. That white house right up on top of the hill. And she is 90 going on 91. I might have to go up and get her to the door. Do you think you could come with me? That would be wonderful. I will walk you there. Thank you. The woman whose name is Linda Carpenter took me back to the house that seemed empty. Inside in near darkness in an armchair was Aunt Nee doing some sort of puzzle from a magazine. Aunt Nee's full name is Cornelia Wright Newman. Aunt Nee told me yes she met President Roosevelt when she was a girl. FDR loved her father's fiddle player. Because her hearing is not so good the way the interview would work is I would ask a question in what I thought was a loud voice and Linda would shout it out even louder. So Sylvia told me that FDR used to come here to the Cove to buy moonshine. Did FDR come to the Cove to buy moonshine? To buy moonshine? Yeah he would come down to Uncle Charlie's old store Gilbert's store down there. And that is where he met Daddy. Did he buy moonshine? Did FDR buy moonshine there? Did he buy moonshine in Uncle Charlie's old store? FDR? Yeah yeah. He was over there one time when he would come by he was over there to get his groceries from Uncle Charlie's. And he stopped and he found out where Daddy lived and he would only played the fiddle. And he would come on over there. But he bought moonshine also moonshine? FDR bought moonshine there? I do not know if he did or not. I do not know. I do not know either. Because I was a little bitty girl. I do not know if FDR bought moonshine or not. I do not know either. By this point I gave up on the idea of getting an answer. It was only listening back to the recording later that I realized Aunt Nee was only saying she never saw him buy moonshine at that particular store. And later she said this. Now he would come down and got moonshine I know. Franklin Roosevelt? Roosevelt did. But where he got it I do not know. But he did not get it at . Daddy did not fool with it. Mama would not allow that. I do not know what Aunt Nee saw or heard that makes her believe FDR drank moonshine. As proof it is not so satisfying. I did talk with one other person a local actor who has played the role of FDR and is a bit of an FDR buff. He told me he had heard from people who knew firsthand that yes FDR drank moonshine. He said a man named Bum Phillips had told him a story about bringing FDR quarts of moonshine then having to hide them when the Baptist preacher stopped by unannounced. But if you are looking for proof well there do not seem to be any photographs. If you want to firsthand account Aunt Nee is one of the last people living who might have seen Roosevelt take a swing. The truth is that FDR had a complicated life. Warm Springs was one of the few places where everyone knew he had polio. When he died here it was not with his wife but with another woman Lucy Mercer Rutherford. When we say someone is unforgettable it does not mean we remember everything. It can be nice to forget. If you like the picture FDR drinking moonshine with the locals go ahead. If you do not it never happened. nah This is Eugene Mirman. I was sent to Hall County. It is a Sunday night in Gainesville Georgia. On the advise of the woman at the front desk of the Holiday Inn we head to Wild Wings to find people to tell us about interesting people to find. We are told it is one of the most fun places in town. Also it is the only place open. We are the most interesting people in Gainesville. Have you ever seen the show friends? No you know that show Friends and you know Phoebe off Friends? And she just like world peace love everybody. That is the way I am. This is Matt Norris. He is 27 but does not look a day over 23. He is there with two friends. All three work at Wild Wings. They are hanging out drinking as it is closing up for the night. Matt's just discovered Friends on DVD with the kind of enthusiasm potential rock stars discover The Velvet Underground. My producer thinks he might be gay. But I think he just likes R.E.M. and wants to be an artist. I am going to refer to him as Artist Matt because-- Wait a second are all three of you named Matt? We are three Matts. If you all followed us around at work for like a day I swear to god you would laugh your ass off for like three days. Like you have abs. The other two Matts are Big Matt and Quiet Matt. Big Matt is fun and gregarious. Quiet Matt does not say much. Quiet Matt and Big Matt say we just missed the perfect day to hang out with them. It was the 4th of July. I was the 4th of frickin' July. We were trashed. We closed the restaurant down. closed Wild Wings down and we rented a house boat out on Lake Lanier. When you go to the lake you go to Cocktail Cove. Cocktail Cove is where all the boats like daisy chain each other together and just have a massive party. And you just walk across with your coolers of beer and your food and . And everybody just drinks and flashes and has fun. I swam to the boat full of hot chicks like 20 yard maybe 30 yards away. And everybody was hollering at him and saying this that and the other. But they would not acknowledge anything. So what did I do? What did Matt Fry do? Matt Fry jumped off the top of the house and swam over there and got him and brought them all back. Big Matt Fry is all about solutions taking action. Quiet Matt was more like a smoking crocodile floating from place to place to observing. Be honest I am in the water. And I am just treading and I am swimming away smoking a cigarette in the water trying to keep it from getting wet. And I turn around. And there is this chick on a floaty. And I look and like right in my face she is got them jokers just strung out there. So I am just sitting there and I am puffing my cigarette and I was not moving. I was like I am going to stay right here. The Matt I keep thinking about the most is Artist Matt because Artist Matt partially inspired by Friends wants to move to New York City and follow his dream of becoming a video editor a totally attainable dream. But he cannot for two reasons. One he is afraid he will become homeless and does not know he could just move back the day he becomes homeless. And two he is on probation. Actually they all are. Big Matt for several DUIs Quiet Matt for something to do with weed and Artist Matt for speeding. I am on probation because I got a freaking speeding ticket. It is just a speeding ticket who gives a crap? Wait why would you be on probation for a speeding ticket? Is it you are ninth one? No. It was my first one. But I was kind of going 40 over. Oh was it a school zone? No but it was a deaf child area. But the kid was at school. What the hell did it matter? It was like 2 oclock. He should have been at school anyway. Assuming that the speed limit was somewhere around 25 miles an hour it means he was doing 65 or 70 in a residential neighborhood. You know what the funny thing is? Tell me the funny thing. I had just bought a brand new car. And I had seriously just left the dealership. And I lived in Commerce and I know you do not know where that is at but it is like 45 minutes away from here. And I was going down back roads. And I had just pulled out of the dealership in this new car. And it was awesome. I am looking good. I am jammin'. I got a new car. I am going to get some chicks tonight. So when the cop pulls me over I am not scared or anything. He pulls me over. He gets my license and registration and insurance stuff and I am still jammin'. I got a new car. Who gives a crap I am getting pulled over right now. I get out of my car and I am like looking in the trunk just to see what is going on back there because I have never looked back there. I just bought this car. This is the first car I had ever bought by myself. I am checking out the bass sounds. And the officer puts me in handcuffs because he thinks I am about to like shoot him or run or something. . I am like what are you talking about? I just bought a car. I am just freaking excited. When you explain that to the policeman was he like oh yeah you are just the classic guy who bought a car and is checking it out? Hell no hell no not at all. Good lord no. He was pissed. It was bad. What kind of a person in the middle of being pulled over by a cop decides to just check out the trunk of their new car? That is a terrible idea. But Artist Matt is an artist. He is Phoebe from Friends. He does not realize that success is right at hand. He could move an hour and a half south to Atlanta where there are TV stations and CNN and TBS and video editing classes and accomplish his dream. As long as he first discovers the show cops he should be fine. Eugene Mirman.  Not far from Hall County is Pickens County. On April 9 2006 a soldier from Pickens County serving in Iraq was killed by an IED. Specialist David Collins was 24. His body was flown to Atlanta in a convoy of patrol cars drove from Pickens County down to the Atlanta Airport about an hour and half way to meet the body and escort it back home to be buried. At the time Allen Wiggington was the Chief Deputy at the Pickens County Sheriff's Department. He was one of the escorts that day. And he was surprised when they got to the airport and they were told not to drive to some cargo area to retrieve the coffin but to a commercial jet. It was parked right at the passenger gate. When we pulled up to the plane obviously I look up and there is people at the window in all the gates because they are five patrol cars with their blue lights on and a hearse. And the plane is sitting there The baggage compartment has not opened yet. All of use are just kind of standing there. And the cargo door to the plane opens. It literally was chilling. Because the casket starts down the roller coming out of the airplane and coming down the conveyor belt not lonely is everything on the ground around us stopped literally the buses carrying the staff everything has stopped. You look up in the windows and everybody has stopped. And there is kids watching. And the military escorts came over to where the casket was. And I am still standing there watching. And it was not until they closed the door on the hearse that people start resuming kind of. You hear some activity. You hear some things. You look around and you realize that literally for just a minute the world stood still at that airport while they took that boy's body off that airplane. I was on a plane about six months after that. And I was flying in from Washington. I had been to Washington D.C. for some event. And on the plane there was a soldier sitting there. And he sat there red-headed pale kid probably 18 19 years old. He was coming home. And the flight attendant came in on their airline and said ladies and gentlemen I just wanted to offer you we are fixing to pull up the gate. I know we are running a little bit late. We are trying to get you out of here. Some of you have connecting flights. But in the back of the plane there is a young man Specialist so and so. And he is coming home for the first time. He is been in Iraq for eight and a half months. And he has a new baby daughter that'ill be meeting him at the gate that he has never seen before. And I think I would probably beat somebody to death if they had got out of their seat and did not let him get off that plane first. Allen Wiggington he is now a Magistrate Judge in Pickens County. According to the Department of Defense as of this week 140 Georgians have died in Iraq 38 in Afghanistan. Coming up there is old timers taking up space at the Hardy's in Whitfield County lingering over their coffee. What do they have to say for themselves? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show the Georgia Rambler in which we imitate an old newspaper column from the Atlanta Journal in the 1970s. Nine of us went to Georgia each to a different county. We drove into small towns that we would never been to before walked up to people like the Georgia Rambler reporter used to do and asked who was the most interesting unforgettable person in town which led us to more stories than we could possibly fit into one hour. We head now into Chattooga County. Lisa Pollak went there. Though her story begins in town called Dalton over in Whitfield County. For years the newspaper in Dalton Georgia ran a question on its front page every day something like do you agree with the governor's budget cuts? Or what is your favorite Christmas meal? Readers called in and the paper printed their answers. The editor back then was a guy named Jimmy Espy. And one night Jimmy was so busy on deadline that he did not have time to think of a new question. So instead he just asked readers something like tell us what you think. That is right tell the paper what you think anonymously about anything. The next day the paper got so many more calls than usual that Jimmy never went back to the old question format again. People had a lot to say and they were not shy about saying it. Within weeks Jimmy told me half the town was in a frenzy after one man called to complain that the old timers drinking coffee were taking up too much space at the  that is on an environmental mission-- The gist of this woman's message was that county residents should fight pollution. They should protect local waterways. What do you think of that? I think I put her up to that? What are you saying? What do you mean? I put her up to that because I knew you were coming today. I said please call at 100 and talk about maybe some kind of environmental issue. And we will not seem so crazy. Are you serious? Yeah I am serious. Well I admire that you are admitting that. Jason worries that outsiders were get a bad impression of where he lives reading Sound Off. But the impression I got and I read quite a few of them is simply that there is a lot of people who just really needed to say something who got to say it no interruption no argument. What I liked about Sound Off is that it feels like real life. Most days there is plenty to complain about. And every once in a while people surprise you. This Sound Off ran July 8. I asked Jimmy to read it. A local company closed its doors this past week. Unfortunately I was an employee that lost my job. I just want to thank Mike Cathy and Charlie for the chance to work for you since the year 2000. Thank you Jarrett family for not treating me only as an employee but treating me as part of the family. I wish you all the luck in the future and wish all their former employees well. And that is somebody who just lost their jobs saying thanks to the people who had to let them go. I came to Summerville to find someone unforgettable. I do not know this man's name. But I will not forgot him. The next up is Jane Feltes. Jane is also the producer of today's show. And Jane you went to two different counties counties that sit right next to each other. Yeah Coffee and Bacon. And they are named after the foods? No actually they are named after people John E. Coffee and Augustus Octavius Bacon. Augustus Octavius Bacon is quite a name. And they are both in the military. And they were both senators. OK well I am learning a lot. And they were both delicious. Obviously so. So where do we start? What town? I am in Douglas which is in Coffee County at the busiest place I can find in town. And there is roughly around 11000 people in Douglas. So I go to this place Flash Foods which is a gas station slash convenience store. It is pretty busy on a Wednesday morning. And the clerk there I noticed she is like talking to everybody. Her name is Tamika. So I ask her who the most interesting person in town is. She says her friend Karen Darby who works down at the other Flash Foods at the south side of town. She always keeps me laughing. She just left  as a matter of fact. All right I will go look for her. Thanks Tamika. I drive south I would say about a mile or two to the other Flash Foods and I find Karen. She tells me no she is not the one. Who I need to talk to is Adam. Right over here is Adam. Let me show you. She directs me across the street to this white building that has a red sign and some guitars hanging in the window. Vickers Music. I ask for Adam. Adam-- we got some animals in here-- who is the most interesting person in this store? Adam she wants to interview you. Adam comes out of a room at the back of the store and makes his way through the stacks of amplifiers keyboards guitars hanging overhead. He is tall bald kind of looks like a softer Stone Cold Steve Austin. He quickly explains to me that this is his family's business. His folks and little brother can take over helping customers while we talk. We have been here 31 years. Is is going well? Oh yeah always always. The music business is different from other businesses. When you have a down economy we thrive. Really Sure. People stay home. You sit on the front porch and you remember that you had a guitar. When you sit down and you strum a guitar you forget I just got laid off from the job. I just had this happen or had that happen. My guitar sales pick up. My overall instrument sales pick up. How did you learn to play? I learned to play with a Willie Nelson song book and a guitar. And I would site in my room at night and learn chords and strum right on my own. Did your dad teach you how to read sheet music? No he gave me a book. I told you it was hard. He gave you a book and said you want to play? There is is. Go learn. Strange seeing as how his dad owns a music store and used to tour the country in a band Adam says his dad just was not around that much. We were getting off the ground when I was young. We were just getting the business off the ground. So he was very very consumed with the business. He was gone. He was working all the time from daylight to late at night. So I did not see him a lot. But I mean he made it work. I can come in now and have a business. Are you married? Yes. And do you have any kids? I have one child. He is two. Are you going to try to push him into the family business? No I am not going to push him into nothing. I want him to do what he wants to do. You want to be a different kind of dad then your dad? I already am. In what way? I enjoy spending time with him. And not to say-- you understand that-- not to say that he did not. But I am really hands on. We go fishing every evening. Every evening? Almost every evening if I can get home before dark. If I have a lot of work going on we go fishing. and then I have to put him to bed and get up and come back that is what we do. Mind you he is saying all of this within ear shot of his entire family dad included. Will you play a song for me? Adam picks up his guitar and gives it a quick tuning.  Remember John Denver? This is a take off of his Country Roads.  He is sitting a foot in front of me and staring directly in my eyes. I was not sure should I look away or is this what happens when you ask someone to sing you a song.  We have a good time with that one. Well next up a county right in the middle of the state. And Sarah Koenig you are the one who went there. Right. I was assigned Twiggs County. The county city is Jeffersonville a city of about 1500 people majority African American majority poor. There used to be a lot of mining jobs here. But now they are all gone. At just before 5 PM I wandered into city hall. There is this very nice guy sitting behind the desk who said the most interesting person in town was his boss. She is just full of life. She is been a lot of places. Why what is the story of her life I mean broadly? I will let her tell it. I am not going to spoil it for the people I am serious. And you are not just telling me this because she is your boss and you have to suggest you boss. SUBJECT CITY HALL EMPLOYEE Well yeah she is my boss but that is not the reason I am telling you this. I can tell you other things about her being my boss but you would not want to hear those. I tracked her down. Her name is Sonya Mallory in a different county actually where she was working her other job at a cosmetology school a pretty sad looking cosmetology school in a corner of a strip mall. And I am actually the director of the school. And how long have you been doing that? Well I have been doing it for about six years. Actually and I applied for this job because I had a leak in my ceiling and I was going to like do some extra work. But once I got here I have not fixed my roof yet. The reason she has not fixed her roof is because once she realized what was going on with her students a lot of single mothers no money she started pitching in. She and a couple of other teachers pulled their money to buy a year's worth of bus fares for a few students plus gas money lunch money. They even swapped clothes. Because you cannot afford it at the Salvation Army if you are really poor. It is not so much that Sonya Mallory is a bleeding Heart It is that stuff like this drives her crazy seeing black people struggling no one helping her out. Plus she is been there which leads us to her other job the one back in Jeffersonville. But before I get to that some background. Sonya Mallory is 56. She was born in Jeffersonville grew up in a tiny rented house three rooms seven kids in bunk beds. Her dad worked on the railroad which was a good job but he was a terrible alcoholic. And when he would come home at the end of the week he terrorized the house beating up their mom chasing the kids with a shotgun. The cops never did anything about it. Sonya hated him. Her mother worked for a white family taking care of their kids and cooking. One day when Sonya and her little brother were walking home from school a car came along swerved and hit her brother broke his arm and his leg. And it turned out the driver was one of the white kids her mother took care of. And the white family they never even came to check in on her brother to see how he was doing. And I thought that was the most terrible thing. Here it is my momma seeing about their kids. And one of their kids run over my brother and you do not see them anywhere. So I mean that was a bunch of hokey. Was everybody noticing these things? Or would you sort of madder about these things than people around you? Do you what I mean? Somehow you just feel like wait why is nobody else mad about this? Or was everybody mad about it? No everybody was not. That is why I found it totally amazing. Like nobody else was. Because my mama still went to work for them. As a matter of fact I think I was mad at her for a while. After Sonya graduated high school her first order of business was to get away from Jeffersonville. She moved to Macon joined the military worked as an army nurse then at a VA hospital and finally moved back to Jeffersonville in the late 1980s and looked around. When I came home I realized Jesus Christ Jeffersonville is the same as it was when I left. There was nothing there. There was no job for the ones that were staying. And there was nothing for the kids. They would just sit around on the streets. There was nothing. It made her mad. It made her think about all the unfairness she would seen growing up. And one day she got an idea. I had gone to the post office and the guy there was on counsel he was saying something about a lot of people having their water cut off. And of course he did not know I was in there. And he said they cut a lot of black folks water off. Sonya said she knew some white folks who had not pay their bills either. Their water was not getting cut off. And I said to myself the post office is still in the same place. Everything's doing the same. Roads are bad. I mean you know people