 All right all right all right. Everybody finished with their s'mores tell me you did not live those fish we caught in my tent Charlie. Now bring some more wood for the fire come one gather around gather around. Do not play up in the Malik you set your narrow behind on the chair. Now get ready because uncle Glynn's got some scary stories. Yeah they really happened that is why they are scary. Say what? You want me to say it in my radio voice or how about this? Tonight in the woods on RX and NPR we proudly present Campfire Tales. You all scared as not you? Somebody get the baby please. Amazing stories of scary stuff that happened to other people. Do not wander off the path do not get too close to the flame because you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT. I do have some stories I need to tell you all this first one was from a friend of mine. It was on a camping trip not unlike the one you all are on right now. But then stuff started going down.  It is called Camp Pidad  it is a an Islamic camp strictly for Muslims. I am not sure where exactly in Michigan it is in what city but it is pretty much in the middle of nowhere just woods everywhere. I mean Islam generally supports like oneness with nature. One of the primary activities we generally focused on was lectures from the Sheikh and the Sheikh is in Islam basically what a priest is in Christianity. It was not necessarily his main topic of discussion but he would end the lectures off I do not want to say warning us but he said there is been multiple like weird things I guess going on in the campsite and he brought up the topic of djinn. He told us djinn are a part of a whole other dimension that we are not able to access. They are generally known to inhabit secluded areas you know separate from like civilization or humans. Like right when it hits sunset I guess that is when it is basically their time. They come out and he told us do not like even think about going into wooded areas by yourself because when you show some sort of extreme fear high levels of vulnerability become evident towards these djinn. So it is about like 9 30 at night and you know we are all coming back to our cabin our consolers are with us. We are getting ready for bed at this point you know we are all talking. The door to our cabin the front door the entrance starts opening and closing continuously for like three minutes. I mean it is basically impossible for the wind to blow it in this door every time it closes you know there is a latch. I know this one kid I look at look at him and his face is just white. He is just likes sweating very intensely and he start screaming like what the hell's going on what the hell is going on. He was crying man like and everybody's telling him to calm down you need to relax yourself like this is going to stop in a second. I started getting shivers telling you this man. He is out of his bed he is on his knees leaning towards the ground and just like that man his had just starts swinging back and forth back and forth. On his knees the back of his head would touch the ground he leaned forward go back the head his head would touch the ground again and he did this reportedly for about like 10 seconds. When this is happening while he is going back and forth he starts vomiting just viciously man like it was disgusting. I have never seen vomiting like it is such a rapid rate it seemed ridiculously excruciating. Our counselor gets the camp doctor and they grabbed this kid they put him onto the bed and he starts going crazy. And this is when I realized like all right there is something wrong with this kid I think he is freaking possessed. He is like he is just tossing them off of him like swinging with his finger clawing him. They are trying to contain him by basically putting like extreme pressure on his forehead. He is screaming ana iblis ana iblis which means I am the devil. Iblis in Islam is considered the devil you know that is the name of the devil. He was not gagging he was moaning like it was a moan of pain echoing you know ana iblis. It was a very dark sort of tone and I mean I know this all seems very superstitious and we all thought OK maybe he is just having a panic attack. But yet the atmosphere of the cabin itself was so thick and dark and just very murky that we knew man that this kid had a djinn inside of him. He is clawing at them he is screaming ana iblis ana iblis. So the counselor you know he leaves us there and he goes and gets the Sheikh the Sheikh of the camp. Now the Sheikh bolts in this is about two minutes later you know after he left he bolts into the cabin and instantly dude no further explanation was required. He saw what was going on and he knew right away. And in the situation it is known in our religion that there is a specific verse you have to recite. It is a verse called Ayat al-Kursi  Ayat al-Kursi from this one chapter in the Quran which is our holy book. The Sheikh you know he starts reciting Ayat al-Kursi he is reading he is reading I am like dude what is this supposed to drive the spirit out of the human body but yet he is still going crazy yelling ana iblis. So after about like five minutes of reciting man he starts vomiting again. Not as he was before you know it is kind of like normal vomit you know. After he stops vomiting dude he lets out this like demon like screech. It was so deep and powerful. It was unlike anything I had ever heard. So he lets out this screech and it just became silent man just silence. As weird as this sounds man like instantly I swear to God the air just - you can feel it. It started to clear up. They rush him to the hospital the Sheikh hops in with him the counselor and the doctor they all go with. I am sitting there dude and I am not going to lie I am bawling I am just like crying my ass off. When they got back they told us the doctors were very confused if he was having like a panic attack or anxiety attack his blood pressure and heart rate would be through the roof. But this kid he had a heartbeat that was pretty much unnoticeable. He left the hospital probably two or three days later. I have seen him one time since that incident and I will tell you one thing man he will never be the same ever. Nowhere near the kid he used to be. He is - I mean I guess very introspective but to the point where he does not say anything and when he does say anything it is got something irrelevant. Definitely in his own world. I mean honesty man I believe that when you become possessed you know I told you that the humans and the djinn dimension they can contact us but we cannot contact them but this kid literally has opened up this dimension in his own way. Like I have never asked him to elaborate on this because honestly man I do not want to hear any more about it. I mean I am not going to lie I have developed some sort of phobia towards this whole topic djinn. The next year they had changed the campsite you know they decide to never go back there and you know they have never gone back since man.  Yep that is how it happened believe it. Thank you so much Keith for telling your story to Anthony Briones. 