A man walks into the main branch of the San Francisco Public Library one Monday earlier this month. He is a balding gentleman named John Peters and he is looking for books by the Marxist political theorist Antonio Gramsci. He is an Italian radical. And what I am seeing is everything has been taken out several years ago. I am wondering are these stolen? Or has somebody-- and I know of one case of this-- deliberately not wanted people to see these books? If this is a conspiracy to suppress the 20th century's greatest theorist of cultural hegemony it is not a very effective conspiracy. It takes the helpful librarian less than two minutes to find on the shelves of the fourth floor a book of Gramsci's selected political writings. So here's the call number. So that is how you find it on the shelf OK? OK. Five of us went to libraries around the country that day according to the reference desk. And one of the things that we found everywhere were even-tempered unflappable librarians. Like at the Palo Verde Public Library in Phoenix a library user named Cindy in a maroon sweatshirt and fanny pack broke into song to get the librarian to understand exactly which Amy Grant Christmas album she wanted. No. SINGING Mary did you know that your baby boy-- Oh I have heard the song. That same day on the Blackfeet Indian Reservation in Montana at the Medicine Spring Library a woman asked the librarian Aaron Lafromboise if they have anything on the Motokiks the traditional women's society in the tribe. You know I do not know if there is anything actually written about Motokik. Yeah. Yeah one of my aunties is in there. And so when I got my Indian name she sang me an honor song from the Motokiks. So it was really amazing. Really? So I am thinking you might have to search a little more. They look for books together and do not find much. The books are written mostly by non-natives and men which can I say? Good example of cultural hegemony. Same afternoon on the other side of the country in the Jackson Heights branch of the Queens Public Library in New York City upstairs in the children's section high school kids hide out on the floors of the stacks. A teenager by the computers downloads an immigration form I suppose for her parents. This is everybody says the most ethnically-mixed neighborhood in Queens with books in English Spanish Chinese Korean Urdu Hindi and more. Two happily confident third graders named Katherine and Adam friends from the libraries after school program Stacks walk up to the librarian with a request. I want to know that any books have words but no pictures. Yes. Words but no pictures? Yeah. Most of our books have at least a little picture. Even the chapter books have drawings at the start of each chapter the librarian explains. The kids let her know that this is acceptable. Not ideal but acceptable. I want to have a book with a challenge reading because-- do you know I am almost fifth grade? No you are third grade. How can you be almost fifth grade? OK here this book might be-- But I want a really challenge. I want a challenging one. And I think I know there is a one here. Can you go to the front over there? He marches the librarian towards the books for older kids. Best as I can figure out Adam somehow got it into his head that day that he had just had it with picture books. And as soon as he said this Katherine was like oh me too. Though once Adam walked away she told me it was her own independent decision. It is that now that I am bigger I do not want to really have more pictures. I want to mostly just use my imaginations for reading. People use the library for so much more than books though. In just that one Monday the five of us who went out to record we witnessed a woman printing out fliers to find her lost dog. We witnessed old people getting help with their email. One librarian told me that in her job you really get in touch with just how many people really do not know how to use computers at all. We saw a homeless guy research apartments he might be able to afford. We heard about power tools you could check out to do your home improvements when you have a place and lights for seasonal affective disorder you can check out. A library got on the phone and then arranged for a patron to get a new walker and get it delivered to him. Will you be there between 500 and 700 tonight? Yes. Yes. 500 and 700 tonight works. The librarian from suburban Detroit that I spoke with Annie Spence described libraries the best I thought. I always say that it is the only place-- well it is one of the last places you can go that you do not have to buy or believe in anything to come in. You can just come and we will help you no matter what your question is. We will try to figure it out with you. In the Harry Potter books there is this place called the Room of Requirement. The way it works is you walk three times in front of this certain patch of wall at Hogwarts thinking like I really need a coffee. And then suddenly in that room a coffee shop will appear. Or I need a place to make my magic potion in secret and then a room with all the ingredients for your magic potion will appear. Libraries are like that. But in real life. That is what they do. And today on our program we have stories of very unlikely uses for these Rooms of Requirement all driven by people who want something very very specialized. Something which in every single story in today's show the library is able to deliver. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One In Praise of Limbo. So we start our show today with a library in a very unusual place and with people who want something very unusual from that library. Zoe Chace explains. The library sits on the border between Canada and the US. I mean literally on the border. Like there is a faded black line running along the floor to show you which country you are in. The books are mostly in Canada. The front door is in America. So entering from the US is easy. But if you are coming from the Canadian side to get to the door you have to venture for about 20 yards into American territory on an American sidewalk. How can you tell you have crossed over? Flower pots. A row of flower pots. Yeganeh Torbati is a Reuters reporter who was there recently. So the flower pots are there to demarcate the border between the United States and Canada. It is just-- it is like sorry we just have to show you that this little line exists but we are trying to make it as sweet as possible. And in the spring those flower pots are blooming and it is quite beautiful. Of course when I was there it was quite dead. So it is really just a line of flower pots with dirt in them. The place is kind of famous gets tourists. When Barack Obama was speaking during a state visit from the Canadian Prime Minister he mentioned the library as this harmonious symbol of Canadian-US ties. A library is an inherently welcoming place. Its whole ethos is this is for everybody. That is the spirit of this library in two countries at once. That is not why we are talking about it though. We are talking about something happening inside the library that is making things kind of tense. That is why Yeganeh was there. She covers immigration. She is been writing about the travel ban since January 2017. And the list of countries has changed as the ban has changed. But Iran? Iran has always been on the list of banned countries. There are a lot of Iranian students in the US here on single-entry visas. Single-entry means if they leave they cannot just turn around and re-enter. They cannot go home to see their families. And because of the travel ban their families cannot visit them here so there is no way for them to see each other. But Iranians can get to Canada and this library is in Canada. And Iranian students in America can get to this library because this library is also in America. So that is what they have been doing meeting at this library in two countries at once. Yeganeh went up there and waited outside the library on a Saturday morning. Almost immediately this woman walked in who herself was an Iranian student. And she was dressed for the winter weather and in a winter coat. And she looked kind of anxious and I could kind of tell that she is Iranian. And so I started talking to her and she said that yes indeed she was trying to meet her parents. They spoke in Persian. Yeganeh is Iranian-American actually. Her parents came here as students. And I had earlier saw her being questioned by US border patrol agents. And so I asked her what had happened in those interactions because I had heard that border patrol agents were objecting to these reunions and were at times trying to stop people from carrying them out. But she said that they questioned her they examined her documents and they asked her if she was here to see her family. And she said yes and they said great that is very normal. A lot of people do it. And they let her into the library. And then maybe about 10 15 minutes after she first arrived I kind of hear this bit of commotion. The door of the library is like pretty creaky and old and kind of noisy. And these three or four people come in. We were in the second reading room furthest from the door. And you just see this woman in a headscarf and a winter coat and she just starts rushing in. And her daughter gets up from the table where I was sitting with her and walks over to her really quickly and they just embrace. And immediately tears are flowing. And it is just this really intense and very intimate and private moment. But there was no loud crying. There was no sobbing. There was no loud talking Yeah because it is in the library.  Yeah. It is just this subdued environment and they are trying to-- they are both expressing all their emotions but also trying to fit them into the space. Around this family are kids with headphones on on computers parents with kids in the children's reading room. All the library stuff is happening. The librarians stay out of the way which seems like an acquiescence to these meetings but there are these new signs up around lately. No eating no packages and no family meetings. Yeganeh heard that the US and Canadian authorities had threatened to shut the library down and she asked them about it. The Canadians denied it. The US had no comment. In the library Yeganeh sees families ignore the signs. This student flew from Michigan. Her family came from Iran for only a few hours together. It seems crazy. And then around I want to say 1100 another Iranian family entered. It is been three years since this mother has seen her son. She and her husband come in with their other son who lives in Canada now. He and his brother look like twins. These parents have been visiting their son in Canada for weeks. And all this time they have been trying to figure out is there any way we can see our other son who lives in Ohio? They could not solve it but just before the parents were scheduled to fly back to Iran they heard about the library and everyone rushed there for a few hours. That was also really emotional. I did not see the exact moment of their embrace but I saw their goodbye. And that was very difficult to watch. What happened? So the brother who is living in the United States he hugged his mother and you can just see him sobbing into her shoulder. Then they separate and she has this very tear-stained face and is putting her coat and scarf back on. And then he hugs his father and again buries his face in his shoulder. And the father I heard him say to his son take care of yourself. Please take care of yourself. A lot of these families talk every day multiple times a day. Like they know exactly how the other person is doing what is going on in their life. But still they fly rent a car drive to the border. Shirin Estahbanati another student drove up from New York to see her parents who'd flown from Iran. Reuters put up a video of her interview about the visit. Shirin is this glowing young face. Her emotions are just written right across it. Her dad had had a heart attack recently. She was so anxious to see him. I do not know. The time I was just hugging my parents I was thinking I wish I could stop all clocks all over the world. I cannot explain how tough it was especially about my dad. I thought even he is shorter than the time I left. I do not know. The time he met me he started smelling me and he was like I miss your smell. So--  I would been thinking of the idea of this show of libraries as the magical Room of Requirement from Harry Potter. I think this is exactly that. Like imagine these Iranian students in America thinking I need a magical place that is somehow in America but also outside it. It seems like an impossible one. It is like a very particular only at this time in America would this exact requirement exist. And a room appeared a reading room. Zoe Chace who is one of the producers of our show. Act Two Book Fishing in America. OK so our program today of course is about people who want libraries to satisfy some very deep and sometimes very idiosyncratic desires. And the people in this act they wish for a library that can give them something that only ever existed inside the pages of a book. Sean Cole tell us what happened. There is this book I have always really loved a novel by Richard Brautigan. If you have not heard of him he was a really funny almost surreal hippyish writer in the '60s and '70s probably best known for the book Trout Fishing in America a very short and deeply experimental piece of fiction part travelogue part fever dream. It is what made people cultish about Brautigan. A kid who went to my college legally changed his name to Trout Fishing In America. But the novel I am talking about is lesser known. It is called The Abortion subtitle An Historical Romance 1966. And it is not so much the story that gets me. It is the setting. It takes place in a library in San Francisco. But instead of coming to take books out of the library people come to submit unpublished books they have written to the library forever. The books are there to stay. They can bring a book in anytime. The library never closes. And the librarian-- there is only one-- is always there to greet them. He lives at the library and he is the narrator of the story. This is from the first chapter. The librarian says We do not use the Dewey decimal classification or any index system to keep track of our books. We record their entrance into the library in the Library Contents Ledger and then we give the book back to its author who is free to place it anywhere he wants in the library on whatever shelf catches his fancy. It does not make any difference where a book is placed because nobody ever checks them out and nobody ever comes here to read them. This is not that kind of library. This is another kind of library. The librarian is reflexively polite and effusive. He might say to someone I do not think we have a book like this in the entire library. This is a first. He puts people at ease. He says My clothes are not expensive but they are friendly and neat and my human presence is welcoming. Eventually a woman comes in with a book and she is very beautiful. They fall in love. She gets pregnant but they are not ready to have a child. So because this takes place in 1966 the two of them travel to Mexico to get an abortion which is why the novel is called The Abortion. But just the spectacle of this library it is hilarious and heartbreaking and democratic and other-dimensional all at the same time. Brautigan imagined a great anonymous wash of humanity marching through with a lot on its mind. Kind of the Utopian ideal of the public square except completely silent all written down on rows and rows of unread books. The librarian says the main purpose of the library is quote to gather pleasantly together the unwanted the lyrical and haunted volumes of American writing. And when you talk to other people who have read The Abortion the conversation usually winds its way to this one chapter. The 23? The 23.  Yeah. This is Todd Lockwood a photographer and music producer in Burlington Vermont. I will tell you why I got in touch with him in a minute. The 23 is essentially a list of all 23 books that came into the library this one particular day by little kids old people. And the chapter's made up of just little descriptions of the 23 books that the librarian wrote down in his ledger. There is one called It is the Queen of Darkness Pal a science fiction novel written by sewer worker. There is a book called Leather Clothes and the History of Man which is somehow entirely made of leather. Not just the binding but the pages. Richard Brautigan himself comes into the library with a book called Moose. And a doctor comes in looking quote doctory and very nervous with a book entitled The Need for Legalized Abortion. I asked Todd what some of his favorites were and he pointed to this one. Just the title alone is just wonderful. It is called Bacon Death by Marcia Patterson. The author was a totally nondescript young woman except for the look of anguish on her face. She handed me this fantastically greasy book and fled the library in terror. The book actually looked like a pound of bacon. I was going to open it and see what it was about but I changed my mind. I did not know whether to fry the book or put it on the shelf. Being a librarian here is sometimes a challenge. Todd first read The Abortion when it came out in the early '70s. A friend of his gave it to him with a little inscription that said This book will change your life. And that turned out to be more than prophetic. He ended up reading it about once a year for the next 15 years. And every time I would read it I would get the same feeling from it. First thing I would say to myself is when is somebody going to build this library? When is somebody going to do this? To eventually becoming when am I going to do this? A real life library for unpublished books submitted by their authors. A home for anything anyone felt a burning need to express or explain or somehow get off their chests. Todd dreamed for years about one day creating a place like that. And there was clearly a desire for it. In The Abortion Brautigan gives an address for his fictional library. 3150 Sacramento Street San Francisco California 94115 which is the real life address of the Presidio branch of the San Francisco Public Library. So for a while people were actually sending their unpublished manuscripts there and had to be informed this is not that kind of library. This is a normal kind of library Anyway Todd kept putting off his dream thinking I will put that library together someday. And then two things happened the first one being very tragic. My sister died in a plane crash-- Oh my God. --in 1989. This was the United DC-10 that went down in Sioux City Iowa. So losing a sibling is one of those things that really causes you to look at the things that you have done in your life and ask yourself are these really the best things I can be doing right now? And so at any rate about a month and a half or two months after the crash I thought you know what? I need to just get away from this constant sorrow here and take myself to the movies. And there was this movie that had come out earlier that year that Todd had not seen yet a Kevin Costner vehicle about an Iowa farmer who plows up his corn to build a baseball diamond. WHISPERING If you build it he will come.   So I went to see Field of Dreams and about halfway into that film it became really obvious to me that Brautigan's library is my baseball field. If I build it people will come. It was not even before the movie was over that that struck you? Yeah. Yeah as soon as that part of the film started to unfold I was just astounded at the parallel. I was like this is weird. I felt literally as if I am supposed to be sitting here right now watching this. This is all part of a big plan. Which if you remember is exactly the way Kevin Costner's character felt in the movie. And I am not a person that gets too caught up in the metaphysical aspects of life. But when I stepped outside the theater afterward I just-- I feel it as strongly as I have ever felt anything in my life. I would never felt so sure about anything in my life. Todd immediately started calling around putting a board of advisors together appealing for funding. It took about half a year. And then finally-- And around here on the side is our entrance. --the library opened its doors in Burlington Vermont in 1990. This tape is from a BBC Radio story that aired a few years in. Todd led the producers past The Vermont Institute of Massage Therapy-- And here we are. --to a modest wooden building outfitted with comfy chairs and shelves for the books. A swinging placard out front said in capital letters-- The Brautigan Library. And underneath that the words A Very Public Library.  Now it is one thing to adapt a piece of fiction into a movie. It is another thing to adapt a piece of fiction into a library. As soon as they started talking about how The Brautigan Library would work in real life Todd and his advisors and volunteers realized that they were going to need to make some concessions such as whereas in the novel there is just one librarian in real life there were many. All volunteer and none of them lived there. Certainly never impregnated anyone there or not to Todd's knowledge. And unlike in the novel the books were almost exclusively submitted by mail. And the authors had to kick in a little money 25 or so to cover the cost of binding their manuscripts. And people actually came to read the books from all over the country. I was sitting there one day and a couple comes in the front door. And they announce we are here! And I said well welcome. Where are you from? And this couple had flown from Houston for the weekend specifically to hang out in The Brautigan Library for a couple of days. Stop it. And we had many of those. Probably because of the barrage of media stories about the library. New York Times Wall Street Journal a wire story that got picked up by hundreds of papers across the country. Everyone treated it as a quirky human interest story. The first and at the time only library for unpublished books which started off as a piece of make-believe in a weirdo novel written 20 years beforehand. There was a ledger the librarians used but they did not write down descriptions of the books that came in. Rather they wrote down descriptions of the people that came in. This is from that BBC story. This is March 20 '93. A man stopped by from Washington. 'Is this the library?' he asked. 'Yes' I said. 'It is The Brautigan.' 'What is a Brautigan? Is it the city library?' I told him it was a home for unpublished manuscripts. 'Why?' he asked. 'So they can stay alive and people can read them' I said. He was not impressed. 'Where is the real library?' he wanted to know. 'Same street three blocks up.' He left. A lot of people have asked that question-- why? And over the years Todd has tended to give a pretty short and well-honed answer almost like an artist statement. In fact he used almost exactly the same words with the BBC producers in 1993 as he did with me in 2018. The beauty of it is that it does not make sense. For me one of the beauties of this whole thing was that it did not make any sense. It was illogical. Yeah. Yeah. Just like in Field of Dreams where he says I have done something completely illogical. Right. Right. Oh yeah. I have just created something totally illogical. That is what I like about it. It is what I liked about Todd's library and it is what I would always loved about the library in the novel the fictional one. It was not just illogical. It was impossible. And I loved sitting with the librarian in that impossible place surrounded by books that only he and the people who wrote them knew about. So for someone to transform an imaginary magical place I loved into an actual location I could maybe visit one day it was like finding out there was a real life chocolate factory like the one Charlie visited or a wardrobe that opened up unto a forest with talking animals in it. But there was something else something stranger that The Brautigan Library had in common with Field of Dreams. The story goes like this. In 1991 about a year after the library opened the Bumbershoot Arts Festival in Seattle asked Todd if he wanted to set up a mini version of the library at the festival an exhibit. So Todd his wife and about 100 of the books they would amassed up to that point got on a plane flew out there and set up shop in this indoor event space. And so first day at the exhibit I am showing people around. And this gentleman walks up to me and puts out his hand and says Hi I am Bill Kinsella the author of Shoeless Joe the book Field of Dreams was based on. No way. No way. And I was just dumbfounded. I said you have no idea how wildly fantastic it is that you are here right now. I said if you had not have written that I might never have stepped up to the plate and really done this. You just said stepped up to the plate. Oh.  It just so happened that Bill Kinsella or WP Kinsella is what it says on his book jackets was a featured speaker at Bumbershoot that year. And he said well. He said I have got one for you. Were it not for Richard Brautigan I would never have written that book. No way. In fact he said I would never have gotten into being a fiction writer were it not for Richard Brautigan. This is the part of the story that when I tell it to people their eyes get really wide. The part where one twin in a fairy tale figures out why she is been wearing half a locket around her neck the entire time. Todd had not known it but no other writer had as much of an impact on Kinsella's life and career as Richard Brautigan. In 1985 Kinsella published a book of weird vignettey short stories that he called his Brautigans. He dedicated the collection to Richard Brautigan including in the dedication a fan letter he would written to Brautigan in which he said quote I have just written a novel about a man who drives from Iowa to New Hampshire kidnaps JD Salinger and takes him to a baseball game at Fenway Park. He was talking about Shoeless Joe. That was part of the plot. And so you are both kind of shocked. I am imagining two shocked men. Yeah right.  I was like perhaps someway or other Brautigan himself is playing some sort of role in all this. That we are like marionettes and he is up there just with a great big smile on his face just having a blast messing with the real world. Or haunting it somehow like he was saying playfully better not forget me. I wanted to talk with Bill Kinsella for this story but he died in 2016 on September 16 the same day Richard Brautigan had died in 1984. Both of them chose that day to end their lives. Kinsella was terminally ill and opted for doctor-assisted suicide which is legal now in Canada where he is from. Brautigan shot himself with a revolver. The Brautigan Library chugged along in its original location for about six years. But as Todd once wrote in an issue of the library newsletter reality can be so clankingly real at times. By 1996 fewer and fewer manuscripts were coming in. Money was tight. Here and there Todd had to make ends meet with funds from his own bank account. And finally the entire Brautigan Library was moved to a room in the Fletcher Free Library the regular public library down the road in Burlington. It stopped accepting new books but people could still come and read the ones that existed. 10 years went by and then the Fletcher Library decided it needed the space for other things. So all The Brautigan Library books more than 300 of them found themselves shrink wrapped on a wooden pallet in Todd Lockwood's basement. And this is the moment in the library's history when I first heard about it. I have been wanting to tell this story and see the books for myself for about 10 years. But way back when Todd and I started talking about this he said he needed to wait that he was in negotiations with a couple of academic libraries that might be interested could not do an interview until something was finalized et cetera and so on. Certainly the books were not available to look at. I said I would keep checking in but I did not. And then this past summer I started thinking about the library again. So I looked it up and the library had finally found a new home in Vancouver Washington about 3000 miles away from where it was born. Watch your head here low ceiling. And it had a new librarian John Barber a professor at one of the universities in town. He led me down into the basement of the Clark County Historical Museum. And here it is The Brautigan Library. Wow. These are all the manuscripts. Oh my gosh. Come to find the manuscripts have been housed in this building since 2010 and John Barber was instrumental in making that happen. If there is such a thing as a Brautigan scholar it is him. He may know more about Richard Brautigan than anyone else alive. He was a student of Brautigan's and hung out with him. So naturally he was a big supporter of the library from early on. And when the library shut down he was sad to think of all the books being mothballed in Todd's basement. Until finally he just got inspired and organized to have them all moved to this place. And he is taken on the mantle of the librarian. Also I should say Richard Brautigan once told me that he would haunt me. Wait he said I will haunt you? Yes. This was in 1982 two years before Brautigan killed himself. Brautigan's friend Nikki Arai had just died of complications from cancer. And I said you have your memories of her. You could write about those memories. You are a writer. That is what you do. And he said I do not write for therapy and actually got really upset with me. Then he said but then again-- and he turned and walked away. And he came back after a few minutes with a little slip of paper on which he had written Where you are now I will join you soon. After dinner and another bottle of whiskey they went out to the yard and burned the note in a kind of ritual to send those words to Brautigan's friend. And I went home that night-- slowly because of all the whiskey-- and wrote about that experience. And I showed it to him and he said if you ever show this to anybody before I am dead I will haunt you. And I did. And he does. After all John for all intents and purposes now inhabits a physical manifestation of an idea Brautigan had in his head. And what is a little startling when you meet John is that he is the librarian from the novel. Like he is just like him. His clothes are not expensive but friendly and neat and his human presence welcoming. Yes we look an awful lot alike. Tall mustache glasses. He is reflexively polite and effusive. I had all three meals with him the day we spent together. And each time he said to the server in all earnestness Thank you for your hospitality. Same as when the museum's director let us in early before it opened. Thanks so much for accommodating us. Of course. Thanks. It is much smaller than I imagined somehow. Well there is that certainly. There is 300-plus manuscripts that are associated with the library. So we might actually say that it is small but mighty. Because each of these 300-plus manuscripts that we are standing in the middle of has dreams and aspirations memories and hopes for the future associated with it. In fact it is just two long sets of bookshelves at one end of the museum's research library. And all of the books have the same plain black brown gray or blue bindings. The host of that BBC piece said they looked like body bags for whatever was inside of them. I really wonder how many of them were ever read cover to cover. I wanted to see if being in the library gave me the same feeling I had as when I read The Abortion. And I have to say more and more it really did feel like I had climbed into the pages of that novel with its messy expanse of humanity marching through. Some of the books were silly. Others were mournfully nostalgic. Still others were deadly serious. Enjoy the War Peace will be Terrible. Which is about the lives of two teen girls in World War II Vienna. Others promoted radical ideas. Three Essays Advocating the Abolishing of Money. Almost 50 poetry collections. I opened up one called I would Be Your Roadkill Baby. The poetry reading. He greased me with his words-- oh! OK I cannot say that on the radio. Instead of using Dewey Decimal the books are organized according to what they call the Mayonnaise System. It is a Brautigan in-joke. He ended Trout Fishing in America with the word mayonnaise. And it goes by 