From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Sean Cole in for Ira Glass. The first punch landed on sort of the lower back right side of my skull behind my ear. That was the one that knocked me down. This was a couple summers ago. I would been walking down this sort of abandoned industrial block in my neighborhood in Brooklyn. It was after midnight. There was a big group of kids-- teenagers boys-- maybe 9 or 10 of them coming the other way. I was on the sidewalk. They were walking in the middle of the street where the cars go. Also I was on the phone with my friend Sam talking to him with my earbuds in. So I just kept walking and talking glancing over at the kids a couple of times. And then I saw them see me. And they sort of stopped and said something to each other. And then a few of them casually-- like I would not notice-- started walking in my direction. I do not know if taking off in a sprint was the best decision or if you could even call it a decision. A couple of the kids said yeah! There are a few things I remember about the next 30 seconds or so and a few things I do not. I remember looking down at my shoes and thinking why cannot I run any faster than this? Sam said what is happening? I said I am being chased. Who is chasing you he said. They are chasing me I apparently said which I do not remember. I do not remember how I got off the ground after the first punch. I just know that a second later I was running again and still getting punched in the head. Being punched in the head while running becomes withstandable remarkably quickly. After the second hit my skull was like if this is all that is going to happen you can manage. One kid way in the back nowhere near me yelled give me your wallet but laughing like it was a joke. They never tried to take anything. They easily could have. I have tried to come up with something to compare the experience of it to but I have never felt anything else that intensely. I have never felt as good in my life as how bad that was. I rounded the corner and saw a semi truck coming. It was the only moving vehicle around. I ran toward it with my arms straight up over my head. And when I looked back the kids had vanished-- gone just like they would never been there in the first place. I slowed to a walk which is when I noticed my earbuds were neatly spooled around my left ankle like I would done it on purpose. One of them was smashed. And when I lifted the other one up toward my face-- Sean are you OK? Sean. Sean. Sean talk to me. Sam was still on the phone. Sean. Sean? Yeah I am OK. Are you OK? What is up? What happened? I am OK. I am OK. I-- there was a gang of guys. Sean I am recording this call-- Can you hear me? So tell me what happened. I am recording the call. This recording is the whole reason I am telling you about this. When he realized something was wrong Sam had taken the phone away from his ear and opened up this recording app in case I needed some kind of evidence or something later. He is extremely organized that way. And I am really glad he did it. For one thing I have this bizarrely candid portrait of myself now in the moment exactly after one of the worst things that is ever happened to me. It took a while for me to be able to listen to it. But I mean there was a lot of them. There was like a lot of guys. I am used to hearing my voice recorded and controlling the way I sound like the way I am talking to you right now. Do you want to-- There were a lot of guys. But this was like some unbidden child creature bubbling up from my throat. When I listen to it it is like I have finally taken some mask off that I did not know I was wearing. And they kept hitting me on the head and then I fell. And I scraped myself up a bit but I am OK. They did not get anything. What did they hit you with? I think just their hands. Oh god. God that was scary. Jesus fucking Christ that was scary. But you are all right? Jesus. No I am fine. I am OK. Take some deep breaths Sean. You are really going to hyperventilate. No I am actually fine. Like I-- And this is another thing-- this kind of incantation I keep repeating of I am fine I am fine. Instead of telling Sam what did happen I spend most of the call focusing on how bad it could have been. It is like I am clinging to a buoy in the ocean after a shipwreck. It could have been a lot worse. Jesus. It could have been a lot worse. I lost my glasses. Oh no. But it is OK. I mean I am fine. I am OK. I am OK. It could have been way worse. I am actually fine. I am actually fine. I never say things could be worse. Almost every other time in my life has been better than this one. And yet most of the time I just brood about what is going wrong or what I wish I would done differently. But here I was clearly just paving over all the broken glass of what happened to me immediately counting my blessings in a way I am never usually able to. And of course it could have been way worse. Truly catastrophic things happen to people all over the world every day. I remember talking to Sam for 45 minutes. It was actually about 12 minutes which I could not believe. I was like where is the rest of it? By minute six six minutes after the attack we are already starting to laugh about stuff. I told him that I had been heading down to my car to get a pack of cigarettes. And he says yeah well I guess it will kill you. It is good to know we were able to talk about it like that so quickly. It makes a lot of bad things seem more survivable. We spend so much time trying to control how we are seen by other people. But sometimes we can catch an unexpected glimpse of ourselves that we have not manicured and that has way more information in it about how we actually are. It might not be the funnest thing to witness but at least we know. In today's show we got two stories in which that happens-- two different people seeing themselves in the wild and what it confirms or does not about who they think they are. Stay with us. Jesus. And that was something. That'ill wake you up will not it? Jesus. Act I. You do not have to be a star to be in my show. I want to tell you about my friend Zack's first big break-- Zack McDermott. We are pretty different people. Zack's from Wichita and he has this kind of macho Kansan self certainty about him on the surface. I do an impression of him that I finally broke out when we were hanging with each other a couple of months ago. You know I am a writer. I was not able to get gussied up for you. I was not expecting you to be looking at my hair like that. That was pretty good. That flatters me a great deal. Why? I do not think you usually do impressions of people unless you kind of really like them or do not like them at all. Or if you super do not like them. Right. Yeah. And I feel like you more super like me than super do not. I super like you. Zack is this singular combination of things I really have not encountered before. As well as being swaggery he can also be awkward and vulnerable. He is conspicuously caring for the people he cares about. After my assault he made me promise I would call him in the middle of the night if I needed to. He spent about seven years working as a public defender for the Legal Aid Society of New York sometimes juggling more than 60 cases righteously indignant about the court system. He is always giving advice but he also needs to be reassured a lot. And he really likes other people's attention. He is always watching himself in ways both literal and not which anyway brings me to the story of the big break. See about 10 years ago when he was still a public defender Zack was also trying to make it as a comedian grinding away sometimes doing four or five open mics a night. His act was pretty intense back then. He had a mohawk and Frank Zappa mustache and jazz patch. One time he came out onstage just shouting lyrics from the rapper Gucci Mane.  He would usually record his set just with a little video camera or phone. And he also had this friend who was always egging him on sort of repping him in a way. Zack always refers to him just as the producer. He does not want me to say who the guy is but he is famous adjacent-- ran with a really heavy crowd. And apparently he had big dreams for Zack's future. It was like oh yeah do not worry. I know Hova. Do not worry I know Jimmy Fallon. Do not worry I know-- Hova is Jay-Z. Yeah. You know? Meeting all these people with him and him telling me like you are my project man. I am putting everything behind you. I am willing to put all my money behind you. I am willing to put all my connects behind you. You are next you know? Trust me. When I push the button it is going to go fast. They worked on a pilot for a TV show together held a casting call for the role of Zack's girlfriend collected headshots did screen tests-- the whole thing. And then in the fall of 2009 Zack found himself walking out of his apartment building and onto the set of a TV pilot in which he was the star. Everything just looked perfect like a Coke commercial. It was a gorgeous day. It was a fall day in New York-- sunny. There was a realistic amount of people on the street but not so many that the scene is going to look like rush hour. Because it was not. It was the middle of the day. It should look like the middle of the day. And everyone is also just a little too attractive. Like actors. Everyone. I do not have audio of this because it was never actually recorded. Because it was not a TV pilot. Those people on the street were not actors. This was not Zack's first big break into show business. It was his first big psychotic break like the part of his brain that wanted to be in the spotlight all the time had suddenly exploded. Zack was experiencing a type of delusion that we have talked about a little bit on the show before. It is called the Truman Show delusion-- not incredibly common but not as rare as you might think either. Sufferers of Truman Show delusion basically think they are being filmed all the time by hidden cameras just like the Jim Carrey character in the movie The Truman Show. In the weeks leading up to the break Zack had been showing signs of this oncoming split with reality-- little harbingers and then bigger ones. He would been growing more and more manic sleeping less and less. I had some friends and family start to be concerned about me. And I kind of just brushed it all off. You do not understand what is going on in my brain. You do not understand how to write comedy. You do not understand how to do comedy. You do not understand how to do comedy after you are a lawyer all day. You do not understand how to write a joke. Look it is a mathematical equation. Let me show you. This is a premise. This is why this is funny. This is why that is not funny. That is your inner monologue. You do not understand-- and outer monologue. Even the producer was concerned. He told Zack he had to go see a doctor if they were going to keep working together. And yet when Zack walked out of his apartment building onto the street that day he was sure the producer had staged everything just for him. And Zack was ready to perform thinking of himself as some hybrid of Ali G and Johnny Knoxville. I am thinking my friend the brilliant producer had decided you know what? Zack's not really an actor. He is not going to know how to act. I am just going to throw him in somewhere. He will eventually get what he is supposed to be doing and he will just kind of like basically method act himself. He could probably do that. You know? So I go to Tompkins Square Park. Soon as I am in there I spot generic old man on park bench. That is what it would say if he was in the credits. Yes and he had a bike. And he was too old to have a bike. Another tell that the entire neighborhood had been cordoned off to showcase Zack's comedic talents. Zack thought it would be funny if he grabbed generic old man's bike and did a couple laps around the park with it. Generic old man did not take kindly to Zack trying to grab his bike away. Zack relented. It was surely a sign from the producer. Keep things moving. So Zack takes off in a sprint toward the middle of the park and vaults over the wall of this big doggy playpen. I get down like on all fours myself. And I gallop with the pack. Running toward the end of the fence I jump out the other side. And I am like all right cool. Whatever that was worth I did it. You know? That was funny maybe. Yeah that was funny maybe. Who knows? And I also was thinking that the pedestrians were extras doubling as production assistants. And I am supposed to follow them follow the foot traffic that will take you where you need to go. No one's coming up to me with a clipboard and a shot list or anything right? So they are then phoning ahead to the producer or whatever production unit saying OK he is on First Avenue. He is almost to Houston. And like OK we will make him go west then. Whenever Zack tells this story he has a whole menu of deranged things he did that day to talk about-- running around the soccer field with his shorts pulled down while a game is going on ordering champagne on a hotel patio and proceeding to yell at the cameras in the trees. As Zack remembers it-- and Zack's memory is all we have to go on-- this television non-debut lasted for about 10 hours-- a 10 hour narcissism variety show arranged for him to give the performance of his life. I sprinted across the intersection of-- I think it was Houston and First Avenue. While cars were moving? Oh yeah. That is incredibly dangerous. Not if it is professional drivers on a closed course. At its height everything he did was the right thing to be doing. He was a master of improvisation following all the cues perfectly. And then he started getting tired and then exhausted. Everything was still a clue but he was not sure what any of it meant anymore. Somewhere along the way he lost his shirt and also his shoes. And the next thing he knew he was standing on a Brooklyn subway platform hands behind his head like a captured soldier crying so hard he flushed his contacts out of his eyes. All he wanted was for someone to yell cut thinking to himself-- OK fine you have got your shots. Cannot you see that I am bawling? Cannot you see that I am here suffering? Cannot you see that I am done? Like come out come out wherever you are Mr. Producer. So I am crying. And I just scream what do you want from me? Two cops come up. Their uniforms look real-- super real. The next thing I recall with any clarity is being in the back of an ambulance. Huh. And eventually I hear a radio crack on. It is like psh. Intake available at Bellevue Psych Ward. Zack was eventually diagnosed with bipolar disorder type I which can involve psychosis sometimes. In Zack's case lack of sleep and daily pot smoking might have triggered the episode. At Bellevue he says they dosed him up with antipsychotics. At times he could barely lift his chin off of his chest. He drooled a lot. He could not go outside. Zack's only experience with psych wards before this was as a public defender representing EDPs or emotionally disturbed people. And now he was one. The delusion that he was on TV lasted in one form or another for the next 10 days. When he saw his mother Cindy coming down the hall on day two he was not sure at first if it was her or an actor in prosthetics. He calls her bird because of the way she snaps her head back and forth sometimes. The bird is here she told him. The bird cannot be here he said. The bird lives in Wichita. She said the bird got on a plane. It took more than a year and a couple more episodes like this before he got stable. Along the way he figured out a few things. He had to be good about taking his meds and sleep was key. He could not burn the candle at all ends like he had been going on stage all the time. So he stopped for the most part. He kept working his day job as a lawyer. They say you have to be at least a little crazy to be a comedian. But it is also possible to be so crazy that you cannot be a comedian. Zack has told the story of the psychotic break countless times at this point. It is a good romp and he is got it down-- all the different parts. He tells it entertainingly. But while it is one thing to recount something like that from memory it is another thing if someone catches it on video. You can actually see yourself in psychosis. I say this because after Zack got better and thought he was totally out of the woods sanity wise he did have another psychotic break. And it was captured on video. And for the first time in his life sane Zack would be able to see himself in the midst of Truman Show delusion. Do you need to call the cops or is he OK? Yeah. Shut the fuck up! Actually let me-- sorry I am just going to stop that and explain what happened. So after a while Zack quit lawyering and decided to try to make it as a writer. He wrote a book about that first psychotic break and his disorder called Gorilla and the Bird. Gorilla is Zack's nickname because he is really hairy and barrel chested. Again the bird is his mom. It was optioned for a TV series before it even came out. HBO is planning to run it. The director Jean-Marc Valle who did Big Little Lies and Sharp Objects is on board. Zack and I have had entire conversations about who might play him on the TV show about the time he thought he was on a TV show and was not. In fact his therapist said to him-- sort of joking but sort of not-- you know you might end up playing yourself on that show. To which Zack basically responded yeah I think they might want to go with one of these A-list celebrities they are considering. And then Zack was trying to figure out ways to promote his book. And of course these days a lot of authors make videos when their books come out. And so Zack hired a production crew to shoot footage for-- he was not sure what. A promotional video but if it was any good maybe they would do a bigger documentary. He wanted to take them back home with him to Wichita to interview some of the people that he would written about in his memoir meaning his family and have the crew follow him around his hometown for a week just rolling on everything documentary style. The crew consisted of two professional cameramen and a very seasoned TV producer that Zack happened to be friends with. He would been around the cameras a bunch before this by the way. And it did not trigger his disorder. So the morning the delusion really hit Zack had not met up with the film crew yet. They were actually wondering where he was. He was supposed to call. Instead he was driving around Wichita by himself in his grandfather's pickup. He was fighting serious back pain. And he had barely slept in three days. Again sleeplessness is a huge trigger for his episodes. In the book he writes The solution to mania is so simple yet so hard to come by. Just sleep. And the thing his therapist said came back to him-- that Jean-Marc Valle might want him to play himself on the TV show. I came to believe that oh my god maybe my therapist was contacted by whoever. And maybe I really am auditioning for myself. So-- Right now. Like I am auditioning to play the role of myself. I am in the process of an audition. Yes. And I was just testing it slowly because I was like be careful you know? You have had this delusion before and you have been wrong. And not only that I know how the world works a little bit. I know HBO is not just like yeah let him play himself. Great idea. Like no. But like I do not know. Maybe the director's kind of crazy. He takes a lot of risks. And sitting in the truck he started to have the feeling that in addition to the people he knew would be filming him later that day there were also other cameras that he could not see and maybe audio recorders too possibly right there in the truck with him. I was listening to a song in his truck and I was kind of dancing a little bit. And I was like oh this is kind of funny. And I was like well maybe you are not being taped right now. That is quite possible. That makes sense. I was like but maybe you are. So maybe just give them a little something to think about. Leave them with something like OK he is got a little something there. He is raw and he needs training. But we got something we can possibly work with here. So once again the powers that be had spotted Zack's latent talent and set it up so he could just do his thing in the wild-- wow the crowd. Should we watch the video? If we must. Let us watch the video. This is going to hurt. Really? I think so. How come? Well I think I am going to feel bad for the dude I am going to watch who is me. So the video-- it starts with the production crew in their car without Zack. It is just one cameraman and Zack's TV producer friend Jay. They are heading to a taco shop to meet Zack. They pull up to a standalone building surrounded by a big parking lot. And they arrive at the same time as Zack's family friend Rob an older guy with a white beard and a tan ball cap. The cameraman's walking around the side of the taco place. And there you are. Hm. Oh man. Yeah. Zack's in a spider-man crouch with his hands on the ground staring down. He is wearing an Adidas t-shirt and sweatpants. No glasses-- he dropped them somewhere which means he cannot see anything. He is clearly in a lot of physical pain. It is his back and it is spasming. I am on my hands and knees now. I am trying to stand up. I cannot. You OK dude? Yeah I just got to stand up. Is he OK? Pedestrians are asking if I am OK. Yeah he is just-- his back's a little hurt. His back's a little hurt. He is fine. My friend Jay is saying he is OK. He is OK. It was not 100 clear what was going on with Zack at that point. And Jay and the others were trying to help him to get him into a car so he could get back to his hotel and sleep. But they also kept filming because that was the entire goal of the week. And they thought Zack might want this footage. This is exactly what his book was about. And here it was happening. Zack meanwhile was now pretty convinced he was auditioning to play the role of himself on the TV show that again is actually being produced about the time he thought he was on a TV show. Some blurry calculus told him that his producer friend Jay and Jean-Marc Valle must be in communication somehow. In the video Zack's on his knees swaying back and forth in front of the taco stand. He closes his eyes then opens them and looks toward the camera-- the one that is not there. Hold on. Hold on. Ah. All right. Too much. Too much. And I am saying too much. Too much. Too much. Too much. Too much. Too much. Stop. Stop. Stop. It was freaky to see my friend like this. I have seen people in the park or on the subway acting like Zack was that day. They are just so literally lost and do not know it. But you know it. It is like they are right beside you on the sidewalk and also in a forest that they cannot be guided out of not easily. But in this case Zack was sitting next to me watching with me. And he remembers everything that was going through his head at that moment. I came to believe that through some combination of Jean-Marc and my friend here Jay the producer that we had maybe a yoga instructor who was watching my movements and could tell by the way I was moving how much pain I was in and where I was in pain. Oh man. You know what? I think I thought they were even shocking my spine somehow. Those back spasms-- he thought they were electrical shocks being triggered by this magical imaginary yoga instructor. He moves in and out of different yoga poses on the ground. And I think that they are thinking that if we shocked him this way he would not only move his body to correct his posture that would alleviate his pain but it can also point him toward whatever camera was capturing the particular footage that was going to be sent to Jean-Marc Valle the real director of the real series Gorilla and the Bird. Oh I see. So it was both to help you and also for production values. Right. And when you see me waving my hand and waving them off that means I am not good right now. I do not really want to be shot. But you are not saying stop filming to the person who is filming this. No. You are saying that to-- The larger production team that does not exist. Stop. For real stop. Which when you think about it takes a certain type of genius. Because Zack's original delusion that he was being followed around by cameras had come true his brain had to come up with a second level delusion that again involved real people. The way he explained it to me it is not like he forgets reality or hallucinates that the camera is really a dragon or something. He is able to take in all the data in front of him. It is just that he comes to the wrong conclusions about it. So you do that. I will get the Ativan. Finally Zack makes it to his feet and then walks off to the middle of the parking lot sticks his hand in the air and again says too much. Too much. Too much. Way too much. And then he is back down on his knees and finally on his back lying in the parking lot as cars pass him. Ah ah ah ah ah! Stop stop stop stop. Zack was right about what he said before that it was going to hurt to watch this. I think I am kind of just like oof oof. I think I am just bracing myself for it the whole time. And I am kind of like rooting for the guy and feeling bad for him. And like buddy oh please stop. Oh please stop. But in the same way I would feel bad for someone I saw on the street who is yelling at pigeons-- Right. Or whatever you know? The difference is I know that guy a little better. You know the guy that we saw in the video a little better. I do. Yeah. Finally they managed to get Zack back to his hotel. And this is when we learn about a whole other side of psychotic Zack one that is even harder for sane Zack to watch. So Rob stays behind. And the cast is now Jay the TV producer friend and now two cameramen Trevar and Tyler. They went and got all of Zack's stuff from his mom's house where he would been staying earlier-- his medication and his clothes and everything. And they roll up to Zack's hotel room door with one of those standard issue luggage carts. Zack's in the room talking to his mom on speaker phone. Job one is to get an Ativan into Zack to put him to sleep. And they also keep shooting.  He opens the door and there are two cameras pointing at him. Holy shit. Oh. What is up boys? You are in sunglasses and a towel. I got your stuff. It is like Kanye West has answered the door here. Zack was about to take a shower and he needed to see. The sunglasses are prescription. Jay had his regular ones. Let me bring this. Let me just go here. I am going to let you turn that corner. I am kind of hamming it up there. I said let me go here and I will going to let you turn that corner. Yeah you are doing a voice. Yeah. Your coconut oil. Mm-hmm. Your glasses. Oh that is nice to have. Your wallet. Zack's pretty disoriented at this point. His mom the bird chimes in on speaker phone sometimes trying to talk him down. And even though Zack's discombobulated about almost everything he still thinks he is playing a role even if that role is himself. The blinking red light in his head is still on. All the while Jay is being really caring toward him. How are you feeling? I am feeling a little shocked like literally and figuratively. By all this display of-- Oh hold on. Jay was about to say something like by all of this display of generosity and caring? But of course Zack means he was being shocked by a magical yoga instructor. And he is also amazed at all of the planning that went into this audition.  Let us quit acting and let me just fucking coconut oil my ass. Cool. All right. Did you say let us quit acting? Mm-hmm. So I can coconut oil my ass. Mm-hmm. Which I guess if you think you are acting and someone's filming you then you are acting. Coconut oil on that ass now. Oh you were literally coconut oiling your ass. Yes. Oh I thought that was a euphemism. No I do that. Jay where are my real glasses? Give me my real glasses. Oh I got them. Barking orders like a real asshole. And-- Take it off. Take it off speaker. I am kind of being an overall diva here. It is true. Like with the coconut oil Zack comes out of the bathroom at one point with the jar and asks if someone can put some on his back. And this is probably the cringiest moment of the whole video for Zack to watch mostly because the Zack in the video does not have any problem bossing everyone around. Trevar puts his camera down and complies. Just dip a little and just hit me. All right. I see how this works. Yeah yeah. You got it. Do not rub it in. Not hard. Yeah no. Just it is all around. We are just moisturizing. All right. No no. Well I am not rubbing hard. I am not rubbing hard. No I mean-- all right. I am just rubbing it around. Good. We are fine. Yeah. Yeah. Lower. There you go. Yeah. Zackary can you hear me? I can hear you. You need to-- Look I am just oiling up all right? Hey. Is that good? Stop. Stop. No. That is not what we do. You are like stop stop. No that is not good. You are not putting coconut oil on my back right. Yeah. Just like rub it. Just-- Now Jay is doing it. Not like-- no just like you are putting lotion on. Hard. Harder harder. Just rub that shit in. That is really painful to watch. It is just I am being such a dick to everybody. Well you are here in a florid psychotic episode. That is true. But I am still not being nice. And no one there knows me all that well. I mean Jay knows me best at this point here. But this is the first he is seen me be in any sort of bad mental state. And he is got kids at home. He is got a newborn. And he took time out of his schedule to come do this for free. And he is taking care of me. He is babysitting you kind of. Yeah and he is hiding his exasperation while he deals with me. But then you can see when he is looking at the camera-- I will not call it eye rolling but it is just like the guy's obviously frustrated and being pushed to the limits of his patience. He is doing everything perfect here. It is amazing what he is doing. And so when I see that video it makes me want to call Jay my friend in the video and say hey man. I am sorry I spoke to you like that and I am sorry that I brought that stress into your life. But then out of the other side of my mouth I will preach to the general public like as not your fault. When he does speaking events at bookstores and other places talking about his disorder he says people should not be ashamed of their own mental illness and their behavior during episodes like this one. His mantra is always this happens and it is OK. Because I do believe this happens and it is OK as it relates to everyone else. But when I see it happen to myself I am like that is not OK man. You got to get your shit together. The Ativan's starting to take effect. Zack's getting drowsy. He has to fly back to LA the next day but it is not clear he understands that. The bird on speaker phone has been steadily beating a drum trying to coax him away from the cameras-- the real ones and the imaginary ones-- and just get him to go to bed. Sleep of course is the opposite of performing. Zack now that you have got your Ativan on board you just need to lay down son. Yeah you are right. You do not need to worry about the clothing right now. So Zack you just need to go to sleep. And then you just need to coordinate with Trevar how to get you to the airport for your flight. Oh yeah because I have my earplugs now. It looks like he is getting ready to go to sleep. He hangs up with his mom but then after everyone leaves he calls her back. Says to her what the hell just happened? She says what do you think happened? He says I am Jake Gyllenhaal. No she says. There is going to be a TV show made out of your book but you are Zack. You are not messing with me he says. Nothing happened just now? Nothing she says. You need to sleep. You are manic. I am just crushed that that just happened to me. In this moment I am kind of realizing that my mind has betrayed me. Again. Yeah. And I just feel so fucking stupid-- Oh honey. And so embarrassed. I mean this is humiliating you know? And it causes chaos fault or no fault. I wish it was easier to be my friend. I wish I took up less space in the people that love me's lives. I watch the video several more times on my own. And I realize that maybe there is this one other thing that is unsettling for Zack when he sees the scene in the hotel room. Zack told me he does not want to be on TV anymore like he used to. But it is clear his delusion still does. The Zack in the hotel room still has this naked unfettered ambition of wanting to perform wanting all the cameras on hi