Hey there everybody. So I am not going to beat around the bush. For this week's radio program we think we may have found the original recipe for Coca-Cola. And I am not kidding. I am not kidding. One of the most famously guarded trade secrets on the planet I have it right here and I am going to read it to you. I am going to read it to the world. And I am going to make my case for why I think it is real despite whatever Coca-Cola might say. And that is just one of the two stories on today's program. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Probably the best story about how protective Coca-Cola is of its secret formula comes from this book that was written by Charles Howard Candler. His Dad Asa did not invent Coca-Cola but founded the Coca-Cola company back in 1892. And Charles the son wrote this. One of the proudest moments of my life came when my father initiated me into the mysteries of the secret flavoring formula inducting me into the holy of holies. Charles then says Incredibly there was no written formula and the labels had been removed from all the containers of the ingredients. So they were quote identified only by sight smell and remembering where each was put on the shelf. And I thereupon experienced the thrill of making up with his guidance a batch of merchandise 7x. Merchandise 7x. Merchandise 7x is the cartoonishly super secret cloak and dagger name they give the flavoring mixture in Coca-Cola. Charles' dad Asa was so paranoid about anybody else getting hold of the secret formula for 7x that even though he was president of Coca-Cola-- he is president of the company-- he would go through the company mail himself and remove the invoices for any ingredients that had been purchased so that nobody in the accounting department could read what ingredients had been bought for the product. I learned all this from a history of Coca-Cola a book written by investigative journalist and historian Mark Pendergrast. The company has always said and as far as I know it is true that only two people at any given time know how to actually mix the 7x flavoring ingredient. And that these people never travel on the same airplane in case it crashes. It is this carefully passed on secret ritual. And that the formula is kept in a bank vault at Sun Trust which used to be the Georgia Trust Company. Of course this makes no sense at all. Why cannot the two guys fly on a plane if the formula is sitting inside a bank vault? Coke's official line on this these days is that they simply do not talk about how many people know the recipe. Though the reason that most of us think that of it as one of the biggest trade secrets in the world is probably because that is the story Coca-Cola likes to tell. Coke's secret formula. Only two guys in the world know it. If something happened to one the formula would be lost forever. And then cookouts would be catastrophic. In this particular Coke commercial I guess the premise is that each of the two guys only knows half the formula. It is just one of several commercials that have come out recently that poke fun at the myth of the super secret formula while at the same time bolstering and selling that myth. Coke even has this thrill ride at its museum in Atlanta The World of Coca-Cola where you follow two characters who are trying to unlock the secret formula for Coca-Cola. So with all this money all this energy all these millions of dollars spent over the years to convince us of just how impossibly importantly iconically secret the formula to Coca-Cola is it was a surprise when we stumbled across an article in Coke's hometown paper the Atlanta Journal and Constitution February 18 1979. Not on the front page but buried. Buried back on page 2B. One of their columnists Charles Saulter without any fanfare at all published what looks like the original recipe for Coca-Cola. He found it in a pharmacist's old book of recipes. All the recipes including the one for Coca-Cola are written by hand. Most of them are for various ointments and remedies. And if that seems like a strange and random place to find this kind of thing well Coca-Cola was invented by a pharmacist and it was originally sold at pharmacy soda fountains. The article says that the book passed from one pharmacist to another until it fell into the hands of one Everett Beal who owned a drug store in Griffin Georgia 40 miles from Atlanta. He is mainly identified in the story as a fishing buddy of the columnist. Hello? Judy? Yes you are late. I know I am. Did you have a nice flight back home? Everett Beal passed away July 2010. I called his widow Judy at her home in Georgia so many times asking for an interview that at one point she said to me This is how you people won the war is not it? You people meaning northerners. And you wanted to know how Everett got this book? Yes. Well RR Evans was a good friend of Pemberton's. OK let us just pause the tape right there to explain who these guys are. The Pemberton that she is talking about is John Pemberton the guy who invented Coca-Cola in Atlanta back in 1886. Like I said he was a pharmacist. But he was also a maker of patent medicines. He made something called Globe Flower Cough Syrup. He made a blood purifier called Extract of  RR Evans-- that is the second person that she mentioned-- Judy says was another pharmacist in Atlanta at the time. And they were best friends and blah blah blah. This book of recipes Judy says originally belonged to Evans. She says his name is all over the book. Apparently after his friend Pemberton invented Coke Evans copied down the formula in this book calling it Cocoa-Cola That is right. And after Evans died the book started its travels. Evans gave it to RM Mitchell from Griffin Georgia. And then Mitchell's widow was a friend of my husband's and told him after he passed way to come over and get any books he wanted to out of the library. So Everett picked out the book. What is it look like? Oh gosh it is 133 years old. It is just leather bound. And I wear gloves-- the last time I looked at it I like to wear gloves. Everett was so intrigued by the Coke recipe that he spent the last year of his life while he struggled with cancer researching and writing his own book a history of the inventor of Coca-Cola that is still unpublished. Interestingly just like the characters in Lord of the Rings when they get a hold of the ring once Everett had the secret formula like the people at Coca-Cola he started to get protective. The recipe book now sits in a bank vault. Take his reaction when his fishing buddy Charles did the 1979 newspaper story about the recipe book. the newspaper published a photo that was big enough that you can read all the ingredients and the amounts the entire recipe. See Charles did that and Everett was unhappy about that. Oh he was? But I will not go into that. Oh really? Yeah. And was he happy that there was an article? Yeah but not the formula page. Oh here it is. Yeah so I am looking at it here. We sent a copy of that photo where you can see the recipe for Coca-Cola to that historian of Coca-Cola the guy who wrote that book Mark Pendergrast. And my question for you is could this be real? Yeah. I think that it certainly is a version of the formula. And it is very very similar to the formula that I found that I talked about and printed in the back of my book. This was an amazing discovery. In Mark's book he tells the story of looking through Coca-Cola's archives and being shown the yellowing pages of an old notebook that belonged to the inventor of Coca-Cola John Pemberton. The Coke people told him that it was from way before Pemberton moved to Atlanta way before he invented Coke. But in fact it was quite clear that it was a formula book from at least after he would invented Coca-Cola because it mentioned Coca-Cola. Oh so do you think they just did not know? Apparently not. So in this formula book there was a piece of paper that had a big X on the top of it. And as I looked at it I thought I saw this flavoring ingredient. It had neroli. It had coriander. I though my God. This is a Coca-Cola formula. I could not believe it. And did the company confirm that that is what this was? Of course not. The company denies that that is what it was. New York Times May 2 1993 the year Mark's book was published Coca-Cola calls the recipe in his book quote The latest in a long line of previous unsuccessful attempts to reveal a 107 year old mystery. But here's where things get interesting. When you compare these two recipes the one that Mark found in John Pemberton's own notebook stored deep inside Coca-Cola's very own archives and the one from the 1979 newspaper clipping found 40 miles away in Griffin Georgia-- Oil of lemon. --not only do they match up ingredient for ingredient identical-- Oil of coriander. --the recipe in the newspaper fills in things that the one in the Coke archive leaves blank. The recipe from Coke's archive just lists numbers next to each ingredient. But the newspaper says what the numbers stand for ounces and drops and drams. The recipe that was found in Coke's archive is just labeled X. The newspaper one says clearly this recipe is Cocoa-Cola. I got into this wondering if it might be possible that this super secret recipe had been hiding in plain sight in an old newspaper clipping for decades. But once I learned that it actually matched this recipe in Coke's own archives written by the creator of Coke it was hard not to get very excited. These last two weeks I have been carrying around a printout of the recipe everywhere I go this one that I have right here with me in the studio today. And I have been telling everybody I see I think I may have found the secret formula for Coke. And then I just watch them freak out. So now right here on the radio I will read you the formula. You have heard the facts. You can draw your own conclusions as to what this is. Oh wait but first-- Is it legal for us to even talk about this on the radio? Is Coke going to sue us both? No I do not think they will. Because if they sued anything pertaining to the formula then they would have to then produce the formula in order to say that what you were doing was an infringement on their formula. And they will never do that. Great. Here we go. The 7x formula is just one element in these two recipes. It is made from 20 drops of orange oil 30 of lemon oil 10 of nutmeg oil 5 of coriander oil 10 of neroli oil-- neroli's a kind of orangey flavor-- 10 of cinnamon oil and 8 ounces of alcohol. You mix that together and then you take a little bit of that flavoring. One recipe says two ounces the other says two and a half. You put that into another container where you are going to mix the syrup for the soda. The other ingredients 3 ounces citric acid 1 ounce caffeine 2 and a 12 gallons of water. The recipe calls that aqua. 2 pints of lime juice an ounce of vanilla 1 and 12 ounces of caramel coloring. And then we arrive at the two most controversial ingredients in Coca-Cola. 30 pounds of sugar-- pounds-- and at the very top of the page first ingredient FE coca which stands for fluid extract of coca. That'ill be the flavor of the coca leaf which includes a small amount of cocaine. In fact Mark says that cocaine figures in a big way in the creation of Coca-Cola. Before he invented Coke John Pemberton had a hit with another drink called French Wine Coca. It is ingredients wine cocaine and caffeine. Hard to see why people went for that one right? Then in 1885 Atlanta voted for prohibition and Pemberton realized that he was going to have to get rid of the wine in his bestselling drink. So he kept the two other ingredients the cocaine and the caffeine. People loved those. But when you mix cocaine and caffeine together they are bitter. So he pours in a ton of sugar to cut the bitterness and voila Coca-Cola. Pemberton called it his temperance drink. I mean this is an interesting thing. They still do use coca leaf for Coke but they decocainize it in Maywood New Jersey at the Stepan Chemical Company which was-- Wait. So there is a plant in New Jersey and basically they import tons and tons of coca leaves. They remove the cocaine from the coca leaf? Correct. And it is been decocainized there since 1903. 1903 being the year that Coca-Cola rids itself of cocaine. So there is all this circumstantial evidence pointing to this recipe being the original recipe for Coca-Cola. Or at any rate one of the original recipes. But the only way to tell for sure would be to make a batch. Taste it. The historian had never done that the columnist back in 1979 never did it. That would be the final test. So we set out to do it. This is it. This is it at the top the first one up there. First obstacle in our path kind of a huge one-- coca leaves are a Schedule II controlled substance. Totally illegal in the United States. When we asked the company that brings them in under special federal supervision and decocainizes them for Coca-Cola this company Stepan and asked them to sell us some they stopped returning our calls. No coca leaves no way to make the secret recipe. But then my fellow This American Life producer Ben Calhoun turned to an obscure back alley resource called the internet. Wow look at this. I just typed coca tea into the search. 5 6 7-- there is like a dozen things. More than a dozen 15 20 things come up which are coca tea just in amazon.com. So the way that Coke does it with taking the cocaine out this company says that they do the same thing. So the hardest part was done except for making the soda. For that we turned to professionals. When we first sent you guys this recipe and you took a look at it can I just ask you what did you think when you saw the ingredients? It was pretty dizzying for me. Yeah I mean it took a little while to sort of translate the handwriting and figure out what it was. Meet Eric Chastain and Mike Spear respectively the VP of operations and the marketing director at Jones Soda in Seattle. Jones makes it living on flavors like cream soda and green apple soda. But they are also known for being willing to try anything. They have made turkey and gravy soda they have made Brussels sprout soda. We sent them our recipe and by the time that Ben and I got to their office Mike and Eric had already made up a couple bottles of our recipe and were ready for a taste test. Our stuff versus real Coca-Cola. This is the first bottle of Coke we have ever had in this office. Just get it out as soon as we can. Yeah just get rid of it. We were worried that asking you guys to go out and make Coca-Cola was like asking you to like go into the Death Star and blow up some planets or something. There was a little debate over that. There was a debate. Yeah for sure.  First samples from our soda the one from the 1979 newspaper are poured into little cups. We are instructed to sniff first then take a small sip roll it around in our mouths. We really do not know what to expect. I have this feeling like I am going to drop acid right now. It is kind of tasty. It is kind of tasty. It is not bad. It is definitely got a medicinal note to it. Yeah it does. I find it to be really mediciney. And if you did not tell me that this was the Coca-Cola recipe I would not have known. It tastes fruity. Yeah. It does taste a little fruity. Ben says the flavor is like Froot Loops. To me it is more like orange-flavored baby aspirin. Which means we failed right? We made the recipe. You would never mistake it for Coca-Cola. But then it occurred to us maybe the original version of Coca-Cola did not taste like Coke today. Charles Candler that guy who was taken into the holy of holies to learn the secret recipe from his dad wrote this The Pemberton product-- that is the original product-- did not have an altogether agreeable taste. It was unstable. It contained too many things. Too much of some ingredients and too little of others. The bouquet of several of the volatile essential oils previously used was adversely affected by some ingredients. That could be the lime and baby aspirin flavored mess that we had just tried. But there was another possibility. The soda guys thought that technology has gotten so much better at extracting flavors like orange oil and lemon oil from fruits in the last 125 years it is possible that all our ingredients are much much stronger than Pemberton worked with back in 1886. David Ames. David it is Eric and the rest of the gang at Jones. So Eric and Mike called the flavor company that they are working on with all this-- it is a company that specializes in beverage flavors called Sovereign down in Orange County California-- and asked if they could do a version that tones down the citrus and other flavors. Maybe reduce I do not know maybe 5 10. OK got it.  Chemicals are all over here. A few hours later we have flown south to Los Angeles. We are in Sovereign's lab a room that smells like you are inside a bag of jelly beans. And we do a second taste test. All right so we have got the revised cola on the left and then Coca-Cola on the right. In the lab with us and Mike from Jones Soda were David Ames who runs the flavor company and his staff. Going with the idea that our essential oils were much stronger than Pemberton's they ended up cutting the amount of flavor in half. And then they tried it and they thought oh let us cut it in half again. It is interesting. It is definitely more mellow. But also the flavor profile is almost at the same intensity as the Coke flavor profile. I feel like you guy just knocked off Fort Knox. We look at each other like what had we done? How close do you think you are to the taste of actual Coca-Cola now? I would say probably what on a the scale of 10? We are probably around 9 I would say. 8 and 12 9. Later I talked to Steve Warth the guy who did the heavy lifting in converting that old formula into modern lab measurements. He is the one in charge of developing Sovereign's flavors. He says the ingredients in this old recipe were no surprise to him. Most of them are the same ingredients you use to make any cola. Orange oil lemon oil nutmeg and cinnamon would be the main ones. I noticed that the neroli and the coriander seemed higher than what I have seen elsewhere. Steve said that if we ever decided to match Coca-Cola the way it tastes today lots of things about the formula are widely known. We would have to replace the citric acid in the old formula with phosphoric acid. That is what modern sodas use. We would replace the lime juice with lime oil. We would swap this sugar for high fructose corn syrup. I know in some of the other flavor companies that I have worked at we have worked on trying to get as close. We have had customers that come in and say I want an exact match for Coke. And they are usually pretty close. So basically this idea of Coke it is the super secret thing that nobody could crack from your perspective that is just some very cheerful showmanship on their part. Well actually no. It is not. If you wanted to go side by side and match it exactly that is very difficult. And that is not only difficult for Coca-Cola it is difficult for everything. That is because even if you know that there is say cinnamon in a drink you do not know where it came from-- Sri Lanka Indonesia. And that can make all the difference in the flavor. I asked the flavor guys at Sovereign if they could pick out the real Coca-Cola from our formula in a blind taste test. I would be able to tell. Yeah there is probably a good chance that we will. Yes. So we marked the little plastic cups which had real Coca-Cola with a Sharpie just a little dot on the bottom of the cup. The cups with our formula had no dot. Everyone tasted. David the guy who runs the company was sure that he was drinking our formula. And then he flipped over the cup and saw-- Sharpie. I got a Sharpie. Meaning he thought our formula was Coca-Cola. I got a Sharpie. Do you think ordinary consumers would be able to pick out which one of these is real Coca-Cola? I highly doubt it. I seriously doubt that. I think if we would do a blind test right now with a regular consumer I think we will be able to fool them. Attention all  shoppers. Take a moment to look down at your shopping carts. You may have the wrong cart. If you have the wrong cart please return it to the  department. Thank you. Ben and I put on lab coats and we set up a table in aisle 2B of a supermarket one afternoon with bottles of our soda-- that is the formula from the 1979 newspaper article-- and Coca-Cola. Taste test time. One of the first people who came up to us was actually a woman who had worked supermarket tastings herself. Use your smiles. People love to see a smile. And when you get a smile back that is when you are like hey you want to  try a sample? That is how you know. Do I have to make the  sound? No you do not have to. That is what I do sometimes. So Ben and I smiled. With each person we would give them our formula first. I taste berries. And then we gave a real Coke second. Tastes like RC Cola. Tastes like RC Cola. Tastes like a really cheap cola. And before we told people what they were we asked which they liked better. I liked the first one better. Probably the second one. Second one? Yeah the second one I prefer. 60 of the people preferred our formula over Coca-Cola. The first one. Though to be fair to Coca-Cola people who said they drank a lot of soft drinks they always preferred the Coke. It is better than the first one. And when we asked people to guess which of the two drinks was Coca-Cola to our surprise actually of the 30 people that we polled 28 could tell which was Coca-Cola. Our formula was that different. People saw a family resemblance though. I was thinking it taste more like the old vanilla Coke. It had an aftertaste that made me stop and think for a minute. But I tell it was somewhere in there or was manufactured by Coke. It tastes like weird soda trying to be Coke. There was just one more person that I wanted to taste the soda that we made and look at the recipe. And that was the Coca-Cola's corporation resident expert on the history of the product and its early formulas. My Name is Phil Mooney. I am the archivist for the Coca-Cola company based in Atlanta Georgia. My quick reaction is that it is sweeter and flatter than Coca-Cola. It does not have what we call the bite and the burn that Coca-Cola has. Does this seem like it could be an ancestor or a relative of Coca-Cola? You know quite frankly I do not think so. I told Phil everything that we knew about the recipe-- the newspaper article it came from how it matched a recipe deep in his own archives. He was not impressed. Very very not impressed. And really this is not unusual. I cannot tell you how many people have come forward over the years and claimed to have the formula for Coca-Cola. I probably have three or four dozen examples of that. And they will say well I knew this old pharmacist-- almost the same story that you told me. And he got this recipe from a friend usually it is a friend of Asa Candler or John Pemberton. And do most of them have these same ingredients? They have lime and they have neroli and cinnamon and nutmeg? Almost all of them are very very similar if not identical. We went around and around on this. To me the fact that the recipe showed up over and over gave it credibility. Coke's inventor John Pemberton was known to have sold the recipe to several different people back in the early days. And the fact that it had appeared in his own notebook in Coke's archive seemed like the clincher. But Phil said that no no that notebook if we were to look at it more closely was full of all kinds of failed attempts at soda recipes and variations on recipes. So it was hard for him to believe that the real formula for Coke was stuck in there among that stuff. Could it be a precursor? Yeah. Absolutely. Is this one that went to market? I do not think so. But we do not know? We are pretty sure. We are pretty sure that the final recipe was not the one represented in that book. I asked him if anybody at Coca-Cola who had access to the original recipe which he says they still have actually checked to see if it matched the one in that notebook. And he politely side-stepped that question and we moved on. And there is all this fuss about the secret formula but it seems like the basic ingredients of Coca-Cola are actually on the public record. Absolutely. So we put it to him. Was the secret formula really a secret? He said that even if somebody cracked the entire manufacturing process which he said they would have to do and produce something very very close Coke has this whole of this thing nobody can touch. There is a psychological element to this product. We have got a 125 years worth of marketing and advertising. And people's memories. Well in the supermarket when we were in the supermarket one of the young women who tasted the product she tasted an unmarked little cup of Coca-Cola and she said That tastes like my childhood. There you go. That is what 125 years of omnipresent worldwide distribution and promotion buys you. I told Phil that we were going to put up the old recipe that we found on our website and asked him if it would be OK with Coke if listeners would try to make batches themselves-- all the ingredients and oils that you need are online. They are cheap too. And he laughed and said Yeah. Yeah let them try. They will come running back to Coke. Coming up how much does one of President Obama's old spark plugs sell for and the search for other historical originals. In a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show Original Recipe. Stories of people going to great lengths to find the authentic original item. We have arrived at act two of our show. Act two Ask not what your handwriting analyst can do for you ask what you can do for your handwriting analyst. When you find an old authentic original it can of course mean lots and lots of money. Jake Halpern tells what happened when somebody stumbled onto a trove of astounding papers which lots of people thought was worth millions. John Reznikoff buys and sells relics and documents. He is got a sprawling office in Westport Connecticut that is floor to ceiling history. Old documents hanging everywhere signed by Thomas Jefferson or James Madison or John Hancock. He is got Abraham Lincoln's spectacles in a file cabinet. And in the middle of the room as if some movers just dumped it there something that looks like an old school desk. That is Abraham Lincoln's desk. And why is it sitting here? Good question. I need to get it restored. By the way 325000 if you are interested. In a back room there is Annie Oakley's gun leaning up against the shelf where Earnest Hemingway's typewriter sits alongside Franklin Roosevelt's chess set. It is like what you would see if the Smithsonian had a going out of business sale. The strangest thing that he bought and sold recently was President Obama's old Jeep. It helped that Obama had mentioned the car in a speech at Chrysler. And I put a little clip of that on a YouTube video. And I will do my best Obama impersonation. My first car was a Jeep Grand Cherokee. I loved that car. It sold for a lot though John would not say how much. When the guy who bought it had it repaired John asked if he could keep the spare parts. He stores them in a closet in his office. I am not kidding right. So I guess these are struts. Those are Obama's struts. And  in the bottom-- here I will grab a spark plug. There. There is a spark plug from Obama's car. I actually just sold one of these for 500 because it was Obama's. Sucker right? 500 for a spark plug? But five minutes in John's office and you realize people will buy anything connected to historical figures assuming it is real. This business especially the rare document business can be risky. There are so many fakes out there. So John is a fanatic about authenticity. He is studied fakes to see how they are made. He owns a huge collection of forgeries he bought from another collector and he uses it as a reference. He can sometimes even identify a particular forger. And part of his office looks like a lab on CSI. He is got a special high-powered magnifier called a proscope and a video spectral comparator a 30000 machine used to analyze ink. John's called as an expert witness on handwriting in all kinds of court cases. He is a go-to guy in his field for spotting fake autographs. At the risk of sounding egotistical everybody in the business who wants an opinion on pretty much any presidential person the first person they come to is me. That is a big change in the 13 years. 13 years ago. That is when John's career all but collapsed in a scandal so deep and far-reaching that people are still arguing about what exactly happened. Even John himself is not entirely sure. He made mistakes he did not know he could make. Mistakes he did not even suspect. And for years he did not talk about it until now. It all started in 1992 when John got a call from a guy named Lawrence X. Cusack III. Very nice very friendly guy and he had some beautiful stamps that he was selling that were his father's his father's collection. And I remember it included some very nice illustrated envelopes from the 19th century. And I bought them in several batches and became very friendly with him. He seemed to be very educated extremely well polished very well dressed. The two of them hit it off. They started to hang out on the weekends. John was engaged at the time and Cusack-- everyone called him Lex-- had a pretty young wife. They would all have dinner at an Italian place. To John Lex was a kind of worldly older brother. They started confiding in each other. In the beginning he unraveled his military career which I thought was the coolest thing I would ever heard. John had a particular reverence for soldiers. His own dad had served in the Pacific in World War II and John still talks about the time when he was eight and his father took out his army uniform covered in medals and ribbons laid it out on the family's ping pong table. Ever since John had been sort of obsessed with the military. He would never joined himself but he was eager to listen to someone like Lex who told him he would been in the Navy flying F-16's during Vietnam. Lex was quiet about it. John had to pry the details out of him. That he would been downed in Cambodia and survived by hiding in a swamp breathing through a reed. What really struck John what blew him away was when they visited the naval academy in Annapolis. Lex's sister-in-law had been admitted so they went down for plebe weekend. You know a very proud group of friends and family. And when Lex came out he was in a completely white uniform lieutenant commander's uniform because he was a lieutenant commander wearing the hat wearing the Navy cross wearing all the medals on his chest. And there is 3000 people there and they are all saluting him. And he is giving back-- if you can imagine my hand going to my head-- a perfect salute. And I am like wow. I am with a war hero here right now and this is my buddy. A few months after they met Lex got to talking about his father also named Lawrence Cusack who died in 1985. Cusack Senior had been a distinguished lawyer. He would worked for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York for many years and he was personal counsel to John Cardinal O'Connor the archbishop. As Lex explained it he had some pretty high-powered clients. At one point Lex revealed to me that his dad had worked for the Kennedys. And any time I meet somebody who has any connection with anybody famous I am like where are the papers? You know the papers are valuable. Anything he signed would be valuable. And a conversation ensued on that. And he said he would look. A month or so later Lex mentioned something else interesting. Well then Marilyn Monroe gets introduced into the equation. My father also worked for Marilyn Monroe. And-- Wait can you just describe how that all goes down? Well Marilyn Monroe had a New York residence too and he said he did some legal work for her. And indicated that there was a relationship that his father helped to hush. When he tells you this what is your reaction? That is pretty crazy news right? Yeah. Naturally-- and I think anybody would have this reaction-- you know the dollar signs are coming in my eyes. I am thinking oh my God. This is a career maker for me. This is the treasure that I have been searching for my whole life. And now are you starting to kind of tell him like can I see these papers? I am pushing him. I am saying go