 A little something something. Now our first storyteller tonight - this guy he is an amazing brother. In fact he was just nominated by the NAACP as the best playwright for a play that he wrote. He is got a current play going on at The Marsh. We are excited to have him on this stage. Please welcome Mr. Don Reed.   I grew up on East 14th in Oakland Calif.   When I was like 20 years old I got recruited to UCLA on a speech and debate scholarship - a partial scholarship. But nobody told me that partial scholarship loosely translated actually stands for not enough  money.   Yeah I was suffering bad bad. I was really excited when I first headed off for UCLA. I hopped on a plane...   Oh oh. Oh oh.  Landed in LA starry-eyed and realized I did not have nowhere to live.   Had not quite thought that part out yet right? So what I did was every day after class I went to a different dorm room and I partied went to a different dorm room and partied every night party party party yeah yeah yeah yeah.   Dancing white to fit in.   Hi. How are you? How are you doing? How are you? How are you? And crashed in a different dorm room every night but they caught on to me. So then I slept in the movie theater and they caught on to me. So then I got a brilliant idea to sleep in the girls' restroom at UCLA. They have those little couches - you know those little period couches those little it is-my-time-of-the-month you-might-want-to-back-up-I-might-choke-you couches?   I sleep on those. Now the building where the speech team met had a lot of those couches - Kinsey Hall - built in 1929 with words of wisdom etched in stone over the doorway. But I never read it.   So I sneak in there and sleep but I never got good rest 'ecause I did not want anybody to walk in on me. So I kind of slept with one eye open all night like . I did not want some girl to walk in and say Suzanne  Suzanne there is a Negro in the women's restroom. Alert the authorities right? I knew I needed somewhere to live. I needed a job. So I went to the classifieds and I found an excellent opportunity - seeking neat clean college students to serve breakfast to the elderly in an upscale environment Beverly Hills Hancock Park adjacent - The Kipling Hotel for your busy friendly happy retirement. I waited tables some up here in the Bay. I am like I got to get this. I caught the bus over there. It was almost as if classical music was playing in my head as I passed luscious lawns and stunning mansions. This is going to be the next level of my life. We rode by a golf course. People waved at me. I was on the bus.   But the bus went way way past all that nice .   And I ended up in a nasty area with trash on the ground heard errant gunshots - pow pow pow pow pow pow -  police helicopter .   A little scroungy dog ran by -  - looked like he gave me the finger.   How did he give the finger with a paw?   I stepped off the bus  and there was the Kipling in all its non-fantasticness. I walked into the lobby and I was immediately met by the scent of urine and Log Cabin syrup.   Kind of nasty but kind of sweet.   I went through the interview. It went well. They told me they would let me know. They did let me know - I got it serving breakfast to the elderly for room and board. Now every day after you would finish your shift you had to kind of rush through the lobby 'ecause the old folks would be camped out in the lobby. And they would try to capture you with a long- boring story the kind...   ...The kind that destroys your soul the kind that while you listening you go am I dying as I am listening to this? Did you just reference Custer? How long have you been on the planet?   So you had to do this little move where you kind of jog through the lobby and point to your watch like I got things to do. I got things to do. But sometimes I just slowed down and I got to know some of them. I got to know this one old guy named George . One day he was standing in the dining room you know kind of Catskills-type dining room with a green linoleum floor and cheap curtains that wanted to be much nicer. And George standing there 5-foot-2 with his little dead finger he is like Don Don hold on just a second. I want to talk to you for a second Don. I want to talk to you. I have a situation and you are a smart guy. You serve me my breakfast each morning. I want to know if you think what I am thinking about doing is a good idea OK Don? OK look over here OK? Look right there that is my seat every day. Breakfast lunch dinner everybody knows that that is my seat. But now there is this new guy - this new guy a old guy - he just plops in my seat. He just plotzes. He plotzes in my seat. He is giving me the shpilkes this guy. This guy's giving me the shpilkes OK? OK. I am thinking about doing something. I want to know if you think it is a good idea OK? I am thinking of going up behind him and stabbing him in the back of the head with a fork. You think that is a good idea? Just stab him in the back of the head with a  fork. You think - look at him watch him - look - watch the son of a . Watch him chew. Watch him chew. Watch him chew.   I hate that guy. I am too old for this. I am 92 years old OK? My wife died 25 years ago. Every night I say my prayers. I say dear God when I wake up please let me be dead.   I wake up - damn it still alive. So how things going for you?   I said they are going pretty good George but I am having a hard time staying in school financially and I really just want to be a comedian. He said you could do that. You can go to school and be a comedian. You know people can make it through anything. People can do anything. They are resilient. Trust me I have been through a lot. I have been through a lot. Let me tell you a story Don OK? I used to live - I used to live overseas. And one day they marched into our area and they say that we are going to be prisoners of war. We are like OK we are going to be prisoners of war right? But what they did Don is they took us to this camp. And then they tell us that we are - we are just going to be held. Don you see these numbers on my arm right here? He pointed to some numbers tattooed on his forearm. They put those on me there. And so one day a soldier walks in dressed in all black and he says it is time to take a shower. Now we knew some folks that headed off to these showers - we do not quite remember seeing them again did not know if they were transferred confusing. But we change clothes. We get in line. It is almost my group's turn to walk inside these showers. And Allied soldiers - British American I do not know - they show up and - pop pop pop - they shoot the guys in the black - pop pop pop. They shoot the SS guys in the black and they freed us. And that is why you will never hear me say an ill word about a soldier that is fighting for good. They try to say all soldiers are murderers they are all killers. But sometimes you got to do that. Sometimes you got to fight. When someone's trying to wipe out your entire culture you got to fight. You better fight. You got to fight Don. But you do not have time to listen to all that stuff. You are real busy and you got a lot to do. I said that is OK George. He said Don did I ever tell you - had a beautiful wife? She was beautiful. She had this song - well I sing it to her. I sing this song to her - hold on I got it hold on -  you are the most beautiful girl in the whole wide world. You are a beautiful girl da-da-da-da .   It is a short song. I made it up.   But Don I will tell you I have lived a good life. I treat people well. I keep my word. That is a big thing. You got to keep your word. You got to keep your word Don. But I have lived too damn long. 92 years old every night I still say my prayers - dear God when I wake up let me be dead. I wake up - damn it still here. And you know what Don? You know what they still give me? I am 92. You know what they still give me? My driver's license.   You better watch out for me. I will run you right down. I will run you right down Don. I lived and worked at the Kipling for five years serving breakfast to the elderly and they served me stories. I left the Kipling and things went very very well for me. Many years later I got a big project working with a huge star. Her name rhymes with moperah .   I wanted to remember being hungry 'ecause things were going so well. I wanted to remember being really hungry. So what I did - I swear to God - I went back to UCLA to the very building where I used to sleep in the girls' restroom - the very building. While standing outside I looked up and I finally looked at those words of wisdom that were etched in stone over the doorway. They say nothing is too wonderful to be true. It is a quote from a scientist - Faraday. Nothing is too wonderful to be true. And guess what is etched in stone over the doorway of the Kipling Hotel? Not that.   I think it is scratched in with a butcher knife and says something like lick my nuts or something like that.   But nothing is too wonderful to be true. You can be my old buddy George who grew to 92 and beat the Nazis - he beat the Nazis - and finally happily woke up dead. Or you could be me who grew up in Oakland headed off to college was homeless for a while but battled through and ended up here with you on this wonderful night - or something like that.   Thank you guys so much.   SNAP JUDGMENT Live the Breakout special will continue in a moment. Stay tuned. Mr. Don Reed ladies and gentlemen Mr. Don Reed.  