 Wait wait. You are ...   Okay.   All right.   Okay.   All right.   You are ...   Listening ...   To Radiolab.   Radiolab.   From ...   WNY ...   C.   C.   Yeah.   And NPR.  Christien T. So this is a blood that is made in Europe that I really enjoy.  Jad Abumrad This is Christien Tinsley. He is a bloodsmith.  Christien T. It is ...  Robert Krulwich Like a fine wine.  Christien T. It is like a fine wine. I found this blood and I used it on the film Passion of the Christ. And I loved the color of it and the consistency of it.  Jad Abumrad What is it called by the way? What is   Christien T. Well this one is called Bloody Real Blood. Bloody Real Blood.  Robert Krulwich That is not the most imaginative title.  Christien T. But they do not get creative.  Robert Krulwich Bloody Real Blood.  Christien T. We have another one ...  Jad Abumrad Christien pulled out a few more.  Christien T. For example you got a couple bottles right here.  Robert Krulwich By the way we visited him in his special effects warehouse.  Christien T. Right here in Hollywood.  Jad Abumrad What are these right here?  Christien T. This one right here is called Dried Blood Dark.  Jad Abumrad Pretty self-explanatory.  Christien T. And then we have one that is called Drying Blood Fresh. And this is made by a completely different company. They all have their advantages. Some are really good at color and flow consistency. There is different viscosities in the blood. And ...  Jad Abumrad We went through all of it with Christien how sometimes you want to make the blood a little ...  Christien T. Thicker so it flows out of the skin a little bit slower.  Jad Abumrad Sometimes you need it to splash around or sometimes you need ...  Christien T. More opaque blood black blood clear blood green blood vibrant blood dark blood.  Robert Krulwich Do they have catalogs?  Christien T. There are catalogs for blood.  Jad Abumrad And how ... You know if you cannot find what you need in a catalog you can take someone else's blood and tweak it.  Christien T. We might throw a material called Methocel into it. It is a thickening agent very similar to what they use in jelly donuts. We use silicas.  Jad Abumrad And at a certain point as we were talking through all this stuff it just felt like we were not even talking about blood anymore.  Christien T. Everything is synthetic.  Jad Abumrad It is just a bunch of chemicals that had nothing to do with the inside of a human body.  Christien T. Yeah.  Jad Abumrad But then a funny thing happened.  Jad Abumrad Now when would you use say the condom full of blood here?  Jad Abumrad Christien had walked us over to a table where he laid out a bunch of his tools.  Jad Abumrad When would that come ?  Christien T. Well yeah. What you are seeing here is you are seeing a table full of tricks. We have the bladder on the knife.  Jad Abumrad And he showed us this trick knife. Super dull but on the back of it it had this little tube.  Christien T. And the tube runs along the back end and around the edge of the knife.  Jad Abumrad Hidden from view. And how the trick works is you make like you are slashing someone and right at that moment you squeeze this little syringe full of fake blood that then goes through the tube and onto the blade of the knife. And I must say it is the chintziest trick I have ever seen.  Christien T. But it is a classic approach. Somebody gets cut on film you are doing ...  Jad Abumrad But I thought Let us just try it.  Jad Abumrad Can I ...  Christien T. A surgery scene where ...  Jad Abumrad Can I slice Robert across the face?  Christien T. You certainly can. So what we will do ...  Jad Abumrad So he fills the syringe with Bloody Real Blood. I get in position holding the knife.  Jad Abumrad It is not because I hate you right now.  Robert Krulwich I know.  Jad Abumrad It is because we are doing a ritual. We are going to be blood brothers. Okay ready? Here we go. One two three.  Christien T. We got the camera?  Ellen Wait wait.  Jad Abumrad And this is the fakest trick I have ever seen. I think I have said that already but it is worth repeating. It is so fake. And yet ...  Christien T. There we go. Give it a good steady squeeze. Okay?  Jad Abumrad When the Bloody Real Blood comes out ...  Christien T. And that is basically ...  Jad Abumrad Oh that was thrilling and terrifying. I feel ...  Jad Abumrad And I was like Why am I getting woozy?  Jad Abumrad Oh my god. My hand is shaking.  Robert Krulwich Did you feel anything?  Ellen I feel light-headed when I see it.  Jad Abumrad Ellen too.  Ellen I guess you cannot be very ...  Jad Abumrad Okay. Now I really am feeling lightheaded. That ...  Jad Abumrad I actually had to sit down.  Ellen Reactive to ...  Robert Krulwich Oh wow.  Jad Abumrad Oh my god.  Robert Krulwich It really looked real.  Jad Abumrad And it was whatever but it just did not make any sense.  Christien T. If we want a continuous flow of blood what we might do is we might just do a slow release. And the blood is continuously flowing.  Jad Abumrad Today on Radiolab ...  Robert Krulwich Continuously flowing information about ...  Jad Abumrad Blood.  Robert Krulwich Real. Bloody Real Blood.  Jad Abumrad Royal blood.  Robert Krulwich Bad blood.  Jad Abumrad Young blood.  Robert Krulwich And blood money.   You know it is business.  Jad Abumrad I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab. Let us get bloody.     Barton Benes I never thought I would become a terrorist. That is what I became. That is what they call me.  Jad Abumrad So we are going to start with a story about that guy you just heard.  Robert Krulwich His name was Barton Benes. He was an artist working in New York in the West Village in Manhattan in the '70s '80s and early '90s. Pretty successful.  Jad Abumrad And famously social.  Joe Lovett Oh my god.  Jad Abumrad Not by any means your normal terrorist.  Joe Lovett I mean he was just the most charming welcoming open beguiling person you could possibly imagine.  Jad Abumrad Although given the story we are about to tell he was also a bit of a prankster.  Barton Benes I deal with fear people's fears.  Joe Lovett And he was nuts which was a lot of fun.  Barton Benes And by the way that is Barton's best friend Joe.  Joe Lovett Joe Lovett director and producer. We were very very close friends. We talked almost every day.  Jad Abumrad Joe says they actually began most days by calling each other up and hurling insults.  Joe Lovett Until we were laughing hysterically.  Barton Benes You going?  Joe Lovett Yeah.  Barton Benes Really?  Joe Lovett Really.  Barton Benes Am I that lucky?  Robert Krulwich The basis of Barton's art was stuff. He would find stuff and then describe it or mount it. Actually he had an enormous collection of stuff in his apartment.  Barton Benes Hey welcome to the catacombs. My 10-room mansion. This is the cabinet of curiosities.  Joe Lovett It was a magnificent place. I did a film on it actually. When you walk into it ...  Barton Benes My African collections.  Joe Lovett It was filled with drawers of spiders.  Barton Benes A bowl from Pamplona.  Joe Lovett Voodoo totems.  Barton Benes I even have an outhouse here.  Joe Lovett Desiccated animals beaded pieces of bears and wolves and birds.  Jad Abumrad In one drawer he had human ashes. In another ...  Joe Lovett And ...  Robert Krulwich Vat from a liposuction.  Joe Lovett Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Old poop.  Barton Benes 25 million year old feces fossilized.  Laurel Reuter I mean anything he could find that was weird.  Robert Krulwich That is Laurel Reuter one of Barton's friends.  Laurel Reuter That was taboo.  Robert Krulwich For example in another cabinet he had Adolf Hitler's teaspoon.  Jad Abumrad A severed human toe.  Joe Lovett Someone had been walking across ... It was either Brooklyn or the Williamsburg Bridge.  Barton Benes And he called me up and he said I found a toe.  Joe Lovett And they thought Well Barton would be the person to give it to.  Laurel Reuter He mummified it and kept it.  Barton Benes People do bring you things.  Joe Lovett Oh people sent him Madonna's underpants.  Jad Abumrad What?  Joe Lovett Yes. People sent him Nancy Reagan's lipstick on a napkin from Texas I think. Somebody sent him Sylvester Stallone's urine.  Jad Abumrad Ooh.  Robert Krulwich How did they collect that?  Joe Lovett They cared so much about Barton that when Stallone peed in this urinal in a restaurant and did not flush they went and got it.  Jad Abumrad And although his apartment was filled with very different taboo button-pushing weirdness that you could imagine ...  Robert Krulwich The one area he did not touch at least not at first was the thing that haunted his life the most.  Barton Benes I never knew what to do about AIDS. It was a hard subject for me. I was positive and my boyfriend had died and it was something I could not deal with. I could not make art about it.  Robert Krulwich But then one day ...  Laurel Reuter One day he was in his kitchen cooking. He was a good cook and he always cooked when we came to visit.  Barton Benes I was in the kitchen cutting parsley and I cut a piece of my finger.  Laurel Reuter He cut himself.  Barton Benes And blood went all over the kitchen.  Laurel Reuter And he went into this huge panic.  Barton Benes And I was so freaked out.  Robert Krulwich The story goes Barton immediately thought ...  Laurel Reuter Oh my god I am going to get AIDS.  Robert Krulwich But then in the next blink he thought Well wait a second.  Laurel Reuter Oh I already have it. It is my own blood. It cannot hurt me.  Jad Abumrad Wait what?  Joe Lovett He forgot that he had it himself.  Jad Abumrad But wait. I do not understand that though. So he had AIDS.  Joe Lovett Oh yeah.  Jad Abumrad He knew he had AIDS.  Joe Lovett Oh yeah.  Jad Abumrad Still the sight of his own HIV-infected blood his own blood was so viscerally terrifying to him that he ran out of the room.  Barton Benes I went and got rubber gloves and bleach. And I thought This is nuts. This is my blood. My kitchen. And I am going through all this craziness. And that is when I thought If I have this fear you can imagine what other ... The fear that other people have.  Joe Lovett This is the very very beginning of the epidemic. In the early days we were just talking about this last night as a matter of fact ... We had a friend who was hospitalized at New York Hospital. They left his tray at the door. The medical people would not go in.  Jad Abumrad They were scared to go in?  Joe Lovett Terrified. Everybody was terrified.  Robert Krulwich And I remember they used to have these things on the door. Beware.  Joe Lovett It is contaminated.  Robert Krulwich Because of the blood.  Joe Lovett Yeah.  Jad Abumrad It is hard to overstate just how frightening blood was in this moment.  Joe Lovett Nobody knew what anything was going on. There were conspiracy theories. There were thoughts that people were being poisoned.  Jad Abumrad All anyone knew was that people were dying and it was because of something in the blood.  Joe Lovett You would hear about it happening to someone and then you would hear about it happening to a friend of a friend. And then it would happen to a friend and then it was your best friend. And then it was your other best friend and your other best friend and your other best friend. Unbelievable. We must have lost easily half of our gay friends. Easily half.  Jad Abumrad So Barton ...  Barton Benes I never knew what to do about AIDS. And it was something I could not deal with.  Jad Abumrad When he cuts his hand open in the kitchen sees the blood freaks out and thinks Wow. There is a strange power to this blood. Just the sight of it.  Robert Krulwich Well he has an idea.  Barton Benes And I start making these weapons.  Jad Abumrad The idea sounded simple.  Joe Lovett A series of works called Lethal Weapons.  Jad Abumrad Except they were not very lethal-looking.  Robert Krulwich He took a little toy gun.  Laurel Reuter A child squirt gun.  Robert Krulwich One of those candy yellow toy guns.  Laurel Reuter And he put his own blood inside of the squirt gun.  Joe Lovett He had pacifiers with blood. Baby pacifiers with blood. Nursing bottles with blood.  Robert Krulwich One of those clown lapel flowers that squirt water. Well his squirted blood.  Joe Lovett Atomizers perfume atomizers with blood.  Jad Abumrad You can go ...  Joe Lovett Yep.  Jad Abumrad .  Joe Lovett Exactly.  Jad Abumrad Now you could not really squirt yourself with his HIV-infected blood because the work was put in these glass boxes but the invitation was clear. Squeeze me.  Barton Benes I deal with fear. People's fears.  Joe Lovett And this one is what he called a Poison Dart.  Jad Abumrad Joe has one of the Lethal Weapons in his living room.  Joe Lovett What it is is it is a hypodermic needle.  Robert Krulwich Very thin and long.  Joe Lovett That had been filled up with his blood.  Robert Krulwich And then he put these delicate little ...  Joe Lovett Feathers from an African bird.  Jad Abumrad On the back of the needle to make it look like one of those poison darts from an old James Bond movie.  Joe Lovett Right.  Jad Abumrad So Barton initially shows the work to Laurel who mounts an exhibition at her gallery in North Dakota. And then ...  Laurel Reuter Then the show it was ... It went to Sweden.  Jad Abumrad And that is where things got interesting.  Inger Tornberg It was extraordinary.  Robert Krulwich That is Inger Tornberg. She ran the gallery in Lund in Sweden where the Lethal Weapons landed. And she says within a day or two of the show opening ...  Inger Tornberg The authorities were here telling me to close the doors. By law.  Jad Abumrad They had to.  Inger Tornberg For the safety of people coming into the gallery. We felt ashamed.  Jad Abumrad She thought This is Lund. We are a University town. We should know better.  Robert Krulwich Well wait a second. Did you know for certainty that their fears were ridiculous?  Inger Tornberg No. I mean HIV the virus does not go away that quickly. In the beginning we were scared but we cannot avoid fear in the world.  Robert Krulwich So she told the authorities ...  Inger Tornberg Take it easy. Do not do anything.  Jad Abumrad No one's going to get hurt. The blood is behind glass.  Inger Tornberg But the other thing that happened is after the ban flyers came out saying that we were selling HIV contaminated blood by the liter.  Robert Krulwich Whose flyers were these?  Inger Tornberg The morning and evening newspapers.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Inger Tornberg We did not know where the information came from. Must have come from the health authority.  Jad Abumrad But suddenly she says the whole town of Lund exploded. She had people coming into the gallery yelling.  Inger Tornberg This is not art.  Jad Abumrad How dare you?  Inger Tornberg And you sell it for money? What is this? We were overwhelmed.  Robert Krulwich So they struck a deal with the health authorities.  Inger Tornberg A compromise.  Jad Abumrad They said All right. Here's what we will do. We will take the work any of the work that sells and we will stick it in ...  Inger Tornberg An oven. Heat all them up.  Robert Krulwich At 160 degrees Fahrenheit for two hours.  Inger Tornberg And thus kill everything possible.  Jad Abumrad That is ... Can I just say that is awesome. That is ...  Robert Krulwich Would not you worry that the paper would curl? Or the glass would ...  Inger Tornberg Well the plastic would melt in the oven.  Barton Benes Then each work had a certificate saying it was safe to sell. I never thought I would become a terrorist. That is what I became. They called it the AIDS Horror Show.  Jad Abumrad All right. So the interesting thing ... I do not know if you felt this way is that over the last few decades AIDS has become a little bit less horrible. Just a little.  Robert Krulwich Yep.  Jad Abumrad So you would think those Lethal Weapons pieces like that poison dart that we saw in Joe's living room that it would lose its punch a little bit.  Robert Krulwich After all these years.  Jad Abumrad Yeah because that is what happens to a lot of political art. After you take it out of its moment it just fizzles.  Robert Krulwich Right.  Jad Abumrad But weird that that does not happen with that piece.  Joe Lovett I still think it is an extremely powerful piece. And I think all those blood pieces are. They are really shocking.   Jad Abumrad What is the power now?  Joe Lovett Well I think blood is powerful. And so when you look at Barton's blood pieces whether they are AIDS blood or not they are still blood. It is tinkering with a life force.  Jad Abumrad I mean he is right. You see that blood. That is a man's viscera. It is not just art. And that guy's gone so it is ghostly in a way.  Laurel Reuter We had a wonderful goodbye.  Jad Abumrad That is Laurel again.  Laurel Reuter He said I am dying and I wish my friends would stop trying to manage it. They tell me I have to ... Cannot drink and I cannot do this and I cannot do that. And someone sent him a scale because gained too much weight and he was furious. And so I said Well let us have a bottle of wine. And we drank a bottle that night and we talked about everything saying goodbye but mostly laughing.  Jad Abumrad Laurel says that even at the end when he was in really bad shape ...  Laurel Reuter He was still like a little child. His point of view of the world was full of glee and delight.  Jad Abumrad And that is maybe the thing that sneaks up on you in the end is that as you are looking at the blood it is scary. And then suddenly it is hilarious. You are like Oh no no no. He is making a joke. But then it is also scary. It is a scary joke but it is funny. And scary.  Robert Krulwich As if the thing that scares you most is also so absurdly frightening that you laugh at the same time.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. As Inger Tornberg put it Barton had made himself ...  Inger Tornberg Skinless in some way.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Inger Tornberg It is a very generous offer to anybody who is receptive enough to take it.  Robert Krulwich So the man himself melts away. And all we have got left is a patch of his blood that says Boo and Come laugh with me.  Jad Abumrad Before we go to break big thanks to Kelsey Padgett for production help on that piece.     Chad This is Chad  calling you from my living room in Cincinnati Ohio. Radiolab is support in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Thanks.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab. Today ...  Robert Krulwich Blood.     Robert Krulwich One time I was in the doctor's office and they were taking blood and they gave me all of the vials to hold thinking of course that I would be fine with it.  Jad Abumrad This is pre drawing blood? Or post?  Robert Krulwich This was as they were drawing blood.  Jad Abumrad Oh you were holding vials of your own blood as it was coming out of you?  Robert Krulwich Yes. They kept handing me the vials without capping them and I fainted. So my hand flew up and all that blood and all ... It poured over my face and my shirt and my clothes. And when I came to everyone was screaming including half of the waiting room.  Jad Abumrad You were covered in your own blood?  Robert Krulwich Covered in blood.  Jad Abumrad Your whole shirt was soaked in blood?  Robert Krulwich Oh yeah.  Jad Abumrad That is disgusting.  Robert Krulwich  undershirt everything.  Jad Abumrad That is disgusting.  Robert Krulwich Well only disgusting because you think ... Because you are just ... We are all unfamiliar with blood but back in the 1600s ...  James Shapiro Just part of life. For Shakespeare blood was blood.  Robert Krulwich This is James Shapiro Shakespeare expert friend of our show. And he says people back in Shakespeare's day were familiar with the sight of blood the feel of blood even ...  James Shapiro The smell of blood. What do I mean? Young Shakespeare he is a kid.  Robert Krulwich He grew up in Stratford and at 21 he went to London.  James Shapiro He came as an actor and probably as the youngest actor in the company. What he was sent to do is to go to the shambles ...  Robert Krulwich That is a slaughterhouse.  James Shapiro Block and a half away and get a bucket of blood so that when they do the Spanish Tragedy or any other ... I mean they are not using fake blood. They are using animal blood in all these plays.  Jad Abumrad Really?  James Shapiro Absolutely.  Robert Krulwich They did not use fake blood?  James Shapiro No fake ... Why fake blood? How do you get fake blood? You got to make fake blood. He just walked two blocks on the way from where he lived to the theater. He is going to pass some kind of slaughtering area. I do not know how much it costs for a bucket of blood but you need a bucket of blood for Titus Andronicus. You need a bucket of blood for Julius Caesar. In that play Shakespeare has Mark Antony say I stand upon slippery ground. I mean that stage is covered in blood. I mean he is slipping in this blood. And all the men had just stooped and washed in Caesar's blood up to the elbows. So there is blood in this play.  Robert Krulwich In all of the plays the comedies the romances the histories all of them.  James Shapiro I have some numbers for you that shocked me.  Robert Krulwich Numbers.  James Shapiro Numbers.  Robert Krulwich Numbers of what?  James Shapiro Numbers of references to blood.  Robert Krulwich Really?  James Shapiro So the word blood itself occurs 673 times in 571 speeches in 41 of Shakespeare's plays and poems which means almost every play and poem.  Robert Krulwich Now should I be impressed? Because does the word house appear nine thousand six hundred and ...  James Shapiro No.  Robert Krulwich No.  James Shapiro This is a big word. This is a word that recurs 37 times in King John.   March to the marketplace in Frenchmen's blood.   Busty blood again which we ...   Living blood doth in these temples beat.  James Shapiro 28 times in Richard III.   One raised in blood and one in blood ...   In that congealed mouths and bleed ...   ... of that royal blood.  James Shapiro 22 times in Henry IV Part One.   ... Lips with her own children's blood.  James Shapiro It means a lot of different things. It means I am of good blood I am of high social station.  Robert Krulwich And of course there was bad blood or cursed blood or being hot-blooded or cold-blooded.  James Shapiro And sometimes as in Macbeth it just means blood.   Blood will have blood. I am in blood stepped in so far ...  blood is stopped the very source of ... The handsome places were all badged with blood. His silver skin laced with his golden blood.  James Shapiro He is wading. He feels he is wading in blood. Just think of that for a moment how horrible the experience must be. Think of stepping into the ocean and it is blood. Thick smelly horrible to the touch. That is what Macbeth feels when he feels guilty. For most of us this is just a metaphor. What I am trying to say is for this culture blood was more than a metaphor.  James Shapiro So I have here one of his first poems the Rape of Lucrece.  Robert Krulwich Lucrece is the good wife of a very honorable man. She is raped by this son of a tyrant. He comes from a ruling family the Tarquins so he thinks he can get away with this.  James Shapiro But Lucrece takes a knife at the end of this poem and stabs herself. So this is what happens. The murderous knife as it left the place her blood in poor revenge held it in chase which means the blood followed the knife out as she stabbed herself. And bubbling from her breast it doth divide in two slow rivers that the crimson blood circles her body in on every side. That is a lot of blood. Some of the blood still pure and red remained and some looked black and that false Tarquin stained. So we are beginning to see that two kinds of blood are flowing out her. And that false Tarquin stain ...  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  James Shapiro Because ...  Robert Krulwich That is the raping. That is the ...  James Shapiro Tarquin is the guy who raped her and from that rape her blood got polluted.  Robert Krulwich She now has two pools of blood. His dark and dangerous hers red and pure. And you can see this.  James Shapiro This is a culture that understood putrefied blood looked a little off looked a little black. And this is ...  Robert Krulwich And this was meant to be thought of as literal so that if you were raped that is what ... Your blood would change color in part in the bad part.  James Shapiro How do you prove intent in rape? If Tarquin's saying she wanted it how would you know?  Robert Krulwich Would this be almost like forensic? Would this be the evidence?  James Shapiro Absolutely. This is evidence that proves that it was rape rather than anything consensual. You would know because she was raped and the blood showed this to be tainted. For this culture ...  Robert Krulwich Blood was the thing that makes you you.  James Shapiro Life death kinship ties and what is within you what circulates within you. Your character.  Jad Abumrad So blood was like essence.  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad All right. Well if Shakespeare saw blood as your essential nature well this next story is about what happens when that idea collided with science.  Edward Dolnick Yeah. How are we doing?  Jad Abumrad And to sort through the debris of this collision ...  Edward Dolnick Talking talking talking.  Jad Abumrad We talked with science journalist ...  Edward Dolnick Okay. I am Edward Dolnick the author of the Clockwork Universe.  Jad Abumrad A great read that opens right where our story begins.  Edward Dolnick So it is 1660.  Jad Abumrad England.  Edward Dolnick It is Shakespeare's century. Isaac Newton is a brilliant young man but nobody knows him yet. One of the big deals of this era is that science is just starting up.  Jad Abumrad People are just beginning to tinker and fiddle with nature. And in London much of this tinkering went on in a rundown mansion.  Edward Dolnick Every third Wednesday some schedule like that you would see this strange collection of men.  Jad Abumrad Known as the Royal Society.  Edward Dolnick Coming in through the Royal Society quarters.  Jad Abumrad Were they like the National Science Foundation of their day? Or just a club?  Edward Dolnick Well it starts out as a club but what makes it a terrific club is that at the beginning there are essentially no rules so you have Christopher Wren and Robert Boyle which is to say Richard Feynman and Stephen Hawking. But next to them you have some amateur violinist who is got a theory that if you tune the violin some goofy way it would sound much better. And next to him is a man with a potato in the shape of a unicorn. They are all bringing these wonders.  kind of thing. People were thrilled at this time with experiments in general. And it did not have to be a lot. Lighting firecrackers and throwing ice in the fireplace to see if it cracks or make a big noise or pump out the air from under a jar and put a mouse in it to see what happens. Any kind of experiment that you can think of is going on because nobody knows how anything works. So almost every question you can think of was in some sense a question worth asking.  Jad Abumrad And one question which endlessly fascinated these guys lucky for us was a simple one. What is blood?  Edward Dolnick Because blood in this era is this astonishing substance. Everybody knew it was vitally important. Everybody had always known that since the first person to stab somebody else but nobody knew what made it important. Nobody knew what it did. And it also had this mysterious spiritual quality to it. In the same way that we have this notion of the brain and the mind and they are different things and one is physical and one is floating around in some more abstract way. The blood was this physical red stuff that dripped on your desk but it also carried some soulful essence that marks you as you and me as me. But how do you get at that? This is an experimental question.  Jad Abumrad So here was the first experiment.  Edward Dolnick Question number one. What would happen ...  Jad Abumrad If you took a madman ...  Edward Dolnick This mad fellow ...  Jad Abumrad A guy who was prone ...  Edward Dolnick To fits to carrying ...  Jad Abumrad And you took this guy and you filled him up with the blood of a sheep ...  Edward Dolnick And a sheep is famously docile of course.  Jad Abumrad What would happen? Would that docile sheep blood get inside the madman and tame him?  Edward Dolnick Sooth his raging fits.  Jad Abumrad So the Royal Society ran some ads.  Edward Dolnick Can we find somebody to do this? We will pay you a guinea which is ...  Jad Abumrad A few bucks today.  Edward Dolnick That is to say worth having but not a fortune. And they are delighted to find this fellow Koga. Arthur Koga because he is like the Mad Hatter or something.  Jad Abumrad Like what we would these days call schizophrenic? Or I mean was he crazy in that way or just eccentric?  Edward Dolnick The vocabulary is so different it is hard to know but he was in his day or  day one of those people you would edge away from who is ...  Jad Abumrad He is the guy on the subway.  Edward Dolnick Right.  Jad Abumrad In any case on the day of the experiment they bring Koga into the Royal Society and into the big theater there.  Edward Dolnick And it is a full room. There are wooden bleachers and everyone's crowded together on those bleachers jostling for position. The early comers get the best seats. In the front of the room is a little table and the sheep is on that table.  Jad Abumrad They sit Koga right next to the sheep.  Edward Dolnick The sheep is tied down and they cut a slit.  Jad Abumrad A tiny one right across an artery in the sheep's neck.  Edward Dolnick And our man Arthur Koga ...  Jad Abumrad They have him ...  Edward Dolnick Put his arm on the table and they cut open a vein of his. Now they take a skinny little metal tube and they run it between the two.  Jad Abumrad So that blood goes from the sheep's neck into the man's arm and back. And then they wait. And wait. And wait.  Robert Krulwich Well how long would you think you have to wait for a madman to become sheep-like in his personality change?  Edward Dolnick Well I guess they had waited for him to spring up from the table. And ... But there is no ba-ing. There is no sudden coming to his senses but nobody drops dead. And that counts as a success.  Jad Abumrad And they thought Maybe we are just not getting at this the right way.  Edward Dolnick Maybe there is some other experiment that if we did it properly we could find out the answer to this question. What is in the blood that makes each person special?  Jad Abumrad And in fact around that time ...  Edward Dolnick The eminent scientist of the day this great figure ...  Jad Abumrad A guy by the name of Robert Boyle.  Edward Dolnick Proposed 16 experiments that they ought to do.  Jad Abumrad Now there are no records of the experimental results but we can pretty much imagine how it went.  Edward Dolnick Number one the blood of a cowardly dog.  Jad Abumrad Put that into a ...  Edward Dolnick Fierce dog.  Jad Abumrad Let us see if that makes the fierce dog ...  Edward Dolnick More tame. So they try that. And that does not work.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  Edward Dolnick Well what if you took a dog that has a fabulous sense of smell like a blood hound? And you put his blood into some ordinary dog who could not find his way home? Will that dog suddenly have a fabulous sense of smell?  Jad Abumrad And that ... No.   Edward Dolnick No. That did not work.  Jad Abumrad Fine.  Edward Dolnick Suppose you have a dog taught to fetch and carry or to dive after ducks and you put his blood into a common ignoramus dog who does not know anything? Will the simpleton dog suddenly be pointing out ducks to his master?  Jad Abumrad And no.  Edward Dolnick No. It turns out ... Boyle tries variation after variation of this and to cut to the chase none of them with any useful result.  Jad Abumrad And it was around this time if you ask historians that our general thinking about blood began to shift. We stopped seeing blood as this magical thing. There is no essence in there. It is just biology really. Platelets proteins red blood cells. That is how we see blood now. And those experiments in 1666 ...  Edward Dolnick The experiments sound to us absolutely ludicrous.  Jad Abumrad Of course they are.  Edward Dolnick Except they were on to something.  Saul Villeda She is transferring me so that another one of her colleagues can also ...  Lynn Levy All right. Saul can you hear me?  Saul Villeda Yeah I can hear you.  Lynn Levy Sweet.  Jad Abumrad So recently our producer Lynn Levy found out about some research some new research that might make you think differently about those experiments back in 1666.  Lynn Levy Right. So I called up one of the researchers.  Saul Villeda So my name's Saul Villeda and I am a faculty fellow here at UCSF. So I just started my own lab.  Lynn Levy You have your own lab? Is it ... It is the Saul Lab?  Saul Villeda It is the Villeda Lab yeah.  Lynn Levy You are still pretty young right?  Saul Villeda Yeah. I am 32.  Lynn Levy So Saul does experiments with mice.  Jad Abumrad Okay.  Lynn Levy And there is one thing that you need to know about mice just to understand this whole thing.  Jad Abumrad Which is what?  Saul Villeda Mice really hate water.  Lynn Levy You throw them in the water ...  Saul Villeda They want to get out of there as fast as possible.  Lynn Levy See there is a classic experiment that scientists have been doing for a while. There are a lot of variations. The idea is that you ...  Saul Villeda Take a big pool of water.  Lynn Levy And you build a maze in it.  Jad Abumrad A water maze?  Lynn Levy It is like a mouse-sized maze.  Saul Villeda And then we actually put a platform in the pool.  Lynn Levy Somewhere under the water. The mouse cannot see it does not know it is there. If you were a mouse and you stumble across this platform you are like Oh I can totally use this.  Saul Villeda To get out of the water.  Lynn Levy Which I do not like at all. So I am very excited about this platform.  Jad Abumrad Because you can rest.  Lynn Levy You could rest.  Jad Abumrad So wait. Why do they do this to the mice?  Lynn Levy The point is you want to see how fast the mice can learn and remember where the platform is.  Jad Abumrad So it is like a learning test.  Lynn Levy It is a learning and memory test. And what you do is ...  Saul Villeda You keep dropping them into the pool.  Lynn Levy Over and over and you just see how long it takes them to learn where the platform is.  Saul Villeda Exactly.  Lynn Levy So what you notice if you do it a lot this kind of experiment is that there is a pattern that emerges. And it has to do with age.  Saul Villeda A young animal gets it. They figure it out much faster.  Lynn Levy Once they have done it a couple of times ...  Saul Villeda Let us say after the sixth or seventh time that you drop them in there ...  Lynn Levy They are like straight stop left right.  Saul Villeda Got it.  Lynn Levy They go straight to it.  Saul Villeda But the old guys they do not do that.  Lynn Levy So what does it look like if you drop an old mouse? According to Saul no matter how many times you run an old mouse through the maze ...  Saul Villeda No matter what you do to them they are just not getting better.  Lynn Levy So it is like ... Do I go left here? Right? I am pretty sure it was right last time. Why did they make it like this?  Saul Villeda It is really hard. But that is where the blood came in.  Lynn Levy So Saul had an idea that was similar to Boyle's 350 years ago.  Saul Villeda This is 1600?  Lynn Levy Although Saul did not actually know about any of those old experiments. I gave him a copy of the paper.  Saul Villeda That is crazy. I am going to keep this.  Lynn Levy Anyway his new but old question was this.  Saul Villeda Well what happens if you mix young and old blood? Does this affect learning and memory?  Lynn Levy So one of the things he did was he took blood from an old mouse whose ... They are really bad at learning where the platform is and he put it into a young mouse who is really good. Just to see what would happen.  Jad Abumrad Wait. So he put old blood in young mice?  Saul Villeda Yes. And then we did all the tests.  Lynn Levy Drop them in the pool the whole thing.  Jad Abumrad And what happened?  Lynn Levy Well all of a sudden ...  Saul Villeda They did much worse. The young animal looked a lot more like an old guy.  Lynn Levy Suddenly this young mouse was just wandering around the maze all confused like an old mouse.  Saul Villeda Not quite as bad but pretty close.  Lynn Levy No idea where he is no idea where the platform is.  Saul Villeda The old blood really did impair learning and memory.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Saul Villeda Is not that crazy?  Robert Krulwich Yeah. What is ... Is there something in the blood that would change the mental state of the recipient?  Jad Abumrad What was the blood doing?  Saul Villeda A good question. So we ...  Lynn Levy Saul and his collaborators also did another experiment to get at that very question. And in this one there were young mice who got old blood but there were also old mice who got young blood.  Saul Villeda It went both ways yeah.  Lynn Levy And at the end of the experiment instead of looking at behavior ...  Saul Villeda We looked at the brain.  Lynn Levy See they were looking at a part of the brain that specializes in learning and memory and they were looking for a very specific thing.  Saul Villeda Brand new baby neurons.  Lynn Levy See when you are young as you learn things your brain makes lots and lots of baby neurons but as you get older ...  Saul Villeda Not so much.  Lynn Levy Not so much. So Saul and his collaborators they took all these mice old mice who got young blood young mice who got old blood sliced their brains real thin.  Saul Villeda Thinner than a slice of paper.  Lynn Levy And went hunting for baby neurons.  Saul Villeda So I counted all of these in a microscope right? So literally with a little clicker I just ...  Lynn Levy So wait you are clicking every time you see a new ...  Saul Villeda A new neuron. Click click click click click.  Lynn Levy Apparently when you zoom in on one of these little neurons ...  Saul Villeda They look like little trees really when you are looking at them.  Lynn Levy So little tree click. Little tree click.  Saul Villeda Over hours and hours and hours.  Lynn Levy Until finally one night pretty late ...  Saul Villeda It was I think one or two in the morning ...  Lynn Levy He gets his first look at the results.  Saul Villeda In a young animal it was about a 25 percent decrease in those baby neurons.  Lynn Levy Was it dramatic?  Saul Villeda Oh yeah. I mean you could see it.  Lynn Levy Just by looking. So it seems like somehow when he gave the youngsters this old blood the old blood was preventing baby neurons from forming. Now in the old mice ...  Saul Villeda Normally in an old animal you are hard-pressed to find a handful of these cells.  Lynn Levy But after the old guys had been filled up with this young blood ...  Saul Villeda All of a sudden we were getting maybe two or three times as many new neurons as we had seen before.  Robert Krulwich Two or three times as many?  Saul Villeda And they looked better. They looked longer and they looked a lot more like the young neurons did.  Robert Krulwich Jad?  Jad Abumrad Give me your ...  Robert Krulwich Come a little closer.  Jad Abumrad Stay away from me.  Robert Krulwich Does this mean what it sounds like it means? I get the young blood and suddenly I can finish the day with my gloves umbrella and my keys all in my right hand pockets?  Jad Abumrad You mean instead of losing them on the 1 Train?  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Lynn Levy Maybe but we are not at all ready to say that yet.  Saul Villeda Not yet.  Lynn Levy This is really new stuff. There is a lot more work that needs to be done before we know really even what it means. It does seem possible right? I feel like if you come out with a result that says yes you can find ... You can do the water maze better if you are full of young blood.  Saul Villeda Crazy right?  Lynn Levy Yeah. It is crazy and it freaks me out a little bit. I feel like old women are going to be buying vials of baby blood.  Saul Villeda You sound like my mother. My mother is this ... On a good day five foot Latin lady. She is from Guatemala and she is loud and excited and she sounds just like you just in Spanish.  Lynn Levy Oh.  Saul Villeda She is like Mijo be careful. Be careful.  Lynn Levy Because?  Saul Villeda Well she is worried that all of a sudden 16-year-olds are going to go missing.  Lynn Levy Do not you worry about that? That seems to be ...  Saul Villeda No.  Lynn Levy That does seem to be the logical extension of this though.  Saul Villeda Oh man. You really do sound like my mom.  Robert Krulwich But they are at least sure that it is the introduction of the new blood that is the agent of change here?  Lynn Levy Yeah pretty sure because this is not the only study. There have actually been a bunch of studies in the past several years that have come out with similar results for different parts of the body like the skeletal muscle can repair itself better when there is young blood in the mix. Actually the heart there was a really recent study at Harvard ...  Amy Wagers is one of the people who worked on it. I went to visit her at her lab in Cambridge.  Lynn Levy I am from WNYC Radio in New York.  Lynn Levy And one of Amy's assistants Danica showed me this tiny little vial.  Lynn Levy Wow this is really frozen.  Danica It is minus 80 degrees Celsius.  Lynn Levy It had a protein in it that they got out of the blood a very special protein.  Lynn Levy Oh boy.  Lynn Levy Called GDF11.  Lynn Levy So you have just opened the freezer and it is crusted in ice and you are taking out a little red box. What do you got?  Danica That is what it looks like. GDF11 in a vial. So it is basically the purified protein that we keep at minus 80.  Lynn Levy So they think that the clear stuff in this vial it does something amazing because when you get older your heart tends to get bigger which is not its ... You do not want that. It does not work as well. You want it to stay small. So what these Harvard people did is they took these old enlarged mouse hearts and bathed them in young blood and they shrunk back down to be like young heart size. And they think that very important protein is the mechanism. That is the key.  Lynn Levy It looks like absolutely nothing.  Danica Exactly. That is pretty much it. So you can see the frozen liquid at the bottom. That is really it.  Lynn Levy So that is a very important little thing in that vial that looks like nothing.  Danica Exactly. It regenerates many systems so ... Yep.  Lynn Levy So that is the research being done in Boston right?  Lynn Levy It is beeping because it is angry?  Danica Yes. Going up in temperature so ...  Lynn Levy But then you talk to the guys to Saul and the guy he is working with they are looking at 600 proteins right now trying to figure out which one might be implicated or which ones might be implicated. And if you were to talk about all the proteins in your blood if you include all the splices and little variant proteins there could be up to 100 thousand of them.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Lynn Levy Yeah.  Jad Abumrad So there is 100 thousand different agents in there doing something?  Lynn Levy Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Producer Lynn Levy.      Start of message.  Christien T. Hi this is Christien Tinsley.  Inger Tornberg This is Inger Hagglund Tornberg in Sweden.  James Shapiro Hi this is Jim Shapiro.  Christien T.  start reading the credits for Radiolab.  Inger Tornberg Radiolab is supported in part ...  James Shapiro By the National Science Foundation and ...  Christien T. And the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation.  Inger Tornberg Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world.  James Shapiro More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Christien T. I know you guys were thinking about the Dracula version. I do not think I can do it but let me ... I will give it a shot. Radiolab is produced by WNYC and distributed by NPR.  Jad Abumrad Three two one. Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich And I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab. And today ...     Jad Abumrad Blood.   I am told we are going to get some pretty cool donors today. So here we go.  Jad Abumrad All right. So there are places in the country where people give a lot of blood like Minneapolis Minnesota or Columbus Ohio.   All right. That one goes in the paper bag here.  Jad Abumrad Where if you go to a blood drive and we did ...   Hey.   Hey.   And today's date and a phone number on there is all.  Jad Abumrad You will find a really comforting scene.   We got a ...  Jad Abumrad People with busy lives taking a moment to walk into a cubicle room sit down with some nurses.   Allergies to iodine at all?  Jad Abumrad No.   No.  Jad Abumrad Stick out their arms.   All right. You ready for the fun part here?   Yes.  Jad Abumrad And ...   And then I will just mark your vein just to make sure I know exactly where I need to go. Stick it in and save some lives. How about that?   I am super excited.  Jad Abumrad And ...   Now's the time to look away. I do not like to watch. Beautiful.   Okay. That hurt.   It did hurt?   Yeah.   Oh I am sorry.   It is okay.  Jad Abumrad And one by one they drain their own blood. Sometimes a double dose.   You give double the amount.  Jad Abumrad Yeah like this guy.   I do feel a little woozy.  Jad Abumrad All to help strangers they will never meet. And if you ask these folks ...   Why do you donate?  Jad Abumrad You will get the answers you expect and that you hope for. Well because ...   Why would not you? It is selfish not to.  Jad Abumrad It is the right thing to do.   Being healthy I have a responsibility.   I thought about a person in need in the hospital.   My mom used to work in neonatal ICU. She always tells stories about the babies that needed blood transfusions and it always just made me think of if I had kid I would really want blood to be there for them to have blood.  Jad Abumrad I mean the simple point is that giving blood is a gift right?   It is the most selfless thing you can do. It is the most loving thing you can do.  Jad Abumrad It is the gift of life.   You cannot give any greater gift than that.  Jad Abumrad That is the message we have gotten in PSAs for the last half century but if you poke into it as if with a big long needle ...  Soren Wheeler And if that long needle is named Molly Webster.  Jad Abumrad And Soren Wheeler. You will find that the reality is way more ...  Soren Wheeler Complicated.  Molly Webster Way more complicated.  Gil Gaul Okay. . This is Gil Gaul.  Soren Wheeler We should just say first of all that this whole story started for us with this guy. Gil Gaul he is a longtime newspaper reporter.  Gil Gaul And now I am retired and I write books.  Molly Webster Gilbert Gaul retired newspaper man.  Gil Gaul Right. I worked 40 years in newspapers.  Soren Wheeler And the story that Gil ran into actually started back in the late 1980s.  Gil Gaul What happened was the Red Cross would come to our office.  Soren Wheeler To do blood drives.  Gil Gaul And I literally was giving blood one day.  Molly Webster Sitting in the chair with a needle in his arm.  Gil Gaul And the blood was draining out of my arm into the bag.  Soren Wheeler And a very simple question popped into his head.  Gil Gaul I wonder what happens to this stuff after it gets into this bag? Who knows why I was thinking this? Actually I do not remember but I suggested to Craig Stock my editor hey why do not we just do a little explainer about blood for a Sunday piece?  Soren Wheeler Just a short little thing about what happens to the blood how it is processed where it ends up.  Gil Gaul He said sure go ahead. And so I called up the local Red Cross set up an interview with the executive director of the blood center there. And I went up to see this guy and the strangest thing happened. Before I could even ask any questions he started in at me wanting to know why I wanted to know this stuff what was the purpose why was I coming after Red Cross? And he was just extraordinarily defensive. And for me as a reporter I mean my antennae are going up. And that is how it all started.  Soren Wheeler At that point what was supposed to be a nice little Sunday piece about the gift of life turned into a crazy story filled with ...   Hospital contracts.  Gil Gaul Money and the salaries. Strategic business and economics.  Robert Krulwich  Pharmaceuticals.     Jad Abumrad Production.  Robert Krulwich Verbal assaults.   Competition.  Jad Abumrad  business.  Gil Gaul I absolutely had moments when I would sit back and say Oh my god I cannot believe this is going on.  Jad Abumrad What? What is he talking about?  Molly Webster We are going to tell you in one second maybe two minutes. But first you should know that historically there is always been a tension in the way we think about blood.  Jad Abumrad Tension.  Molly Webster Yeah. So I am going to rewind.  Scott Carney When blood was first being used it was during war times during World War I.  Molly Webster That is Scott Carney. He is the author of the book The Red Market.  Scott Carney And it hit big business in the Battle of .  Molly Webster That was the very first time medics realized they could used preserved blood have it on the battlefield at the ready anytime they wanted it.  Scott Carney So you could keep your troops alive longer if you had blood available.  Molly Webster Still the blood did not last very long and the process of giving blood was pretty gruesome and painful. But by World War II and into the Korean war we would gotten much better at storing and transporting blood. And giving blood was less painful which meant people back home could get involved.  Scott Carney What happens is there are these massive ramp-ups.   You can give these men the gift of life a pint of your blood.  Scott Carney To get blood to the battlefield.   The Department of Defense is calling for all Americans to roll up their sleeves. There is no ...  Douglas Starr For the first time you saw these amazing ...   The need is urgent. The need is ...  Douglas Starr Magazine advertisement showing a soldier on one knee holding his rifle and it said He gave his blood. Will you give yours?  Molly Webster That is Douglas Starr author of the book Blood.  Douglas Starr An epic history of medicine and commerce.  Scott Carney In Britain there was this idea. We are being bombed. We want to do anything we can do to help the war effort. Now in the United States there was a voluntary donation system but there was also this thing. Hey we are Americans. Let us make some money on it as well. So what happened in the states is that you had these two systems. You had the voluntary Red Cross model and you also had these places that would pay you.  Molly Webster Anywhere from 15 to 40 bucks.  Scott Carney For your blood.  Jad Abumrad Really?  Douglas Starr Yeah. All over the country usually in the skid rows ...  Scott Carney Skid row shanty towns.  Douglas Starr People were setting up these for profit blood centers and they are paying people for their blood. People called them Booze for Ooze because they were often set up nextdoor to liquor stores and sometimes instead of in money they would pay in chips redeemed at liquor stores. So you could imagine the population they attracted.  Molly Webster According to one eye-witness account ...  Scott Carney There were worms on the floor. It was a dirty dirty business like your first college apartment. It was just a really really bad place. And ...  Soren Wheeler Actually probably worse than my first college apartment.  Molly Webster Yeah. I know. I was like worms on the floor. I do not know where you were living Scott but worms were not really the problem. I mean on the one hand these paid places ...  Scott Carney Got a lot of blood. The volumes were quite high.  Molly Webster But pretty quickly doctors and hospitals they started to notice that ...  Scott Carney That paid blood is lower quality than altruistic-given blood.  Molly Webster Because you are attracting people who are down and out.  Scott Carney Might have disease.  Douglas Starr A lot of infections. A lot of hepatitis.  Molly Webster And if they were sick they would still want to get paid so they would lie about it.  Scott Carney Prisoners were giving blood. The state of Arkansas funded its whole prison system on blood cells.  Douglas Starr And of course everybody from the blood bankers to clergy people are saying this is obscene. There is something sacred about blood. It is not a commodity. It is a holy substance.  Molly Webster And so by the late '60s the early '70s people were saying no more paid blood. We need to get rid of it. All blood should be donated. It should be given freely. And it was partly about making blood safe but it was really about more than that.  Scott Carney In addition to just being safer an altruistic blood supply brings the society together because when you are giving blood out of altruism you are saying ultimately I am doing this for the society in general. I am doing it for the war effort. I am doing it because I am an American. And that it has this other effect that brings a whole nation together.  Jad Abumrad So today there is no more paid blood?  Molly Webster No paid blood.  Jad Abumrad So no money involved.  Molly Webster Well ...  Soren Wheeler Kind of which brings us back to Gil.  Gil Gaul I want to know a little bit more about how this works. And so what happened was ...  Soren Wheeler After his conversation with the Red Cross guy Gil went out. He got a list of all the blood banks in the country and he just started going down the list.  Gil Gaul I would call one a day or call two a day and ask them what do you charge for a unit of blood?  Jad Abumrad What do you charge?  Gil Gaul Yeah.  Molly Webster Yeah. This was one of the surprises. It turns out right after they draw the blood ...   It feels ... The tube feels warm.   Because it is coming right out of your body.  Molly Webster Right after they will put it in a bag.   Keep it on ice. Package it up.  Molly Webster And they will sell that pint of blood to a local hospital.   Yep. So we do have different contracts with different hospitals different blood centers.  Soren Wheeler I believe right now it is almost 300 dollars a pint is what they sell it for.  Molly Webster What?  Soren Wheeler That is ...  Jad Abumrad 300 bucks a pint.  Molly Webster That is ... I was thinking five.  Soren Wheeler Dollars?  Molly Webster Yeah.  Soren Wheeler No. We should say 300 is actually a rough average for most major cities.  Molly Webster Right. And theoretically the price that the hospitals pay the blood center it is just to cover costs. And there are a lot.  Gil Gaul The salaries the bags the testing the distribution business office public relations.  Soren Wheeler That is just a partial list that one former blood banker gave us but that is really what Gil wanted to understand. When someone donates a pint of blood what does it cost to process that blood? And then what do you turn around and sell it for?  Gil Gaul And some of the places were shocked by the questions. Some of them would say there is no way on earth we are going to tell you. Some of them would say Oh. We charge 48 dollars a unit.  Soren Wheeler So he made a list.  Gil Gaul On a legal yellow pad.  Soren Wheeler Of all the different prices the blood banks would charge their local hospitals.  Gil Gaul You might see at that time as low as the low 30s and as high as 70 bucks.  Soren Wheeler And he wondered why the variation?  Gil Gaul Some of it was explainable. Labor costs are higher in Los Angeles New York. So that made sense but where that got interesting was ...  Soren Wheeler He says he just happened to be talking to some blood banker probably a guy from the Midwest.  Gil Gaul Maybe about prices.  Soren Wheeler And the guy just casually mentions that his blood bank actually gets way more blood than it needs.  Gil Gaul Yeah.  Soren Wheeler They had a surplus. And they told him ...  Gil Gaul What we do is we take that blood ...  Soren Wheeler And we sell it to other blood banks.  Gil Gaul We sell it to somebody who cannot collect enough. And I probably reacted like What?  Soren Wheeler And that led him to call up a blood bank in a little town called Appleton Wisconsin.  Gil Gaul In Appleton they ...  Soren Wheeler That blood bank at the time was pulling in plenty of blood way more than they needed.  Gil Gaul Oh yeah.  Soren Wheeler Locally.  Gil Gaul I knew that Appleton had no trouble collecting plenty of blood.  Soren Wheeler And yet ...  Gil Gaul Around the holidays ...  Soren Wheeler The director himself was quoted in the local paper saying ...  Gil Gaul Oh gosh. We cannot collect enough blood. We are pleading with you to come in. We have never had it so tough.  Soren Wheeler And Gil basically asked the guy Why are you saying this? You are doing fine.  Gil Gaul I did what any reporter would do. I began to press him on some numbers. He acknowledged that half of the blood they were collecting in Appleton was actually being sold to other blood centers.  Soren Wheeler Appleton was taking a chunk of that blood marking it up 10 dollars a pint and selling it to ...  Gil Gaul To ... I think it was Lexington Kentucky. I called Lexington Kentucky.  Soren Wheeler They were taking that blood and taking out the platelets and then selling the red blood cells.  Gil Gaul To Broward.  Soren Wheeler Broward County Florida.  Gil Gaul So I then called Broward.  Soren Wheeler And he found out that Broward was marking it up 20 more dollars a pint and selling it ...  Gil Gaul To New York City which is always looking for blood. They could never collect nearly enough blood.  Soren Wheeler Basically what he discovered was that the whole gift economy of blood that was only on the bottom level.   I am just feeling the direction at the vein right now. It is nice and plump.  Soren Wheeler It was only down there.   You have an absolutely gorgeous vein in here. Absolutely gorgeous.   I do?   You do.  Soren Wheeler As soon as you moved up ...  Gil Gaul It was a market.  Soren Wheeler Blood was being bought and sold and marked up.  Gil Gaul At every step of the way.  Jad Abumrad And this was ... So we are talking late '80s here. This is ...  Soren Wheeler Yeah. Late '80s. '88 '89.  Jad Abumrad And is this still going on?  Gil Gaul Oh yeah.  Soren Wheeler And it is a huge huge business.  Gil Gaul I looked at the Red Cross tax return yesterday just to refresh my memory. When I was writing about them their blood business was a 500 million dollar a year business. It is now a 2.1 or 2.2 billion dollar a year business.  Molly Webster And it is not just the Red Cross. I mean the Red Cross does half of the blood collections in the United States but there are small independent blood banks all over the country. And we pulled some of their tax forms and they have revenues of 30 million over there. There is 70 million over there. Some of them are 50 million.  Charles Rouault When I left the blood center we were at the time about 90 million dollar a year blood center.  Soren Wheeler So this is Charles Rouault.  Charles Rouault I have been in blood banking actually since about 1973.  Soren Wheeler And more than any other guy we talked to he really gave us a feeling for the business side of the blood business especially ...  Charles Rouault In south Florida.  Soren Wheeler In south Florida in the '80s and '90s you had an unusual situation because you had a bunch of different blood banks.  Charles Rouault There was a program in Miami-Dade. There was one in West Palm Beach.  Soren Wheeler All these different programs competing for the same donors.  Gil Gaul You might anticipate there would be some competition but you did not that you could ever see anything like south Florida.  Charles Rouault Things became quite heated.  Soren Wheeler The heads of the blood banks attacked each other in the press.  Gil Gaul In the press in the local stories. Yeah.  Molly Webster They got into crazy bidding wars over access to high school students.  Charles Rouault The great school board war. Yes.  Soren Wheeler They accused each other of ...  Gil Gaul Stealing donors underpricing their products in order to gain market share.  Peter Tomasulo One morning I would go to work ...  Soren Wheeler That is Peter Tomasulo. He was one of  Rouault's competitors.  Peter Tomasulo And I would find that one of our hospitals had been visited by Casey and his team and they had given us notice that they were going to switch to Casey. That feels horrible.  Charles Rouault Well it is business.  Molly Webster At a certain point the competition says Casey got so intense ...  Charles Rouault That I got a number of ugly phone calls from people.  Jad Abumrad Saying what?  Charles Rouault We are going to bury you.  Jad Abumrad We are going to bury you?  Charles Rouault Mm-hmm .  Soren Wheeler In that case the call came from a New York blood bank. Casey decided that the only way he could compete in Florida and the only way he could keep his blood from going bad was to take his blood up to New York sell it to New York hospitals at way below market value.  Charles Rouault So we were undercutting the blood supplier in New York at that time.  Jad Abumrad And they did not like that.  Charles Rouault No but ...  Soren Wheeler It worked.  Charles Rouault We became known as the golden arch to New York.  Soren Wheeler He eventually figured out that he could buy blood on the cheap from a place like say I do not know Iowa and sell it up the chain to New York.  Jad Abumrad So you really did become a ...  Molly Webster A blood-runner.  Charles Rouault Well we called it arbitrage.  Jad Abumrad Arbitrage. Yeah. It is exactly arbitrage is not it?  Charles Rouault We were arbitraging the units.  Jad Abumrad I mean that is ... In Wall Street that is the most cut-throat of the cut-throat arbitragers.  Charles Rouault Yeah but we are talking here about blood. And do you throw it away or do you find a home for it?  Soren Wheeler Casey says if he had not done that he would have had to pour that blood down the drain.  Charles Rouault If you are running a blood center you have an obligation to make sure that the promise that you made to that donor is fulfilled that your unit is going to go to take care of somebody who is sick.  Charles Rouault Throughout the blood banking industry I have yet to bump into somebody who was not motivated by that promise.  Jad Abumrad Even the guy on the other end of the phone call who said I will bury you? You think he had the same motivations as you?  Charles Rouault Yeah. Actually it was a she.  Jad Abumrad Oh. Really?  Soren Wheeler And here's the thing. At a certain point ... I mean Molly I think you will agree that we started to feel differently about this whole blood business blood system kind of stuff.  Jad Abumrad Molly do you agree about that?  Molly Webster I do agree.  Soren Wheeler I mean we have talked to ... How many blood bank people have we talked to?  Molly Webster Oh god.  Soren Wheeler Tons.  Molly Webster Yeah.  Soren Wheeler I have to say these guys are not ... They are not that cut-throat Wall Street person. Talking to them they are not like that. I mean they are stuck with the reality that demands that they act in business-like ways.  Jad Abumrad But not to be intentionally nave here. I know businesses have to run like businesses but there is some part of me that just does not want blood to be a business. It should not be a business.  Soren Wheeler Well I mean maybe you need to let go of that idea.  Molly Webster Yeah. I found ... I kept reporting this and I kept saying Why did everyone keep telling me it was a gift if it is this commodity that everyone's shuttling around? Why do not we just call it what it is? We keep hiding behind this idea of a gift. I would still donate. I do not think I care.  Soren Wheeler Maybe we need to let a little bit of that gift image go.  Douglas Starr I mean there is something wonderful about giving. And I think one of the touching things to see was how after 911 so many people rushed to give blood. And after the Boston Marathon bombing so many people rushed to give blood. Unfortunately especially after 911 that was based on an old-fashioned idea that no longer is valid.  Molly Webster And it may actually be harmful according to Douglas Starr. Take 911.  Douglas Starr What happened after 911 is all the politicians said Give blood. The Red Cross kept saying giving blood. But the people in the know the other blood bankers were saying No no. Stop. Stop. We cannot use it. I spoke to the head of the Blood Bank of New York ground zero. He said As soon as I saw the plane hit the building I thought We are not going to be able to use that blood.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Douglas Starr They had huge lines all the facilities got overwhelmed all over the country.  Molly Webster A lot of the facilities ended up having to pour a lot of blood down the drain.  Douglas Starr Blood went bad but there was this other rebound effect. And that is if you have stood online to give blood and they came out and said You know what? Go home. We do not need you psychologically you feel that you have done your thing. So six months later in the winter season during Christmas when they usually have lows they had historic lows because nobody would come out to give.  Molly Webster Oh because they were like Oh we gave blood. They were full.  Douglas Starr Yeah. I did my civic responsibility. So the final stage is we really do have to understand that this is a pharmaceutical.  Soren Wheeler That might be another way to think about blood. I mean it is a drug. It is not simply a gift that I can choose to give or not give. It is a precious raw material and I am the only one who ... Well we are the only ones who have it. And when it comes out yeah some people make some money on that. And yeah they could definitely be more upfront about that.  Gil Gaul I wish they were a little more transparent.  Soren Wheeler Definitely. But I am the only one who has this stuff. And when I stop to think about how powerful this drug this pharmaceutical really was I decided maybe I should give.  Soren Wheeler That is a big one. That is a really big one.   So make a fist and hold. You are going to turn your head on the other side if you do not want to look. And you are going to feel a pinch okay? Do not move your hand. Take a deep breath. Open your hand.  Soren Wheeler Thank you for being my first nurse.   You are welcome.  Soren Wheeler Donor nurse.   All righty. .  Jad Abumrad Producer Soren Wheeler Molly Webster. Special thanks to Rachel Quimby and Anna Weggel. And also Edward Scott and Jeff . And before we go we actually had the Brooklyn band Lucius play a couple of blood songs that we used in this episode. You might have heard one earlier. Here it is.     Jad Abumrad Well you can get that blood song from Lucius plus one more on our website radiolab.org. It is a free download. Thanks for listening.  Scott Carney Hi this is Scott Carney.  Dan This is Dan .  Scott Carney And I am calling to leave a message about you guys for you guys on the radio.  Dan So here you go.  Scott Carney Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad.  Dan Our staff includes Ellen Horne Soren Wheeler Pat Walters.   Jim Howard Brenna Farrell Molly Webster.  Scott Carney Malissa O'Donnell Dylan Keefe.  Dan Lynn Levy and Andy Mills.   With help from Matt      Dan Special thanks to  Burgess Amy Wagers Francesco Loffredo.   Stephen Anderson and Barbara Johanson.   And Joe. Stake through the heart. Love it. Goodbye Radiolab. Goodbye.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.