 Much love to the tin man for taking the mic. We do appreciate it. My name is Glynn Washington and today we are going to kick this SNAP JUDGMENT episode off - the Tin Man episode. You start down the road from SNAP studios where our guest Dr. James Fallon studies some people who are missing some aspect of themselves and he spoke to our own Julia DeWitt to tell his story.   Fair number of the cases - 'ecause I did not know going in at all what - who they were anything - they were very violent murderers and some were serial killers.  This is James Fallon.  James Fallon professor of psychiatry and human behavior at the University of California Irvine School of Medicine author of the book called The Psychopath Inside. It has a longer title but The Psychopath Inside will get you there.  James is a scientist who studies the brains of psychopaths. He lives on a cul-de-sac on the UC Irvine campus. He married his childhood sweetheart. When I got there he was preparing to go to a hockey game with his son. The people he studies feel a million miles away from here. For legal reasons James cannot reveal any details about the psychopaths but some of them were famous for how heinous their crimes were. James's job was to get inside the minds of these killers.  I started receiving PET scans from the early-90s and those included killers who were psychopaths. And so I looked at them and then took notes on what areas of the brain were kind of dysfunctional. Turns out that the psychopaths had this pattern and I went oh man. It was like this - you know for a neuroanatomist like me seeing patterns is everything. And so when I saw that I said oh man there is a pattern. And nobody had ever really talked about it.  Basically what James saw were these big dark spots in the brain - places where there was little or no activity. These were the areas where things like moral reasoning and impulse control come from - the place where we manage our most base instincts. There are also dark spots where empathy originates. That sad feeling you have when you see someone you love cry - psychopaths do not get that feeling. James studied these minds for years piecing together this puzzle finding patterns. Then one day James was at his desk in his office.  I was sitting in my office at the medical school and I was surrounded by piles of printouts and the printouts were of different types of scans - all these analyses that I would been looking at of murderers.  James had a lab of techs and students working with him on this. And on this day one of them came to his office with a PET scan. The tech was confused about something. This brain was supposed to basically be a healthy brain. The scan should have been glowing with activity.  They are colored. They are - you know they have red and they have blue and they have yellow they have green and the buzzer went off and I went oh man. And I called in the technician - there were two of them - and I said this came out of the scanner. It is in the wrong pile - it is obviously one of the murderers here.  The scan he had in his hands had all those big telltale dark spots on it.  And I told the technicians to check the machine and the providence of you know all the data as it got to me. I said this is obviously from the pile of these murderers or psychopaths. It looked exactly like it. It was just a pure case. I said you have got to check this out because somebody's walking around in society who probably should not be walking around - potentially a very dangerous person.  James peeled back the scan to find out who this person was.  And I peeled back that last name and it was my name.  The psychopathic brain belonged to James.  And I was oh ha - you know that is - the joke is on me.  James had used himself as a control in another study he was doing about Alzheimer's. His brain was supposed to be one of the normal ones. James's first instinct was to assume the pattern he thought he found was wrong. His brain was normal so if it had those dark spots then those dark spots did not mean what he thought they meant. After all James was a family man and an esteemed scientist not a psychopath.  A basic part of being a - you know a psychopath is you are a predator on other human beings. And that predation can take different forms. It can be by taking their life or sexually you know through rape and abuse and just using people and manipulating. They can ruin people's lives. And that predation is done without a sense of conscience.  There is no formal diagnosis of psychopath in the DSM. But up until that day in the lab James was sure he knew one when he saw one.  It is like art and pornography you know it is hard to exactly define but you - you know you get a marlin on and you know it is a - you know you have - you got a fish on. And you know it is like exactly when do you know? Well you know at some point you know.  Unlike the guys he was studying James did not have a criminal record. He had no history of violence and he certainly had not killed anyone.  Told my wife - I said that is the damnedest thing. I said I was you know looking at these scans and ours came back and I said my scan looked just like one of these psychopathic killers. And she said something that was quite curious I guess at the time even though I just laughed at that too. She goes it does not surprise me.  While I was interviewing James his brother Mark walked into the house so I asked him what he thought of the news that his brother might be a psychopath.  Well it all started making sense.  To him it also was no big surprise.  It is a game for him to manipulate a room and a situation. It was a game to him. And if you called him on it - and he would let - you would see his eyes sparkle - and you know he knew that the game had played out. You never get a feeling that he is trying to hurt people. You know people do get - they do get hurt and he just - he keeps moving on. And if he hears about it many times he - you know he can justify it and he can explain it in a way that it sounds justified. But he is just too smart to - if you think you are going to beat him at his game you know forget it.  As James continued to poll his friends and family he started to get feedback he would never heard before. He was manipulative they said. He looked out for himself first. If you are crying and you need someone to be feel bad with you James definitely was not your guy. Everyone knew that.  Normally when I am hearing tragic stories and seeing terrible things I - I am not hit emotionally with it. But I am interested in it you see? It is an academic thing. I just do not feel what others feel it appears. People just - it is not just a matter of not doing bad things it is - if you do not have the capacity to really give them love that they expect that is - it is part of it - which I do not. My daughter said the same thing. My wife said the same thing - you as not there man. Now if you look at the picture behind me on the wall what do you see? There is two people that are painted there. There is one over there and then there is this one. And our one daughter she painted that many many years ago. And that is me and it is this dark character. I mean look at that thing. See she is known all along right?  And the other one is your wife?  Wife yeah.  And that one's more of like a - will you describe that one?  Well it is light and bright and is a presence that is very benevolent. This is a demonic character. So there are many things that in retrospect add up to all of this especially with my older brothers and friends. I put them in lots of harm's way you know?  One of the best examples of this is when he exposed his brother to a cousin virus of Ebola. Not Mark the brother we heard from earlier but another one of his brothers. It is called the Marburg virus and it is every bit as gross and terrible and tragic as Ebola. James was doing some research in Africa.   I was working at the University of Nairobi hospital. And a guy had come in there just recently bleeding out from every - you know his ears and his eyes. And I knew where he got it.  James suspected that it came from the bat dung in a cave on a nearby preserve. When his brother came to town to visit him James thought where better to take him than to those caves?  I said let us go on a safari. I said nobody goes here. And I know nobody goes there because of what happened. And then we went to the Kitum Caves where I thought probably it was there in the you know bat dung or something in the cave - walls of the caves - is where the virus was blatant. Turns out that is true. But I brought him to the caves. We went in there and it was - all these you know elephant carcasses bats millions of bats all around us. And I just told him - I said do not touch the ground.  What James did not tell him was that if he did touch the ground he might die after hemorrhaging from every orifice of his body. Once he got home James's brother realized where he would been and their relationship has never been the same. But when before this did not mean much to him now James saw his behavior as psychopathic. So because he was a highly achieving person the type that when he set goals he reached them he set himself a particularly lofty new goal - to be a good guy.  I said what - you know how does this - what do I do now? Now I had to deal with myself. I said OK if I am doing this I said how do I treat my wife? Because I - you know she likes half of what I do and the other half she absolutely hates. Every day all the interactions with her without letting her know what was going on I was - I just thought to myself what would a good guy do here? It could be who gets to pour the wine first but also do I go to her aunt's funeral you know? And after about a month of this and two months of this I found out about hundreds of times a day I was doing - you know in the interactions I was doing the most selfish thing possible.  James's wife was surprised and happy to see her longtime husband doing nicer things. And she did not even really care that he was just faking it. But while she was loving his new generosity and selflessness James was not having nearly so much fun.  It would just slow me down. I was not so glib or smart or like da-da-da-da-da  because I was thinking of this. When I actually thought you know how am I affecting this other person and it was exhausting. And I said well it must be exhausting being like a regular nice guy you know? It is absolutely exhausting.  Are you still doing the good-guy thing now?  I am trying. Yeah I try. I slip up every once in a while. I do. But I am still trying. I got to you know right myself say OK - but absolutely exhausting.  While I listened to James talk I felt an unexpected feeling come over me. That feeling was jealousy because here's the thing about being someone like James. Manipulating situations to come out to your benefit or for your own entertainment not caring about people's feelings it may seem kind of monstrous. But caring it is true it takes up a lot of time and energy. Imagine for a second if you did not care about your boss's disapproval. If someone's expecting you home tonight what if his or her disappointment did not scathe you? What would you do instead? You would do whatever you wanted that is what. And if someone got mad at you well you would not care about that either. But still most of us we do care because we have no other choice. James on the other hand can choose.  And I - in talking to this one psychiatrist he goes this is the problem. You do not care. You really really do not care. You know what you are and you do not care. It is not a problem? I said yeah I really do not. At the end I just did not care. Maybe to some people it would seem - this seems absurd right?  I guess I am just trying to wrap my head around the experience of hearing that and then getting to know it and also knowing - you know people saying that you are not there and especially the narcissism. Like for example I got worried that I was a narcissist the other day so I went and took a narcissism test online. I scored very low. It is - like - it was a very stupid test. But it - you know I was just like what if I am selfish? And that was really scary to me.  And maybe that is what people do. Regular people they say what am I doing now? Is this going to hurt this other person's feelings? I do not think about that.  James continues to try to emulate generosity and kindness today. And at least when it comes to the small things he is been successful at it. But he has a line in the sand that he will draw if the time ever comes - if ever making other people happy makes him less happy that is it. The good-guy game is over. He may try to do the right thing but at the end of the day there is no cure for psychopathy.  A long-term colleague of mine who I was very close to for many many years he had a memorial. And you had - it is a Saturday. And you have a choice between sitting there in a suit coat and tie and listening to a bunch of talks about somebody who is dead OK? I just went down to Blackie's bar down in Newport Beach and had a couple of beers and watched some sorts. But I said the hell with it you know? I am not going to do it. I will just do something else. And I am smiling like I am really happy about this but it is just - I think it is so funny 'ecause it is just like - why you know - you just are - that is who you are. It was just too much work on a hot day to do the right thing. And I - that is - so I went down where there was air conditioning you know and a couple of beers.   Dr. James Fallon - he is written a book about his own experience as well as the science of the psychopathic mind. If you did not catch the name earlier it is called The Psychopath Inside. We are going to have a link at SNAPJUDGMENT.org. The original score for that piece was created by Leon Morimoto. It was produced by Julia DeWitt. 