Mohamedsalem is 33. And his parents want him to call his cousins on the phone. He does not want to. He does not like to. And I have to say I am with him. He is got a really good excuse.  I just grew up never knowing them. For me I need to spend time with them to start to be attached to them. No I understand. They are like strangers to you. Yes exactly. He never got to know any of his relatives because Morocco built a wall 1700 miles long across the desert. It is actually several walls of piled up sand plus ditches in between the walls plus barbed wire plus reportedly seven million landmines plus 120000 soldiers separating the rest of his family who were in Western Sahara from the place where Mohamedsalem was born and still lives today a massive refugee settlement with an estimated 165000 people in it on the other side of the wall. So he has all these cousins from eight aunts and uncles. And-- I would never met them. There is nothing in common. We have not shared anything. I know their names and I know I have a relative. But-- That must be so frustrating for your parents.  All the time they try to get me to call them and talk to them but what should we talk about? And what do we have in common that we can talk about if we finish the initial greeting? And I feel guilty about it and bad about it but it is just I do not know what to do about it. Not that his parents get this. They are mad. But part of the blame belongs to them to the fact that the occupation and the family separation. And I should not be totally the one to take all the responsibility for everything. Oh I see. You are saying do not blame me. There is an entire international situation here. I am not personally to blame for this. Yeah yeah. I did not choose to leave away from them. And if I have the chance I would love to be with them and get to know them. But the wall between the refugee camp where he is lived his life and the area where his family's from where he says they belong that wall is the central fact of his life the rock on which everything else is built. If the wall were not there instead of his current life where he spends his days doing politics trying to draw the world's attention to the situation his people are in-- I for sure would have nothing to do with politics. And I wish I had the option and the choice to care about silly things like the rest of the people. I love swimming. And I have done it just like three or four times once when I was a child. And there is no place to swim in the refugee camp. No no no no no no there is not. There is not. There is a 1700 mile wall between him and the ocean. When somebody builds a wall we readjust our lives around that wall. So just tell us what you are doing here. I am just closing the main gate until tomorrow morning. So what is this gate made of? I do not know.  What is that? Steel? Yeah. With big spikes on the top. In Belfast Northern Ireland it is been 20 years since peace was declared between Protestants and Catholics. But there are still these tall walls some of them 50 feet high that separate their neighborhoods with a few gates that allow traffic and pedestrians through. It is 630 at night and the guard is closing the Northumberland Gate for the evening. It will reopen at 630 in the morning. Producer Conor Garrett talked to him. They are just waving people through. You can see people are rushing before they close up for the day. Yeah. I could actually time them. I could actually time them. You mean you can time them? You know what time they are going to come through? Yeah. Yeah. People are so used to having the walls and so nervous about the violence that might break out if they were torn down that two decades after the conflict officially ended when there was a modest proposal not to tear the walls down but to simply replace the sheet of steel that was the gate at the Workman Avenue crossing with a gate that is steel bars that you can see through to the other side that took 18 months to convince local residents of. Ian McLaughlin is one of the organizers who pushed for that change. It was a very long and drawn out process because you have to take into account people's fears. The vast majority of deaths which occurred during the conflict occurred where these structures were built. And the point I make is that primarily for some of our elderly residents who live in these neighborhoods a death of a family member that may have happened-- I do not know-- 30 or 40 years ago it is as though it happened 30 days ago. So any conversation or any suggestion of a removal of that structure it actually to this day traumatizes these families. I think you have to realize in people's mindsets if you have lived in the same neighborhood for 40 years and every single day when you wake up the first thing you see when you draw your blinds is this structure at the bottom of your garden or your alleyway if you are waking up one morning and that structure's gone how would you feel? Once a wall is up it seems hard to tear down. And more are going up these days around the world. India's building a 2500 mile barbed wire fence on the border with Bangladesh. Kenya's built just a few miles of what it hopes will be hundreds of miles of wall on the Somalia border. Israel had 300 miles of walls between itself and the West Bank and then added another 245 miles on the border with Egypt in 2013. The main reason walls are going up around the world right now is to stop unwanted immigrants. That is the reason for the wall that was just finished between Turkey and Syria which is nearly 500 miles long. It is there to block terrorists and Syrian refugees. Journalist Maya talked to me from Kilis. We are at the border gates. Every Syrian who you speak to who has managed to cross the wall speaks about having been shot at either with rubber bullets or with real bullets. And Syrians have been killed yes. Stopping immigrants of course is the reason for the wall that President Trump wants to build on the Mexican border the one he shut down the government over. Look at all of the countries that have walls. And they work 100. A wall is a wall. That was at his cabinet meeting this week. In San Diego last year he inspected prototypes of different walls for the border. The round piece that you see up here or you see more clearly back there the larger it is the better it is because it is very hard to get over the top. These are like professional mountain climbers. They are incredible climbers. They cannot climb some of these walls. Some of them they can. Those are the walls we are not using. Stopping immigrants is the reason that Norway just built a wall that is a measly 650 feet long at the very tippy top of Norway at the Russian border. I talked to the mayor of the town on the Norwegian side of that border Mayor Rune Rafaelsen of the town of Kirkenes. Can you see Russia from your house? Not from my house no. But from my cabin I can see Russia.  Yeah. If I could just talk to the liberals in our audience for a second I know when you guys think of the Scandinavian governments they seem so competent and functional with their universal health care and their broad social safety nets. And I just want to say perhaps it will be comforting to you to hear that this particular project was just as bumbling as anything we do here in the United States. They built their fence a full year after migrants had already stopped trying to cross that particular border so there were no migrants to stop. They accidentally started construction too close to the Russian border then had to tear it down and move it back a foot and a half. And they built their fence right next to a fence that Russia already had at the very same border a way more effective fence that stretches 120 miles. Remember the Norwegian fence is only 650 feet long. As the mayor pointed out refugees will be able to simply walk around a fence that is that short. So why build it? Because the government wanted to do something to say that we are building walls up way before it was inspired by Mr. Trump and the walls to Mexico. I do not know. So it is just a symbol. It has no effect regarding protecting Norway from refugees at all so people are laughing about it. Wait. I still feel confused. If there is already a fence on the Russian side why would there need to be a second fence? Yeah.  I agree. You would have to ask the recent prime minister about that. I do not understand why they have built this fence. It is very very odd. They are very comic. A wall apparently just has its own gravitational pull that warps the logic of the world around it. And once the wall is up and is a fact on the landscape it alters the human behavior on either side of it. At that point it is like we accommodate the wall and definitely not the other way around. We are the ivy that grows on it. It is the immovable object. Today on our program as our government fights over whether or not to build a big beautiful wall that apparently Mexico is not going to pay for we have stories about people and walls all over the globe. We hear about kids who use a border wall as a tool in their family relationships people who devote themselves to conquering walls and a wall that supposedly can only be seen from one side and not the other-- no kidding. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Just Another Kind Of Outdoor Game. So when we were looking at border walls and fences around the world one in particular stood out to us because if there were ever a place where you think you could build a physical barrier between two places and have it work this would be the place. The fences are around the Spanish cities of Malilla and Ceuta. Now the interesting thing about these Spanish cities is they are actually in Africa. Right on the Northern coast of Africa right there on the mainland right on the edge of the water in what would otherwise be the country of Morocco there are these two little dots two cities that are officially part of Spain. Ceuta and Malilla are both very small. Ceuta is about seven square miles. Malilla is less than five square miles. And if you can make it into either of these cities from the rest of Africa you are on European soil. You can try to claim asylum or find some other way to stay and live in Europe. But the Spanish government with the assistance of the Moroccan government has built a very impressive barrier. Around Ceuta there are two layers of fencing almost 20 feet high with razor wire on the top. Around Malilla there are four fences and a trench basically a moat without water in it-- it is two meters deep-- also infrared cameras and of course guards. And what has happened is that this has created a perverse and pretty dangerous obstacle course. Because of course people try to storm the barrier sometimes in huge groups trying to get through it all at once any way they can.   Our producer David Kestenbaum talked to one man who thought he could make it. David is from Cameroon. And when I asked him to say his full name just so I did not mess it up he gave this surprisingly long answer.  I could not tell what was going on because we were doing the interview through an interpreter. But it turns out he was explaining how he would introduce himself as an African.  The names of his grandparents and their parents and theirs.   Those are the 23 generations of my grandparents he says 23 generations of names. And yet despite all that history in September of 2013 David decided to leave Cameroon and try to make it to Europe. He was 25 years old. David describes the whole thing almost as if you were a kid heading out on an adventure in some old novel. Unlike a lot of people trying to get from Africa to Europe he said he was not persecuted back home. He was not starving. He was not fleeing violence. He was just curious about the world and excited to see it. He wanted to live in a place with more opportunity so he threw some stuff in a little backpack and he hit the road. He was well into his journey in Algeria when he first heard about the fences around Ceuta and Malilla.  Because there we had internet access and we could see how people were trying to jump this fence and all that.  At the beginning my opinion was well you know I am a pretty brave guy. And when I see something like that-- I like challenges. I thought I would do it in one try. I am going to take it on with a lot of optimism because that is the type of person I am.  I usually do things the first time I try them. I do not do them two or three times. So I thought this was going to be the case with this fence.  I have watched some of these videos. There are some brutal ones-- people with their hands sliced open from the razor wire sometimes being hit by guards. But there are ones that if you are preparing to try something like this might give you hope.  This one starts at a tense moment. There are bunch of men sitting on top of the last of the fences. Below them is Spanish soil but also the Spanish police. In theory the guys should be able to drop down and apply for asylum. But there are lots of reports of Spanish border guards grabbing people unlocking a gate in the fence and returning them to the other side. So the men on the fence want to get down somehow avoid the guards and run into town.  Suddenly one man drops down off the fence then another. It is like they have got some plan. And apparently they do because the two of them link arms. Then another guy joins them and another. They keep linking up like it is a rugby scrum. At this point the police move in they are wearing vests and helmets. Some have those transparent shields you see in crowd control situations. And you can see the police are now in kind of a bind. It is going to be hard to pry these guys apart now that they have become this giant organism. So the police do this thing that also seems smart. They form a human ring around the men to contain them. And for a moment it seems like a stalemate. But then the scrum starts to rotate which makes them harder to contain. And a gap opens up in the ring of police. Then one guy from the scrum breaks off and starts sprinting. Then another spins off and another.  They run across this open field into town and finally to the official immigration center where they celebrate like a team that is just captured the flag.   I do not know how many of these people were granted asylum or allowed to stay. But can I just say there is something crazy about a system where countries build super tall multi-layer razor wire fences that you are definitely not supposed to cross. But if you do cross them well maybe you can stay. It is as if Spain is saying this is who we want to immigrate-- people who are really good at climbing fences. David figured he had a pretty good chance of getting over the fences. He was young. He felt strong. He saw them up close soon after he got to Morocco. He made his way to this forest where he heard people camped out before attempting to cross. You could see Malilla from there this piece of Europe surrounded by fencing. They said to me look over there. That is Malilla.  In the woods there was this whole community of people. They would organized themselves by country. There was a group from Mali and Gambia Guinea and one from his country Cameroon. He slept with them that night.  And that night it really rained. And since I was new I did not have any place to sleep. And I did not have any place to hide from all the water that was falling out of the sky. The next night David and a small group he would been traveling with went to check out the fences. But David said they did not really know what they were doing. When they got there they saw Moroccan border guards. David and the others figured well we will just wait till they move. But hours went by. They waited until 200 AM but always there were guards. The next time he had better luck. One of the tricks the people in the forest told him was to go in large groups. If you have got the numbers they cannot catch all of you. So this time David goes with a big group of 200 or 300 other people. It was early in the morning 400 or 500 AM. They run toward the fences. The first obstacle before you can even get to the fences is that trench. It is pretty deep David says. He drops down into it OK but getting out is hard. It is like six or seven feet straight up. He says everyone kind of helps each other. One person gets up then pulls the next one up.  I tried to get out of there and there were Moroccan military people who were throwing stones. And there was a lot of noise. And people were moving around and there was blood. And it was difficult to get out.  And then I was climbing up the other side. And then I climbed up the first barrier. And I got to the second barrier and then I said OK I finished that. I am going to go to the third barrier.  I do not know how to express it but it was something strange. I was thinking I am going to do it. Then I thought I cannot do it. And then I was doing it so I said well this is how it is done. I am doing it. I am doing it. But I do not know how to express it. That is the truth.  Did it feel like a crazy sport?  Yeah exactly. That is exactly what it is the way you put it.  It was a weird sport. I usually think of a border wall or a fence as this thing that is supposed to stop someone. But as David was discovering that is not how these things are actually designed. His opponents had a strategy too. The Malilla border is an example of something called defense in depth. In the US it is used around nuclear facilities. The idea is to have many layers. Each can be beat but they slow you down enough so that before you can get to the other side the guards are there. In this case to pick you up and send you back to start. That is what happened to David that day. The guards got him before he could clear the final fence and they sent him back to Morocco. He was frustrated but also felt kind of good. He would made it to the third fence on his first try. David returned to the camps in the forest which he says is OK. But I think it is not what a lot of people would call OK. He had to dig around in trash cans for food. And sometimes after they would gone to sleep the Moroccan police would come and chase them out destroy what they would set up. When there was downtime people would sometimes sit all facing the same direction and just kind of stare out at Malilla and talk about how to get past those damn fences. There were rules that have been passed down by people who'd gone before them with the goal of not making things harder for the next people trying to cross. One of the rules was no weapons-- another no cutting the fence.  We decided that it was not a good strategy because at the end of the day our goal was to be accepted by the Spaniards on the other side.  So we did not want to use knives and we could not cut the fence. They tried over and over but it seemed impossible to beat the guards. They had cameras that could see at night and helicopters. David met people who'd been living in the forest for four or five years who still had never made it to Europe. David checked out the fences around Ceuta the other city but again no luck. He tried 20 times 30 times. A year pased. At some point it started to feel kind of crazy that this is what his life had become trying to get over this barrier to this little piece of land.  There were times when it did appear absurd to me. Why am I doing this? What good is this? Especially when I experienced the failure and I thought about just abandoning everything and I would cry.  But then you rest up two or three days. And once again you think in an optimistic fashion. And I got my energy back. I wondered what all this looked like from the other side of the fence to live in one of these cities five or seven square miles in size with fences around it where in some years you get people rushing up every few weeks this whole mass of people outside trying to get in. There is this one photo from the Spanish side of two people playing golf. They are standing on this lush green fairway palm trees. One of them a woman is teeing off in a bright white golf outfit. And right behind them there is the fence. And on top of the fence about a dozen people straddling it. I could not find any surveys of how people in the towns felt about the fences. But one journalist who lives in Malilla told me that photo is kind of the way it is for a lot of people. They are used to it now. When the fences started being built in the '90s some people thought they were ugly or sad. But then the fences became something else. They became invisible.  It is something more than a fence. I know it may seem silly but--  There is something mystical in this fence. I have seen people who when they get in front of the fence they cannot move.  I imagine that if there are people from throughout the world who get together to make a fence there must be a spirit inside the fence that tries to prevent things.  It is really something very powerful. It is not just a fence. Even a fence with a spirit in it is still a fence. And as with a lot of fences if you follow them far enough there is a place where they end. Malilla and Ceuta are not totally surrounded. They are on the coast. And where the fences hit the water they stop. They go out a ways into the water but then stop. These places of course are very heavily guarded. And in the previous year a bunch of people had died trying to cross this way. The Spanish police used tear gas and rubber bullets. At least 15 people drowned. And David cannot swim. But one day in the forest around Ceuta he runs into a group of people who want to try this place where the fence ends. By this time he is been at it for a while. He knows the way. He helps lead them there. There is no trench here and only a single fence. And so when it is dark out David and a group sneak up to it through this wooded area. There are over a hundred of them and they start running along the fence trying to get to the beach and finally where it extends into the water. When they reach the beach some people start trying to climb the fence. Guards are gathering but David notices they are not doing the thing that he is had problems with in the past. They are not hitting people's fingers as they climb. So up he goes.  I put one finger on and I put one hand on. Then I put one leg up. And I got up to the point where there were the knives. He means the razor wire at the top.  And I tried to get higher up but these knives we are grabbing at my clothes. And I had a backpack on so I had to go down. But not all the way down. David and the others stay on the fence. They are just below the very top maybe 18 feet off the ground. And they start clambering sideways horizontally along the fence trying to get to the water.  And there were two kids in front of us. One of them was really young. He was like 13 or 14. They were moving very slowly.  And someone behind me said hurry up hurry up. And I said look the boys in front of us cannot go fast. We have got to go step by step.  If we make it to the water we will be OK. They get to the end of the fence. There are two people ahead of David. The first one jumps down.  And he fell into the water on the Moroccan side. And he was immediately picked up by the Moroccan soldiers. They picked him up and put him in a boat. Which seemed bad. A Moroccan guard would keep him in Morocco. The next guy is the kid in front of David. He jumps down onto the rocks at the base of the fence.  And very quickly hit the ground. And as soon as he hit the ground the civil guard picked him up and put him aside. David is next in line the third to try.  At the moment that I saw the civil guard people moving two or three steps away I went down immediately just like the kid did. But as soon as I hit the ground--  I went right into the water. Then others make it into the water. They sit on this big rock.  The little kid who the police the civil guard had picked up and already had his hands tied behind his back tried to escape and make it into the water.  And just to show one of us was brave enough to go into the water and he saved him and brought him over to the stone.  So then we were singing and shouting.  The civil guard was saying--  Get out of the water. Come out of the water and nothing's going to happen to you.  And there were many negotiations to get us out of the water.  And we did not want to get out. This goes on for hours. They are cold but singing and shouting waiting for the city to wake up hoping someone will come and help them-- the Red Cross journalists. Eventually they do get out of the water. They are taken to a police station and fingerprinted. David figured he would be sent back to Morocco like all the other times. The police station was right there on the border. But it did not happen. Instead someone got him some food and a place to sleep. After almost two years of attempts he would made it. He felt joy like is this really happening? For a couple of days-- and then he felt something else.  When I realized that I had made it it was like a vacuum.  That is the truth.  When we are in Morocco we think that whenever I manage to get there I am going to be very happy.  But once you make it--  --you do not feel anything.  The feeling ends. David is in Madrid now. In a little bit he will be able to apply for residency so he can work. After almost two years thinking about the fence he does not anymore. It was just a barrier one among many. David Kestenbaum is one of the producers of our program.  David from that story is trying to make it as a musician. He wrote this song about the border fence.  NON-ENGLISH SINGING  Coming up the wall that is 150 miles long and completely invisible from one of its sides. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program The Walls. We have stories from around the globe looking at the way that life morphs and adapts around any wall that gets built anywhere. A version of today's program was first broadcast last year but we thought we would update and bring it back with our government shut down over a wall. And one thing that I have found myself thinking about a lot these last few weeks has been the president's promise to have Mexico pay for the wall. And I think a lot of people do not remember that that just was not a thing that was said in rallies. There was an actual step by step plan on how to do it. And I have wondered whatever happened to that? It is the long forgotten plan from the Trump campaign. We talk now like this plan never even existed. This is Robert Costa national political reporter for the Washington Post. He says that when he and Bob Woodward asked then-candidate Trump in 2016 for details about exactly how he would pay for his wall to their surprise two days later they got this step by step memo outlining how it would happen written he says by Stephen Miller now one of the president's top aides. This is something that the Trump campaign was under intense pressure during the primary season to prove that in some way it had a serious proposal for getting Mexico to pay for the wall. And this is what they came up with. Here's the plan. They say that under the Patriot Act the president has powers to do all kinds of things including if he wants to he can make it impossible for undocumented Mexicans living here to wire money home to Mexico. And it is a lot of money the memo says 24 billion a year. The actual number is probably much smaller than that but still in the billions significant to the Mexican economy. Mexico as the memo notes would not like this. And so the memo says we would tell the Mexican government that it could avoid all this unpleasantness if it would just send us 5 to 10 billion for the wall. And then we will not make the change to our regulations. We will let people wire money home to Mexico. It said in typical language by President Trump it is quote an easy decision for Mexico to make and that all they need to do is make a quote one-time payment of 5 to 10 billion for the wall and then they could walk away. If that did not work the memo lists other threats that we could make. Trade tariffs-- we could cancel work and tourist visas. We could charge higher visa fees all with the idea that this would force Mexico to cough up billions for the wall. Do we know if they tried to do any of this once they got into office? We are actually poking around about that at the Washington Post. It seems like John Kelly when he was head of DHS and Kirstjen Nielsen now head of DHS they have not pursued this kind of policy to an extent. But the idea that it is floating around in Trump circles remains. Bannon always would hover it out there in 2017 when he was in the White House as something that would maybe be brought up. And it could still be brought up. He believes he has sweeping executive authority to do this sort of thing. There have been bills in Congress to do a more straightforward version of this by just taxing the money that gets wired to Mexico and do some of the other things that the memo suggests. There was a bill in 2017 another in 2018. Neither picked up many co-sponsors or ever got to a vote. On Friday the president said that he might declare a state of emergency to pay for his border wall which would give him a bunch of options a bunch of powers none of them apparently related to this memo or Mexico paying for the wall. Presumably the memo still sits there somewhere in the White House untouched ready for action Plan A. Act Two No One Has Seen Them Made or Heard Them Made. Of all the walls all over the world that we learned about for today's program this next one is the most mysterious-- a wall that may or may not even exist. Brian Reed looked into it. I read about this possible wall in a blog post. It is a travel blog by an Australian guy and he tells the story of a bizarre tour he took in North Korea. The post is titled North Korea's Loch Ness Monster The Concrete Wall. For decades the North Korean government has complained about the huge Concrete Wall that divides North and South Korea a wall it claims that South Korea put up at the urging of the United States as a permanent barrier to reunification a wall that is been a source of anger for the North Koreans for years. For them it is a symbol of the duplicity and bad will of South Korea. One peculiar thing about this wall though North Korea says it can only be seen from the northern side that you cannot see it from the south. It also does not show up on Google Earth or satellite images. But in North Korea there is a place where tourists can go see it. That is where the blogger went. According to the post he arrived at a small bunker where a North Korean colonel delivers a whole lecture about the Concrete Wall. He stands there in uniform with a pointer stick-- there is a photo of this on the blog-- with a big mural behind him of the wall snaking along the border. Though curiously it is not a photograph of the wall. It is a painting. The colonel runs through the wall's dimensions which are listed on the mural as well as geometric diagrams demonstrating the ingenious engineering that makes it only visible from the North. It is built into a hill so from the South it just looks like green land. It is invisible. Which the colonel explains allows South Korea and the United States to claim that there is not a wall between North and South Korea which is exactly what those countries say. And then the colonel invites the tour group outside to see for themselves. The blogger is handed a pair of binoculars. The blogger writes that he half expects there to be a stencil of a wall taped on the lenses when he looked through. There is not. But as he stares out from the observation deck into the DMZ or Demilitarized Zone the four kilometer-wide stretch of land that buffers North Korea from South he does see something. He includes a photo he took of it. Could this be what the North Koreans were talking about he writes? Lean in and see what you make of it. I did lean in. And honestly I could not tell what the hell was going on in this photo. It is super blurry taken from kilometers away on a hazy-looking day. There are shrubs and hills in the DMZ and then yeah some type of brownish structure on top of the hills. But it is really hard to make out. It is like one of those Loch Ness photos. This blog post confused me. Was there a wall between North and South Korea or not? The news media seemed unequivocal on this question. The reports I read said the wall's not real. One headline from Reuters-- North Korea asks South to 