 Wait wait you are listening.   Okay.   All right.   Okay.   All right.   You are listening to Radiolab.   From WNYC.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab. Today we are going to start off with a building.  Robert Not just any building but a building that is heavy with secrets.  Jad Abumrad And it is a building we first really learned about or at least got a picture of from this woman.  Katie Katie Englehart. I am a reporter at Vice News in London.  Jad Abumrad And Katie like all of us now at Radiolab is-  Katie Obsessed. Devastatingly obsessed.  Jad Abumrad With this place called Hanslope Park.  Katie So Hanslope Park is this huge sprawling complex in Buckinghamshire near a town called Milton Keynes.  Jad Abumrad Which is not too far from London and our producer Jamie York happened to be in London on vacation. So we asked him well why do not you just grab your tape recorder and go down there.  Jamie York Yeah let us do this.  Robert Check it out.  Katie So it is a bit of a drive from London.  Jad Abumrad About an hour and a half on the M1 M2.  Katie You approach this sort of beautiful town with adorable little posh cottages and little pubs.  Jamie York I am not form around here. I am looking for Hanslope Park.  Katie I mean it is your sort of typical ye olde British village.  Newscaster It will not shake the guard dogs. Very secure place.  Jad Abumrad About a four minute drive past that Ye Olde town you go through some fields crest over a hill and... There it is. This massive massive building surrounded by razor wire.  Jamie York Let us see what is going on here.  Katie So the archives are held in a purpose built building from the nineties.  Jad Abumrad And these are archives by the way from the largest empire ever known.  Katie It is like if you were creating a movie set for like a secretive government compound where they keep secret files you would literally just make this.  Robert Jamie parked a quarter mile away and walked up to the gate.  Jamie York There is a big it looks like electrified fence.  Robert Through the gate.  Jamie York Taller than me.  Jad Abumrad And past these traffic spikes.  Robert And just as he barely stepped inside.   Are you in a car?  Jamie York I am.   Just come back to your car. I am not comfortable with any of this activity you are doing.  Jad Abumrad A guard grabs him takes him to a guardhouse.   Well can I just ask what that is?  Jamie York It is a microphone.   Could you just disconnect it while you are in here though please?  Robert And then...   Where is your vehicle?  Jamie York Oh it is down...   Right. Okay.  Robert They walk him...  Jamie York Are you going to escort me all the way back to my car?  Robert The entire quarter mile back to his car.  Jad Abumrad Now we have heard it said that the files in that building if they were ever released could rewrite 200 years of history. No idea if that is true.  Katie We just do not know.  Jad Abumrad But we are starting to know.  Robert And today we are going to focus on the one story that has so far anyway tumbled out. Kind of by accident.  Jad Abumrad And it is a story... That we find kind of startling. And we should also warn that there is some stuff coming up that is graphic and disturbing. So if you are listening with kids you might want to skip this one. Though if you are not listening with kids do not skip it. Do not skip it. Okay.   Our story is of Kenya.  David Anderson Kenya was always seen-  Jad Abumrad This is Historian David Anderson.  David Anderson In a kind of sepia-tinted haze.   Many years ago came white men of adventure pioneers who found the country beautiful the climate kind and the soil fertile.  David Anderson Bougainvillea sunshine smiling happy servants.  Jad Abumrad David says that in the 1910s 20s 30s the British public was obsessed with Kenya. You had books eventually-  David Anderson Television programs.  Jad Abumrad It was one of crown jewels of the empire. And so you had all of these Brits leaving Britain and going to Kenya to start a new life.  David Anderson And many of the settlers who flocked out to Kenya were lower-middle classes who could have a much better salary and a much better living standard in Kenya than they ever could back at home.   They stayed and founded the young colony where men make their homes where their children are born taught and grow strong and healthy.  Jad Abumrad Now it probably goes without saying that this new life of the British citizen came at the expense of the Kenyan who was already living there.  Caroline Two problems that were always encountered in Africa and in general with colonization is the issue of land and the issue of labor.  Jad Abumrad That is Harvard historian Caroline Elkins. She will play a big role in our story.  Caroline So in Kenya they solved the land problem by simply alienating it and giving it to the white farmers. It then becomes the labor problem. How do you force Africans to labor cheaply on plantations? Right? Like in this case tea and coffee. Well the way you do it is you create what are called native reserves. We had them here for Native Americans.  Jad Abumrad She basically says that the native Kenyans were forced off their land into slums where they could barely eke out a living. And so the only option they had was to work for the white people. And that is how it went-  Caroline For decades.  Jad Abumrad Until...  Caroline The second world War.  Newscaster Acts of aggression has started. War clouds gather.  Jad Abumrad 1939.  Caroline Suddenly thousands and thousands of men-  Jad Abumrad Young Kenyan men are forced into war.  Newscaster The people of Africa are doing excellent work to help the allied cause.  Jad Abumrad Many get thrown into the British army.  Caroline King's African rivals.  Newscaster Among the finest troupes in the empire.  Caroline Where they came into contact with ideas of independence. And they anticipated when they returned-  Newscaster Today is victory in Europe day.  Caroline That they would have access to land that their conditions would be getting better. But nope. They find their condition has not only not gotten better it is gotten worse.  Jad Abumrad And so after the war a few of these vets from the largest ethnic group in Kenya...  Caroline Called the Kikuyu.  Jad Abumrad They get to together.  Caroline And they decide to take and oath. Now oathing is traditional amongst the Kikuyu. So for example men a hundred years ago or more would take an oath pledging allegiance to their ethnic group as they went to war with somebody else. In this case they would take an oath pledging themselves to kick all Europeans out of the colony. And then the oath was  designed pledge to kick all Europeans out of the colony out of Kenya. And if I do not may this oath kill me. I pledge to take up arms against the Europeans. If I do not may this oath kill me.  Caroline Now of course the last thing that was said was always was if I reveal the contents of this oath may this oath kill me.  Jad Abumrad She says the first thing they did was attack the settlers livestock.  Caroline Doing things like hamstringing cattle.  Robert Hamstringing cattle?  Caroline Cut their hamstrings.  Robert Oh cut their hamstrings.  Caroline So they cannot walk.  Jad Abumrad They started destroying property. Their oaths started to involve things like-  Caroline Goat eyeballs ram scrotums intestines blood things that absolutely repulse the local European settlers and put terror into them.  Jad Abumrad And why do they end up calling themselves the Mau Mau?  Caroline Ah it is a good question. It is the etymology of that is much debated with nobody quite agreeing on how it came to pass. But Mau Mau is many think is a Swahili derivative of sort of more and more. That there was... Some say it has to do with Europeans and I do not believe this one overhearing what was the Mau Mau oath.  Jad Abumrad Whatever was the case in 1952 the colonial government which was sort of the British arm in Kenya they declare a state of emergency.  Caroline And those pledging allegiance to the Mau Mau.  Jad Abumrad They escalate.  Caroline They start going after the loyalists.  Jad Abumrad The Kenyans who would been helping the settlers.  Newscaster Savagely attacking the defenseless.  Robert Shooting them or-  Caroline Oh yeah. They murdered them.  Jad Abumrad One assassination after the next.  Newscaster Men and women with their bodies carved forever.  Jad Abumrad They raid loyalist villages...  Newscaster With clubs knives and fire.  Jad Abumrad And the British?  Caroline They are terrified.  Newscaster Troops are in the streets of Nairobi.  Caroline This is the night of long knives coming into reality. And it is only about to get worse.  Jad Abumrad And that happens on the night of January 24th 1953.  Caroline Which was the murder of the Ruck family. The Rucks were these very young lovely couple.  Jad Abumrad Roger Ruck was a farmer. Esme Ruck was a doctor who actually administered to the local population. And they had a little boy named Michael who was six.  Caroline Just that day the little boy had fallen off his pony and one of their trusted servants carried him back up to the house.  Jad Abumrad Later that night a group of Mau Mau crept out of the forest lured Roger and Esme Ruck out of the house killed them. And then the whole gang including that same servant that had helped the boy they march into the house go up to the little boy's room and they hack him to death.  Caroline And there is a very famous photo of the young boy's bed. Absolutely bloodied which is in every major newspaper.  Jad Abumrad And almost overnight Mau Mau becomes synonymous with pure evil.  Nasser's Mother In our mind in children's mind Mau Mau were bigger than life darkest dark people that you ever saw. Men men men.  Jad Abumrad And actually as we were reporting this story one of our reporters Latif Nasser told us about how his mom grew up next door to Kenya in what is now called Tanzania. And to her and her friends the Mau Mau were like  Nasser's Mother Like a monster to children.  Jad Abumrad The bogeyman.  Nasser's Mother That was sort of a threat all the time. Our mothers especially would refer to if you do not drink your milk or if you do not sleep Mau Mau . The Mau Mau will come and get you.  Latif Nasser And how scared were you?  Nasser's Mother You know what? Just the word Mau Mau would make us run crawl under the bed.  Robert I am old enough to be one of the people who thought there were communists-  Caroline That were going to come get you in the middle of the night.  Robert Yes they were like ISIS or some weird sort of self organizing terrorist group.  Caroline Yes the most bestial horrible awful savage movement that had ever hit the face of the British Empire.  Jad Abumrad Okay so here's where we get to the part of the story that is in deep flux. After the murder of the Ruck family the settlers demanded that the colonial government do something. And they did. They pursued the Mau Mau fighters it is supposedly small band of fighters into the forest. There were skirmished that lasted for years. Story goes the Mau Mau movement never quite gained traction and ultimately the British quelled the rebellion. They handled it.  Jad Abumrad Now as for how they handled it for the longest times people would look back it was this giant blank spot. No one quite knew what happened. And here's why According to David Anderson by the time the British finally decide to leave Kenya. This is 1963.  David Anderson By that time Kenya is around the 20th different colony that Britain will leave. So it is about halfway down the list. So there is already in place a process.  Newscaster At the Uhuru stadium the articles of Independence were handed by the Duke to the country's prime minister.  Jad Abumrad There is a formal exchange of powers. They set off fireworks and then...  Newscaster At midnight the Union Jack was lowered for the last time.  Jad Abumrad The Brits roll out.  David Anderson In other words they run a smooth and colorful and happy exit.  Jad Abumrad And at some point in that well worn exit process either right before the exit or right afterwards there was as David calls it...  David Anderson The weeding of documents.  Katie I mean the British government conducted very very sophisticated purge operations in all of its former colonies.  Jad Abumrad That is Katie Englehart again. She says everywhere you look Uganda Palestine Rhodesia Zanzibar Nigeria Jordan Malaya Hong Kong...  Katie There are stories of papers being kind of tightly packed into boxes and dropped at sea. A lot of papers were burned.  David Anderson There is a joke among Indian historians. On the day that India achieved its Independence when the celebrations were taking place in Delhi you could hardly see what was going on on the podium because the waft of smoke blowing across from the bonfires of burning documents.  Jad Abumrad All of which is to say that it was assumed for 30 years that that blank spot of the Mau Mau emergency would just stay blank and the story of the evil Mau Mau would just continue because there were no documents to say otherwise.  Jad Abumrad But then we get to Caroline Elkins.  Robert How did you... Like once upon a time you were a curious young grad student or something? Not-  Caroline Yeah more or less. In fact we even have to go back further. I am dating myself at age 45 but I have to go back to my undergraduate years. Talking 1990. And I was at Princeton and you do senior theses there. And Princeton was ahead of its time. And I got lots of funding and I went off to London and Kenya.  Robert How old are you when you are taking this trip?  Caroline Oh I am 20.  Robert So Caroline is working in Nairobi...  Caroline And I am doing research. At the time my senior thesis was looking at the Kikuyu which is the largest ethnic group in Kenya. And I was looking primarily at the shifting roles of women and the ways in which they were impacted by colonialism.  Robert So Caroline would wake up every morning and would walk to this old colonial building right in the middle of Nairobi city center.  Caroline Called the National Archives. It is loud it is dusty... You know sometimes you had to jump under the desk for several hours because there was a shootout across the street.  Robert You are kidding! Really?  Caroline Yeah. That was quite a Saturday. Long story short-  Robert So one day she was at the archives flipping through some files when-  Caroline I came across some files on detention camp. Kamiti detention camp.  Jad Abumrad Is it Kamiti? Kamiti you say?  Caroline Kamiti. K-A-M as in Mary-I-T-I.  Jad Abumrad And this was in Nairobi?  Caroline Just outside Nairobi. And I said gosh you know I know nothing about this.  Robert So she calls over the archivist.  Caroline Guy named Evanson. And I said Evanson you have got anything else like this? He said Yeah let me take a look. And then Evanson starts bringing me some other files also related to Kamiti. Very bureaucratic files.  Robert These pages were filled with details numbers of prisoners. A lot of them were women.  Caroline Well over a thousand. Because they would mention a hundred of this and a couple hundred of that. And at that point I thought what is going on? So-  Jad Abumrad A short time later she gets back to Princeton.  Caroline And being the good little undergraduate history major that I was I searched high and low about detention camps in Kenya.  Jad Abumrad Nothing much.  Caroline Yeah.  Robert No mention of this center anywhere?  Caroline There is nobody who had done a systematic study of it. And that is what I was after.  Jad Abumrad So without anything else to go on Caroline just started driving upcountry as they say.  Caroline In the middle of nowhere Kenya.  Jad Abumrad All these tiny little villages in the Central Province.  Caroline Really if you wanted to find middle of nowhere on the map I was in it. I would just show up at somebody's little  or farm one day and...  Next thing you know I am conducting an interview.  Caroline Can you ask her while working about how many people?  Jad Abumrad These are tapes she recorded on a few of her trips. She would speak to people through her research assistant .  Caroline Some of these interviews would go on for hours. Then one interview begets the next. Every time you finish an interview you say do you have somebody else I could talk to? And they say oh yeah I have got my friend who lives three ridges up and four hills over.  Jad Abumrad So she would talk to that person. And then the person they referred to. And then the person they referred to. And this was what she did for like five years.  Caroline I went and interviewed several hundred villagers.  Robert And what exactly are they telling you?  Caroline Stories you cannot imagine.  Jad Abumrad What those stories were and what those stories have begun to unravel is up next.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert And I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab. Before we get to the stories that Caroline was referring to we should say that as we were sort of reporting this story we really kind of fell in deep. To the point where Jamie York who had already gone to London to get hassled by those guards at Hanslope Park he then decided to spend part of his vacation in Kenya basically following in Caroline Elkins footsteps. And that is when he stumbled into something kind of surprising.  Jamie York So I got picked up early one morning in Nairobi and driven about three hours into the countryside. And after what felt like five right turns 37 lefts we finally wind up in this completely rural place. It really does feel like the middle of nowhere.  Jad Abumrad With like a little village or something?  Jamie York Yup a little cluster of houses and rolling hills in a county called Nyeri. Got my stuff got out of the car. Followed Terri who had arranged the trip.  Terri My name is Terri . I am 41 years old.  Jamie York This is the same Terri who translated for Caroline Elkins many years ago. Anyhow passed a few kids. And Terri walks me into this little clay hut. There is a table in the center of the room. There is a handful of plastic chairs around it. And eventually people start showing up.  Jamie York I am good how are you?  Jamie York Women nine women who are all in the their late-80s early-90s. Make introductions and honestly I am a little bit disappointed because the Mau Mau I thought were just men fighters. And seeing these women I thought oh no. I realized most of the men have died of old age.  Jad Abumrad Oh so you thought you were not going to meet anybody?  Jamie York Exactly. But I thought okay I will just ask.  Jamie York How many of the women like show of hands...  Jamie York How many of you identified as Mau Mau? Instantaneously everyone put their hand up.  Jad Abumrad All nine people?  Jamie York Yeah. And then started to sort of chuckle.  Terri They find it funny that we are asking them because it is obvious they were supporting Mau Mau.  Jamie York They were like of course we were supporting the Mau Mau. We were the Mau Mau. Like that was everybody.  Jad Abumrad Oh interesting. So it was not just like a small band of militants.  Jamie York There was not a small band of militants. Amongst the Kikuyu it was almost everyone.  Jad Abumrad This is one of the first things that caught Caroline Elkins attention. Made her really question that official narrative. Because when she was doing interviews 15 years ago she says everyone she spoke to-  Caroline Everyone to a person and we are talking hundreds of interviews started with I took the oath on such and such a date. Very interesting.  Jad Abumrad Seemed to her what you had here was not a small insurrection. This was a mass movement. And she would discover that the British response to it was also massive.  Jad Abumrad 1953 shortly after the murder of the Ruck family the white settlers marched demanded that the colonial government do something. And so what happened is that the colonial soldiers...  Terri They came to the village.  Jad Abumrad They started going to villages across Kenya.  Caroline They rounded everybody up.  Jad Abumrad Slaughtered their cattle slaughtered their goats.  Caroline Burned down their homesteads.  Jad Abumrad And but them into these prison villages.  Caroline Some 800 barbed wire villages throughout Central Province Kenya.  Terri  The village was like a concentration camp.  David Anderson The thing to grasp here is that this is very carefully designed and very practical.  Jad Abumrad David says that there was a very carefully planned system at work. The barbed wire villages were primarily for women and children. Men were usually sent to these detention camps which were basically prisons. The logic of those camps was actually thought up by a group of British academics who met in 1953 sort of an emergency meeting to discuss the Mau Mau problem. And they decided at that meeting that clearly the real reason the Mau Mau are rebelling-  David Anderson Is that they were captured by some kind of mental illness.  Jad Abumrad It had nothing to do with the fact that their land had been taken away from them. No it was that they were temporarily crazy and the committee decided it must have something to do with those oaths.  David Anderson Oaths were seen by the British as a primitive way of capturing a Kikuyu mind. And making the person unreasonable and insensible. The only way they argued you could get rid of the oath was to convert the person back to sanity. Part of that involved a confession of what they would done. Once confessions were made they would then be rewarded by a better prison regime. They would be moved into another compound given privileges given better food. You moved along the system. They called a pipeline. You moved along the pipeline until you were released.  Jad Abumrad But you first had to confess.  Gitu To confess?  Jad Abumrad This is   Gitu Freedom fighter. I joined the Mau Mau freedom struggle when I was 17 years of age.  Jad Abumrad He quickly became an organizer recruiter and therefore a target.  Gitu They had to search for me. And they caught me. They put me into a detention camp. They want us to say loudly that we forsake the Mau Mau struggle. But we refused. We refused.  Jad Abumrad In fact one man told us the story of how in one of the barbed wire villages every once in a while...  Terri The Mau Mau would come to the edge of the forest.  Jad Abumrad Just outside the village's fence. These were the fighters who had not been captured yet. They would come right to the edge of the camp where a lot of the children would be playing.  Terri And because no grownup would suspect children of  anything about what was happening that country the people in the village used to use the children to take messages to the people the fighters in the forest.  Jad Abumrad That is how they passed food and information to the fighters. And in a way kept things going. That point is according to David that inside the camps you had-  David Anderson Massive resistance.  Jad Abumrad And so in many cases the British colonial soldiers would double down. Warning the following is pretty graphic. There is a BBC documentary called White Terror that has tons of these frighteningly common stories of abuse from detainees.  BBC narrator He told me how naked tied by his feet to the bars he was brutally beaten on the testicle with a stick.  Jad Abumrad One of them is a man giving a tour of the prison cell he was kept in.  BBC narrator Then they seared his eyes with hot coals. They kept him there for eight days.  Jad Abumrad There is another day of these three men who were made to strip naked.  BBC narrator One of the men was made to put his head into a bucket of water. Then the white officer held one of the prisoner's legs aloft while a guard held the other. And another guard brought some sand which they started to push into the detainee's anus with a stick. They kept on doing this alternatively putting in sand and water all the while pushing the mixture in with the stick. That act still gives me nightmares to this day. Because that was something that should never be done to a human being.  Jad Abumrad And that period-  David Anderson Of coercive violence...  Jad Abumrad It lasted throughout the 1950s.  David Anderson Now the Mau Mau were bad guys.  Caroline Listen there is nothing to excuse this kind of terrorism  David Anderson But the Kenyan campaign was a sledge hammer used to crack a nut.  Robert There have been a lot of different estimates to try and pin down the scale of the British campaign. They range from 160000 people killed maimed tortured detained to much much higher numbers. Caroline Elkins did her own calculations and according to her...  Caroline By the time it was done nearly the entire Kikuyu population of a million and a half people were detained tortured murdered systematized force labor. And you have to look at scale and if you weigh the balance sheet of this is how many Europeans died. 32.  Jad Abumrad  Robert Like why is not this a tail that everybody in the world knows. In the event say of the enslavement of the Hebrew people under the Pharaoh they were slaves in Egypt. The Pharaoh would not let them out. Moses had to cross the... It becomes the national story of the Hebrew people. In this situation you have General Kenyatta I believe is a Kikuyu becoming the first president. Why would not he make this the national story?  Caroline Well Kenyatta comes out of detention and one of the first things he does is he denounces Mau Mau as being hooligans. This same organization that accelerated independence in Kenya.  Jad Abumrad She says the same movement that scared the British scared him. He did not want them suddenly organizing and taking his power.  Caroline So for decades from 1948 until 2002 the ban on Mau Mau that had been put in place by the British colonial government remained in place.  Jad Abumrad Meaning it was illegal to even talk about it. But eventually in 2005 Caroline publishes her book Imperial Reckoning which included the hundreds of interviews and painted a picture of just this systemic violence. The book was well received but she says that a lot of critics told her nice story but-  Caroline No. This is an act of fiction.  Robert An act of fiction?  Caroline I made it up.  Robert But you had all these interviews.  Caroline Right. But one of the lines of critique was that it is all based upon oral testimony. Oral testimonies are not usable. There is no story here.  Jad Abumrad She says a lot of that was just blatant racism.  Caroline You know Africans make up stories.  Jad Abumrad But buried in there is sort of a legitimate concern. I mean memory is faulty. We know that oral histories are notoriously unreliable. If you are going to rewrite an entire history you need to get beyond personal anecdote. You need-  David Anderson Documents. That illustrate and prove it beyond doubt.  Jad Abumrad And as we mentioned beyond those few that she found the documents did not seem to exist. Nonetheless fast forward. 2009.  Caroline That book  Jad Abumrad Caroline's Imperial Reckoning  Caroline Became the basis of a very large lawsuit.  Newscaster These Kenyan independent veterans-  Jad Abumrad In June of 2009 five Mau Mau veterans representing over 5000 Mau Mau flew to London-  Newscaster The seat of an empire they say is responsible for torturing them-  Jad Abumrad And filed a lawsuit against the British government.  Caroline The first time the British government had ever been sued by a former colonized population.  Newscaster The Mau Mau veterans want an apology and some form of recompense for what happened.  Jad Abumrad Are you at all nervous going into the court?  Martin Day I think the word nervous is not the word I would have used. I told my partners to write off the case. I was not at all convinced that we were going to go anywhere but down.  Jad Abumrad That is Martin Day. He represented the Mau Mau veterans in court. And the reason he was so sure that the case was going to go down in flames was well same issue.  Martin Day You just did not have the documents.  Jad Abumrad All they had were stories that were not exactly rock solid.  Martin Day It was a nightmare. Old Kenyans in their late 70s and 80s. First of all most Africans in my experience find dates extremely difficult. But people in their 70s and 80s are almost impossible?  Jad Abumrad And this was actually a huge problem because in the British system if you are going to bring forward an old case like one that is more than 6 years old  Martin Day The key question to the judge is can you still get a fair trial.  Jad Abumrad And the government could plausibly argue no. Too much time has passed.  Martin Day We really worried that the judge would say well look there cannot be a fair trial because actually these witnesses are so old so up and down just in terms of their memories that really their evidence is not worth a great deal.  Jad Abumrad So to recap.  Martin Day I was not really optimistic.  Jad Abumrad But then it is kind of a last ditch effort he contacted historian David Anderson-  David Anderson To act as an expert witness.  Jad Abumrad Because David had written a book about African history that was chocked full of legal documents.  David Anderson And they approached me to ask whether there was material in the legal cases I dealt with that might be useful to them.  Jad Abumrad And that is when he told him something that would ultimately lead all of us back to that scary building of secrets. He told them for the past 20 years he has had this hunch.  David Anderson Well long before the Mau Mau trial came to court I and a number of other historians believed that documents had been brought back from Kenya to Britain.  Jad Abumrad David says that in that same Nairobi archive where Caroline Elkins had found the document about detention and thought  Caroline Gosh you know what is going on?  Jad Abumrad In that same place somebody else had found another document that had also fallen through the cracks. And this one was a simple packing slip.  David Anderson Listing of documents for transportation. All of their packing up and removal.  Jad Abumrad Now as for where those documents were moved to no one knew.  David Anderson No.  Jad Abumrad Maybe to an incinerator or bottom of the ocean.  David Anderson But from 1997 '98 '99-  Jad Abumrad Like a starving man with a single Pringle David kept on.  David Anderson And I eventually got documents from the National Archives in Britain that confirmed-  Jad Abumrad The stuff from Kenya actually landed in an airport in Britain.  David Anderson On the eve of independence. I then was able to find out who took them which van they went in. I even got the car's registration number. But-  Jad Abumrad That is when the trail went cold. They filed document request after document request.  David Anderson And we get nowhere.  Jad Abumrad Then something totally unexpected happens.  David Anderson Two historians working on Southern Africa actually got access to Hanslope Park.  Jad Abumrad They got inside. One of them was a former colonial administrator so he could work some connections to get his way in. Anyhow afterwards he sends David Anderson a text message  David Anderson Telling me that in Hanslope Park he would seen miles of miles of shelving of documents from other colonies including Kenya.  Robert Was that a figure of speech miles or was that literal?  David Anderson I think he meant it literally.  Robert Really?  David Anderson He is seen a vast hangar as he described it with row up on row up on row of documents.  Jad Abumrad So when Martin Day the lawyer contacted David Anderson and asked him Can you help us with our case? David said Here's what I can do. I cannot actually give you any documents because I do not have any but I can outline the documents that I think might be out there.  David Anderson The documents I believed the British government were hiding away.  Jad Abumrad So he wrote a witness report for the judge summarizing everything he knew.  David Anderson Giving all the details I had. I did not mention Hanslope park. I did not say where I thought they were. I just said I knew they would come into Britain and I wanted to know what happened.  Jad Abumrad The judge read that report and then basically asked the government do you have him or not?  David Anderson Look if you cannot answer this question you will be held in contempt of court. In other words I will interpret this as you withholding information. And that basically means you lose the case. That decision was the turning point.  Newscaster Half a century on from Britain's withdrawal from Kenya documents detailing the alleged brutality employed by the British colonial authorities have finally been released.  David Anderson And suddenly having spent years denying these documents existed within four days they found them.  Newscaster Kenyans were waiting in Nairobi today for the news from London.  Newscaster Well you can see the reaction of these people here. They have won an important battle here today.  Katie I mean we are talking something like 300 boxes of files. Tons of missing documents. 15000 papers relevant to the case.  Robert This again is Katie Englehart of Vice News. She reported on the trial and the extensive number of files that the government produced.  Katie 100 linear feet I think those files held. And they contained really really damning evidence of Britain's conduct in Kenya.  Robert The files made it clear that the central government in London did know what was happening in Kenya. There was specific documentation of rounding up of Mau Mau fighters. There was even a memo about a Kenyan being roasted alive.  Katie And there was this pleading letter written by detainees that had been smuggled out of a camp. And it hurry hurry hurry in order to save our souls. Absolutely damning evidence.  Robert The government ultimately agreed to pay about 20 million pounds to the people who brought this lawsuit which works out to roughly 4600 dollars each.  Jad Abumrad Yes here's what I do not understand. Why would they even save those documents?  David Anderson Well looking through the collects that have now emerged it is quite clear to me that they wanted to save documents that showed that not all the European staff in Kenya had been happy about compulsive force.  Katie There is a letter written in 1953 by the colony's attorney general. He observed that detention facilities in Kenya were Distressingly reminiscent of conditions in Nazi Germany or Communist Russia.  Jad Abumrad Oh so you think that people... some of the British officers in Kenya saved the files precisely because they were damning?  David Anderson Yes they saved stuff that would demonstrate that we did not like this.  Jad Abumrad Whatever the reason here's why the Mau Mau case has become so much bigger than just the Mau Mau case. As soon as journalists and historians learned about the existence of those files they started to relentlessly poke and request more documents. And soon those 1500...  Katie Very soon that became 8800 files. And then 20000 files. And then 1.2 million files. And at the time the estimate was that the files occupied about 15 miles of floor to ceiling shelving.  Robert What?  Katie 15 miles.  David Anderson The process that has been invoked by the Mau Mau case is going to have even wider repercussions than people yet realize.  Jad Abumrad We got a little... Just a little waft of that when we were talking with a woman named Mandy Banton.  Mandy Banton Senior research fellow at London University.  Jad Abumrad She used to work at the National Archives in London. And we called her just to help us parse all this stuff. And at one point I asked her is this just a Kenya thing? And she said  Mandy Banton Oh no no no it is not. By any means.  Jad Abumrad And then she explained that after the Mau Mau case the Foreign Commonwealth office which is the technical name for the place that was holding those documents...  Mandy Banton Almost immediately afterwards it admitted that it actually had documents from 37 former colonies.  Jad Abumrad Whoa.  Mandy Banton Yes exactly.  Robert You mean that there could be dirty stuff from Malaysia dirty stuff from Palestine dirty stuff from-  Mandy Banton Cyprus you know the obvious sort of trouble spots if you like.  Jad Abumrad I mean this is like a rewriting of history essentially is what could happen?  Mandy Banton Well it is a rewriting of history. And I mean there are now quite a lot of people looking at these comparatively newly released records.  Jad Abumrad Now both David and Katie cautioned us that the new stuff when it comes out might not be quite as revelatory as all those Mau Mau files.  Katie Well I think there are nuggets. And I think... I think historians will find them.  Jad Abumrad For David Anderson one of those nuggets might be the documents about the Cold War.  David Anderson Those could be historically really very very important.  Jad Abumrad For Caroline Elkins  Caroline Israel and Palestine and Malaya and Singapore.  Katie And I want to know what is in those Hong Kong files.  Jad Abumrad There is over 250000 documents on Hong Kong just Hong Kong. Which sort of brings us to the situation that we are in now.  David Anderson Just the most ridiculous ridiculous stupid situation imaginable.  Jad Abumrad Which is that for the moment the British government's policy-  David Anderson Is that all documents must be reviewed and redacted before release.  Katie So each file needs to be looked over by what is called a Senior Sensitivity Reviewer. Although colloquially it is just weeders. It is basically retired senior diplomats. So if you can imagine you have got 15 miles of papers and you have got literally a couple of dozen retired diplomats.  David Anderson And they sit in an office literally turning pages trying to stay awake.  Jad Abumrad Sitting here I just imagine like take a little sip of tea and redact. All day long. Sip redact. Sip redact.  Katie And at the rate that we are going-  Jad Abumrad By the time these files finally see the light of day  Katie It will not be within my lifetime. It could literally be hundreds of years.  Jamie York I keep thinking about these two groups of elderly folks.  Jad Abumrad Again producer Jamie York.  Jamie York The litigants in the Mau Mau case are in their 80s and 90s. It just strikes me that what a crazy lucky break for them that in the very final years they are alive that they have survived to hear this apology from the British government and acknowledgement of the story they have been telling for 50 years.  David Anderson Well I   Jamie York I suspect others will not be so lucky?  Martin Day Think you for putting it that way because I am having got to know the plaintiffs in the case when they came to London it was very clear to me that what mattered to these people was not a financial settlement at all. But rather acknowledgement. Just simple acknowledgement that these things had been done to them. So on the day that the barrister for the crown stood up in court and to all of our astonishment said quite simply the British government admits the tortures. Once I gathered my wits and looked round behind me in the court two of the plaintiffs were in tears. And it brought home to me what a traumatic appalling experience this had been for them. From start to finish. So yes I agree for them to get that triumph was remarkable. Remarkable.  Robert But says our producer Jamie York it was really remarkable only for some people.  Jamie York So when I went to Kenya and I was talking to these people who had lived through the emergency I wanted to know about what they thought of the settlement. And a lot of them were like what settlement?  Terri They had rumors about the government of Britain having agreeing to apologies.  Jamie York Some of them had heard about it. Some of them had not. But it does not really matter to them because the people who got paid that is just a tiny sliver of the vast majority of people who suffered.  Jamie York What this one guy told me is that what he and most people what they want need is not so much an acknowledgment it is to get back what was taken from them.  Terri Pieces of land a place where on can keep some goats or cows.  Jamie York So that he can do what any 80 90 year old wants to do leave something behind.  Terri To give their children and blood children a better life.  Robert Special thanks to  for first bringing us this story and to Martin  and to Faith  of the Kenyan Human Right Commission.  Jad Abumrad  for the use of their music. And Sruthi Pinnamaneni for production support. This story was produced by Matthew Kielty. Original music from Matthew Kielty. A hell of a lot of travel and reporting support from Jamie York. I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad Thanks for listening.  Michael Hey this is Michael. I am calling from Culver City California. Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad. Our staff includes Brenna Pharell Eldon Horn David Gebel Dylan Keefe Matt Kielty Andy Mills Latif Nasser Kelsey Padgit Arianne Wack Molly Webster Soren Wheeler and Jamie York. With help from Damiano Marchetti Molly Jacobson and Alexandra Lee Young. Our fact checkers are Eva Dasher and Michelle Harris.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 