Can you just say who you are? I am Maria Matthiessen Sarah's mother. My mother you are my mother. Yes I am your mother. You were referring to me in the third person. No I said Sarah's mother. Right. But I am right here. You said who am I? Maria Matthiessen. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Sarah Koenig sitting in for Ira Glass who is here by the way. He is just going to show up a little later. But I am hosting the show today because this show is all about my mother Maria Matthiessen-- Mrs. Matthiessen to you. You can call her Maria if and when you are invited to do so. That is how she is. She has standards strong ideas about how things should be done. She has a lot of rules about language for instance. You do not say couch it is sofa. Where is my pocketbook you say? Nope. It is a handbag. Not a hand bag a handbag. Perhaps you did not hear the difference there. I assure you Mrs. Matthiessen did. But my mother's most interesting set of rules is about conversation. About what you do not talk about. She is got an actual list of off-limits topics. Never talk about how you slept. Nobody cares. Never talk about your period. Nobody cares. Do not talk about your health either. Nobody cares.  Nobody ever cares about other people's health. I mean if it is something serious and it is a friend obviously you want to hear about it. It is the common colds the-- Aches and pains. Aches and pains it is really tiresome. So when I call you and say oh I have the flu and I am feeling terrible in your heart you actually do not care about-- No I care and I say well I am so terribly sorry and oh you poor thing. And then I forget about it go on with my life as most people would. The list is seven items long. My mother did not invent it. She learned it from a friend a French friend whose French mother told it to her. But even though it is not my mom's invention it codified the topics she already thought were unworthy of conversation. So to review we have got how you slept your period your health. What else? Your dreams. Nobody cares about your dreams. And never talk about money which Americans do all the time including me. So all these things should be off the table because they are boring? Yes. So it is just to keep boringness out of your life out of conversation? Although talking about money is considered in certain circles extremely rude. Not rude just-- Vulgar. Vulgar not done. So the others are done I assume. It is just a question of whether you want to bore people or not. I mean are you allowed to talk about it with your family or just not at a gathering of friends or something? I suppose so if you want to bore your family. My mother takes this list pretty seriously. In fact she is so dedicated to the eradication of dull and self-indulgent droning that she even added two topics of her own. Diet is a very big thing not to talk about. It is really boring. That includes your weight-loss regime and your food restrictions. Gluten vegan dairy-free she hates all of it. And finally my mother's number one killer of discourse her crown jewel-- Route talk. Route talk is when people tell you how they arrived or how they came how they got on the road which road how long it took. That is the top of my list for what you do not talk about. Those who transgress who break these rules and bore my mother are usually forgiven. We are all boring on occasion. And my mother is the first to admit that she herself can be boring. But they are not forgotten. The most infamous episode of route talk for instance was committed by a famous movie star who drove to our house on Long Island from New York City. The movie star was Robert Redford. Robert Redford was coming to our house. We were all super excited. And he told us how he came from New York all the way out here. Then I got lost in Shirley. And then I asked the cop. And then he recognized me and asked me for his autograph. And the whole thing which takes two hours from New York took two hours for him to tell us. Was he dead to you after that? Pretty much. Then there was the menstrual criminal. Oh I have got my per-- we had a guest here once. And the whole weekend was taken up with her period.   What do you mean? Oh it was appalling-- the cramps and the thing and running to the store to get equipment. And the whole weekend that is almost all I remember about her. Do you think it is possible to have exceptions to all of these say at a dinner party you know some story that would be worthy of a dinner party that would be about these things? Do you think there is exceptions where those could actually be good stories to hear? Not really. I mean I am looking at the list. Route talk is just completely out of the question. Diet-- especially at dinner parties you do not want to hear what people cannot eat. Today on our radio show we take on my mother and her French lady list. Our mission to prove her wrong to delve into the most boring topics in the world and wrench from them stories of such excellence and entertainment that my mother will be forced to rethink the entire course of her conversational life. Does she think we can do it? I doubt whether you can find great stories. I challenge you. All right well so if we do it-- I am not sure we will succeed. But if we do it maybe I will check in with you and play some of them for you and see if you are-- Convinced. Convinced. Fine. I will keep sort of an open mind. Actually that should be on your gravestone. Here lies Maria. She had sort of an open mind.  Stay with us. I hope you will too Mom. OK so it is been a couple of months since we had that conversation. Mom you are here in the studio. And during that time in those intervening months a bunch of us here at the radio show went out looking for exceptions to your rules for stories that are super-interesting on these topics OK? That you would welcome at a dinner party. All right so we are just gonna jump right in. The first story stars Ninon my friend Ninon who you know. Oh good. Yeah. For people who do not know Ninon she is French. Which means her mother is also French just like the lady who originated your list Mom. So when I told her about your rules actually she reacted like it was all totally normal because it turns out her mother taught her similar rules including one of the most sweeping and potentially paralyzing conversational rules in all of Europe which is she said to Ninon-- before you open your mouth first ask yourself is this interesting to anybody? So I am turning to her for the menstruation rule-- never talk about your period nobody cares. My specialty is to have gynecological issues when I am abroad. I taped Ninon in an actual dinner party. It was in August and we were outside. And I did that because I wanted to create the very conditions under which according to you a story like this should not succeed. OK so this story happened when Ninon was 25. She was a graduate student. And she was doing research at an archive in Washington DC. And she was staying with this really nice American woman who she would met back in France who'd kindly offered her a place to stay. And so I was staying at her house and I was still in the phase where you are not completely comfortable. She was so kind you know? She was like you can stay any length of time. And I did not have to pay any rent. OK now for Ninon's so-called specialty. She discovers that she has some sort of gynecological cyst which she has to get removed. It is a small surgery. And so now is when I admit to you that this story is not strictly about menstruation. But I am going to beg your indulgence. I am going to beg your indulgence. That is cheating I say. But just suspend that judgment for second because I promise you it has every hallmark of a menstruation story as you are going to find out. OK so anyway-- just hold on-- so Ninon needs this little operation. And then I went to the hospital for a day and came back. And so this operation involved my heavily heavily heavily uh blooding? Bleeding. Bleeding. And so I had to wear these giant pads which I would never seen the size of in the first place.  It was basically like being in diapers. They were so huge which was already very uncomfortable. So I had to be nice to this woman. So she obviously knew what had happened. I was very vague on the details. I did not really say anything. So a couple of days after the operation her host this nice woman tells Ninon she is having a little dinner party at her house for 8 or 10 friends and would Ninon like to join in. And so Ninon says sure. And so that night she goes downstairs to the party. So you know I had made sure that I was perfectly fine. I had gone to the bathroom changed my diaper was wearing some conveniently large gown that was not too tight. And so I was perfectly comfortable and making chit-chat. And suddenly I caught from the corner of my eye something that I could not quite process at first which was one of those giant pads but filled with blood like to the brim under the buffet table in plain sight for everyone to see. And I was talking to this complete stranger who was like he had a huge ZZ Top beard. And it was really like a double-take. This is not true this is me being very insecure about bleeding. So it was quite plain in view under the table. And I seemed to be the only one who had noticed. I do not know. I panicked. I thought OK what is going? Immediately the first thing is I need to get rid of that diaper. I need to pick it up I need to seize it and dispose of it. So I made my way to that table while talking with him. I remember very well the DC subway that he had somehow participated in making. And I had planned in my head while he was talking that I would just drop something and pick up this giant pad and just leave. So wait what'd you do? What'd you do? What happened? So I went near that table. But before I got there-- There is only one way this story gets worse for Ninon. Dog.   Yes. You are right. And then at some point the dog was let in. A Labrador. A yellow lab. Let us say it again. The dog was let in. And I thought my god the dog is going to-- That is right he is going to. And sure enough he did not have the same sort of subtle approach as I did. And the dog--  OK so when I first played this story for my colleagues here they all said it was too disgusting what happens next. It is. OK. So I am just gonna tell you. So anyway the dog does exactly what you think the dog's gonna do. It sees blood. It tears into the giant pad. And it is a yellow lab so it is all showing on it is snout the aftermath of this. At some point I did go to the dog and wrench it off the dog and fold it and put it away. And the woman did come to me in the kitchen. And she said I am so sorry. Because she knew. She knew you-- She knew. She would noticed the whole thing. And she figured out that the dog-- in fact she explained to me because I could not figure out how it was possible that this thing had landed under the buffet table. That was the thing that was missing for me. But it is her dog in fact who had-- Taken it. Yeah. She said nobody had noticed which I found very hard to believe. But nobody showed that they had noticed. They were kind enough to just ignore it as though it had not happened. It was like being in a nightmare. You know it felt unreal. It felt completely unreal. Total humiliation. Right? Total humiliation. That is the hallmark of a good menstruation story. Poor Ninon. I know. OK OK. We are going to score these on whether we have succeeded in finding exceptions to your rules basically whether we have proved that these can be good topics of conversation. But hold your thoughts right now on Ninon's story because I am going to go to the second story now. And just to explain for this show my fellow producers all did stories. And for the next one we need Ira. Hi Ira. Hey there. Um so Mrs. Matthiessen-- so I call you Mrs. Matthiessen right? Whichever. You may call me Maria. Oh well thank you. Yeah. I heard the beginning of the show there. I needed your permission and now I have it. So Maria I was sent out to find a story about diet that would be interesting for you. Oh you are literally rolling your eyes at me I just want to say to the radio audience. And to find one I turned to this guy named Steven Bratman. And he has spent a lot of time around people with extreme and unusual diets. So for starters in the 1970s he worked on this organic food commune in upstate New York where the kitchen had to prepare meals for people with wildly different deeply-held beliefs about food. I remember that there was a group of people that we called the rabbits because they were sitting at one table and their plates were just piled high with mostly lettuce maybe garnished with some onions and carrots or something. But the macrobiotic table was everybody had brown rice. And the purer you were the less you had in addition to brown rice. So there were regular vegetarians and there were vegans and there were people who did not eat nightshade plants like potatoes or tomatoes. There was a whole non-onion non-garlic Hindu-influenced crowd. And there were meat-eaters. And these were all at different tables. Arguments would just break out between the tables. No actual fights because everyone was expecting the meat-eaters to be the aggressive ones. Actually the raw-foodists were the most aggressive ones. But the meat-eaters were much bigger. As the years passed he became a doctor and a writer. He practiced alternative medicine. And he encountered and treated people who would arrive in his office doing things like-- there was a woman who decided that yellow foods were best for her body and that is what she tried to eat. He had another patient who had shrunk to 95 pounds because her entire diet was Jerusalem artichoke pasta canola oil and watermelon. One woman was faint and weak all the time because she was getting very few calories and almost no protein from her diet. Her consciousness was not very clear. She was a little bit delirious from being in a state of starvation until eventually she became so weak and so mentally confused that she was riding her bicycle to work and what appears to have happened is she just drove out into traffic. She just rode out into traffic and was hit by a car and was killed. And you think that is a result of her confused mental state from the starvation? She was starving not very lucid. This was not anorexia. In anorexia you eat less hoping that you are going to lose weight. Dr. Bratman says that these patients did not really care about losing weight. Their diet was about making themselves more pure. So the woman on the bike said that when she would eat cashews or brown rice or food with protein in it she felt like she had done something wrong. It felt sinful to her. And he found that arguing basic science and nutrition with a lot of these patients felt like arguing with somebody who had strong religious beliefs. They believed what they believed where he felt like there was nothing he could say to convince his patients that their diets were hurting them. And so to get through to them he invented a name. If I had a disease name for it I could say no you have a disease. You have orthorexia. He became actually kind of famous for coining this term and wrote a pretty good book about it called Health Food Junkies. The press is still constantly years later hounding him to talk about this subject. But does he actually like to talk about diet? Talking about diet is a fantastic interest to people who are obsessed with diet of course. And that is a lot of people. And to their fellow hobbyists of course this is very interesting. But to you? Um to me no. In fact he hates it. And he was in northern California in the Bay Area where I guess people are constantly telling you about how they have switched to this or that diet and how wonderful it is. And he avoids this at all costs. When he meets people and they find out what he is done-- he is written a book and he is an expert on this-- he tries to shut down that conversation as fast as he can. Which is to say he has spent years of his life of his career thinking about diet. And Maria he is just like you. He thinks it is boring to talk about. And I bring all this up to say have we achieved the goal? Have we found an actual interesting story about diet? And have not we proven to you that you can have an interesting story that is about diet? Well Mom? Have we found an interesting story about diet? Well yes because he is an expert. And almost anybody who is an expert on something can be interesting. I will quibble with you there as somebody who is interviewed many experts. But your bigger point stands. Yeah OK.   OK so I am going to keep a tally here. We are going to have two columns. And if we found a story that is interesting on these supposedly boring topics we win a point. If we fail to do that you win a point. So for this one I am going to say This American Life wins that round. Now can we just go back to Ninon's story the period story? Yes yes. How do you score that? Well of course she made it interesting. If Ninon told it everybody would be riveted. Is it something I want to hear at a dinner? Possibly not. So half a point? Should we split it? Yes. OK. So that is one and a half points for This American Life and half a point for Maria Matthiessen. All right moving on. Next up is health. Aches and pains. So my colleague Brian Reed was assigned this one. Hi Brian. Hi Mrs. Matthiessen. Hello. All right. And Brian searched to prove that aches and pains can make for compelling conversation. He discovered a couple who clash on this very point. So the husband is on your side. He does not like it when people talk about their health especially at the dinner table where a lot of this story takes place as you are gonna hear. The guy's wife on the other hand-- well Brian you tell. So Mrs. Matthiessen when Gary Edelstone was growing up family dinner parties were proper affairs-- fine China silver serving bowls neatly folded napkins. Let us just say these evenings dinner conversation included were conducted with a certain decorum. Gary longs for those meals because at the dinner parties he is attended for the last 23 years-- the dinners he has every month or so with his in-laws his wife Deborah Lott's family-- for one thing people do not even sit down and start eating at the same time. Here are Gary and Deborah. Then when everyone has gathered around that is when the conversation will usually turn to medical symptoms. Just out of the blue? There is usually some cue. The cue is having a body. You know having a body at the table is enough of a cue. The cardiologist said I have a young heart. Good. And low blood pressure. Good. Deborah it turns out comes from a family that obsesses over health. And when they all get together she and her brothers Bob and Allan and Allan's wife Karen their banter goes on overdrive. So Deborah and Gary were kind enough to record the last dinner party they hosted. They just put a couple of iPads on the table with the mics running. And they assure me that this is a typical dinner for them. But it is anything but typical. So Mrs. Matthiessen it is my pleasure to be able to serve you the five course meal that you thought you never wanted a gourmet tour of affliction and malady with a family of disease connoisseurs. Ready? Yes. All right. So for starters some amuse-bouche-- I hope I am saying that right. Deborah asked her brother Bob why if his doctor says he has such a young heart he complains that it pounds so heavily when he climbs the stairs. He does not know why. He thought it might be a magnesium deficiency. You want some magnesium? Can I take it? Here we go.  That is Gary you can hear there already getting irritated. And we have not even gotten to the appetizer yet. So Deborah have you had your semi-annual brain scan? No but--  We all want to know. --I do have floaters right here. Your eye? Yeah. So when they go from a dark room to a light room I have a light show right here. So I went to the ophthalmologist and he said that the vitreous is drying up like this and separating from the-- what? Oh my god. Well no he says it is normal aging. Do they ever put oxygen in your eyes? OK. Well that is when I had my hole in the back of the eye. Well that is not for floaters. Well I had a floater. It was a piece of oxygen that floated around for years. So were you having hemorrhaging? Huh? Were you having hemorrhaging? There was blood in the eye. Cindy had that where she hemorrhaged. How you doing over here Mrs. Matthiessen? Well  I think this maybe one for me rather than This American Life. Let us not get there too fast. You ready for the fish course? Yes. What did you get from those clams? Just had a little indigestion. Oh Jesus. Clams? You were so sick. Well clams can get you sick. I once got really sick from mussels. I mean I had to stay away from shrimp. It was relentless. There was repartee about magnesium and potassium and blood pressure and bacteria and gluten and nitroglycerin and nitrates and Demano sugar and quinine and the flu shot and probiotics and vitamin B and the various effects each of these things might have on one's body. There were tales of muscle spasms lungs full of fluid insulin attacks skin issues. She was a very nice person but she sheds. Everybody sheds. There were also natural segues into some of the other outlawed topics like how people were sleeping at night due to leg cramps for instance. Or this was a big one diet. There were debates. Should you drink caffeine if you have atrial fibrilation? Could eating too many hot dogs give you stomach cancer? Is salt good for you or bad for you? How about quinoa? Oh quinoa that is a good product if you can handle it. At one point somebody started talking about his hot flashes. You heard me right his hot flashes. And suddenly Deborah began having one herself. I was not having them until he said it. And now I am having one. But perhaps most telling were statements like this. They got a new blood thinner but I am not gonna try it. Why? Because the one I am using works. Did you notice how Allan had no actual news to report? He had no problem to complain about. His blood thinner's working just fine. But he could not help himself. It is like sports. It is like people talk about baseball scores or they talk about golf. People in my family talk about diseases and they talk about doctors. It is the culture of my family. What do you remember about how this began in your family? My father was kind of the king of hypochondriacs. And it was her father Deborah says who passed on the obsession with health to her family. By the time he was 25 he would already gotten several full-body work-ups at places like the Mayo Clinic because he was convinced there was something wrong with his rib or his breathing or his digestive system. He was terrified of germs. He would not eat anything that his hands had touched. As a kid Deborah says if you stubbed your toe he would inspect it with a magnifying glass then douse it in a red antiseptic called merthiolate and then have a long discussion about whether or not you should get a tetanus shot. And I mean we had a lot of rituals about food preparation. He was always concerned that there would be botulism in the canned food so we would open the cans in a ritualized way. He would go to the cupboard and take out the can and wash it thoroughly then examine it to make sure that none of this seams were in any way compromised. And then we would all lean over the can while he opened it to hear it puff. Puffing meant that it was airtight. And it would be this big moment to hear whether the can puffed and whether we would live if we ate what was in it. And he would do it with a certain sense of humor. He knew that it was kind of nutty. Or he would say boy this is neurotic behavior. Is not this neurotic behavior? But he would never fail to do that to check the cans. No. No no no. It is remarkable that Deborah is able to talk so easily about all this because eventually her father went beyond compulsive. He became psychotic. For the last 15 years or so of his life he suffered from full-blown delusions about his health and his doctors. Deborah says he took to his bed and never really got up again. And Deborah's mom encouraged the health talk too. Deborah says her mom was very emotionally reserved so the way the kids found to get her attention was to declare a good symptom. I mean that is how she and my father communicated. He would have a symptom and she would fuss over him. So I think that from a very early age we learned that that is how you get love that is how you talk about love. So please bear that in mind as we now bring out the main course for the evening. No matter how uncouth it may seem or squeamish it may make you remember they are talking about love. I went and had my ears cleaned. Oh god.  Yes. Six months. 100 impaction on the left 80 on the right. That is what happens if you let things go. They fall apart. And here after Allen informs everyone that his stomach has been really sensitive lately. Your large intestine-- you had a colonoscopy? For dessert Allan told everyone about a guy he heard on the radio talking about all the terrifying spots in restaurants where traces of fecal matter have been found. Oh my god your family.   Gary have you ever just had to get up and leave the table? Absolutely. Very often I just get disgusted with it and walk out. They do not seem to notice though. So the question is was I successful? Is Deborah's family proof that it is possible to talk about your health without being boring? No. It would be unimaginable in my life. Well I actually was not asking you that question. I was asking them. Oh. Well it does not bore me because I guess I am kind of libidinally invested in it. And the way my family does it is so vivid and grotesque that I am not bored. It is kind of like a horror movie. Was it boring Gary? Do you find my family boring? It is unpleasant. It is unappetizing. But I do see that they are relating to each other with it. This is how they bond with each other. But no they are not boring. If Gary can give them that much Mrs. Matthiessen surely you can too. Not really. Oh come on. No. I am with the poor husband. I would walk out. I think it is one for me. Really? I do. I think you did your story wonderfully successfully but I thought it had a few longueurs. What is a longueur? Pardon me?  No where it dips into boringness. That is the longueur? That is the longueur. OK. All right. So that means the score is now tied actually. One and a half points for This American Life one and a half points for you. OK. Deborah Lott's a writer by the way and she just completed a memoir about all this stuff called Tell Me I am Still Breathing. Coming up-- oh Mom can you do this part? Coming up we find out if my daughter's colleagues know better than I do about what is interesting and what is boring. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This podcast of This American Life is supported by MailChimp. More than 3 million people in businesses use MailChimp to design and send email newsletters. Teams can share feedback in real time to create campaigns and email subscribers. MailChimp also distributes hats for cats and small dogs. More at MailChimp.com. MailChimp email marketing for everyone. It is This American Life. I am Sarah Koenig sitting in for Ira Glass. Today's show The Seven Things You are Not Supposed to Talk About according to my mother who is sitting right here with me. Hi Mom. Hello Sarah. And so we are taking you on Mom and your list of supposedly boring topics. For this show we went out and found stories on all of these topics except for one. We did not do money. And we did not do money because you said it is on your list not because it is boring but because it is tacky. It is crass. Plus you say you do it all the time. So we skipped that one. But for all the others we went out and found stories that we hope will prove to you that these topics can be interesting. You be the judge. Yes I will be. As you always are. All right we have come to the second half of our show. The score one and a half for us This American Life one and a half for team Maria. OK. OK. Next up on your list sleep as in you do not think people should be talking about how they slept the night before anything. That is right. So we found a story about how someone slept that we think is not boring. You are going to hear from Dr. Cady Coleman. She is an astronaut for NASA. And she has spent more than 4300 hours in space including a mission in 2011 where she lived aboard the International Space Station for more than five months. Five months she was up there. Our senior producer Julie Snyder talked to Dr. Coleman about what it is like to sleep in space. For me it was just delightful because it was so clear. There just were not any forces anywhere. You cannot feel the weight of yourself whether it is on your side or on your back or on your stomach. You do not feel like you are anywhere. And we each have a little cabin. It is the size of a phone booth. It has a door like a panel door that just folds in and out. And that is big enough certainly for you and a computer and what we call a sleeping bag. And it is not a think sleeping bag just a little bag that you can slither into and you can zip up. And it has armholes. And you can also clip that-- it is got hooks on it. You can clip it to the wall so that you do not go anywhere. Or in my case I liked to actually tuck my legs up inside and then zip it up. So that actually kept my legs tucked up sort of sleeping in that kind of curled up position. Oh so you are like in the fetal position but you are not having to use-- Any muscles or anything. And so I would do that. And I would sometimes just unclip my sleeping bag just because I really liked that feeling of kind of floating kind of tumbling waking up in the morning and having to figure out oh I guess that is the bottom of the thing that holds the computer. I must be upside-down. Things that are different up there about falling asleep are people down here are always thinking OK I want this pillow or that pillow. I like a soft one. I sleep this way I sleep that way. And because we do not have gravity it means we cannot rest our head on the pillow. And some people really miss that. But we have found a way around it. And there are some people that basically strap a pillow to their head so it feels like their head is on a pillow.   What if you are a drooler when you are sleeping? I do not think you are gonna drool. Really? Why not? Well you know drooling is this pooling of saliva right? And then it spills out because of gravity. You know you turn on your side and it is sort of spilling out. It is not really going to be even pooling because now that I think about it pooling is a gravity function. Dr. Cady Coleman. So that one was about how you slept or how she slept in space. This next one is about dreams. Right? So you think people should not be talking about their dreams to other people. I do think that. Right. All right. I am going to remind you that a couple of weeks ago I took you to an apartment on East 36th Street in New York City. Remember? I remember vividly. OK. Here's the tape. How are you feeling right now? Apprehensive to say the least. You might be called upon to share. Well I as not doing it. We were going to a dream club a group of people who meet twice a month to talk about their dreams. Your idea of hell basically. Here's what you said at the time. As a hobby every two weeks seems unbearable. We took the elevator to the sixth floor.  Hi. Come on in. Hi hi. Hi I am Sarah. This is my mother Maria Matthiessen. It was this small close apartment. We sat in this small circle in the living room. And it was dark in there remember? I do remember. Yeah. One lamp or so lit. There were boxes piled up. Books everywhere-- art books psychology books books about Egypt. It was very very quiet. That day's group was four people. One guy was sick remember in the bedroom. And then they started. They each told one dream. I am in a projection room that is a complete mess. The carpet and the sticks of butter and the bird and my cat Charlotte. And he stands up with the chest pains and then he collapses on the ground. The way I am playing you this tape now of these dreams in these fragments that is because that is how I was hearing them at the time. I could not for the life of me focus on what people were saying. And I want to be clear it had nothing to do 