From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. We had both been dating the same person and she had been dating him for a while and then broken it off. And then I had met him and so he and I were dating. And then he started talking about her. Oh Julie she is just this fantastic artist and she lives in a trailer in the woods. And I go out there and drink wine with her and listen to fabulous music and we just have deep intellectual conversations that kind of stuff. And it turned out that he was seeing both of us at the same time. It took a while to figure that out though. And in the meantime this guy had the sheer nerve to introduce the two women to each other Erin and Julie. And they became friends. And things kind of exploded with the guy and they stayed friends at first with him and then after that with each other in this emotional purgatory that I think most of us would never put up with after our 20s which is exactly how old they were. It was just kind of a weird close friendship because it revolved around us not liking this guy and that is kind of what it was based on at first. Even though we both knew that we kind of did not like each other either. Because we both really secretly did like this guy and wanted him to like us. And we just resented each other for even being in the picture. I do not know. That was Erin. Here's Julie. I believed that we just happened to have a bad beginning and that if we had met under different circumstances-- and she said the same thing-- if we would met under different circumstances we probably would not have created all that bad history this like push me pull you kind of relationship. And they continued this way as frenemies having fun together now and then but also getting into these huge horrible fights all the time for four years. Long after they both stopped talking to the guy. And the real question is when you are in this kind of situation-- and who among us has not been in this situation where you have some friend where the thought of hanging out with his friend totally stresses you out. And you think are we really friends then? The question is why do not you cut it off? And it turns out this is a question that science has actually looked into. Science done by a psychologist named Julianne Holt-Lunstad and her colleagues. Well of course our guiding question was well if these relationships are potentially detrimental why would people keep them? Julianne Holt-Lunstad has done a number of studies on ambivalent and frustrating friendships. In one of them she had people rate their friends and their family members. How supportive they are how much stress they cause on and on. And she found that half half of our relationships on average are with people that we care a lot about we feel positive towards and we also have real conflicts and negative feelings about as well. People talk about friends that are tons of fun but can be really competitive. A friend that is really great when they are around but are incredibly unreliable or can be really insensitive at times. I recall one person even saying I stick around for those few times that she is good to me and is nice. But most of time it is not good. When Hold-Lunstad and a colleague began their examination of why we do not just break up with these friends they had a hypothesis. They thought there must be external factors that made ditching these friends really really hard. Like they are friends with all your other friends or your kids are close or you are part of the same church. Or they are your next door neighbor. What are you going to do move? You basically run in the same social circles and so it may be very difficult to avoid this person. And so you have got these barriers to ending that relationship. But to their surprise they found this is not why people stay in these troubling friendships. People stay they found for reasons that they impose on themselves. Either they tell themselves things like I am not the kind of person who just gives up on somebody. I stay friends. Or they tell themselves that the good times outweigh the bad. Like with these two women Erin and Julie. They stayed frenemies for years because they got something from it. They got caught up in this competitive thing where Julie would give Erin advice and Erin would like the advice or not like the advice. And somehow neither of them could let that go. I guess we are both attracted to defending our own honor. And we liked to write so a lot of the time we would write long emails about-- no no no. This is why you suck. This is not actually what happened and let me point out to you this. So her logic in the emails just seemed so flawed I just wanted to like no no. No that is not how things went down. I just wanted to defend myself to her. And then I guess we both thought that the other person should be the one to cut it off. I do not know why I feel like it would be horrible for me to say OK we are done with this. And now let us kind of go on our separate ways. In another study Julianne Holt-Lunstad and her colleagues wired people up to take their blood pressure every time they interacted with another person for three full days and found that friends that we feel ambivalently about raise our blood pressure more cause more anxiety and stress than people that we actively dislike. In other words frenemies are bad for our health. And they are all around us 50 of our relationships. And today on our radio show we examine them in all of their nefarious forms. The ones that we can only blame ourselves for having the ones who simply cause agita without meaning any harm against us and of course the very few who actively scheme against us like characters on a TV soap opera. Smiling to our faces and then quietly going off and doing things that we do not like from friends or anybody else. We hear all these types today our show in four acts. Act one Chasing Amy. What do you do when you are not sure but you think maybe your sister is starting to act like your frenemy? Act two I am Here to Make Frenemies. In which we head into what we believe might be the world capital of frenemy behavior. Act three Speak Now or Forever Hold Your Peace. David Rakoff in that act and an impossible wedding toast in rhyme. Act four The Case of the Long Lost Frenemy in which a childhood friend mysteriously shows up after years for reasons that are revealed over time. Stay with us. Act one Chasing Amy. Family members can so easily be frenemies because you are stuck with them and you love them and they sometimes do things that make you feel very weird. Jeanne Darst tells this story about herself and her sister. Amy's estrangement went undiagnosed for some time. Because in our family someone retreating in anger is hardly a bacon cooler. People are always suddenly putting on their coats and requesting a ride to the Metro North Station and my therapist said no contact for six months and you cannot come if you are drinking and I will not come if he is there. And I will come but do not sit me next to her. I always picture a sweaty John Madden frantically scribbling our Thanksgiving plays on a blackboard. So it took some time to notice but maybe estrangement is by definition a matter of time. This is how it went. Our white Volvo sulks through the traffic up the West Side Highway. My brother-in-law Henry is driving and I am in the back seat behind him. His wife my sister Liz is in the passenger seat and behind her is her four-year-old Luisa in her car seat. We are like two car fractions. Henry and Liz being the numerators Luisa and I the denominators. We are on our way to Jersey City to meet our sister Amy's new husband a Muslim from Tunis she met in an Arab chat room moved in with and married at the City Hall in Philadelphia in just under six weeks  My mother called me as soon as she got the news. Apparently they met in a chat room she tells me whatever the hell that means. And he cooked her a lot of Tunisian dishes and then he whisked her off and married her. Wow. I would not mind seeing what he is putting in those dishes I say. Oh I think a lot of coriander. Probably cumin garlic. That would be my guess. Now let me ask you something Jeanne. Do not you think it is just a little peculiar getting married so fast? We have not even met this  character. Well this is the same woman who went on a second date to Chile I point out. That is right. What was she thinking? She could have been murdered. The guy went to Dalton Mom. That does not mean anything what about the preppy murderer? Robert Chambers did not go to Dalton. Oh for God's sakes Jeanne. Be serious. Now did you ever see the movie Green Card with Andie MacDowell? All right well she plays an American woman who meets a Frenchman. Mom I know what a green card situation is. Well all right  I did not think you knew what these people do. I am highly upset over here. My mother has a few stock phrases. Highly upset is a big one. I do not know that she is ever been regular upset. She prefers to head straight to highly. I am not so much supportive of Amy's hasty act as I am invigorated. Just the idea of having dinner with that kind of recklessness has perked my spirits up. What is with this traffic Henry says. Liz has thrown my big black scarf over Luisa's head to block the sunlight so she can nap. We giggle when we see the effect the scarf creates which is that of a burqa. Cover her ankles Liz jokes. This day does not feel unfamiliar. Beginning with Amy's first boyfriend my parents were highly upset. J.J. was a mechanic from Tuckahoe the next town over from ours. He listened to Van Halen did not plan on going to college and reeked of Polo cologne. I would be smoking drinking some stolen warm beers up in my room chatting on the phone when a waft of that signature Ralph Lauren scent would hit me. Soon enough our older sister Liz would fly in and shut my door. Sheesh the front hall smells like the ground floor of Bloomingdale's. God. My parents had strategy sessions about J.J. held late at night in their bedroom after they would both had quite a bit of red wine with dinner and a couple scotches. I would be coming up from the kitchen and they would trap me for a night cap interrogation. Oh Jeanne Doris would yell from her bed throne. Come here for a minute my mother would say casually as if she were not asking you to make a quick betrayal of your sister before hitting the sack. We want to talk to you about this J.J. character Jeanne  Even by his fourth child my dad was still tinkering with his father persona. I sat on the gold satin divan shut my eyes and stretched my legs as if I were merely there to maintain my base tan. Dammit Jeanne  your mother's talking to you. Is he a thug my mother repeated. Well what is the strict definition of a-- Someone who is having sex with Amy my mother blurted. All right let us all settle down my father said. We are way off track here. Now how well do you know J.J.? I do not. He seems a bit wayward. Is that your impression? I think Amy's smoking pot my mother added. You can smell it a mile away. My father paused for a moment. Maybe that is why he wears so much cologne. Steve please my mother yelled putting out one of the two lit cigarettes she had going in the ashtray. Can I go to bed? I asked. Yes yes. We are not going to solve anything tonight my dad said. You just could not outlast these two long distance meddlers. They could go on forever. Amy and I were the close ones when we were younger. As little kids when we had no money to go to the movies we would get a basket and go up to fancy houses on Egypt Lane cutting people's flowers out front putting them in the basket and then ringing their doorbell and selling them their own flowers. Those people thought we were frigging adorable and we made some decent money. We drank we smoked around the house we snickered at curfews and poo-pooed the law. Amy took my road test for me when I was 16. But at some point after college I guess Amy started to seem less rebellious and fun and more bitter and suspicious. I remember more than once being on the subway with her and her glaring at me to keep it down when I would been talking about say whether we should get pizza or burritos for dinner. Jesus Jeanne keep it down she would whisper. She never cleaned. When I would visit her place and see the dishes piled up her sheets sort of half on half off I was often tempted to ask what band is living here with you? When the shower broke in her apartment instead of having it fixed she told me I just shower at the gym now. Which was confusing because she did not work out. She seemed to still see the world from a teenager's perspective. If you commented on her Don King hair she might snap everyone in this family is so totally judgmental and superficial. And she was probably right but by 30 it was a slightly stale pose to strike. Her relationships romantic or otherwise tended to end badly and it was invariably the other person's fault. One day when I asked how Mark her filmmaker boyfriend at NYU was she said matter-of-factly-- past tense-- he claims I tried to strangle him at the Lion's Head last weekend and now he will not return my calls. Total psycho. She disliked everyone more and more. And at some point that included me. One night I was drunk and flirting with the man who was about to take her to Chile for their second date. And I said to him you should take me to Chile I am a lot more fun. Truly jerky thing to say and I apologized more than once but apologies have never impressed Amy. I was banished to some otherness a place where suburban a-holes and parents who did not approve of blue collar boyfriends went. And there seemed to be no getting back in. As we drive around looking for Amy's new house I realize I do know something about  Amy called me a couple weeks after they met and said she was seeing this new guy and that he had a really big-- you know. But when the phone call came on Easter Sunday that Amy had run off and married some Muslim from Tunis no one had met I did not think everybody stay calm I talked to Amy about this guy two weeks ago he is got a big penis would quiet my parents' concerns. After she first got married I called Amy and asked how things were going. Fantastic. Marriage is great. I highly recommend it Jeanne. Amy the happily married woman. I like it. It seems like magic. What time is it Amy asks. 3 oclock. You have got to be kidding me. 3 oclock she yells I am at the farmer's market waiting for  We are supposed to be buying vegetables for a special Tunisian curry and I have been here for an hour. An hour. Do you believe this guy? I swear to God some people have no regard for other people. You ever notice that she explodes. A stretch of silence on the line. Also he is obsessed with cleanliness. He said my apartment on Sackett Street was not clean. Longer pause. OK scratch everything I just said. Things are fantastic. I love being married.  and I just have some you know cultural differences. He is very umm driven. He is always following up with things. Like if I say I am going to go get my driver's license renewed he will ask me later how the DMV was. You know he assumes if you say you are going to do something you are actually going to do it. He can be very funny Jeanne. That is funny I say. How can I stop my sister from blowing this I think without actually saying the words do not blow this Amy? And she does not. Instead we have been invited to their new home for dinner. We find her building and ring the buzzer. Amy comes down to the door in a floral apron. They have curtains. Her new apartment is smoke free. Lots of sunlight and clean bedding on the bed which boasts a headboard and pillows of all different sizes. Her hair is combed. Apparently they do not drink. Her bathroom seems to say hello I am here for you. Look my toilet flushes and there is plenty of toilet paper. Should your scarf accidentally fall on the floor there is no need to throw it away when you get home. Simply pick it up and put it back around your neck. Back in the living room you are greeted by smells of-- is that salmon in the oven? Excuse me? Oh Tunisian salmon with roasted vegetables fresh tuna croquettes chopped Tunisian salad. You are then greeted by the chef your new brother-in-law. He is slightly petite very handsome with black hair and olive skin and a smile that makes you hungry. He is  And you like everyone else instantly like him. Our oldest sister Caroline who drove in from Connecticut with her husband Jim and their two boys talks of her son's summer plans. He is taking a course at the local nature preserve called CSI New Canaan. Is not that cute? They investigate crimes in nature.  smiles a lot but his English is not that great and I can tell he has no idea what she is talking about. Wedding photos go around. Pictures of Amy with scads of swarthy Tunisian men at the City Hall in Philadelphia. Something about the evening starts to feel less like a beginning and more like an ending. It does not feel like hey everybody starting tonight we are all off on a North African adventure we will never forget. Wait until we all hit the Sunday markets in Tunis. It feels like a kiss off. Like  chopped and chopped and diced and broiled his ass off for close to a week because they wanted this night to be perfect. The perfect goodbye. We are getting dumped. Our sister chose to get married without any of us and each photo we pass around seems to say this is my new life. You are not in it are you? Amy is now converting to Islam and this is a little tough to accept. My sister-in-law Leah says when I tell her that Amy is becoming a Muslim it is not a great time to do that is it? And that is perhaps what Amy's banking on an international wave of disapproval. Like the whole world is now sitting on my parents' gold satin divan highly upset trying to spoil this latest love interest of hers. My mom still wants someone to ask whether  has his green card but there is just no way anyone is close enough to her now to do that. When Christmas rolls around and my brother-in-law Jim pours the wine and my father monologues about how Zelda Fitzgerald was in fact a better writer than Scottie to Quinn my sister Caroline's four-year-old son I deduce that Muslims do not hang stockings and drunk drive to churches at midnight to celebrate the birth of Jesus. Otherwise Amy and  would be here along with everyone else. When our mother dies of alcoholism I figure it is one context Amy has to see us in. It turns out they cannot enter a church. We know this because once again they are not there. After Mass they do show up at my sister's house.  looks very nice in a lovely navy blue suit with faint pinstripes. Amy has dark hair now. When my wedding rolls around I call and ask whether  would like to bring some North African dishes to the wedding. He might be able to do that she writes. Everything is by email now. But do not forget it is Ramadan so we cannot eat before sundown and we cannot be around drunkenness so we may have to leave early. They did not come to the wedding. I get a short email the next day saying she had a stomach flu and she wishes us the best. There is a sort of nothing now where she once was. For the first time I realize I may never see my sister again. A few days later I get out at the Pacific Street subway station and as I walk past all the Islamic stores selling body oils and burqas and soaps and hookahs and incense I am aware that I am now a married lady. And I am eight months pregnant and my tank top is not modest. Which in Islamic circles means I am not honoring my husband. And I am tempting the males of Atlantic Avenue. And in the eyes of some Muslim women imprisoning myself by involving myself in sexual interactions with men. My father is the only person in our family Amy will see a man she has lots of problems with but I hear that  believes it is important that she honor him by seeing him. I want to expose her as a fake Muslim I suppose. I want to out her as someone who does not believe in anything much less Allah. Someone who is too lazy to pray five times a day let alone learn Arabic. Someone who will eat off novels before she will do her own dishes. I cannot accept that this new Amy might be real. I guess I want to prove she is the old her because I had a relationship with that person. I waddle by the main center of Islamic worship on Atlantic Avenue and whisper  you. A friend asked me recently if Amy just has the guts to do something most of us cannot end relationships that just do not mean anything anymore. Maybe that is true. Maybe I should admire her for that respect her even. But I would rather have Amy back. Jeanne Darst. She is just finishing up her first book Fiction  Ruined My Family. It has no publisher yet.  Act two I Am Here to Make Frenemies. And now we head into the natural habitat of frenemies. The ecosystem where they are perfectly adapted where they thrive and are rewarded as in no other place. I am referring to the world of television. Especially those shows where frenemies are just built into the basic DNA of the drama that unfolds. And let us get past the whole Gossip Girl The Hills soap opera type program and go straight to reality television. Rich Juzwiak is a full-time blogger for VH1. And in his spare time if that were not enough he has his own personal pop culture blog which means that his days and nights are filled with watching dissecting and interviewing the people on reality TV. So he has given it a lot of thought. And last year he noticed something about the frenemy friendships that happen on reality TV. Reality TV finds its charm in repetition. Especially the shows where people compete. It is like sports. The game stays the same and the fun is watching how different people play. And the same phrases pop up whether it is chefs models or Bret Michael's groupies. Thrown under the bus. Not here for the right reasons. We could leave at any time. I want it the most. This is not the last you have heard of me. This is not a game. We are in an alliance. You broke our alliance. Now I need a new alliance. But there is one oft repeated phrase that stands out above the rest a battle cry that defines the philosophy underpinning all of competition reality TV. I am not here to make friends. I am not here to make friends. I am not here to make friends. I am not here to make friends. I am not here to make friends. I mean I do not want to be a cliche but I am not here to make friends. Those are clips from I Know My Kid's a Star Forever Eden The Bachelor Hell's Kitchen The Pickup  Artist and Top Chef. I made this last year and posted it on Youtube a super-cut of every iteration of I am not here to make friends that I could dig up. 55 clips 3 minutes and 20 seconds of self-centered goodness. You guys are not my friends. I am not here to make friends with you. I am not here to make friends. When I am watching an episode where this phrase pops up my response is always now it is on. Now it is a reality show a place where an aggressive declaration of incivility is not just acceptable it is inevitable. I am not here to make friends. And what makes I am not here to make friends quintessential reality TV is that it is impossible to imagine ever saying it in real life. If you are in a situation where you actually do not want to make friends sitting for hours next to a stranger on a plane joining a pickup game of basketball what would you gain by announcing to everyone-- I am not here to make friends with you guys. I could care less. As far as I can determine I am not here to make friends was first said back in the pleistocene era of reality TV the very first season of Survivor by runner-up Kelly Wiglesworth. I keep telling myself oh I have enough friends. I did not come here to make friends. You know da da da. And the truth is I like these people. Note that I am not here to make friends like reality TV itself was in its infancy back then-- wistful innocent sweet even. The fangs came out and the phrase settled into dogma thanks to The Apprentice's Omarosa Manigault-Stallworth the godmother of reality supervillains who justified her ruthlessness with the simple brush off. I did not come here to make friends. I said that from day one. It snowballed from there not here to make friends. And let us call it NHTMF for short became the calling card of what is often the most important character on the show the one we love to hate. The catalyst for the heaping portion of unpleasantness we are about to enjoy. I as not here to make no friends. And enjoy it we do. It is particularly funny when the cuddlier types on reality shows are taken to task by the not here to make frienders. As though politeness is what is truly offensive in this reality world. This happened during one season of The Bachelor when one woman spat out with disgust to another contestant-- Are you here to make friends? Because I am not here to make friends? No I am not here to make friends. I am not saying that. Can you hear how eager the woman she is talking to is to make clear that she is definitely not here to make friends either? As Jade Cole colorfully reminded us on America's Next Top Model-- This is a competition. This is not America's Next Top Best Friend. See also Pumpkin from Flavor of Love. This is Flavor of Love not Flavor of Friendship. There are no friends on reality TV only frenemies you have not discovered yet. Maybe we could kind of be buddies? Girl no. I am not here to be friends girl. NHTMF works so well as a plot point one contestant I know told a journalist she was coached by the show is producers to say it. But plenty of contestants just pull it out on their own. It is as though the savvier ones are saying if I am going to be spun or edited to look bad anyway I am going to take control of this. Because-- I am not here to make friends I am here to win. I am not here to make friends I am here to win. I did not come on the show to make friends I came on to win. The thing is they do not. Most of the people who say this phrase do not go on to win their respective shows. The winner is usually the person who flies under the radar or whose victory makes the most uplifting story arc. Or in the rarest of instances the person who is actually the best chef or the best designer. As not no friend of mine here. I do not need no friends. I will step on the back of their neck to get to the top any time I feel it is necessary. Though of course there is winning and then there is winning. If you spend any time talking to your typical reality star you come to realize that the greatest reward of all is camera time. And the easiest way to achieve that barring any real skill is to tap into your id and simply unleash. And it works. We remember Omarosa but can you even recall the name of the first winner of The Apprentice much less a single sentence he uttered? I am not here to make friends. Yeah whatever. I am not here to make friends. I am not here to make friends. I am here to win fights. I am not here to make friends with anybody. I am here for Bret. I am not here to make friends. I am not going to apologize for how I feel. I did not say nothing bad. I am not here to make friends and if I am not making any enemies. Rich Juzwiak. His blog where you can watch both of his I am not here to make friends videos is fourfourtypepad.com. That is four four write out the word each time. F-O-U-R. fourfour.typepad.com. Coming up David Rakoff and how to make a wedding toast for people that you have never wanted to see married. And what are you doing at their wedding anyway? That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show we chose a theme and bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Frenemies. And if the word frenemy just seemed to show up in your life arrive in your life a couple years ago unannounced I think that is how pretty much everybody feels. Though its first appearance in the world that anybody can find is all the way back in 1953. Gossip columnist Walter Winchell says in one of his column's Howz about calling the Russians our Frienemies? Did not catch on. Lexicographer Erin McKean agreed to research this a little for us. She used to edit The New Oxford American Dictionary and now runs the online dictionary Wordnik. She says the next citation of frenemy seems to be 24 years after Winchell 1977 by the writer Jessica Mitford. When she was talking about her sister and her sister's frenemy and said they played together constantly and all the time disliking each other heartily. Mitford said that she and her sisters used the words as kids and they thought they made it up. It still does not catch on. The next citation is 15 years after that 1992 in a book of word games. And that author also thinks that she is inventing the word. It is not until the late 1990s that it shows up and the people using the word seem to believe that any other people have ever used it before them. It is in a hit song by the New Radicals You Get What You Give in 1998. And then it was on Sex and the City in 2000 late 2000. Is that the turning point? I think so. After that she says it starts showing up all over the place. You get the executive editor of The New York Times Bill Keller declaring that Google is one of those companies The New York Times quote refers to as a frenemy end quote. In 2008 it is put into the online Oxford English Dictionary. In 2009-- just two months ago-- it enters Merriam-Webster's dictionary. But Erin McKean found it in one place much much more than any other young adult novels targeted at teen girls starting at around 2006. But a lot of these words are just forcing their way to the surface of English. They just need to be made. And I think frenemy is a word like that. Really? Yeah. I mean well think about it. So the sounds fit together really well. You know friend and enemy. They have a matching sound that you can blend together. So it is a blend word. And people love the juxtaposition of two opposites. Wait are there other words like this where they sound alike and then they get smashed together into one word? Oh it happens like all the time. Like guesstimate. And that is from 1936. Do you have another? I love this one and people say this one all the time with a little thrill of thinking they are the first person ever to say it. You know that someone is entering their anecdotage. Oh I have never heard that. So it is like you get old and then you start telling your anecdotes and that is it? Right. And I think the essential part is you start telling the same anecdotes over and over again. Right. You got another? Lots of people say that they are the first person to create the word linner. Linner? Linner is that meal you must have between lunch and dinner. That just makes me feel mad at somebody hearing that. You are like oh for God's sake wipe that look off your face. Right. And a lot of people who come and talk to lexicographers think they are being really clever when they use the word slanguage. So slang plus language. But you do not find that clever? I just do not use it very much myself. Does the fact that there is a word for this phenomenon frenemy indicate that it is a common thing to happen in the world? Oh no. Because there are words for all sorts of crazy and unusual things that are fairly rare. I mean there are lots of things that we talk about that we do not have single words for in English. When we do not have a single word for something in English that we think we should have a word for it is called a lexical gap. Well like what is an example of that? Pretty much the most famous example of a lexical gap is that we have a word for people who have lost their parents. You know we call them orphans. But we do not have a single word for parents who have lost a child. So there are lots of people who have made suggestions. None of which I can remember right now because none of them have stuck. Right. That sounds like some sad contest on public radio on the weekend where they would have people write in to make up that word. Right. It is worth noting that while Erin found tons of citations referring to girl frenemies she only found a couple in which men were each other's frenemies. NASCAR driver Dale Earnhardt is described in a book as being frenemies with Michael Waltrip on his team. And the most random citation? It linked to the word with Hindu scripture from two millennia ago. Someone was trying to refer to the Bhagavad Gita and there is some line in it that says Self is the friend of self. Self is the 