It is This American Life from WBEZ Chicago I am Ira Glass. Valentine's Day is around the corner and here at the show we were talking about romantic comedies and how they do not get a lot of respect. I think it is maybe because of the bad ones. Every part of them just feels too obvious you know? The couple meets but they hate each other at first. They go through some things that make them you know learn some important lesson about themselves. You know from the very beginning they are going to end up together. And then no surprise they do. When it is not done well it is all too obvious and tired and you can feel the gears working in the thing. One of the producers on our show Neil he wholeheartedly really loves romantic comedies has favorites that he is watched over and over dozens of times. He once collaborated with the producer of Sleepless in Seattle on a rom-com script that never got made. He has all kinds of thoughts about them. And he realized this thing about rom-coms and what is so satisfying about the good ones that I really think is true. I used to say that it was just watching just the close-ups of two beautiful people being funny and clever and witty to each other. Yeah. Being their sort of best selves or sometimes worst selves but then eventually their best selves. And that was kind of enough for me. Now why shut me out? You know what happens to people who shut everybody out? They live the quiet peaceful lives? No they fester. That is Meg Ryan and Kevin Kline with a fake French accent in the movie French Kiss. Fester. I am festering. Inside fester and rot. I have seen it happen. You will become one of those hunched-back lonely old men sitting in the corner of a crowded cafe mumbling to yourself FRENCH ACCENT my ass is twitching. You people make my ass twitch. If there is there is a simple thing that resonates for me it is that in the best of these movies you get to see two people get along in a way that is great. It is just like nice to see that part of people. Yeah. Yeah. And I think if you are projecting at all it is the idea that you can be that connected to someone or receive someone that well. When you see it you are like oh yeah that would be nice. That is why I like the ones where people spend a lot of time together. That is key for Neil. In Neil's personal ranking of these films which has the 2009 film The Ugly Truth at the very very bottom the three rom-coms that sit at the very top like the tousled hair above Hugh Grant's head are French Kiss Two Weeks Notice which is a real estate rom-com and his very favorite-- lots of people's favorite-- When Harry Met Sally. And they are all at the top of the list for this very reason because of how much time the couple spends together talking. Take When Harry Met Sally. The thing that I like about it is that at least you get a vision of what their relationship actually is because they spend 12 years together before they finally get together. So you get to see real fights. You get to see their relationship grow. You get to see their personalities clash. And so they actually have a chance to fall in love by talking to each other as opposed to in romantic comedies now or like where there is the montage and music playing and then you are just supposed to come out of that thinking they are in love they actually spend time with each other. Like there is a sequence of scenes in When Harry Met Sally where they are just getting along and they are just talking on the phone. Hello? You sleeping? No I was watching Casablanca. Channel please. 11. Thank you. Got it. Now you are telling me you would be happier with Victor Laszlow than with Humphrey Bogart? When did I say that? When we drove to New York. I never said that. I would never have said that. All right fine. Have it your way. Have you been sleeping? Why? Because I have not been sleeping. I think if I was dating someone who hated When Harry Met Sally I do not know that I could date them. Like  I do not know that I could. If you are not interested in the relationship between Harry and Sally I do not really understand what kind of person you are.  I do not know. Wow. That is not to say that you are a bad person it just means I do not think I understand you. OK. Romantic comedies are contrived. The people are way more clever and way better looking than in real life. The stories are full of things that would be ridiculous and sometimes maybe even on the stalker-y side if they happened to any of us. But this totally artificial form when it works reminds you of what it feels like to be in love and of somebody who wants to listen to what you say and who says things that you want to listen to. And so for this Valentine's Day we are devoting our show to rom-coms. In each of our acts today we found a story that reminds us of some aspect of a movie rom-com. And yes we did go on a search for stories of people running sprinting down the street in real life in an urgent rush to tell someone that they love them. Stay with us. Act One Meet Cute. So the first thing a rom-com needs is for the couple to meet in an appealing way the meet cute. The meet cute is supposed to make you feel like no matter what happens these two people should be together. There are so many ways to do this. In The Wedding Planner Matthew McConaughey saves Jennifer Lopez from a runaway dumpster that is rolling down the street. In Pretty Woman Richard Gere gets lost in a very fancy car and Julia Roberts gives him directions. Bringing Up Baby Katherine Hepburn picks up Cary Grant's golf ball on a golf course. In Reality Bites Winona Ryder throws her cigarette into Ben Stiller's car. And Neil's favorite When Harry Met Sally-- The thing about When Harry Met Sally is it has an extended meet cute which I like. They take a road trip from Chicago to New York and so they are kind of meeting for several hours. And from the very beginning it is contentious because Harry has all these theories about relationships that she finds like crazy and off-putting. What I am saying is-- and this is not a come on in any way shape or form-- is that men and women cannot be friends because the sex part always gets in the way. That is not true. I have a number of men friends and there is no sex involved. No you do not. Yes I do. No you do not. Yes I do. You only think you do. You are saying I am having sex with these men without my knowledge? No what I am saying is they all want to have sex with you. They do not. Do too. They do not. Do too. I think it sets up the chemistry. Like it sets up that there is something about them that you want to root for. Meet cutes do happen in real life but for this first story in today's show we have a piece of fiction a story where the meet cute plays an important role in the story as a turning point for one of the characters. The story's by Simon Rich. The actor Daniel Radcliffe read it for us. I do not understand Professor Xander Kaplan said while his girlfriend sobbed into a pillow. I thought you liked tulips. I do she said. It is just-- you get them for me every year. It is starting to get a little impersonal. I mean this time you did not even include a card. Xander winced. Her reasoning was sound. I apologize he said. I obviously made an error in judgment. He tried to take her hand but she pulled it out of reach. Do you remember what I did for your birthday? She said I got you that new Bunsen burner you wanted. I knit you a pair of wool socks so your feet would not get cold in the lab. You never make that kind of effort for me. All you do is think about yourself. That is incorrect Xander said. What about Emiladium? It took me nine months to synthesize that element and I named it after you. You were going to synthesize that element anyway Emily said. You needed it for your secret project that silver orb thing in your lab. Emiladium was not about me it was about you. I mean for god sakes you will not even tell me what it does. Xander sighed. Is there anything I can do to make it up to you? Emily blinked back some tears. I do not know. I mean it is not like you can just go back in time and get me a different present. Xander's expression brightened. Wait there he said. I will be right back. Xander hurried down the hall crept into his laboratory and locked the door behind him. His time machine was right where he had left it. He climbed inside the silver orb and flicked on the power switch. His plan was simple travel back in time to this morning find a new gift for Emily and bring it to the present. But there were a couple of risks. There was a chance for example that using the machine would cause the universe to explode. He would never tested the thing out before. There was also no guarantee that he would be able to find a good present. He only had enough Emiladium to fuel five minutes of time travel. That did not give him a lot of wiggle room. Wherever he went he would have to shop efficiently. Xander was usually a pretty good problem solver. He had for example invented a time machine. But quantum physics and nuclear hydraulics were trivial compared to the rigors of gift shopping. He massaged his temples trying to remember if Emily had dropped any hints lately. He vaguely recalled her staring at a vase in Crate  Barrel but that place was full of vases. There was no way he would be able to pick out the right one. He was trying to remember the name of her favorite perfume when a thought entered his head. Maybe he was thinking too small. His machine could transport him to any time and place in human history. Why go back a few hours when he could go back a few centuries? He knew Emily loved Shakespeare. She would written her senior thesis on one of his tragedies. Why not travel back to the Globe Theater and swipe her an original script? It would not be too difficult he reasoned. All he would have to do is dash back backstage and grab one. It would be the most impressive gift she would ever received in her life. But which tragedy had Emily written her thesis about? He knew it was one of the king ones Richard the something or Charles the something but there are a bunch of those. What if he got it wrong? It was too risky. There was always jewelry. He knew the general construction dates for King Tut's tomb. He could park in front of the pyramid run inside and snatch a jade stone. He entered the coordinates and was about to push the lever when he started to second guess himself again. Buying women jewelry was always chancy. Emily had very specific tastes and what if she did not like jade? It was not like he would be able to go back and return it. He thought back to the night they met. He was finishing his PhD at the time and his lab had closed early because of Easter. He would stuffed his papers into his briefcase and shuffled through the rain to the 116th Street Station. It was 405 AM and the platform was deserted except for Emily. It had been several days since Xander's last conversation with a human and when she started to speak to him he felt the stirrings of a panic attack. But Emily's friendly smile managed somehow to put him at ease. She was awfully cheerful given her circumstances. Her MetroCard had expired she said and the machines were broken. She would been stranded for over 20 minutes. Would he be willing to sell her a ride? Xander nodded and watched as she rooted around in her purse for some cash to pay him back. It was a moment or two before it occurred to him that she had given him the chance to be gallant. You-- you do not have to reimburse me he said. I will swipe you in for free. She thanked him enthusiastically and then shockingly wrapped her arms around his torso. Xander was not used to physical contact. And although the hug was brief it caused his entire body to tingle from head to toe. It was a startling sensation like walking through an electrically-charged field. He still felt that way whenever she touched him. Xander was an atheist and believed fiercely in random causality. But by the end of their shared subway ride he was sure he would experienced a miracle. This wonderful person had shown up out of nowhere and given him a chance at love. And in return he would given her three years of misery. He thought about all of his Saturday nights at the lab ignoring her calls making excuses. He thought about the way she cried when he handed her the tulips. How could he make up for three years of romantic ineptitude with a single birthday present? He closed his eyes and concentrated. There had to be a right answer. Cleopatra's crown. Joan of Arc's sword. A baby dinosaur. What was the greatest thing he could give her the very best present in the world? It was the hardest problem he would ever attempted to solve. But then as always the solution came to him. Xander parked his time machine by the 116th Street Station and dashed into the subway. It was 345 AM a little over three years in the past. Emily was standing by the turnstile swiping and re-swiping her expired MetroCard. He took a deep breath and approached her. Let me guess he said. Expired MetroCard? She chuckled. How did you know? I had a hunch. Come on I will swipe you through. Oh that is OK she said. I will just go to the machine upstairs or-- The machines are all broken he said. You would better catch this one he said. The next one will not come for another 20 minutes. Before she could protest he took out his MetroCard and swiped her through the turnstile. She smiled back at him with confusion. Are not you coming? she asked as the train pulled into the station. Xander averted his eyes. He worried that if he looked at her he would start to cry. I need to take a different train he said. Well at least let me pay you for the-- That is all right he said his voice breaking. It is a present. He was about to turn away when she leaned over the turnstile and hugged him. It was exactly as he remembered it her long brown hair brushing softly against his neck his entire body tingling with warmth. Thanks she said. He tried to say you are welcome but the words got caught in his throat. He waved goodbye as she boarded the train then he marched out of the station alone. Daniel Radcliffe reading the short story The Present by Simon Rich from Rich's book The Last Girlfriend on Earth. Radcliffe is also the star of Simon Rich's new TV show Miracle Workers which will be out soon on TBS. And he stars in a new film Beast of Burden that comes out this month.  Act Two The Obstacle. The main body of most romantic comedies is there is something or a group of things keeping them apart. There is always obstacles that are keeping these two people who are fated to be together apart. The obstacles can be big or little. Tom Hanks is not over his dead ex-wife in Sleepless in Seattle. In Notting Hill a guy falls in love with somebody who is too famous for him. In Bridget Jones she is going after the wrong guy which of course is Pride and Prejudice and I do not know so many films. It is one of the most common. In When Harry Met Sally they each are involved with other people for a lot of the film. But the real obstacle is that they are friends which in this film has a special meaning because if you remember when Harry met Sally on that car ride originally he told her that he did not think that men and women could ever just be friends. So this is new for him. Billy Crystal has a scene in the film with a sidekick character a best friend played by Bruno Kirby where they talk about this. I do not understand this relationship. What do you mean? You enjoy being with her? Yeah. You find her attractive? Yeah. And you are not sleeping with her? No. You are afraid to let yourself be happy. Why cannot you give me credit for this? This is a big thing for me. I never had a relationship with a woman that did not involve sex. I feel like I am growing. We went out looking for a real-life couple facing some obstacle that kept them from being together and that is not actually very hard to find. But one of our producers Elna Baker heard about a couple where the obstacle that confronted them once the relationship got going was pretty unusual. It was a couple one of her friends was in years ago. Quick warning to everybody who is listening to this podcast version of our show there are some words that we have un-beeped in this and other stories in the program. If you do not want to hear that maybe you are listening with kids you can get a beeped version at our website thisamericanlife.org. Anyway here's Elna. My friend Michelle Buteau is one of the most audacious ballsy people I know. And she brings this attitude into all aspects of her life including relationships. This is a story about her and her boyfriend. It starts in the '90s when she was 18 going to college living in Miami. And as college students do she adopted a new cool persona for herself one that wore dark lipstick cargo pants and danced in reggae clubs every weekend. I loved dancing. I wanted to be a fly girl on In Living Color. I definitely would have been Snoop Dogg's video ho if I had the chance. Yeah. And yeah I was out one night at a teeny bopper club and that is where I saw him. I remember the smoke machine was working. It felt like we were at a bar mitzvah somewhere in Jersey. And literally when the smoke cleared I am like who is that tall boy with the khakis on and the big gold chain and the curly hair? How do I talk to him? And I kind of just sort of like inched my way over to him on the dance floor. I remember doing this move where we are like-- we both sort of like roll into each other's body and I can get a whiff of his Drakkar Noir and I was like mm yes yes yes. And my heart was beating so fast I could hear it. And I am like oh my god this is what love is. I feel like a Puerto Rican Molly Ringwald. Like in any good first encounter there were magical coincidences. We were walking out to the parking lot and we realized we both had the same car Mazda Protegees both leased by our moms. Was that a moment where you are like this is fate? I mean not only did I go to this club-- Oh definitely. I am like what? Like out of all the cars in the world out of all the dance clubs you and me. He was 18 too but he seemed really grown up. He worked at Best Buy selling DVDs and he was also a drug dealer. And in my mind I was like oh my god he is so cool. He is so good at math. He counts so quickly.  In case you are thinking drug dealer red flag he was barely a drug dealer. He dealt weed. Nearly every woman I know has dated a weed dealer. They quickly got serious. And he was Michelle's first big relationship. He was funny smart. They had good banter. And he was this incredibly accepting person made her feel comfortable confident about her body and about sex which she would never really felt before. She imagined a real future with him. The plan was-- I mean looking back on it it seems so basic but just to be with each other and to have fun and to have kids and to go out to dinner after a movie on a Friday night you know the Olive Garden Cheesecake Factory just kind of exist in a really cute apartment with beige carpet and white blinds. Yeah the American Dream. Fast forward three years into the relationship. Their lives are totally entwined. Their families are close. They vacation together. It was that point of no return place in a relationship where you are just like here it is. This is it. But there was this one thing that seemed sort of off a lack of photographic evidence no pictures of himself as a kid specifically no school pictures no prom picture. Even his mom did not have any shots of him. It was just weird. And then one night-- I had a dream that he called me up. He told me that he never graduated high school. When I called him the next day and I was like I had this crazy dream he just started crying. I could just hear him gently sobbing and he is like not only did I not graduate high school I do not even know how to read. I am just like how? Like I thought I knew you. Like what? Like have not we read something together? Their entire relationship flashed before her eyes one moment after another. Suddenly it all made sense. And I was going back. You know I realized like oh my god this is why we go to the same restaurant. We would go to the same restaurant and he would order the same thing because he could not read the menu. Oh wow. And he liked you go to restaurants that had pictures of the food. You know I would write him poems and stuff and he is like read them to me. You know it is better when I hear it from you. And never wanted to go through his mail. I had to help him. When you stop and think about it the fact that he would been able to navigate the world convincingly and keep this from Michelle for over three years it was an incredible feat. He must have been covering this up constantly. When he told me why he did not know how to read it just made my heart break even more. I mean his dad died when he was young and so his mom had to work three jobs. And he was depressed and just dropped out of the fifth grade and nobody ever noticed. His mom did not want to deal with it. And you know I am not judging because it must been so hard for her. The only thing that kept going through my mind I remember was I want to save you. I want to help you. I want to make this better. You know we are going to get back on track to what we had planned. She was not going to allow this obstacle to push them apart. She jumped into action. This was before you could Google everything so Michelle went to the library and did research on adult literacy. She broke it down into manageable steps and wrote out a timeline for him. My game plan for him was I had a list of places he could go to to go to night school a therapist he could talk to easy adult reading books tips and tricks. It was like a whole sort of care package of how to just take it on. And he was really overwhelmed by it. I do not know. It is like OK this is a really big deal. I get it. Michelle's dyslexic and her boyfriend did not have a learning disability. But still she could empathize with how hard it can be to read. And at first Michelle's boyfriend was totally on board with the plan. But after a year of Michelle offering him solutions he still had not taken any action. It just seemed like he did not want to. He got around the world just fine without reading. She started realizing oh wait his illiteracy was a way bigger problem for her than it was for him and it really started pushing them apart. I stopped being his girlfriend and sort of became his coach or his mom and it was not fun for either one of us. I tried every tactic. I was patient. I was nice. I was stern. And then I kind of backed off. I am like whatever. He needs to do on his own time. It started to bleed its way into every moment they shared together like she could never fully relax anymore. Even when they were happy she would snap herself out of it and think wait no no. We are forgetting that there is this huge looming problem and we have got to fix it before everything can be OK. She started to resent him. We do not even laugh anymore. We are not even holding hands like we used to. We are not even having sex like we used to simply because you are not even going to this class. Like if you just went to a class I would just be so happy. Did you feel like if you love me you will learn to read? Absolutely. I mean is that weird? But I totally felt like that. I was like who is going to read books to our kids at night? Like you have got to get it together. This was like the bane of my existence. I was like-- and I could not really talk to anyone about it because how embarrassing. Because I did not want my friends to think less of him you know? And I wanted him to still feel like a man so I just kind of carried this by myself. And at some point I just looked at myself and I was like you have got to go. But even then it was just like how do I leave somebody when they are down? Well in a sense it actually-- like it made the relationship last longer because everything became about him reading. And so if you could just crack that or fix that then maybe it would work out. Oh my god what are you? Dr. Phil with tits?  Yeah I mean I feel like I always live like that. If I could just lose those 20 pounds. If I could just have a clean house all the time I could do everything I really want to do on my list. And so yeah there was that. You know if we could just get past this then we will live the life we are supposed to live. That is the promise of an obstacle. You feel like all you have to do is conquer it and you get your happy ending. How would it play out in a rom-com? The obstacle being his illiteracy? Yeah. Ooh OK. Boom. He learns how to read. He writes a New York best seller situation. It becomes a movie. Channing Tatum plays him. Lisa Bonet plays me. And we live happily ever after with a bunch of mixed children in a huge apartment with beige carpet by the Cheesecake Factory. Amazing.  See I was imagining that he would greet you at the airport with like a sign that he had handwritten himself that was like Michelle I can read now. Oh my god. And then you would see it and you would start crying. And you would be like oh! And he is worked so hard behind your back secretly going to night school the whole time. Aww. I know. Instead he just like fucked a stripper. OK she was not a stripper but she was sleeping with Michelle's boyfriend. Michelle suspects that the entire time she was struggling to get him to read he was cheating on her. She was so focused on the obstacle she thought they were facing she totally missed it. Of course as rom-coms go the thing missing from this story is com at least until Michelle started doing stand up and figured out how to tell it on stage. When did you decide this story's funny. I am going to put it in my act? Because it is actually really sad but-- Yeah you know most of my-- the first joke I ever wrote was about him. Will you tell it to me? Sure. It is lines at Disney World remind me of my ex-boyfriend three hours of waiting for a two-minute ride. Ayo. But the story I did not feel comfortable doing it on stage till 13 years later. And I stayed with him but then it got like real ratchet. Like we would get into arguments and I would say shit like but you said you would learn how to read for me. Like that is not how you want your first relationship to be.  In her act she even talks about how great it feels to tell this story on stage. But it just felt so good. It was so cathartic. I was like yes I got to get this out. And I just started doing jokes about him and blogging about him. And my friends are like you got to be careful because you are using his first and last name.  And I was like bitch I do not give a fuck because that motherfucker cannot read!  All right. Good night everybody. I got to go.  Elna Baker's one of the producers of our show. Michelle Buteau is going to be hosting a new podcast Late Night Whenever from WNYC. It is going to launch in April. Coming up a real life rom-com that involves Shakespeare real kisses that are like stage kisses and the police. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program for Valentine's Day Rom Com stories mostly taken from real life that mimic things that we have seen in romantic comedies. We have arrived at Act Three of our show. Act Three The Run. This of course in a romantic comedy is the scene where somebody has to cross town at some point literally sprinting to chase down the person they love and stop them from either marrying somebody else or winning them back somehow. It does not always end up at the airport but lots of these do. And honestly I have to say I was surprised we found this ever happened in real life but here is one story like that. Marissa Kohan's dad used to like to tell the story. It was about his own marriage. He died a couple of years ago. His name is Ron. The story goes like this. When he was getting together with Marissa's mom Marissa's mom Debbie drove across the country to move in with Ron in Florida. And before she left she had the post office forward her mail to his house in Florida. And he saw a letter arrive from her ex-fiance. I think it is crazy but my dad decided that he saw that letter and he had to read it. This is Marissa. So he just opened the letter read the whole thing. And as my dad put it my mom's ex-fiance was declaring his undying love for her and was begging her not to go and was saying he wants to get back together with her. And my dad freaked out. He decided this is it. It is now or never. He decides he is going to meet her in Dallas which is where she is in her car trip and also is where the ex-fiance lives. He hurries to the airport. The way he told it was he was going through the airport you know running through the Florida airport. Gets a ring out of a little gumball machine. Puts you know however much that costs a quarter or whatever in the gumball machine pulls out a Mickey Mouse ring-- because it is Florida naturally. Gets on the plane. Flies and meets my mom in Dallas. And right there in the airport gets down on one knee the second he sees her. I had no plans of seeing the ex-fiance at all whatsoever. This is Marissa's mom Debbie. She had no idea the ex-fiance had written a letter or that Ron had opened it. All she knew was that he had offered to drive the rest of the way across the country with her and was going to meet her in the Dallas airport. He gets off the plane and I greet him. And practically the very next thing out of his mouth is will you marry me? And he opens up his hand. And in his hand he is got this little Mickey Mouse ring in his hand. And I am not proud of my reaction at all.  Do you want to hear it? Yeah.  My reaction was are you crazy? This is the craziest thing I have ever heard of. I barely know you. That was my reaction. I have to say that is my favorite part of the story. I could have been a little more gentle. No what I love about it is that in the movies when somebody does a gesture like that often it is way crazier than what he did. Yes. And kind of stalker-ish. But the movie just acts like oh that was a totally lovely thing for a person to do because true love will out. And I like that you had the normal human reaction that a normal person would have. It would be like are you nuts? Right. Right. Right. Right. Yeah. Well I am too pragmatic to fall for that one I guess. True love eventually did win out though. At their wedding in addition to a regular ring she also wore the Mickey Mouse one. There was another story we heard about somebody running to win love which actually kind of paralleled the run that happens at the end of Neil's favorite rom-com When Harry Met Sally. In When Harry Met Sally the way it goes is that it is New Year's Eve. Harry's wandering around the streets of New York and he realizes that he loves Sally has to tell her now breaks into a run to go tell her. It is very New York-centric in this one because he tries to catch a cab and of course he cannot-- so he is just going to run the entire distance. David Kestenbaum has our real-life version of this story about a guy named Steve Snyder. The thought that someone actually made one of these runs in real life seems so unlikely to me that I wanted to see where it had happened retrace the steps of it. So I met Steve where the run began at this burger place on Ludlow Street in New York City. Steve is the kind of guy who is not very good at hiding his feelings. Like if this were a movie you could title it Say Everything. The setup to the run is this he would met this woman Emily at a birthday party. He was totally smitten. What I remember is the party kind of turned into sort of a tunnel vision moment. All I really did was talk to her. It did not go great. He kept asking her you want to go to a movie? Maybe we could hang out sometime. If there is a trajectory of my life it is going from clingy to a little less clingy. Steve emailed her after the party. Nothing came of it. A year passes. And just like in When Harry Met Sally they meet a second time. In Steve and Emily's case it is at the very same birthday party same apartment. And they become friends. It was the kind of friendship where really it could go either way. She seemed kind of interested in something more but maybe not enough. And the longer they were friends it was like well maybe that is what they were. Steve had a job as a film critic so they would go to movies lots of movies where they would not hold hands and not kiss. There is a pathetic moment. So Lincoln Center Station we are waiting for the train. It is like some crazy 20-minute wait where th