 Now we are going to start off the day's Sex Lies and Audiotape episode with a story about the lengths some guys go to help a friend out of a tricky spot.   So one night I am sitting in my apartment and it was late. It was 1 in the morning and I was practicing my Braille. And I heard a knock at the door. Surprised it was really late and I went over and listened for second. And I open up the door and whoever knocked did not say anything at first. I knew someone was standing there and I reached out. And I felt my friend Ryan's arm. You know we were close. I knew what his arm felt like. I felt up - I felt his shirt and he is just standing there. And he is shaking. And I just brought him in and sat him down - Ryan what is wrong with you? And he says they got sex tapes of me and they are going to have a listening party. I was like Ryan what the hell are you talking about? Sex tapes? Ryan was my best friend at the Louisiana Center for the Blind. I had gone to the Louisiana Center for the Blind to learn how to use a cane to learn how to read Braille better - just some basic life skills I thought I needed. And the first time in my life I would found a blind best friend from Amarillo Texas - always had a straw cowboy hat pushed back on his head can of cold Coors Gold in his hand - Ryan. There were only two girls at the center Doreen and Stacy. They hung out with these guys Max and William. In contrast to Ryan and me they were really confident. Ryan had been blind since about the age of 3. I would been blind since the age of 11. These guys had been sighted and recently lost their vision so these guys had known how to drive. They had a confidence about them - certainly around women - that Ryan and I did not have. So this was the main reason we did not really like Max and William all that much. Now Ryan was shaking on my couch talking about some sex tape.  I was like what? It is like what are you talking about dude?  William and Max last week got themselves this scanner. They are real popular down here in the South. They are these radios you can use to listen to police dispatch EMTs the fire department and apparently can listen to cordless phone calls too 'ecause the other night they caught me on one of my sex chat lines. And they recorded it and now they are going to have a listening party. Everyone at the center's invited. Everyone's going to hear it. I came over here to tell you I am quitting the center. I cannot take it. I am going to jump the first bus to Amarillo. I am out of here buddy. I was really annoyed at him. I was really angry with him for getting caught doing something that was so dumb. But I mean you have to understand - I was 23 years old and I would never had a real blind friend before. So there was no way I was letting go of Ryan. There are not a lot of blind people and so when you meet one the chances that the two of you will click is actually really really low. So to have this guy who felt like my blood brother I thought what are we going to do? The most important aspect of the center really the spirit of the place was learning to be independent. No one was going to give you anything. Life is not easy if you are blind but you need to understand you can do what you need to do to survive. And that is when the idea hit me. I said Ryan we can do this. We can sink this listening party. All we got to do is break into William and Max's apartment rifle through all their stuff find the sex tapes destroy them and escape into the night and you can stay at the center. I do not think he initially believed that we could actually go and get it back. So Wednesday nights at the Louisiana Center for the Blind are dedicated to bus trips to Monroe which is 30 miles south for country line dancing. And we would have a small window of time in which we could pull off the break-in. But there was one very large obstacle in our way - the night watchman. Now all of the roles at the Louisiana Center for the Blind are fulfilled by blind people - including that of night watchman. OK so there is blind-blind people - people like Ryan and me who literally cannot see at all not even any light perception - and then there are people who are legally blind which means they have 2200 vision - is actually fairly good vision. I mean they can see a lot of things. And when you do not want them to they see a lot. And this was Roland the night watchman. His job was to sit right in the middle the parking lot to make sure that nothing like this ever occurred at the Louisiana Center for the Blind. So we are just standing there in my kitchen - I remember I could not even sit down I was so nervous. I was pacing back and forth. We had put on the black sweatshirts. We put on some black sweatpants. It had actually occurred me that we could put socks on the end of our canes to be like sound condoms this kind of thing. And I got more and more nervous because like you know a lot of things could go wrong. I mean first of all we would get thrown out of the center. Second of all I mean this was breaking and entering in Louisiana. My mouth was dry. My hands were shaking. My heart was pounding. There were a million times it occurred to me I did not want to go through with this. Finally I knew we could not wait any longer. They would be coming back from country line dancing soon so open the door to my place.   As we start making our way across the parking lot it is hot hot hot. It is really humid probably still in the 90s. The sounds of the bugs down there were just filling the sky around us. It is like you could not really even hear our footsteps. And I had this moment about halfway there where I just got this shot of adrenaline. I thought you know what? This is freedom. We are doing this ourselves. It may not be smart. It certainly is not legal but at least we are giving it a shot a couple of blind ninjas making our way through the night. Any moment I thought I am going to hear the night watchman scream what are you guys doing? We are going to hear some gunshots - nothing of the sort. We got over to William  and Max's  apartment. I turned the doorknob. It was unlocked. We stepped inside closed the door behind us. It is surprising how exotic a dingy little student apartment can feel when you are committing a crime. The apartment was small and it was set up identically to my own. So it was not very difficult for us to feel our way around the living room find where the stereo was set up and next to it find one of those plastic racks from the '90s with the little slots that people kept cassettes in. We had brought an old boom box that I had found in my apartment started popping tapes in...    Oh my Lord how she shined. Papa...  Garth Brooks...   ...Tim McGraw Indian Outlaw - a song we heard all summer...    Anything...  ...Boyz II Men. Who are these guys? So now I find this - I found this - you know I felt a Maxell tape so I knew it was a you know a homemade job. And I put it in and I hear Ryan's  voice coming out saying  I am going to flip you out of them tight Wranglers and start touching up on you.  And I was like oh my God pulled the tape out of player. We snap the tape and toss it on the floor. Ryan stomps on it. We have sunk the listening party.   Ruston cops could come in right now guns blazing and this party is not going to happen. We might go to jail but we have at least sunk the listening party. We run to the door. We actually had the forethought to lock the door behind us. We run out to the parking lot. I nearly break my leg on this low iron fence that was set up around the parking lot. We - I grab onto Ryan. We stagger our way across. We hear wheels on the street. We make it to my place throw ourselves to the door. We made it. So the next day after class I went and got a 12-pack of beer and went back to the apartments. And I am walking up the concrete path to Ryan's apartment and I can hear his voice. And I went and knocked on his door. And it took him a long time to answer. And I am like what is he doing in there? So finally he opens the door but he only opens it a crack. And he is like hey what is going on man? I am like hey I you know brought some beers over. Do not you want to you know celebrate? And he hesitated and he is just like well actually I got Dorian  in here. I am telling her about what we pulled off. So maybe you want to take those beers over to Stacey  and you can tell her yourself what we did. So I took the 12-pack of Dixie beer over to Stacey's and they knocked on her door.   Thank you Adam Linn. You can catch Adam performing in New York at the only storytelling event that serves ice cream cake. Yum's the word. We will have a link to that show and to Adam's website at snapjudgment.org. That original score and sound design was by Renzo Gorrio. And the piece was produced by Anna Sussman and Ana Adlerstein.   Now when SNAP JUDGMENT returns - robots gone wild and the hottest hotel south - way way way way way south of the border. The Sex Lies and Audiotape episode - stay tuned.  