Elias stopped eating meat when he was three or four. His mom cannot remember-- it is been so long. He is seven now. And he does not think that anybody else should eat meat either and he freaks out. He cried and pleaded at his grandmother's at New Year's when he heard that she might cook brisket until she offered not to. There was the time that he got so upset in a restaurant smelling the meat cooking in the kitchen and seeing all the people around them eat their meals that he had to go sit up front by the door. And it kills him especially to think that his little brother might still be eating animals. His brother Theo just turned five and emphatically is not a vegetarian. What a surprise two brothers. Their mom Rachel says that Theo is not asking to eat meat in front of Elias. He is not asking to eat it all that often. He wants to eat meat sometimes. And I think he feels it is not fair that Elias-- he calls him the god of food-- and that Elias does not have the right to be the god of food and tell Theo what to do. It causes a lot of conflict and I think there are conversations almost every single day around this. She recorded one of those conversations for us when she was taking Theo the meat eater to a party. There was going to be food at the party and his brother was going to be there the god of food. What would Theo eat? So Theo we are going to this potluck. What do you think's going to be there? Well I hope there is meat. And if you give me meat just let me eat it. So what do you think would happen if you ate meat at the potluck? Well we would-- Elias would fight. You and Elias would fight? Yeah. Well that would be bad. But I do not know what is going to happen. Tonight is a night for Elias' class. Do you think you could not eat meat tonight so he does not have to have a freak out in front of all of his friends? What do you think? No. I want to eat some because he always says do not eat any meat for the rest of your life. I know. I think things will change when he gets older. But I just want you to think about whether or not you think it is worth it for him to scream and yell at school tonight with all of his friends OK? Think about that. OK? Deal? Well when he is not looking I will eat some. When he is not looking? Yeah. Hmm. Do you think this gives Elias too much power over Theo? Yeah. I mean it is definitely a concern. And at some point probably a year into his vegetarianism he asked that we would not be eating meat either and that the house would not have any meat. And that was something that my husband and I had to take a step back and think about. And people would say to us how can you have your seven-year-old making decisions about how you are going to be running your family? And I guess our response has always been you have to hear how our child talks about meat and how it feels to him when he sees us eat meat and other people around him and his close family eating meat. It is such a painful experience for him. OK I just want to say before we go any further if you are hearing all this and you are feeling judgy about these parents-- and I know you are because that is a national pastime judging other people's parenting-- I just want to say I totally felt that way until I heard Elias just like she says. And hearing Elias made me realize oh right. She actually is in a really tough situation where she has these two kids and they both have really strong feelings about this. And she does not want to crush either one of them. Anyway listen. Here's Rachel with Elias. What made you decide to become a vegetarian? Do you remember? Yep. And so basically I just always thought that how they got meat was finding dead animals like on the side of the road or something. But then I figured out they are actually killing them and I thought it was not that nice. So I stopped eating it. What do you think about other people eating meat? I really do not like it. And what do you say about what you want to do with your life? Like what is your goal in life? One of your goals. I know you have lots of them. To get everybody vegetarian. And what do you feel about animals? I feel like well-- Do you like them? Yeah. I love animals. And I know that there are only like 1000 giant pandas left in the world. And also 30 Amur leopards so they are pretty endangered. What do you think about the way people treat animals in general? Well most of them not very nice. Like think about lambs. They get killed for nothing. Every time you talk about that you start to cry huh? Yeah. Lambs in particular are hard for you huh? Mm-hmm. Yeah. The family did stop eating meat at home after Elias asked. Though Rachel says that they actually did not eat much meat before that either. Maybe once a week they would have fish or turkey. And for now she and her husband's strategy with their two boys is that they try to get them to talk to each other and see each other's point of view crossing their fingers that in the long run that is going to be best for both of them. In the short run though it is complicated. You know for any parent there are always the things that you let go in the short run because you cannot fight every fight. And for a while Theo the one who eats meat was secretly going out and getting turkey sandwiches with his dad after soccer. They would even dance this little turkey dance when they did it. Or here's Rachel with Theo the meat eater on a Thursday. Fridays the boys' school serves pizza and you can get plain or pepperoni. And of course Elias does not like it if Theo eats the pepperoni. What do you think's going to happen tomorrow about the pepperoni pizza? Well since we do not have lunch at the same time he will ask me and then I will just lie to say I got peanut butter and jelly or any other snacks. OK. Think it is going to work? I do not know. It will be a hard choice to do peanut butter and jelly or cheese. Mm-hmm. But what are you really going to do? Pepperoni. Hmm. So is it OK for your five-year-old to tell you they are going to deal with the situation just by lying to their siblings?  Well I will say that we have come some way since that was taped and we do not lie about it anymore. And that was sort of I think an interim fix. What made him stop lying? I think probably the more we are talking about it the more I realized it did not feel great. And so I was sort of being more open with Elias and saying you have to realize that this is the reality of who Theo is and who he has the right to be. And Theo has his own choices and he has the right to those choices even though for you this does not make any sense right now. One of the things you recorded was a conversation where you are talking to him about whether Theo has the right to do this. Can you tell me a little bit about what happens with you and Theo like when he wants to eat meat and you do not want him to and the pepperoni whole thing that happens every Friday? I normally kick him in the butt and yell at him a lot. Literally you kick him in the butt? Yeah. Hmm. Do you think that makes him want to eat meat less? No. Or do you think maybe the opposite? Opposite probably. Hmm. And what do you think about when we talk about that you cannot control other people and what they eat? What do you mean by that? That it is not your job to tell other people what to do about what they get to eat right? We have talked about that. Right. Do you think it is true that you do not have a right to tell other people what to do? Yeah I guess. You guess. But it is hard? Mm-hmm. I feel like when he says that he is not totally sure he believes it yet. I know.  I agree. You can hear in his voice like I know that this is the right thing to say-- Exactly. --but this cannot be the truth can it? Exactly. SIGHING Yeah. OK an important fact-- Theo is not being crushed by Elias' demands. If anything between the two of them Theo is the dominant brother in most situations. He is outgoing he is funny he is a big personality in whatever room he walks into and he gets his way with Elias all the time. Like for instance when the family took this day trip to visit Rachel's mom and coincidentally it happened to be the day of a herring run which comes once a year. And so they stopped at this herring ladder whatever that is. We are cheering for the herring and they are doing their final leap into the water to go back to their spawning grounds. And we finally leave we go back to my mother's house and Theo runs to the refrigerator opens the door pulls out the jar of herring goes mmm I cannot wait to eat that herring.  And it was just like wow. And of course there then became Elias pleading and crying and hoping and hoping that Theo was not going to eat those herring that we just saw all of his cousins. Did he eat the herring? Oh yes. So he ate the herring out on the porch. Elias I think cried in the living room. Elias however is always coming up with new tactics. Like in the car recently he made this proposal to Theo involving matchbox cars and Rachel flipped on the recorder. So tell me what you were just saying that Elias you had a plan. What was the plan? You said Theo if you what? Be a vegetarian for two weeks I will get you three new cars. Yay. And what do you have to say? Thank ooo. No but does that seem like a fair deal? If you are a vegetarian for three weeks you would get three cars? Two. Two weeks. Is it worth it to you? Is that true Momma? Will he really give me? Yes. This is not my negotiations. Yes I will. If you do it for three weeks I will give you eight. What will you give me if I do it one week? So this is where they are now. Rachel and her husband insert themselves in the middle of these negotiations or they get dragged into the middle between the two boys. As parents they have to ad hoc their way through each new thing the boys come up with on this. Like here with this matchbox deal the boys could not agree on what is a critical part of any negotiation of any contract and that is the start date of the deal. Would their deal begin before or after Friday's pepperoni pizza day at school? I am getting pepperoni. So you want it to start after F-- I am starting on Saturday. But being a vegetarian starts on Friday. No!  So-- Fine. It starts on Saturday. All right good. But can you guys shake on it? I think this is--  --interesting. Well today on our program people stuck in the middle. You know the saying necessity is the mother of invention? Being stuck in the middle of some situation is just like that because that is when ingenuity has to kick in. That is when you see people trying to MacGyver their way out trying stuff that it is surprising to see anyone try. We have three stories today of three radically different sorts of situations and their outcomes. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Do You Hear What I Hear? So there is certain locations that we all find ourselves in sometimes where we are just supposed to sit and wait stuck in the middle of not exactly nowhere but nowhere interesting. I am talking about the rows of chairs in airports that you sit in by the door for your flight or doctor's office waiting rooms and finally the mundane spot that one man found himself in over and over. Sara Corbett has this story about her father-in-law. I showed up for the first time at my father-in-law's house in 1992. He sat me down at the kitchen table and we had a nice get-to-know-you sort of conversation. I was 24. Dick was about 60. And he pulled out a pen and took notes on what I was saying. At the time I had no idea why he was doing this. But Dick is like this about everything that interests him. He spent his entire career working for IBM going back to the '50s and '60s when working at IBM was like working at NASA. The kind of problems he worked on took weeks or months to solve and he loved it. He is thorough a process man. As Dick sees it if something catches his attention it is clearly worth gathering data on. And if it is worth gathering data on it is worth getting to the bottom of including recently a certain piece of music.  --ford Hospital. Hello. Could you do me a great favor? This is a very unusual call but you know the music you have the holding music? When you put me on hold it plays it. Could you do that for me for a minute? OK. I appreciate that very much. That is Dick. And for the last two years he is been very very interested in a piece of hold music. The first time I heard it when I was talking to Stamford Hospital that is the call that started the whole thing. And I love the song. Just very unusual. It was bells and synthesizer and I just-- clapping. It was an unusual piece. It is very hard to describe. He heard the hold music again when he called a medical billing center in Atlanta and again with his cardiologist. And he had a hernia then a kidney stone. This one song it turns out is the hold music for Dick's entire health care network. He is 81 in great health but 81 is 81 and he is the one who deals with all the appointments the follow-ups the billing both for him and his wife Marianne. So if I called any number of doctors in the area I would hear that music. And every time I heard it it would just again remind me of what in the devil is that tune. He could not find the name of it. He could not find it period anywhere except on hold. And of course he took notes on the phone calls where he was hearing it because Dick takes notes on every phone call. The song's not in the databases of music apps like Shazam and SoundHound by the way Dick tried it. To identify the song he needed human help and a surprising number of people in medical offices strangers he met over the phone were willing to take this on. These were exactly the kind of people Dick is always looking for when he is on a quest. The kind of person that would get into it. A few people called their communications departments to see if they could turn anything up. No luck. A woman seven states away spent a whole weekend looking up songs online to try and find a match. Dead end. But you know who was the least helpful? Dick's family. We did not get into it. Dick called us his sons and daughters-in-law and tried to hum the music over the phone. We blew it off. Dick described the hold song as haunting but it was like a ghost none of us saw or even believed in and he could tell. I think when you get older you get more of that in your life where people are questioning whether you are really seeing it right or you remember it right or whatever. And that does get you to feel a little isolated a little-- you know. Yes you do. I did feel a little bit that way. And like I cannot go on keep asking people what is this music all about and I cannot describe it and you sort of find that you better just let it go. And you do not want to but it sort of fades after a while. Until you hear it again when you call another doctor's office and then it is back. So I will put those in here. This is Dick going through some of the overstuffed cabinets at my house in Maine. He does this almost every time he comes to visit. He will spend entire weekends in our basement sorting out the tools we rarely use collapsing all the empty cardboard boxes that accumulate down there. He will sift through old papers double check our tax returns. He sees in my cabinets a bonanza of things that need sorting and labeling. I think I will get a box for all your goodies like this one of those cardboard boxes before we throw them out. And I will label it and put those together. This is the advantage of having a process man in the family. Dick stays with your problem until it is been solved the cabinets or whatever. A couple of years ago my husband and I were about to buy a new house when Dick swooped in and spent three days doing a copious market analysis which made it clear that we were about to make a bad investment. He does not let himself off the hook for anything big or small because things do not let him off the hook. Yeah he is not fooling around. This is his wife Marianne. With life or feelings or getting things right or doing it complete there is nothing in his life that is inconsequential. Everything matters. Can you think of anything that you have done that you did sloppily or hastily? Not really. Nothing?  I do not think so. It would be just not in my vocabulary to do something and say OK that is good enough. Let us go. And yet I do not say that is right. I really do not say that is right. And a lot of times I think that it is wrong and I should be on to something else. I can hear the music in my head now.  This woman Denise Carter Stanley was Dick's jackpot. She is the registrar at the medical imaging center where he went one day to get a CAT scan. Great gal. She was a single mom and she had been going to school at night and we talked about a lot of things. And she was the kind of person that would get into it. Denise is on hold a lot inside the larger hospital network. She says she is been hearing the hold music every day for what she estimates is about an hour and a half a day for the last seven years. She likes the music. The first time Dick walked into her office there was Denise playing the hold music his hold music on speakerphone at her desk. In seven years have other people asked you about the hold music? Actually they have. They have. But I just never got into it with them the way that he and I did. They were just like casually yeah that hold music do you know who it is by? Like no. But when he came in it was really different. It was like he was really interested and really wanted to know. She called the IT department at her hospital. They thought she was crazy. She made more calls. Let me see if I even still have all my information. Are you like Dick that you keep notes on all this stuff? Yeah I do.  Because sometimes you just get fixated on something and you just have to know. And you cannot rest until you know. So you are a persistent person. Yes very. When you recognize somebody else who is persistent do you have a special bond with them? Yes. Because I know then they get me. I get them and they get me. So is that how you feel about Dick that he-- Yes. He is one of your tribe? Yes. Denise digging around finally turned up the key fact. The music came from Cisco the company that provides the hospital's phone system. Cisco's the number one supplier of corporate phones like this in the world. Dick went to his local library and a woman there-- I want to say her name on the radio because she cracked the case. Her name is Abby Sesselberg. She went to YouTube and found an audio recording. It is called simply One Hour of Cisco Call Manager Default Hold Music. Can we do it? I want to hear it. OK.  There are hundreds of comments posted about this song pages and pages. And sure some people cannot stand it but most of the comments are like this-- Best hold music ever made. I love this song. So addictively pleasant. Please put me back on hold so I can listen to it some more. I work in a call center and this music is the best to listen to after dealing with rude customers. I thought I was the only person who loved this. I have been looking for this song for almost three years. Dick read these comments with relief. I just cannot seem to help myself. I have been calling and asking another department on campus to put me on hold. See? She is calling and asking people to put her on hold because I love that hold music. You see there are other crazies huh? Well I must say from being compulsive about it in the early times when I was trying to find them saying why are you so compulsive about this? You crazy? And then I started to read this and I must say it did a lot for my mental health. Yeah you are feeling better about yourself now?  You are not alone. My mental condition yeah. The librarian also helped Dick find a title for the song. It is called Opus No. 1. And that is when I finally got into it. Dick this is for you. My name is Tim Carleton and I am the composer of Opus No. 1. You are hard to find by the way.  Do you know that about yourself? Yeah I do not really have much of a web presence. Tim was 16 years old when he wrote Opus No. 1. It was recorded in 1989 on a four track tape by one of his high school buddies Darrick Deel. Tim was a Yanni-loving computer nerd messing around with a drum machine and a synthesizer in his parents' garage in California. That five minutes of tape is now on 65 million Cisco phone sets worldwide as the default hold music. It is what everyone hears unless someone inside the system makes an effort to change it. Tim was in his 20s when he got a call from Darrick about Opus No. 1. Darrick had taken a job at Cisco designing phone systems. And he is like dude if you send this over and give us permission to do this we can make this the default. I think I can get this in. And it was like putting an Easter egg in a DVD or software. Just like a little hidden gem that oh yeah the next time you are on hold it might be my music. I just thought it would be a cool piece of trivia. So and then technically what happened? So they license the music from you? I mean do they renew their license every few years? Like are you making any money off of it? Not a penny. So I think that is probably my most legit claim as a music artist. I did not make any money from my music. Tim's not a musician anymore. He is an IT guy now. He manages the server at a bank in California. What is it like to be put on hold and hear your own music? It is really embarrassing when you are not expecting to hear that and then all of a sudden you have that memory pop up. I just start blushing immediately. It is just a different time. It is not the same person I am today. So is it sort of like looking back at a picture of yourself from 1987 and saying oh why was I wearing that outfit? Oh exactly. That is exactly it. So has it ever yielded anything good for you? I mean if it has not made you money has anybody ever bought you a drink in a bar have you picked up women with it or is there any-- No. --rock star application here? No I do not think I have ever actually tried to use the you know I wrote the default hold music for a lot of companies.  Tim and Darrick are still friends and Darrick's the only one after all these years making any sort of music. He creates new ring tones for phones which Tim admits he is a little jealous of. It is something that people are choosing to put on their phone as opposed to this music being forced on them. I think that would have been more entertaining to me. I see. So yeah so you feel like your music has been forced on millions of people.  Yes. So it is not exactly something to brag about. That is I think the source of my embarrassment yeah. I told Tim my father-in-law wanted a copy of the song to put on his iPod because he wants to play it around the house as he does chores and pays bills. In the comments on YouTube lots of people said they wanted a copy. Tim found this almost impossible to fathom. But he and Darrick sent it anyway full fidelity in stereo.  Sara Corbett is the co-author most recently of A House in the Sky. If you have not had enough of this song Opus 1 is available at better hospital phone systems and for a limited time at our website thisamericanlife.org in full fidelity stereo for your downloading needs.  Coming up the karate yid. That is not anti-Semitic right to say yid? And if it is anti-Semitic is it one of those anti-Semitic things that I am allowed to say because I am a Jew? Is even asking that question anti-Semitic? Anyway Orthodox Jews skilled in karate-- you will see what I am talking about in a minute-- from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on the program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program Stuck in the Middle. Stories of people who cannot get out of some situation some limbo they are caught in and so they use ingenuity and guile or anyway unconventional means to get themselves unstuck. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two Sunrise Sun-Get. This past October there was a kind of wacky news story that was news for a day or so in New York City. It was on the cover of the tabloids. It was on all the local news channels in the tri-state area. And at its heart were people stuck in a kind of limbo. Mark Oppenheimer has more. The news was pretty startling. A group of men including a Brooklyn rabbi named Mendel Epstein had been arrested for conspiring to kidnap a husband and torture him until he gave his wife a get. The get is simply a piece of paper a husband hands his wife saying essentially it is over. We are divorced. Jews can get civil divorces like anyone else. But if you are an Orthodox Jew strictly following Jewish law the get is the only real way to end a marriage. Usually this goes off without a hitch. But sometimes a woman wants to get divorced and the husband refuses to give a get. That is where Rabbi Epstein came in. According to the complaint Epstein talked about forcing compliance through the use of tough guys who utilize electric cattle prods karate handcuffs and place plastic bags over the heads of the husbands. The criminal complaint against Epstein and a fellow rabbi named Martin Wolmark alleged that the rabbis agreed to arrange a beat down of a reluctant husband and they were asking for more than 50000 to do it. Here's the US attorney for New Jersey Paul Fishman laying this all out to the press. The charges are kidnapping and extortion violent crime to get Jewish men to give divorces that they would not otherwise give. And it is not really an exercise of religion it is really about money and violent crime. When the story first broke what kind of got lost is that it is not just about cash karate and cattle prods it is also about women who were stuck essentially trapped in failed marriages. For the past couple years as a religion reporter I have been interviewing Jewish women in just this situation. And it can be pretty horrible. Some men refuse to give a get because they still love their wives and hope to reconcile. But others just want leverage so they can demand for example lots of money. Anywhere between half a million and 2 million depending on the day and I guess the position of the sun in the sky. This is Gital Dodelson. She is an Orthodox Jewish woman and she is what is known as an agunah. That is the word in Hebrew for a woman whose husband refuses to give her a divorce. Literally it means a chained wife. Besides money lots of money Gital says her husband has a long list of demands for her to meet if she wants her get. I have a four-year-old son. He wants 50-50 custody where my son would be a week with me and a week with him. But Gital lives in New Jersey. Her husband's on Staten Island. The boy would have to enroll in two schools and alternate weeks. Keep in mind Gital already has a civil divorce and the custody and financial arrangements have been settled by a judge. Gital says that her husband who by the way did not return my calls is always changing what he is asking for. At one point she says he demanded they get rid of the coordinator who is overseeing the custody of their son. Another time he insisted that she promise to tell the boy someday that the divorce was all his mother's fault. Gital says she should have seen it coming. I was young and dumb. And there were a lot of things that maybe should have been red flags that I was not paying attention to. While we were dating he told me once that he is always right. Now I laughed because I do not know who says that when-- no one says that seriously so I assumed he was joking. And he was not joking. A week into my marriage I was looking back and kicking myself because I mean I should have stopped dating him right there. But I did not realize. And by the time I realized it was too late. I actually find it easier to explain now that he has not given a get for four years because the way he is trying to control me now through the get that is what he tried to do throughout the whole marriage. Everything was subject to his control and subject to his demands. He had to have a final say in everything even in what we were having for supper or the brand of laundry detergent that I used or anything. And nothing was too small for him to care about. Of course there are always two sides to every divorce and I tried to get her husband's side. When he did not call back I tried his parents his uncle even his grandmother-- his bubbe-- and none of them would talk to me. I finally spoke with her husband's lawyer who disputed nearly every one of Gital's assertions. He said the sticking points for his client are tiny reasonable things like what hour on Friday he can pick up his son so he does not have to drive after Sabbath begins at sundown. But Gital's side of the story has been backed up by a rabbinic court called a beis din. A beis din is a group of three rabbis Orthodox Jews sometimes turn to to settle disputes outside the civil courts. When her husband would not give a get Gital tried to bring him before the beis din. But he refused to show up. So the rabbis issued something called a seruv. It is basically a contempt of court. It is supposed to ostracize him in the community. Gital's brother Aryeh is a full time scholar of Jewish law and he says the seruv is usually an effective tool. A seruv is if followed properly by the community an incredibly powerful thing. It sort of cuts them off from every aspect of Jewish life. I mean you cannot stand within 6 feet of him 6 square feet 8 square feet whatever it is of him. You cannot count him for a minyan. The minyan is the quorum of 10 men needed for an Orthodox prayer service. It is sort of like telling a devout Catholic that he cannot receive communion. You cannot give him an aliyah. He cannot be called up to the Torah in shul which is a big honor and he does not get that anymore. He cannot serve as a hazzan there in the shul. Chanting prayer. He cannot do that. You are supposed to boycott his business I think. Well you cannot be near him right? You cannot be near him. And so theoretically if followed properly it should be enough to both shame them as well as on a practical level they are losing all their contacts. You are not supposed to talk to him. You cannot give him a ride cannot do him a favor. This sort of ostracism would have worked back in the old country where you spent your whole life around the same couple thousand people. If you were the village cobbler and all of a sudden you had no customers you probably figured that it made sense to give your wife a get. But in the modern world a seruv does not always work so well. Aryeh believes that the Orthodox Jews on Staten Island where his brother-in-law lives are still treating him like one of their own. So the shaming and community pressure is not working. Gital of course could just walk away. She is already got her civil divorce. The finances are all settled so is the child custody but she cannot get remarried. She is a 25-year-old woman. She would like to have more kids. And I should point out most Jews would not care. Plenty of less religious Jews would be happy to marry Gital. But in the Orthodox world where she was raised where her whole family is where she wants to stay she cannot make a new life for herself. Her ex-husband can cast about for a new wife and then give Gital a get if he finds somebody but for Gital it is different. What would it be like-- I mean could you date? Well I mean in my community you do not date unless you are actively looking to get married. And since I am already married that would pose a little bit of a problem. I do not think I could find anyone who would be willing to date me under these circumstances where I say hey I am looking to get married but you might have to wait 2 or 3 or 4 or 10 or 20 years because there is this man who is refusing to give me the get. And he does not feel any urgency because he can get out of it whenever he wants. He can give me a get and be done with the whole thing within a day as soon as he decides he wants to. So for him it is just a waiting game where why not wait longer. If his demands were something that I could give I would have given in a long time ago. Because this life is agony. I mean to wait and wait and never know and to be tied together like this I would give anything I could to be finished with it. Almost anything. She would not resort to violence or hire a rabbi like Mendel Epstein the rabbi who was arrested in Brooklyn. Now most of Epstein's work was above board. He would advocate