 From PRX and NPR welcome back to in Man episode. My name is Glynn Washington and today we are asking people with a missing piece to tell us what happened. And for our next story we go back in Korean history but start out at the dinner table. Mary Kim  is eating dinner with her father Chin-Kyll  when he reveals a dark family secret.   When I was 12 as he was chewing into some roasted mackerel suddenly his eyes began to well with tears. He said my sister - this was her favorite kind of fish. He took a bite of mackerel and he said Bo-Ok  - she disappeared when I was 14. I was stunned. Here was a ghost in our family. After he told me about her at dinner he would include her during his very solemn and long Thanksgiving prayers - the sister that he - that he so loved. It was not until much later that I realized that the reason why he would never told us about her before was that she was North Korean. Many decades ago when Korea was still unified as one country my grandfather could not afford to send both his eldest children to school and so chose his eldest born son. That meant that Bo-Ok was sent to teacher education program in a remote country village and she was not satisfied with that at all because she was number one in her class. Instead she chose to go north where education opportunities were freer at the time for women. And then the Korean War happened. My father never saw her again.   Then in 2005 the Red Cross offered my father Chin-Kyll the chance to see his sister Bo-Ok for the first time in more than 55 years - not in person but via webcam. They would set up a video-chat like Skype with North Korea on one side and South on the other.   My father took his family members to a cramped hotel room in Seoul in South Korea. In the room was a video camera and a large screen. The family sat down and waited making nervous conversation. He pulled out his letter. He spent months writing organizing and preparing his six-page letter that recounted everything he ever wanted to say. I had no idea how she might appear. I expected to see a living skeleton because of North Korea's tendency to starve its own people.  .  The screen flickers and the connection establishes. And Bo-Ok's face and that of our northern relatives - we see them.  .  .   Sister this is Chin-Kyll.   Chin-Kyll is that really you?   Yes.   Good to see you. It is been so long.  Surprisingly her cheeks were full. I noticed that she seemed to have a little bit of makeup on and had a lovely traditional garment on with silver beading which must have been expensive - unusual.   In preparation to see you I wrote you a letter. I will read it first.  And then he launches into one of his oldest memories of her.   I do not know if you remember but one winter night we had a fight so Dad punished you by making you stand outside in the freezing cold. I felt sorry for you. So I tried to go outside but Mom and Dad would not let me so I told them I had to pee. I remember how we were freezing together in the cold. I feel sorry about that. After you went to North Korea I did not realize that when we lived together I never told you that I love you. That broke my heart .  He could barely speak. My father is not an emotional man. Until I was 18 he never told me that he loved me. On the southern side of course our shoulders were shaking. On the northern side she was kind of - she was amused. It was a kind of a slightly mocking as if look at what is become of you. That soft southern living - a traditional Korean man would never have said that. My dad noticed that but kept on reading.   But even now when I see high school students with ponytails in her hair I am reminded of you. I find myself looking at those kids as if they were you. My memories are frozen at the time we last say goodbye.  When he spoke about searching for that ponytailed girl I understood my father in a way I had not before. What it must have been like for him to have four daughters and why he so insisted that we all get the best education we could. He wanted to give me what his own family never gave her.   About 10 years after you left I went to U.S. I took Mom and Dad with me and take care of them. But they keep on wanting me go back to Korea. Deep down inside they must have thought you would escape North Korea and return home one day. Mom cry every night.  He reveals to her that he has four daughters and only daughter. She jokes rich in daughters and everyone laughs.  .   And then she reveals that she herself has three daughters and two sons.   But you need sons not daughters. You need sons to protect the country and reunite Korea.  Soon my father's grand filibuster ended. Finally his sister Bo-Ok was given a chance to speak.   Well younger brother let me tell you about my life. I remember we were so dirt poor.  She spends the next only 15 minutes to my father's hour and fifteen minutes to recount what has occurred in the past 55 years for her.   Then the Korean War broke out. The American  came to Korea and killed our soldiers in the streets. So I became a volunteer soldier and took care of...  She started speaking about how the American bombs fell and took her legs.   I was so upset about that. Remember I used to be fastest runner in school. But then our great leader said do not cry. The American  are the problem not your leg.  Then she married a man and then more bombs fell from the American side. And then he lost both his legs.   But I made a family to him and gave birth five children. You would not be able to imagine what it is like for cripples to raise a family. One time I woke up to find my first son with a severe virus almost about to die. But my husband and I could not run him to the hospital. So our neighbor carried our son on his back like a horse and ran him to the hospital during the middle of the night. When our great leaders heard about our sick son they ran over to the hospital and told the doctors you need to help him survive. You need to help him. Once our nation is unified he needs to take his parents back to their hometown. I was so moved. Such a good life in this socialist community would not exist in a capitalist nation.  I could not tell if she was believing her own words. I looked to her eldest son and unlike his mother's plump cheeks his cheeks were cliff-like hollows.   I am only alive today because our great leaders' love and support. I got everything in life I ever wanted.  The amount of swabbing and sweating that her eldest son was doing seemed to contradict her words.   We do not have many years left now. All I want is to see our country unified.   Yes I believe that they will be here soon.   Yes I do too but we need to kick out the American . We need to kick them...  He held his tongue and he listened to her.   We can finally meet and live happily together.   Yeah.  She pauses for a moment and my father clears his throat and suggests let us sing a song together.   Yes what should we sing?   Do you know We Are One?  It is one of the many anthems blending both the national anthems of both Koreas.  .  Both North Korean and South Korean family members sang together in unison.  .  My father still full of tears took up the words - our hope is for one country. We pray even in dreams.  .  The song began to come to its end. They were given a signal that their meeting was about to end. While they were singing the screen darkened. My aunt's face disappears. It is been 10 years since that reunion. Thanksgivings are smaller now. My father's prayers are quieter now. His prayers are shorter. He prays for our family but he never mentions her - no. I mention her. I ask him about whether or not she is still alive. He does not say. He lets a pause hang between us. He is very resigned that he will never see her again that she is - that she is dead. It is me who hopes that - who still harbors hope that she is alive - Bo-Ok.   Thanks so much to Mary Kim for sharing your father's story. Mary Kim is a poet a writer and a professor at the Savannah College of Art and Design. We will have a link to some of her work on our website SNAPJUDGMENT.org. Special thanks as well Tongnam and Mikyung Kim for being the voice actors for Chin-Kyll and Bo-Ok. The original score for that piece was by Davey Kim. It was produced as well by Davey Kim.   Oh yeah Snappers it is that time. Subscribe now to the SNAP storytelling podcast. It is all there at SNAPJUDGMENT.org - iTunes Stitcher SoundCloud on Facebook on Twitter. Did you ever lead someone into the dark forest only to abandon them at the first brush of danger? Our sincerest apologies to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting but next time maybe you will run faster. PRX the Public Radio Exchange narrowly escaped being smashed by a house. Find out more at PRX.org. WBEZ in Chicago because Oz and Chicago have more in common than you think. And this is not the news. No way is this is news. In fact you and your little dog can get sucked into a tornado spin round and round land right on top of Dumbledore as he officiates a Quidditch match and you would still not be as far away from the news as this is but this is NPR. 