 Welcome back to Snap Judgment the Tin Man episode. Today we are featuring stories from people looking for a missing part of themselves. But what if you do not know that you are missing anything? Our own Nancy Lopez spoke to Tom Conces to find out his story.  I live in the middle of nowhere. I rarely see my neighbors. And other than the neighbors that I see that I know everybody else to me is a stranger. I am ecstatic.  A few years ago Tom and his wife sold their home in LA jumped into their RV with their two dogs and never looked back. They crisscrossed the country three times over and landed on a 13-acre farm in Kentucky - their new home. They raised chicken and cows. They are starting their own organic farm. It is a quiet place. The view from their front porch is breathtaking - endless rolling hills of luscious green pasture.  I am not living with this fear sitting on my shoulder. I am more relaxed. I am more at peace. So I am like Howard Hughes - I am a hermit.  Tom embraces the isolation. It means he does not have to deal with anybody. As far back as he can remember he is always stumbled through his interactions with people be they strangers or loved ones co-workers or acquaintances never quite grasping what he was missing out on.  I think it was difficult to attach myself to people. I think it was difficult for people to attach themselves to me. You know I am different. I have always known I was different. I never knew why or how. I do not know. I felt like I wanted to go hide in a closet or hide under a rock.  The only ones he never had trouble connecting with were his kids.  My son was my world - came before me came before anything. So did my daughter when she was born. She was not as skinny as Peter was. She was not as long as and skinny but she was little and she fit in my hand too. I did not have time to worry about whether I fit or whether I did not or whether I was this or whether somebody liked me. In the early 20s with two children you know I did the best I could with what I had.  But as easy as it was with his kids it was impossible with his first wife. So the day before Christmas in 1975 Tom moved out. Then his wife moved to a different state to be with her new boyfriend and took the kids with her.  There was a good period of time where the only way that I could speak to my son was to call the school that he attended and the principal at the school would bring him into the office and I could talk to him on the phone.  And that worked for a while. But then during one phone call with his son Tom learned that his wife's new boyfriend was mistreating his children.  Still committed to my children I had a lawyer and we were going through a divorce and I asked for custody because I saw that they were in danger. And it was during that time that this incident occurred. In legal strategy I had asked that there be psychiatric evaluations of both parents of these children and their stepfather because their stepfather I was certain was you know off of his rocker and was abusing my ex and my children. They agreed to the evaluations. And when it came time for those evaluations I think I went first.  Tom went to the doctor's office. He did not want to run into his ex-wife and her boyfriend but he was looking forward to seeing his kids that day.  I am sitting in the doctor's little exam room waiting for the doctor to come in and the door was open and there was a hallway. And there was a little blonde girl that was leaning against the wall and she was crying. That is my daughter. She is crying. I have to help her you know? And she is there and she is got her head in her arm and she had on a little dress. I picked her up and I hugged her put her on my lap. She also urinated on me. You know it was a very emotional moment for me - that is my daughter I have not seen her in three months and she is crying. Oh my God I have got to take care of her. I told her everything's OK it is going to be OK. And the doctor came in and said you know let the kid go. I said it is my daughter. Let the child go. I said this is my daughter. He says that is not your daughter. And I think at that point I pushed her back and I looked at her. I think I was probably as shocked as the doctor was. He probably asked me to explain it and I probably could not offer an explanation that was reasonable to him. I could not offer an explanation that was reasonable to me. You know how does a father not recognize his child? You know how do you pick up somebody else's kid and believe it to be yours and then have a doctor - psychiatrist of all people - say that is not your kid? I never saw my daughter that day. Found out that the stepfather did not come for the evaluation. So my plan as it was to have him evaluated to protect my children did not work anyway. The report from the doctor you know was several pages long but the conclusion of the report was he questioned my psychological attachment to my children. Period. The handwriting was on the wall. I was not going to get custody not in that day and age. I messed it up. I never got past the embarrassment. I do not think I even told my best friends. Embarrassed? Beyond embarrassed - ashamed. You know how could I fail my children? I have always tried to figure out what happened. It is just there was never an answer.  Tom moved to California where things took a turn for the better. His ex-wife called him with some good news. She had left her boyfriend.  My kids were coming to live with me for the whole summer. There were leaving Oklahoma. They were coming to stay with their dad in Southern California. It was awesome. And my son came to live with me full-time. And my daughter stayed living with my ex. I do not know what the logic behind her decision was. I was grateful. I was happy to have my son.  Tom was working as an insurance adjuster. He loved it. He could simply focus on the details of a car accident - when where how did it happen what is the damage. Most of his interaction with people was over the phone. But every so often he would suffer a social faux pas like the time he was a speaker at an auto theft conference. He walked right past a police officer he would worked with as if he did not know him.  Oh my god. That was investigator so-and-so from this agency and we were working on this identity theft case. And it was a big case and it involved a whole lot of people. And I just looked like an idiot. I think it caused fear. It was a latent fear. I did not know it was there. But I would be guarded in putting myself in positions like that.  Then Tom met Lorraine.  I was working at the Holiday Inn near the Los Angeles airport. He came in and had dinner. And I was his server.  She was cute .  I think it is - I think he only recognized me because there was only three servers. And I was the only girl. The other two were guys. We talked a little bit and we made arrangements to go out the next night. And we have been together ever since.  One Sunday night when Tom was a couple of years into retirement he and Lorraine were home sitting in front of the TV.  And 60 Minutes was on television. They were showing these people who were unable to recognize and identify their spouses or their children. They just did not know who those people were.  The show was about a mysterious condition called Prosopagnosia. It is about people who cannot recognize faces. It is not a problem with their vision. It has to do with how their brain is wired. Everything else functions fine except their ability to process a face. So it is hard to form meaningful relationships. Hearing this struck a chord with Tom.  And it was like a lightbulb went off - for me too.  So they reached out to one of the researchers who gave Tom a series of tests and came back to him with the diagnosis.  I am face blind. It is a stupid analogy but it is almost like finding out that the aliens had come down and captured me and they were pulling the strings on my life and I was living a life that was not real. You know my view of the world did not match the reality of the world.  So yeah after seeing the show it explained a ton - a ton about why he did not know people. I think we went to go meet his sister for dinner someplace. And we walked into the restaurant and I was walking right toward her and he kept asking me where she was. And I said she is right in front of you. Granted he had not seen his sister in a while. But I always kind of wondered you know how do you not recognize your own sister? You know even when we are in a store he does not always recognize me.  Really?  Yeah. We have been in Costco and I have been like hello.  And he sees you and...  And he will look over and he will be like oh oh oh. It takes him a minute.  When I received the diagnosis and I discovered it initially it was I would say almost euphoric. You know I had an answer to how I misidentified my daughter.  Did you feel it almost absolved of whatever guilt you carried about it?  Maybe. The truth is I failed - did not do the right thing did I? I did not identify that girl. That is a failure. I actually sent a letter to my ex-wife my children and my sister apologizing.  For?  Being the way I was you know I always wanted inclusion but my behavior was exactly the opposite. It pushed people away. And I would not let anybody close enough to be included.  His daughter's response to the letter was short and sweet.  She is awesome. She says do not be so hard on yourself. I never got past the embarrassment. Till we talked my daughter never knew. Now she knows.  How long have you guys been together?  We will be 27 years this year.  Lorraine knows Tom's idiosyncrasies probably better than anyone. And now she knows why they cannot watch a movie together.  You know actually he will watch a Bruce Willis movie because it is Bruce Willis. He can focus on Bruce Willis. He looks the same. He never changes his shirt. It is always bloody and ripped.  Bald?  Yeah bald. It is easy. Yeah and especially he does not have to worry about a changing hairstyle.  It took Tom 11 years to propose to Lorraine. He figured he would wake up one day and she would be gone. But he got lucky.  Here we are. Still here. Still telling you who people are .  She says that I am nicer now.  He is actually much easier to get along with now yeah.  He has a reason.  Yeah because he has a better understanding of who and what he was and who and what he is now. And it is given us an explanation. So I am more prepared when we are in a social setting - you know more prepared if we go to Costco or go to the market. I do not change my hairstyle in the meat department so he knows who I am  or take my coat off. You know I keep an eye out for him.  A very big thank you to Tom Conces and his wife Lorraine for sharing their story and a big shout out as well to Brad Duchesne  the researcher who helped Tom with his diagnosis. The original soundscape for that story was created by Renzo Gorrio and the piece was produced by Nancy Lopez.   Now when SNAP JUDGMENT returns we pull apart the most powerful bond of all to see if it breaks - when in Man episode continues. Stay tuned. 