So a horse walks into a movie theater gets his popcorn and a Diet Coke and sits down in one of the few seats that are left. He realizes right away there is a cow sitting directly in front of him wearing this huge hat totally inappropriate to wear indoors one of the big tall Stetson hats completely blocking his view. So the horse taps the cow on the shoulder. Excuse me? Cow does not budge. No response at all. So again the horse taps him on the shoulder. Excuse me? The cow is like ice. He is like a statue. So OK one more time. He taps him on the shoulder. Hey can you take off your hat? Cow turns around. And he is like oh my god it is a talking horse. Not the greatest joke in the world. But what I love about that joke is that for once in the joke the animals acknowledge that we should not be having animals talking in jokes. That is the actual punchline of the joke. That is the premise. We as human beings are so constantly blurring the line between animals and people in kids' stories and movies and the way we talk to our pets. We cannot help ourselves. And we do it so much we even have jokes where the animals call us out on it. And I bring this up because that is our show today. Today in our program we have two stories of human beings not just trying to blur the line between people and animals but trying to erase that line completely. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us people. Act One Monkey in the Middle. So there is some places where animals almost never go places that are designed by humans for humans. This act ends up in a place like that but it starts about as far from there as you can get. Dana Chivvis explains. Our story begins deep in the rainforests of Indonesia on an island called Sulawesi. A few years ago the photographer David Slater traveled there from his home in England to photograph a troop of monkeys. I would gone a whole day just following them into the thick of the forest through the tangles and the vines and the muddy undergrowth and the cobwebs and the poisonous snakes. Oh man. You name it I had to go through it. And it was just so amazing just to be like a monkey. I was a monkey honestly. I had met monkeys before like I said all over the world. And I know a little bit about monkey etiquette and showing your teeth-- not to show your teeth not to stare them in the face. Yeah this is one of the secrets actually of being able to get good photography is making the animal relaxed. There was one shot David really wanted to get-- a full face portrait with a wide angle lens. But every time he got close to taking the shot the monkeys would look away. So after two days of these near misses he changed strategies. He put his camera on a tripod and threw down some cookies to try to entice the monkeys over. He was hoping they would get curious about the camera and start pushing the button themselves. They were curious. They were not pushing the button. So David attached a cable with a button on the end of it to the camera. The monkeys liked that. They started playing with it putting it in their mouths fighting over it. And of course when it got pressed they automatically looked into the lens. And the fact that it is going ch ch ch ch ch it is monkey language. They fired off a few shots. David reviewed them. They were not bad a little out of focus. So he adjusted the settings and put the camera back. The monkeys were into the whole project by now. In fact they were getting a little too excited. They almost knocked the tripod over. So David laid down on his stomach and stretched his arm out to steady the tripod with two fingers. A few other monkeys noticed their strange new friend lying full out on the floor and hopped onto his back. So I had monkeys on my back whilst I am trying to keep my camera from being knocked while some monkeys or two or three monkeys are trying to play with the button. And all of a sudden I heard the camera going off. And I did not dare. I knew that if I looked up at them they would probably look away. So I let them click it click it click it. And I sort of very carefully looked up to see them pulling these amazing contorted faces like howling mouths and the smiling mouth and more besides. The monkeys were taking selfies-- amazing beautiful weird selfies. I just wanted it to go on forever really. When David finally stood up and checked their work he saw that the shots were not just regular old everyday selfies. They were not that guy at the gym taking pictures of his muscles in the mirror. These were next level transcendentally good. They somehow escape the bounds of selfie and enter the realm of art. There was one shot in particular that caught David's eye. The monkey's face is very close to the camera looking straight into the lens. It is hair perfectly coiffed. Eyes friendly big and round and amber. All of which are nice details and details are important. But the focus of this selfie the main event is the monkey's self-satisfied grin-- teeth that are too big for its mouth with gaps between them a real grin like he knows he is smiling for a picture. I just saw it on the front cover of National Geographic or something like that. And I just thought I need to get this to my agents. David and his agents put out a press release about the selfies. They thought they could grab people's attention with the photos and then use the opportunity to send a message about conservation. And also they wanted to sell the pictures of course. These monkeys crested black macaques are considered to be critically endangered which is just one step before extinct in the wild. They have lost 80 of their population in the last 40 years because of humans which is why David went to Indonesia in the first place. He wanted to take photographs that would inspire us humans into caring more about these little monkeys to stop killing them. The selfies did not end up on the cover of National Geographic but the British tabloids were interested. The Daily Mail was the first newspaper to publish the story about the selfies. This was in 2011. Within an hour it was all over your country Australia Germany. I was getting emails everywhere. My inbox went crazy. People wanting to know the story wanted to use the image. Literally my phone was hot with calls. Over the next few months the monkey selfies sold pretty well. David was licensing them to publications and selling prints. And then one day he goes online to research the monkeys. I started to just search crested black macaque one day in the Google. And there was Wikipedia top of the list as always. I clicked on that and there is my image. And I thought where have they got this from? Have they been to Caters News Agency and paid a license fee for it? They had not. So I sent them a letter. Sent them a letter saying I think you are using this without a license fee. Could you show me one or would you pay? They wrote back saying this image we believe is public domain. In other words anyone could use it without David's permission for free. To David that was just stealing. He makes a living from selling his pictures. So it was really helpful to have one that was such a hit. But now anyone could download it from Wikipedia and hang it on their wall or print it in their publication. Wikipedia's opinion is that information on the internet should be free. And David soon learned that they had decided the selfie was in the public domain-- Because the monkey pressed the button. So the monkey was technically the creator of the photo. But in Wikipedia's assessment monkeys cannot own copyrights. Hence the photo was free and fair for all to use. It belonged to the internet. David was baffled. He thought-- Well surely I have got the copyright. I set it all up. I have got the intent. I had the creativity. All the monkey did is press the button. Wikipedia includes a note below the photo which reads quote This file is in the public domain because as the work of a non-human animal it has no human author in whom copyright is vested. This decision of Wikipedia's to declare the photo public domain that was the opening volley in the monkey selfie battle to come. It was the moment when mother nature was shoved aside and human nature with its overstuffed baggage of laws and opinions and domination took a seat. David went on the offensive assembled a team of lawyers studied up on copyright law. He even looked into finding venture capitalists to fund a lawsuit against Wikipedia. Wikimedia-- that is the foundation that owns Wikipedia-- they just gave him the finger. This was at their big conference in London. It is called Wikimania. One of the founders Jimmy Wales was there. I soon got to know from the good Wikipedians out there that Jimmy Wales and many of the delegates were mocking me by printing out my image on great big boards that were placed all over the conference facility. And Jimmy Wales and various other people were encouraging the delegates to take selfies with my selfie. That is just mean. There is quite a few of these images around the place on the internet but the one with Jimmy Wales is particularly odious. Wait. I want to look that up really fast here. Hang on. Yeah. Jimmy Wales monkey selfie. Jimmy Wales Wikimania. Here we go. Oh yeah. Look at that. If you type Jimmy Wales monkey selfie into the Google you will find a photo of an adult male human holding his phone up in one hand and the monkey selfie in the other right next to his face. And he is got his lips puckered up like a duck. He looks ridiculous. Now is he-- is that face he is making-- is that-- Well it is like a duck face. I do not know where that comes from. I do not either. But a lot of people seem to do this duck lips. How did you feel when you saw that Jimmy Wales selfie with your monkey selfie? So angry. David was fighting Goliath. And then one day the battle took on epic new proportions. It was like King Kong walked onto the scene and now David had to battle him too. The dispute with Wikimedia had generated some press in the UK. And one day David's wife was online. There it was. Photographer being sued by a monkey. You found out the monkey was suing you because your wife found it online. Yeah. Just as I found out Wikipedia was stealing it because I stumbled across it I also stumbled across the fact that I was being sued by a monkey. The monkey in the selfie photos was suing him for copyright infringement with the help of PETA People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. David called his lawyers and said-- Look. Have you seen what is happening now? What can we do? And they said Dave this is clearly an April Fools'. Somebody is having you on. They said just sit back. Let us see what happens. But do not respond to it. And you cannot-- you have got nothing to worry about until you get served papers. Let us see what happens. Right. And sure enough one afternoon I was at home. And there is a knock at the door. And a man in a black suit was standing in my porch way. I opened the door. He thrust a large A4-sized white envelope in my hand. And he says I have been instructed to pass these to you. So I said what are they? And I opened it in front of him. And I took it out. And I said to him do you know what this is? And he said not really. I said I am being sued by a monkey. And I showed him. And he started laughing. And we had a little chat. Because he was just a local from a local firm down the road from me. And he went on his merry way. I have read the complaint. It is kind of weird. You flip through pages and pages of legalese about copyright law. And then at the end when you get to the exhibits it is just a bunch of monkey selfies grinning serious howling monkey selfies-- like a legal document put together by Curious George. The monkey whose name is Naruto was suing David through his next friends People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals. The case is officially called Naruto a Crested Macaque by and through his Next Friends People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals Inc. v David John Slater an Individual. In legal parlance next friend is a status like guardian. When someone cannot represent themselves in court the next friend can step in for them. That is just the same as if it was a baby or a disabled adult who could not speak or represent himself. I see. That is not unusual in human law. PETA has a reputation for pulling stunts to attract attention to the plight of animals. Once they dumped horse manure on the sidewalk outside Gordon Ramsay's restaurant in London after a guest on his cooking show made a dish with horse meat. They made a comic book called Your Mommy Kills Animals and then handed it out to moms who were wearing fur coats at performances of the Nutcracker. They campaigned to change the word fish to sea kittens so that people would associate seafood with their adorable kitty cats and stop eating them-- the fish I mean. But Jeff Kerr-- he is the general counsel to PETA-- he says this monkey selfie case is not one of those stunts. We first saw the monkey selfie in approximately 2014 when the dispute between Mr. Slater and Wikimedia became international news. Our view was immediately that Naruto who created the photograph should own the copyright to it. Jeff saw the dispute as this photographer wants to sue Wikimedia and Wikimedia is claiming the photo is in the public domain. But who is standing up for the monkey? That is what the law is. And our argument very simply is that that should apply equally to him even though he simply happens not to have been born human. But certainly the monkey did not think like now this is great. I have got a camera in my hands. I am going to snap a couple frames and update my Bumble profile with whatever I get. The monkey's not thinking of it as I am taking a photograph here. But that is not required under the copyright law. All that is required is that-- the copyright law simply provides that the author the creator of the image is entitled to own it. It does not say that the author has to know that he or she is making a photograph. If somebody gives you their camera and asks you to take a photograph and you arrange them and you take the photograph under those circumstances you technically would own the copyright. There are like 20 French tourists that I need to sue. PETA is an American organization. And the case was to be heard in federal court in San Francisco. David talked to his lawyers in England. And they told him he needed to hire an American attorney and fight this. I was advised by talking to these attorneys that I really did need to follow this through because there would be a chance an outside chance albeit of it just going the monkey's way if I did not challenge it. The monkey would win? Yeah. Well it was in the court in California. And everybody has the opinion that anything can happen there. I do not know how true that is. But I was being told I cannot take that risk. But of course-- Have you been to California? Well no. It is kind of true. David hired Andrew Dhuey to represent him. Do you remember when you first heard about the case? Was it when-- did David call you? Is that how you first heard about it? No I read about it. And I do not remember where I read about it. But I got pretty excited when I saw that it was filed in San Francisco federal court because I am right across the bay in Berkeley. So I thought wow I would be perfect for this case. Andrew is an intellectual property lawyer. Works for himself. And when he read about the case he reached out to David to ask if he could take it. Why did you think you were perfect for the case? Well I think the case kind of lent itself to making monkey puns and things like that. And I just thought that would be-- I kind of like to do that. I like to joke around. I do not know if you have seen my LinkedIn profile. I am in a Chippendales costume. For his LinkedIn picture Andrew chose a shot of himself wearing eyeglasses a bow tie and nothing else. All these years-- I have been practicing for like 25 years and I have never been able to joke around in anything I filed in court. So I was like hey this would actually be a case where I could do that. That said he is a real intellectual property lawyer. He is defended the toy company Wham-O won an important case against Panasonic. And for Andrew the case was a one banana problem. He answered Naruto's complaint with a motion to dismiss the case. Monkeys he said do not have standing to sue in federal court. His argument is based on a precedent set in 2004 in a case called Cetacean Community v George W. Bush in which all the world's whales porpoises and dolphins sued the president. All the world's whales porpoises and dolphins argued that the military's use of underwater sonar was hurting them changing their natural behaviors like eating and mating. Basically sonar is just an incredibly loud sound wave. So cetaceans that is a scientific word for a category of marine mammal-- cetaceans flee when they hear sonar sometimes even beating themselves to get away. In that case the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals decided that unless Congress explicitly states otherwise animals do not have standing to sue in federal court. So that is the case Andrew pointed to in his defense. But PETA hired an outside attorney to represent the monkey Naruto in court a guy named David Schwarz. This guy Schwarz he comes from a fancy law firm in Los Angeles known for intellectual property law. Most of his case was an intellectual property argument that Naruto was the legal owner of the copyright because he was the one who made the photo. But PETA also saw this case as an opportunity to nudge the law and set a precedent. They disagreed with the ruling in the cetacean case. They believe animals should have recourse in court. Calling civil matter 15-4324 Naruto v David John Slater et al. Counsel please come forward and state your appearance. This is a recording from the hearing in the federal district court in San Francisco. The judge asked Schwarz if he has an example of an animal ever being granted a copyright. In the vast history of common law prior to the Copyright Act was there-- do you have an example of where an animal was granted a copyright? I do not have an example where an animal was granted a copyright. We could make the counterargument as to how other humans were denied protection under that law due to the color of their skin. One could see the contradiction in a statutory interpretation where we see that problem in the antebellum days. But when you look at the cornerstones of-- That is quite a stretch Mr. Schwarz. Just to pause on this for a moment. Yes Schwarz is comparing a monkey's lack of copyright to chattel slavery which is offensive and seems weirdly blind to the racist history of comparing black people and monkeys. Even Schwarz seems uncomfortable with it. He is saying that denying a monkey the right to own property because of its species is the same as denying humans the right to own property because of the color of their skin. That is quite a stretch Mr. Schwarz. Pardon me? That is quite a stretch. But go ahead. And I certainly would not make it the centerpiece of any argument here today. But it is fair to say that before the adoption of the 14th Amendment the concepts of property ownership in the area of patents foreclosed the ability of a slave to claim ownership to a patent. What is going on here is that PETA sees the monkey selfie case in the context of a larger end game. If they can get a court to agree that denying a monkey the right to own property is the same as denying a human the right to own property that opens the door for the legal system to completely reconsider the legal status of animals. An animal would be declared an owner of property instead of just being property. This is not the first time PETA has tried an argument like this in the courts. In 2011 they sued SeaWorld on behalf of five orcas at SeaWorld Orlando and SeaWorld San Diego. Orcas are huge 20 to 30 feet long. And they weigh about six tons. They typically travel around 75 miles in a day. PETA said that keeping these orcas at SeaWorld in small concrete tanks against their will to perform for human entertainment that was slavery. PETA lost that case. But SeaWorld has agreed to end its captive orca program after the last of their 27 orcas dies. To understand why PETA is pursuing cases like these you have to consider two very different pictures about how the world works. In one of them humans are at the top of the food chain-- either because God wanted it that way or because we figured out how to use our opposable thumbs so well that we could hunt and gather and till the soil and build cities and create copyright laws. We make the rules for everything else in this world. And the other picture-- and this is the one PETA has hanging on their wall-- humans are not at the top. Humans are just another mammal walking around on earth. And if we are going to give ourselves certain rights as humans we should extend those rights to our fellow animals. You guys are saying humans are not superior to other animals. We are not. We are just another member of the animal kingdom. And it does not-- it is just prejudice and hubris that prevents us many times from seeing that. This is Jeff Kerr again the general counsel to PETA. That property status is something that we think is just an abomination. Like Naruto these animals are feeling sentient beings. They should be entitled to fundamental legal rights beyond simply food water veterinary care and shelter. This idea that animals should have recognized fundamental legal rights is not unprecedented. Three years ago in Argentina a judge granted a habeas corpus petition filed on behalf of an orangutan at a zoo in Buenos Aires. She was being held in a tiny crappy cage. The judge decided the orangutan had basic rights as a non-human person including the right to freedom. And in New York state an attorney is fighting to get the courts to recognize that two captive chimps Tommy and Kiko are non-human persons deserving of legal rights just like corporations get. The thing is-- David Slater the photographer who is getting sued by the monkey he agrees with PETA on this point. In fact he used to defend PETA to his friends when they grumbled about the stunts. David even worked with them once on a campaign to protect wild hogs near his home in England. That is one of the greatest shames on them is that they have attacked somebody who is trying to achieve the same goal as they are. Saving animals from suffering is a very noble cause. But I think sometimes they get carried away with their power. Did the fact that this group that is sort of on your side was the one kind of attacking you or opposing you did that make you stop ever and think well now wait a minute? Do they have a point? No. I have had to think very carefully about what my philosophy is. Because the book my Wildlife Personalities book that is part of the court case I argue for animals having more fundamental rights like dignity and access to their ancestral forests and access to food. So I am an animal rights advocate. Naruto and PETA lost that first round in court. Andrew Dhuey called David to tell him the news. We just took it very casually. We just said yeah of course. Of course that is going to get thrown out. Andrew Dhuey said this all along to me. There is no way that this is going to go anywhere. And then the monkey appealed. Good morning Your Honors. And may it please the court David Schwarz on behalf of the appellant. The case went before three judges on the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals. That is the court that ruled against Trump's travel ban twice this year. These judges are not messing around. Schwarz made it 30 seconds into his oral argument before one of the judges interrupted him. Mr. Schwarz before we get there there is a preliminary question which I would like you to address. At this stage the attorneys and the judges are going to debate case law. And the judges have a lot of questions for Schwarz-- the first being how are you qualified to be Naruto's next friend? You do not know the monkey. And then a few minutes later Judge Randy Smith interrupts Schwarz to grill him about injury. That is the legal term for harm or damage. Well what is your injury? There is no way to acquire or hold some money which the copyright would give. There is no losses to reputation. There is no even allegation that the copyright could have benefited somehow Naruto. What financial benefits apply to him? There is nothing. But Your Honor the redressability issue does not necessarily turn on the compensation. It could be-- Well I want to know what then is the injury. There is no case that says copyright infringement itself is injury. So what injury do we have? Whatever the legal merits of this case are there is just something really enjoyable about hearing lawyers throw around terms like redressability and compensation and injury when they are talking about a monkey. I mean if you give me a case that says copyright infringement itself is injury I will believe you. But I do not think you have given me one. What is your injury? The judges and Schwarz volley over case law and legal precedent and the definition of author for 20 minutes before handing the floor to David's lawyer Andrew Dhuey. And after two years of research and legal filings and oral arguments Dhuey finally gets his wish to make a monkey joke in court. Monkey see monkey sue will not do in federal court. After that his oral arguments can pretty much be summed up as you should throw this case out. And can you please make PETA pay my legal fees? Once Dhuey is done Angela Dunning gets up. She is the codefendant's attorney. PETA also sued the self-publishing book company that David had used. So Angela Dunning gets up to deliver her defense which is also pretty straightforward. Naruto cannot benefit financially from his work. He is a monkey. David Slater was not in court in San Francisco that day. He did not want to spend the money to travel all the way to California from Wales. But he watched the whole hearing online. When I watched it-- and you see three judges there. And then one attorney comes up and then my attorney comes up Andrew and then Angela and they started talking about monkeys. It made it real all of a sudden. That yes he was being sued by a monkey. Naruto did not make it to the hearing either. He stayed in the rainforest in Indonesia. And to my knowledge nobody asked him what he thought of all this. After two years the humans managed to figure things out on their own. They told the appellate court they did not want it to rule in the case after all. And in September David and PETA announced they would reached a settlement. The details of the settlement are confidential. So I cannot tell you much about it. But here's what I do know. David Slater still has the monkey selfie copyright registered in his name in two countries. And he agreed to donate 25 of the proceeds of the photos to protect the crested macaques. About Wikipedia they have still got the monkey selfie up there for anyone to download. They still claim it is in the public domain. David will have to sue them to get it taken down which he says he plans to do. There is just one other thing that should be mentioned about Naruto. There were a bunch of monkeys around when the selfies were being taken that day. And PETA consulted with the primatologist who works with those crested black macaques. She is the one who identified Naruto as the monkey in the famous selfie. But David says that is not right. Naruto is a male. I distinctly remember it being a female. I distinctly remember that pink rump which the female macaques have. Basically what you are saying is is that Naruto is making a fraudulent claim himself. Yes. It is the wrong monkey in court. He is taking credit for an artistic work that was actually made by a female monkey. Yeah. And I think the feminists amongst us should start to protest. I am sure she is not the first lady monkey to have this kind of experience. It is in the nature of both humans and monkeys to horse around in front of cameras. But it is a uniquely human characteristic to spend hundreds of thousands of dollars years of our lives to go to court over it. Dana Chivvis is one of the producers of our show. Coming up-- our first act was about a monkey horsing around. Next up we have a horse monkeying around. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio. When our program continues. This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme in today's show So a Monkey and a Horse Walk Into a Bar. Today we have stories of people trying to completely erase the line between animal and human. We have arrived at act two of our program. Act two If Wishes Were Horses. So there was a thing that we were interested in for this week's show that is at the heart of this new short piece of fiction by Amy Bonnaffons. Here it is. This is an excerpt from a longer story read by two actors Grace Gummer and Geraldine Hughes. Quick warning that this story acknowledges the existence of sex. Every morning we meet in the kitchen and unsheathe our needles. My roommate Serena delicately peels down her underwear. I count to three hold her hip to steady her trembling frame then jab thrusting the handle until the fluid disappears. Then it is my turn. We are in this together at least for now. The two needles look identical although their contents are different. We have different goals. Serena wants to become a mother. I want to become a horse. What does it mean to be a horse? First it means not being a person-- no credit cards no fad diets no existential questions no more boring meetings or family dinners no political allegiances or disappointments no responsibility to anyone but yourself. How do I become one? It is quite simple. State your desire in writing and we will take it from there. Is it expensive? No. Why not? Because there is not yet sufficient demand for the procedure. All the more reason for you to try before it becomes pricey and exclusive. Right now it costs less than a Pilates vacation in Tulum. I wanted something human existence could not offer. As I neared my 40th birthday I felt increasingly constricted by daily postures-- sitting in a chair at my desk cocking my head with feigned interest at a party stirring spaghetti sauce over the stove. I started taking expensive vacations to engage in extreme physical challenges-- mountain climbing skydiving snowboarding. These pursuits all induced a feeling of mastery and freedom but only after learning a complex set of rules regarding harnesses buckles and straps. I wanted to do away with constraints entirely. Then I learned about becoming a horse. How does the process work? The process now known as equinification was discovered by Janus Belacek a Hungarian doctor transforming human DNA into horse DNA. The process requires only a simple series of shots. Why does it only work on women? We are not sure but we think it is because they want it to. Where do these horse women live? Atalanta Ranch which occupies an entire island off the coast of Florida and has been built expressly for this purpose. What do the horses on the ranch look like? They look like horses tall graceful animals designed for running and grazing muscles rippling beneath a shiny coat of fur hair flying in the wind. They look like they are doing nothing other than actively being themselves. Of course I went to visit. The ranch was just as they described. The horses looked healthy and vibrant. Their hooves pounded across the plains making a sound like rainfall. Do you think this is some kind of modern version of the lesbian separatist utopia? I mused that night to Kathy one of the other women on the tour over gin and tonics at the island's guesthouse. Except not just for lesbians? She laughed. Old fantasies die hard. She gave me a meaningful look. Can I ask something? What is your reason? Boredom I said without hesitation. She nodded. What about you? I said. What are you escaping? She replied with a long story about her body which had endured nearly every tried and true form of female trauma-- abuse rape abortion endometriosis hysterectomy. I guess she said I want a different body with a clean slate. They kept refilling our drinks without our asking. And soon we were very drunk. Somehow we found ourselves in my room stripping off our clothes. This sex was like a competition. Who could manage to escape her body using the other's body first? Later embarrassed we turned away from each other. Just then I sensed movement behind the win