Back during the rise of the dot coms and the internet Jeff Kelling and a few of his friends were working as programmers together at this company in Dallas. And they decided they wanted to get together the way the tech geeks were doing all over the world at the time and come up with an idea for their own internet company to start. One of my business partners Andy his wife had just had a baby and we started thinking about photo sharing. Andy could share his photos of his new baby with the grandparents that live across the state. And this is 1999. This is before Flickr this is before Shutterfly. But Jeff and his friends they were not the first people to try to make a business out of photo sharing. There were other companies out there trying to make a go of that. And it is not easy. It took Jeff and his partners years-- working nights working weekends-- until finally in 2006 their startup was doing well enough that they could all quit their day jobs and do that full-time. Their company was called FotoTime-- that is FotoTime with an F. Just as they were living the dream entrepreneurship their own business until-- We got a letter in May of 2008. And it was not a friendly letter. I mean if you take a letter from the IRS that says we are going to audit you this letter was even less friendly than that. It pretty much said you are in violation of three of the patents that our company holds. You must contact us immediately to arrange payment and settlement or we will be taking you to court. And we were wondering what is all this? I mean this whole thing was developed internally. It is not like we went through the patent office and stole people's ideas. And it is also not like we were the first to do this. And we looked up this lawsuit online and we saw there were over 130 companies named in this lawsuit. All the big names were there-- Yahoo which owns Flickr as well as Shutterfly and Photobucket and lots of small companies like Jeff's as well. The company suing Jeff was called FotoMedia. Jeff was FotoTime with an F this was FotoMedia with an F. And one thing that was odd they were not actually a competitor of Jeff's. They did not have a website where you could upload or share photos. And it was not clear to Jeff what in the world they thought he would stolen from them. Had he accidentally come up with a way to upload files or maybe see photos online or do the credit card transactions that already somebody had some sort of patent on? Or was it that he had not stolen anything? They were just looking for a payout scamming him for some money? And what was especially galling to Jeff when he called them to ask what am I stealing from you guys? They would not tell him. That was a question they would not answer. They said they would not answer that until we got into court. So they would not even identify what parts of our business or what they thought we were doing to use their technology. But to go to court to answer that question was going to cost money a lot of money. It was between 2 and 5 million. That is more than our company could handle honestly. We knew we had to settle this thing somehow. There would be no more FotoTime today if we had to do that. Amazingly it was not just Jeff and the other companies getting sued over these three patents who were upset. Out there in the world was an inventor who came up with the original ideas that got patented for two of these three patents and he was not that happy about the lawsuit either. The guy's name was David Rose and he was issued these patents back when he started his own photo-sharing company back in the mid '90s just a couple years before Jeff Kelling started his. And he had gotten the patents in part because having a patent was just one of those things you did to raise money from investors a check box you checked to prove you were serious and to protect yourself from some company swooping in and stealing your ideas. He sold his company in 2000 and the patents that he got along with it. He thought the people who bought his company would expand the company and make it prosper. Hopefully turn it into a household name. He has some problems with what they chose to do instead. He talked to This American Life producer Alex Blumberg and reporter Laura Sydell. It is the hoarding and non-operating of the technology that does not feel good. Because they did not become the brand that they could have become. They had the protection. They could have built Flickr. Right. And instead they waited for somebody else to build Flickr and then they sued Flickr? Yes. Companies that make no products but go around suing other companies that do make products over supposed patent infringement are so common in Silicon Valley these days that there is a derogatory term for it-- trolls or patent trolls. David Rose explains trolls-- You do not know that there is one under the bridge. They pop up. They have unreasonable demands. They can charge monopoly tolls or monopoly rents. So the guy who came up with two of these patents does not want the lawsuit and the guy getting sued for the patents does not want the lawsuit. And yet the lawsuit happens. FotoMedia by the way denies being a patent troll. Its CEO told us that patent troll is a term that people throw around very loosely when they are in litigation over patent rights. As far as we can tell and not a lot of this information is public most of the companies being sued ended up doing what Jeff did and agreed to pay FotoMedia money. Some of them were put out of business. Jeff felt like he had no choice but to settle. He told Laura and Alex that reaching a settlement ended up taking six months a very rough six months. It feels like if they are not reasonable OK our venture of 10 years is going to be gone. They have to be reasonable or we will just plain be gone. And we are talking about 10 years of our life. You know honestly as I am talking about it now it is kind of raising my heartbeat a little bit because I just remember how I personally felt. Just the huge amount of anxiety and lack of control over the whole situation. It was just an awful feeling. Can I ask what that final settlement was how much it was? No. No unfortunately part of the terms of our settlement agreement is that we do not discuss the amount. Did it put your business in danger? It did and they knew that. The settlement they wanted to get was just enough to put us in danger but not to close us and I will stop there. Patents are so foundational to the American way of life that they are in the Constitution. Their purpose is quote to promote the useful arts and sciences. In other words to get people to share their ideas and inventions. To say to somebody like Eli Whitney OK you have this amazing invention the cotton gin. If you tell everybody how it works and how to make their own in exchange any time somebody uses the idea you get paid. If there were no such thing as a patent Eli Whitney would have to keep his invention hidden in a dark room with no windows. Nobody would steal the idea and then people would bring him their cotton and he would spit it out for them all processed on the other side. Instead of that we had thousands of cotton gins everywhere. Patents make it safe to share and to innovate. But today lots of investors and innovators in Silicon Valley maybe the majority would tell you the patent system is doing the exact opposite of what it is supposed to. It is not promoting innovation it is stifling it. Because patent lawsuits are on the rise. Patent trolls are on the move. Patent lawsuits are so common now that it is hard to find even one semi-successful startup in Silicon Valley that has not been hit with a suit. Which slows innovation makes it harder for companies to prosper hurts our global competitiveness-- is this getting big enough for you? Costs us all more money when we buy the stuff these companies sell. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Today on our show When Patents Attack. Our guides this hour are going to be NPR correspondent Laura Sydell and This American Life producer and Planet Money co-host Alex Blumberg. OK take it away guys. The term patent troll was first coined by a guy named Peter Detkin who at the time was one of the top lawyers at one of the biggest tech companies in the world the computer chip maker Intel. Around 1999 Intel found itself in the position that Jeff Kelling-- the guy we heard from at the top of the show-- was in. Getting approached by a company that did not build anything. Simply saying I have a patent that covers semiconductors generally. You make a semiconductor and therefore you should pay me some money. And there were a lot of claims like that. One lawsuit in particular made Peter Detkin so mad that he called the lawyer who filed it a quote patent extortionist. The lawyer turned around and sued Peter Detkin for libel. So Detkin needed a better name. So I had a contest inside Intel. The contest itself was named The Terrorist. And these suggestions-- we got a lot of suggestions but none really fit. But at the time my daughter was I think four or five and she liked playing with those little troll dolls. The original one in fact is still in my office. And so I turned to her and I said oh the story of a troll kind of fits because the whole Billy Goats Gruff thing. It is someone lying under a bridge they did not build demanding payment from anybody who passed. I said how about a patent troll? The name stuck and if anything the problem of patent trolls just got worse. From 2004 to 2009 the number of patent infringement lawsuits jumped by 70. Licensing fee requests like what happened to Peter Detkin and to FotoTime went up 650. Today pretty much any time you talk to a computer or tech person in Silicon Valley and the subject of patents comes up everyone groans. I hear those groans a lot. I live out here in San Francisco and just to get a flavor of this the other day I went down to a park called South Park around noon. It is a place where a lot of tech workers eat their lunch. And the sentiment is universal. If I say patents system what do you say? I think it is just a way for lawyers to make money and basically it is a killer for creativity. Complicated broken. It is basically a flimflam game that anybody who knows how to take advantage of it is doing. Do you kind of groan when you hear the word? I do yeah. You want to hear a groan for the radio? Yeah let us hear a groan. Grrrrr. If I say the word patent troll does any company or any entity come to mind in particular? Like Nathan Myhrvold I guess and whatever his company is. It has some stupid name like Associate Associates or something like that I do not know. The name he is searching for is Intellectual Ventures the company Nathan Myhrvold founded in 2000. Nathan Myhrvold used to be the chief technology officer at Microsoft where he made a lot of money hundreds of millions of dollars. Even if you have not heard of Intellectual Ventures you might have heard of Nathan Myhrvold. My guest tonight has written a six-volume book on cutting-edge food made with modern science. Please welcome Nathan Myhrvold. This is Myhrvold on the television show The Colbert  Report talking about another one of his ventures an opus on the science of cooking which teaches you how to do things like make ice cream with liquid nitrogen. Myhrvold is the kind of guy the press loves to profile. You are a polymath. You are a Renaissance man. You are a world barbecue champion now. You have discovered T. rex fossils. You have studied quantum physics with Stephen Hawking. And you have a new six-volume 40-pound 625 book called Modernist Cuisine. But this image of Nathan Myhrvold who gives TED talks and generally plays the role of an avuncular elder statesman for the tech industry is at odds with the image of his company Intellectual Ventures. There is an influential blog in Silicon Valley called Techdirt which regularly refers to Intellectual Ventures as a patent troll. Another blog IPWatchdog called Intellectual Ventures patent troll public enemy number one. And the Wall Street Journal's law blog had an article about Intellectual Ventures titled Innovative Invention Company Or Giant Patent Troll? These articles talk about how IV has amassed one of the largest patent portfolios in existence. How it is going around the technology companies demanding money to license these patents. But the thing is people at companies that have been approached by Intellectual Ventures will not talk about it. There is a lot of fear about Intellectual Ventures. You do not want to make yourself a target. This is Chris Sacca an entrepreneur and venture capitalist in Silicon Valley who was an early investor in companies like Twitter and FanBridge and lots of other startups. He would not say if Intellectual Ventures had been in contact with his companies. I tried to put you in touch with other people in this community to talk to you about this and they almost uniformly said they could not talk to you. They are afraid to. And we should just cut in here and say when Chris says this community he is talking about the community of multimillionaire venture capitalists that he hangs around with. Not a timid crowd. Back to Chris. They almost uniformly said they could not talk to you. They are afraid to. And they did not even hem and haw about it. They just said they are afraid to talk about this issue on the record. It is such a mismatched fight that your best defensive option is security by obscurity. They have the potential to literally obliterate startups. Intellectual Ventures is a company that invests in invention. This of course is Nathan Myhrvold. I went to talk to him and spent a day at his company. And not surprisingly Nathan Myhrvold had a very different story about what he is up to. Are you a patent troll? Well that is a term that has been used by people to mean someone they do not like who has patents. I think you would find almost anyone who stands up for their patent rights has been called a patent troll. Intellectual Ventures says Myhrvold is just the opposite. They are on the side of inventors. They pay inventors for patents. They gather these patents together into this huge warehouse of invention that companies can use if they want. Sort of like a department store for patents. Whatever technology you are looking for Intellectual Ventures has it. And when reporters come to visit Myhrvold to underline this idea that IV is all about invention he takes them to see this. Out here we are standing on the brink of our machine shop. I am on a tour with Geoff Deane who runs the Intellectual Ventures Invention Lab. About 100 people work here. The lab is massive. There are people walking around in white lab coats mixing chemicals in beakers and looking at stuff under microscopes. There is a machine shop a nanotechnology section. It is like a playground for scientists and engineers. And if you ask them what they have invented so far there is a couple things they point to. The nuclear technology they say is safer and greener than existing technologies. A cooler that can keep vaccines cold for months without electricity. And the world's most high-tech mosquito zapper which senses mosquitoes from hundreds of feet away by detecting the speed of their wings. Well on one side you have a reflector. On the other side you have something that is looking down range at the reflector. And any time a mosquito flies between there it actually finds the mosquito and shoots it out of the air as fast as you can imagine. So it takes about a tenth of a second for it to find the mosquito identify it as a mosquito and kill it. Like a missile defense shield for mosquitoes. But the fact is this lab is a tiny fraction of what the company does. Intellectual Ventures has received a little over 1000 patents on stuff they have come up with here which pales in comparison to the more than 30000 patents they have bought from other people. In fact nothing that is come out of this lab not the mosquito zapper not the nuclear technology nothing has made it into commercial use. But Intellectual Ventures says that is not our job. Our job they say is to encourage invention. For example imagine an inventor out there someone with a brilliant idea a breakthrough. This inventor has a patent but still companies are stealing his idea and he does not have the money or legal savvy to stop them. That is where Intellectual Ventures comes in. They buy this inventor's patent and make sure that companies who are using the idea pay for it. A lot of people I met at IV told me some version of this story. We are promoting innovation by supporting inventors. And when I asked for an example of an inventor in this situation someone with a breakthrough who was not getting paid for it two separate people pointed me to the same guy. There is one story I can think of a gentleman named Chris Crawford. This is one of the people who mentioned Chris Crawford Joe Chernesky a vice president at Intellectual Ventures. The neat thing about Chris is he had no idea how to get money for his patents. He had this great idea. These patents were immensely valuable because every technology company was adopting the technology yet he did not know how to get paid. He eventually found Intellectual Ventures so we bought those patents. So I figured I want to talk to this guy. Not so simple. It turned out trying to talk to Chris Crawford took us on a five-month odyssey where things did not exactly fit the story that Intellectual Ventures was telling us. It started when I called Intellectual Ventures to get Chris Crawford's contact info. I got a strange email back in response. I was told they no longer own Chris Crawford's patent. And I was told he probably would not want to talk to me right now because he was in the middle of litigation. That just made us curious so we started digging around. We found Chris Crawford in Clearwater Florida. But as predicted he never responded to our many emails and phone calls. You will never hear from him in this story. We were able though to locate his patent. Patent number 5771354. He got it in 1998 back in the relatively early days of the internet. And the way IV explained the patent to us Chris Crawford invented something that we all do all the time now. He figured out a way to upgrade the software on your home computer over the internet. So in other words when you turn on your computer and a little box pops up and says click here to upgrade to the newest version of iTunes that was Chris Crawford's idea. But when we looked at the patent it seemed to claim a lot more than that. The patent says this invention makes it possible to connect to an online service provider to do a bunch of stuff-- software purchases online rentals data backups information storage. The patent makes it seem like this one guy Chris Crawford invented a lot of what we do on the internet every day. We were not sure what to make of this so we turned to an expert. You are going to start by looking at the left- and right-hand screens. This is David Martin who runs a company called M-CAM. They are hired by governments banks businesses to assess patent quality which they do with this fancy software program. We asked him to assess Chris Crawford's patent. Now if you would please just click on the patent number itself Laura. The software program actually scans through millions of patents and analyzes them to see if any of them overlap. That is a bad number. An idea being patented is supposed to be non-obvious to a person of ordinary skill in the art. What that means is that you should not be able to get a patent for just a common sense good idea. It has to be a breakthrough. That is correct. In other words we should not be seeing what we are seeing on David Martin's computer screen. 5303 patents that were issued while his was being prosecuted which covered the same material. 5303. And so that means that at the same time that Chris Crawford's patent was getting issued-- Only 5303 other people were pursuing the same thing. And when you say the same thing-- I mean the same thing. David Martin may be exaggerating a little here for effect but as we look through some of the patents that are on the screen the resemblances are pretty clear. Remember Chris Crawford's patent is for quote an online backup system. And on David Martin's computer screen we see lots of patents with slightly different language but covering essentially the same idea. For example patent number 6003044 for quote efficiently backing up files using multiple computer systems. Patent 5933653 for quote mirroring data in a remote data storage system. And then there were three different patents with three different patent numbers but that all had the same title quote system and method for backing up computer files over a wide area computer network. David Martin says that when he first started looking into this stuff and saw all these patents that were granted for essentially the same thing-- We thought that would be an anomaly. And then we were told oh no it is not an anomaly. That happens. So that is what got us into the rabbit hole you are about to see. Which is to say well let us see how many times that happens. And as I have testified in Congress that happens about 30 of the time in US patents. That is 30 of US patents are essentially for things that have already been invented. So for example toast becomes the thermal refreshening of a bread product. These are real patents? Yes. There is a patent on toast? Yes thermally refreshened bread not on toast. Ladies and gentlemen patent number 6080436 bread refreshing method issued in 2000. And we talked to another expert who told us Chris Crawford's patent was actually similar to the toast patent in one respect. None of this was actually new. Rick McLeod is a patent lawyer and former software engineer who we also asked to evaluate Chris Crawford's patent. So he went on a search. This is how patent lawyers research this kind of thing. He looked to see if anyone else in the field was already doing the thing Chris Crawford claimed to invent in 1993 when he first filed his patent. There were institutions both academic and businesses that used computers in this way. And I think it is a very interesting collection of things that were well known in the 1980s with the exception of it adds on the word internet. Do you think this patent should have been issued in the first place? No I do not. And in fact for a long time the Patent Office would have agreed with Rick McLeod. The Patent Office used to be very reluctant to issue patents for software. For decades it considered software to be like language. Software programs were more like books or articles. You could copyright them but you could not patent them. They were not inventions like the cotton gin. But the federal courts stepped in and they started chipping away at this interpretation. There was a big decision in 1994 and another one in 1998 which rejected the Patent Office's view. The Patent Office got the memo and a flood of software patents followed. A lot of people in Silicon Valley wish that that had never happened including a very surprising group-- software engineers. I have to say I actually worked on a whole bunch of patents in my career over the years and I have to say that every single patent is nothing but crap. This is Stephan Brunner a programmer. He said something we heard from a lot of software engineers. His software patents do not even make sense to him. I cannot tell you for the hell of it what they are actually supposed to do. Because the company said we have to do a patent on this and then they send in a lawyer. You basically say that is probably right. That is probably wrong. And they just write something up. It makes no sense. And personally when I look at them I am not proud at all because most of them again it is just like mumbo jumbo which nobody understands and which makes no sense from an engineering standpoint whatsoever. Stephan Brunner patent 7650296 quote a configurator using structure and rules to provide a user interface. One sample section and trust me the whole thing is like this. According to one embodiment of the invention a customizable product class is created. A component product class is added to the customizable product class where the component product class is a sub-class of the customizable product. In polls as many as 80 of software engineers say the patent system actually hinders innovation. In other words it does exactly the opposite of what it is supposed to do. It does not encourage them to come up with new ideas and create new products it actually gets in their way. Here's another programmer Adam Cohen. I work for a company which I am not going to say that at the end of the company we tried to patent-- we did successfully patent our software that we made. And that patent is really meaningless because everybody that has an internet website basically almost today uses the stuff that we patented to make their website work. Almost everybody. This we heard happens all the time-- patents that are so broad everyone's guilty of infringement. Which causes huge problems for almost anyone trying to start or grow a business on the internet. We are at a point in the state of intellectual property where existing patents probably cover every single behavior that is happening on the internet and our mobile phones today. This again is Chris Sacca the investor you heard from earlier who helped lots of companies including Twitter get off the ground. So I have no doubt that the average Silicon Valley startup or even medium-sized company no matter how truly innovative they are I have no doubt that aspects of whatever they are doing violate patents that are out there right now. And that is what is fundamentally broken about this system right now. And this brings us back to patent 5771354 Chris Crawford's patent the patent Intellectual Ventures pointed us to as an example of how they encourage innovation. As we have said this patent also seems to cover a big chunk of what is happening on the internet-- upgrading software buying stuff online what is called cloud storage storing data on the internet. If you have a patent on all that you could sue a lot of people and make a lot of money. And in fact that is what is happening with Chris Crawford's patent. Intellectual Ventures sold it to another company a company called Oasis Research in June of 2010. Less than a month later Oasis Research used the patent to sue 16 different tech companies-- companies like Rackspace Go Daddy and ATT companies that do cloud storage. You have reached Oasis Research. At the tone please leave your name-- I called the number on Oasis's website numerous times but an actual human being never picked up. For a while the message directed all questions to a lawyer in New York named John Desmarais. He also did not return our phone calls although I did track him down at a conference in San Francisco. I ran up to him right after a talk and asked him what he could tell me about Oasis Research. I cannot talk about folks I represent. Do you know who owns Oasis Research to reach them? Yes I do. Yes but I am not going to tell you. I mean they are bringing a suit and you literally cannot tell us who owns the company? I am not going to answer questions about pending lawsuits for you. Another question. Is there any chance at a later date of actually talking to you more generally? I do not think so but thanks for asking. Although I love NPR and I love the work that you guys do. Behavior like this makes it hard not to think are you hiding something? When someone says yes I know but I am not going to tell you it really makes you want to find stuff out. There was hardly any public information about Oasis Research minimal corporate filings. No way to know who owned it how many employees it had if it even had employees at all. One of the few details that was available an address in Marshall Texas. 104 East Houston Street Suite 190. Right now we are going into the first floor of the Baxter Building which is 104 East Houston. This is Michael Smith. He is an attorney in Marshall Texas who does mostly patent cases. He agreed to show us the offices of Oasis Research. They are in a nondescript two-story building on the town's main square two doors down from the federal courthouse. He led us into a narrow corridor lined with doors with gold and black office name plates. And here we go suite 190 Oasis Research LLC. It was late morning on a weekday-- not a holiday-- but the door was locked. Through the crack underneath you could see there were no lights on inside. Marshall is a very small town 24000 people. Michael was born and raised here so we started quizzing him about Oasis. Does it have any employees that you know about? Not that I know of. Have you ever seen any people coming in and out of that office? No I have not. Is this office ever occupied? I doubt that it is. If you do not mind I am going to knock on that door and just see if there is anyone here today. I know this is kind of a cliche at this point knocking on the door of the suspected fake office-- Nothing. But we would flown a long way. But I will say standing in that corridor was eerie. All the other doors looked exactly the same-- locked name plates over the door no light coming out. It was a corridor of silent empty offices. Right next door to Software Rights Archive Bulletproof Technology of Texas Jelly Fish Technology of Texas and a couple others that I recognize as plaintiffs in cases that we are involved in here. Are there are a lot of companies like this here in East Texas? Yes. And we are standing in the whole corridor of them it seems like. Yes. This would be ground zero yes. So what is going on here? It turns out a lot of those companies in that corridor maybe every single one of them are doing exactly what Oasis Research is doing. They appear to have no employees. They are not making new inventions here. They are filing lawsuits for patent infringement. Patent lawsuits says Michael Smith are big business in Marshall part of the Eastern District of Texas. Walking back across the town square past the Eastern District Courthouse Michael explained it. The Eastern District in the last few years has been either number one or number two or three in the nation in numbers of patent cases. The list of the patent cases at this courthouse would be about 2000 cases long. As we walked past the courthouse as if to drive the point home a gaggle of lawyers emerges-- dozens and dozens of dark suits in the hot Texas sun. They are taking their mid-morning break during a patent trial that started yesterday morning in front of Magistrate Judge Everingham. It is quite something to see all these-- it is in this case it is mostly men in suits a couple women just streaming out of that courthouse one after another this little federal courthouse. They travel in packs. We talked to many people about why this is so. Why do all these New York and San Francisco-based companies come to tiny Marshall to battle in court? Many people say it has to do with juries in Marshall. They are famously plaintiff friendly friendly to patent owners trying to get a large verdict. But Michael Smith who is argued on both sides of numerous patent cases says that might have been true once but not anymore. He says they are in Marshall because of the drug war. Basically in the '90s federal courts everywhere were clogged with drug cases. Civil cases like patent cases could not get in front of a judge because criminal cases take precedence. So companies with patent suits had to find a spot with fewer criminals to prosecute-- hence sleepy Marshall Texas. Our visit to Marshall made us realize something big is going on here in Texas and Oasis Research is part of it. 2000 lawsuits making the same essential claim Intellectual Ventures makes. There is an inventor whose invention is being stolen used without permission. But there were no inventors here just corridors of empty offices and a lot of lawyers. It made us wonder what else about Intellectual Ventures is not what it appears to be? Alex Blumberg and Laura Sydell. Coming up we go back to Intellectual Ventures for answers and we find out what a patent has in common with a weapon of mass destruction. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues.   It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our show When Patents Attack stories about how our patent system sometimes seems to be discouraging rather than encouraging innovation in high-tech busin