And this guy like hung out of the window of his car and yelled out call me when you are legal. And it is just so weird. I mean partially because I was not used to being a thing that you would want to have call you. You mean specifically because you were a child? Yeah. Yeah. But also because like what did he want there? What am I going to do in that scenario? Like am I going to chase him? Am I going to actually give him my number so that he can call me in 11 years time when I am legal? Like what is going to happen? What does he want there? So the guy drove off. Eleanor grew up. And as an adult she saw how often women are cat called and she decided to do an experiment where she would stop and talk to the guys treat it like the beginning of a conversation. Like OK you wanted to talk? Let us talk. Ask some questions. She took a recorder and a microphone. To increase the odds of getting catcalled she ditched her normal clothes and her glasses for heels and lipstick. She lives in Australia in Sydney and she headed to an area called Kings Cross. And it is like a night life spot anywhere else in the world. You do not need to have seen King's Cross to know what it is like. You have one wherever you live. It is billboards and like fluorescent lights and guys just kind of like shouting at the moon and girls in tiaras and sashes on that say 18 Today! with an exclamation mark. And I walked around and whenever someone yelled out something or catcalled I would turn around I would ask if I could start recording and I would say what did you just say and what were you hoping to get from it? And most of them were like pretty happy to talk. A lot of them were like either drunk or just stoked that a girl was chatting to them. But they were pretty forthcoming. OK. Let us hear some of the voices. So a guy just looks for a reaction a smile you are a dickhead hi. Just in case you are having trouble with the Australian accent he is saying A guy just looks for a reaction a smile you are a dickhead hi. A smile and you are a dickhead both equally good? Both equally as good. So it is just attention? No no. It gives you a platform for you to start. How many successful relationships do you think have started from someone saying you are a dickhead? Zero.  Describe this next guy. And so this is Sebastian and he is a bouncer with a strip club. He is kind of huge and stocky. He is wearing a baseball cap. And he shouted something at me about looking French and he made this gesture as I walked past as if he was like grabbing air breasts. . Did you just make a gesture like breasts? I like saying hello to women. I like being friendly to women. OK. So here's my thing yeah? They love it. So you think that they are like-- They have to. Why? It is a nice thing when a man says hello. And one thing that started to emerge in every single one of these conversations was they think that women enjoy it. So whatever the first reason they gave for catcalling almost immediately the follow-up would be and I want women to have a good time. I am trying to make you feel good. I am trying to give you a compliment or make you feel confident. Women enjoy this and that is part of why I do it. And that was astounding to me. So tell me about these guys. This is Zac and Mike. Zac and Mike shouted at me as I was walking across an alleyway. Do you want her to have fun or are you just doing it for you? Oh you know I want her to get enjoyment out of what I yell at her. I do not want her to be-- in no way I want her to be offended or feel in any way insecure about anything I say. It is always-- like I am never going to say anything rude or abusive. It is always for the good of the night. OK. So it matters to you that she had fun? Yeah. 100. OK. And do you like-- do you count yourself as a good guy? Fucking oath the best. Fucking oath is Australian speak for like hell yeah. These guys did not seem like sexist nut jobs. That did not seem unreasonable. They were not hard to talk to. And it occurred to me they have just like made a mistake. They just got some kind of central fact about women wrong and they think that we really enjoy this. And surely I can stand in front of these reasonable caring dudes and just say women do not like it. And that might be a way of talking them out of doing it ever. Eleanor by the way is in her 20s and she spent 14 years in school as an unapologetic debate nerd on debate teams flying to Paris and Doha and Seoul and Berlin to compete. As part of the national Australian debate team she wore a blue Blazer with the Australian crest so she is somebody who believes in her ability to persuade. And when she walked up to guys in the street with her recorder she really did try to change the way they saw what they were doing. She really did try to convince them to change course and never catcall again. And that is when things got really interesting. Today's program is all about people who believe in the power of a course correction that they can get others to change course or that they can get themselves to change course. And then things will be fixed. The world will be a better place. They will be better people. We have three stories one about a US Marine one about a robot and we have Eleanor in King's Cross who is Act One. Which is where we are now. This is actually a rerun of our show. But In these Harvey Weinstein Louis C.K. Roy Moore days we thought we would go back to this story where a woman ties to talk-- sincerely talk-- to men about male behavior that she just does not understand. And I think the best way to illustrate what her conversations were like-- because they are really interesting-- is to play you excerpts of just one of them at length. And the one we are going to do is the conversation she had with Zac. Zac is the guy who was out with his friend Mike and said to her-- Like I am never going to say anything rude or abusive. It is always for the good of the night. Eleanor said Zac was a good listener. He seemed like a nice guy. And so this is how one of those conversations goes when it goes the best. Here's Eleanor. I talked to Zac and Mike in a dingy alley which sounds scarier than it was because it is hard to be scared of Zac and Mike. Zac's this big friendly-looking overgrown teddybear of a man with huge brown eyes and Mike's tiny and wiry. They look kind of like Yogi and Boo-Boo turned human. As I was walking past Zac yells out Hey luscious lips. I was complimenting you on your red lips how they look nice and it would be amazing to kiss a complete stranger that worked for a radio station. When Zac does this kind of stuff it is like he is putting on our show. He is flirty. He is show-offy. His whole mission in life is to bring the party. If you have ever watched a documentary where you have got like a bird like an amazing bird like the birds of paradise they do the most extravagant dances just amazing just to flaunt themselves. I believe-- I know for a fact that saying crazy shit to girls like the same sort of shit that I said that brought you to me right now is the exact sort of same. It is kind of like being colorful with your words. To be clear I liked Zac even when he told me this. I have done rude things like I have run along to groups of girls on the street and like complete random and smacked one of their asses like one out of about 10 . And all the rest are like fixated on oh my god why was her ass slapped? And it is enjoyable. But it is only enjoyable he says if the woman's part of a group. He knows there is a line you do not cross. He is just drawn it in a weird place. Yes if you single out a girl and slap their ass it can be a little bit creepy. But I would not do that. I only slapped one ass of one group. I am a one ass one group guy. OK? Would you have slapped my ass if I would been closer to you? If you were in a group yes. If you are on your own no I would not. Why not if I was on my own? It kind of takes away the fun of it. The fun of it is your ass-- it is not saying your ass is not hot but your ass is the hottest of the group. Therefore I have slapped it. Did anybody hit you or yell at you or tell you not to do that? No. No no no. I am not doing anything wrong. I am complimenting a girl's ass in public. You think that smacking a girl's ass in public is not doing anything wrong? No. You can hear it right? He sounds sincere. He wants to believe or he really does believe that this stuff is harmless just a street show or a fun game for everyone to share. Would it matter to you if what you did actually make girls feel really terrible? If I could convince you that at least some of us were made to feel small and frightened by guys who smack our asses on the street or give us compliments without asking does that matter to you? Yeah definitely. Fucking oath. I do not want anyone to feel uncomfortable or anything about my presence. OK. So here's a thought that I think maybe has not occurred to you. There is quite a lot of violence against women right? Like we understand that. One of the things that happens when you feel afraid as a chick and you are just walking around and a guy slaps your ass is you do not know if he intends it as a compliment or if he is actually really violent. And so something that we do something that we have learned to do is to not reject men. One of the strategies we adopt is laugh smile be collegiate be appeasing be non-confrontational. Right? So I want to suggest to you that it is possible that a lot of the smiles and laughs that you see on the faces of the women who you slap or compliment are ways for them to get out of the situation rather than ways of thanking you. Well I actually kind of feel a little bit bad now. Yeah no I do. Because I understand that. I understand that. That an ass slap cannot just be taken as a compliment. Zac seemed to get that. But then Mike explained that what I would said did not implicate them. Honestly like just because you feel that and just because it is in the headlines it does not mean that all chicks all girls have that same feeling.  Like every girl has a different level of sensitivity and I am feeling from you that your level of sensitivity is way higher and there is a reason for why that is. And that is because of your upbringing or something in your past has brought you to feel this way. In the end they just were not buying it. They kept coming back at me with variations on the same theme. Not all girls feel like you do and we do not mean any harm. I just could not talk them out of it. Are you still going to yell at women on the street after talking to me? Yes. I am going to. Yes. Because-- Even though it makes us feel bad. But you cannot speak for every girl. No I cannot. But I think it makes a reasonable proportion of us feel bad and I think you taking the risk of frightening someone who something bad has happened to is an unkind thing to do. Well I am sorry for being unkind but I am just another paradise bird flaunting my shit. But you do not think that you can try and be better? A better paradise bird? A better person? It is true that I cannot speak for other women but I can speak to them. So just for the record I went to check if I am the only one who feels this way. I talked to girls who are out like out out girls in sashes and tiaras and girls smoking outside clubs. And I asked them what they thought about catcalling. I hate it so much. It makes me feel so uncomfortable pissed off and scared. Shitty but also super scared. Just the idea that someone is so much bigger than me and could so easily do something to me. I feel cheap. I feel like I need to change my clothing like I should not have worn a dress today. I have never met like a single person who enjoys it. Not even really drunk women like it I do not think. I have never ever ever met a girl that enjoyed it ever. There was one woman who kind of enjoyed it. She was young and peppered with freckles and just chilled out about everything. He complimented my butt and I do not like my butt so I was like cool. By now I was going kind of mad that I had not talked Zac out of cat-calling. I hate losing arguments. But more than that I hate losing arguments for reasons I do not quite understand. And I still did not understand Zac at all. Did he seriously just need evidence that more women felt like I did? I decided to try persuading him a second time only this time I would be armed with numbers. We met up again at 5 oclock on a Wednesday on the exact same spot where he yelled at me. On the night we would met there would been vomit on the sidewalk but by the middle of the week it was just milk crates and cigarette butts. It took us a minute to recognize each other but when we did we sat side by side in the gutter and talked for an hour conspicuously not touching elbows. All right. Let us talk about this slapping women on the ass thing. All right.  Let us talk about it. You are sold on it. It is such a killer. It so works. You have just asked a question about a point-- But you told me it does not work. You told me that I am the first woman who is ever spoken to you after doing any of this stuff. Yeah that is true. That is true. I was just being a smart ass. I will just tell you like other times it is happened. In Newtown once it was Australia Day two years ago I was with the same mate. And there was this group of like English girls. I could hear their accent. And I was like fuck fuck this. I am going to fucking start with their asses. There is like 10 of them. And I walked up in the middle of them slapped one of the asses in the middle. Kind of like pushed my way through and I just like started to impersonate them all. And they loved it. We ended up going to a pub and having drinks with them. But it did not lead to anything more than that. But they like thought that was cool. They were like fucking that is arrest worthy. You could get arrested for what you just did but you did it. So fucking kudos to you. Come have a drink. The story that you just told me sounds like there was a group of women who were out by themselves enjoying themselves. You ran into the middle of the group you hit one of them without asking or speaking to her.  That is not funny to me man. What I am trying to explain to you is that it is not just me who feels frightened at this stuff. And it is not just me who does not find it fun. I have some stats too. Hang on. So a survey found that 67 of women think that an interaction in the street like a catcall or a slap is going to escalate. It is going to escalate to what? To a physical attack. Something bad? Yeah. Oh really? Fuck that is bad. 23 of women think that it is going to get worse. That is really bad. 85 feel angry 78 feel annoyed 80 feel nervous and 72 feel disgusted. It is not just me man. Most of us hate it. Well stats are stats are not they? Far out. I have never actually-- I have never heard any stats from it. I have just gone off face value from the situation. So yeah if you are asking me if I feel bad about what I have done yeah I feel bad if I have made anyone feel anything than like kind of complimented. Yes definitely. Those odds suggest to me that you probably have made people feel angry and frightened. I do not think I have. I honestly do not think I have because I have seen the reaction. I am not grabbing a chick's ass whatsoever. It is like a slap it is like a tap. You know what I mean? A grab I think that is a bit fucking weird. A dude going and grabbing a girl's arse that is fucking wrong. What makes it wrong to grab a girl's ass? Because you are like you are fucking feeling their flesh and their body and it is like you could make them feel really uncomfortable. Like any-- OK but the things that make it wrong to grab someone I am telling you that is the same for slapping them. But you cannot speak for every girl you know? You do not know-- Yes we are back on this point. He was not budging on this. He came back to it over and over. He seemed to have this whole imagined world of women who were into this and he was not ready to let it go. What is it that you are thinking that makes you so reluctant to give it up? 'ecause I try and put myself in their position and I try and imagine what it would be like to just be walking and have some compliment thrown at me by whoever. I would get some type of compliment out of it. If they would had enough balls or had enough beers or fucking whatever to be able to yell something out I would be like yeah fucking whatever. Yeah that is the way I try and like look at things. How would I feel? So how would you feel if someone did what you do and slapped you on the ass without warning and without asking? I would feel a little bit special. If I was with a group of mates I would be like ha that is right. I have got a better ass than all you cunts. He just thinks it is nice to be noticed. Not intimidating not scary. Just nice. Can I tell you I found this stuff really depressing? Depressing? Yeah. Why? Because I feel like I have been walking around for days now believing that people want to be nice and believing that it comes from a good place and believing that guys are just trying to have fun and compliment people. But it is real real hard for me to keep believing that when I tell people how angry it makes us I tell people how sad it makes us I tell people about sexual violence statistics and the reaction is not that matters to me and I am going to stop. The reaction is That does not matter to me. And it makes me feel like I am walking around begging people to take people like me seriously and they are choosing their fun over how I feel. It makes me feel so small. I know. That is fucked. That is fucked. Well that is kind of just the selfishness of the world. People know how fucked up-- how bad of things have happened to people. But it is still not going to hinder the way that they are or anything like that. That is just like human selfishness. But I do not want to talk about humans and selfishness. I want to talk about you. OK.  You going to stop? 'ecause I am not playing. Yes. I am not going to slap any more asses. Compliments when I feel they are appropriate and they are not too suggestive in any way they are very lighthearted I think I am still going to do. Can you shake my hand and promise me you will not slap any more asses? Yes I can shake your hand. I can shake your hand. I am not going to slap any more asses. After he left I sat on the curb surrounded by fossilized bits of chewing gum and watched the traffic go by. This was the most success I had with any of the guys I talked to. It took 120 minutes of conversation with one man to get him to commit to not literally assaulting women. Eleanor Gordon Smith. She teaches ethics at the University of Sydney.  Act Two The Real Decoy. So now we turn to the story of a man who had always had one way of doing things and talking to people. And then he did not need a stranger on the street to walk up to him with a microphone. He noticed this on his own that the way he was dealing with people had stopped working the way it always had and he made some adjustments. Stephanie Foo tells what happened. Michael Pitre was always the new kid growing up . He went to 10 schools in five states. But he generally did OK because he is always been good at telling stories. Even now he is got a solid arsenal. Do you want to hear Fred the Scorpion? That is another one of the greatest hits. I-- Do you want to hear something else? Want to hear another funny one? I actually-- I am running out of time a little bit. Mike is like this wherever he is-- at home at work. In 2006 and 2007 Mike served two tours in Iraq and he had a rep there as the storyteller the funny guy. Joslyn Hemler was in the Marine Corps with them and I asked her about turnover briefs. Mike ran all the operations for his battalion overnight and in the morning had to give a briefing of the events of the past 12 hours. Turnover briefs are one of those monotonous things we probably do. So very matter of fact very military. But Mike it somehow turned into like a quasi like soap opera of events. He would be like sitting in this rolling chair he would have one of those extended pointers. And he would be like let us go to the map. And he would like roll all the way across the watch floor. Like he just gave such rich detail to the story. A lot of times he is looking for validation when he tells his stories which are funny. He will be like that was funny right? Mike came back stateside after his first deployment and he was visiting his parents on New Year's Eve as some kids were shooting fireworks. I said yeah those fireworks look like airburst mortars. And my brother said oh did you see any airburst mortars? I mean a question as innocuous as that. So Mike did what he would always done. He started telling the first story that popped into his head on the subject. And I started talking about-- there was this one day I was running on this large base where I was stationed and a volley of airburst mortars came in. And where they went off right underneath them was a Naval officer and she took a piece of shrapnel right through her neck right in front of me and these three other Marines. And she is dying she is bleeding to death and she is scared. And it is me and these three Marines getting her into the back of a Humvee and she is telling us what to tell her kids. And telling that to my family-- What did their faces look like as you were saying it? Just sort of shocked and horrified. And you do not ever want your family to look at you with shock and horror. That is not fun. Mike told his family by the way she wound up being OK. The officer survived. But that did not lighten the mood. And he could not figure out how to save the moment. That was new and weird. This happened a few more times when he was home between deployments. His best friend Brock asked him about IEDs. And he answered honestly. They never talked about IEDs again after that. Other friends on other nights at other bars asked about Iraqis or politics. And so the first time your friends from back home ask you you answer the question very very honestly. And you realize that halfway through your answer that you are making everyone very uncomfortable. And it is almost like the air between you starts to thicken. It is almost a physical feeling of people withdrawing from you. What are they supposed to do? What are they supposed to say to you? They have nothing to say to you. And also what are they thinking about me right now? What were you afraid that they were thinking about you? That I was damaged. That I had nothing else to talk about. That I was a violent person. That I was not a normal person. And if you say I do not want to talk about it then you are the truculent vet who is going to be sitting brooding in the corner and that carries its own stigma. We think that it is like oh it is because you are so damaged. Right. You have a shattered psyche. You must. But you are like no it is because I am trying to protect your psyche. I want to protect the conversation. I think what people hear sometimes is I do not want to talk about it because it bothers me so much. And sometimes it is I do not want to talk about it because it is going to bother you and you do not even know it. He learned to shut up about that stuff. Not that people stopped asking. Like he was out with friends and someone asked him about mortars again. And even though of course the first story that popped into his head was about the officer who got shrapnel in her neck it was like he went on to the next slide. Tried something different. And he blurted out-- Well you know you have to get a good poo on the mortar. They are like oh what a poo on the mortar? It is like yeah the point of origin. Basically they can trace where an enemy mortar's launched from. Its point of origin POO. So everyone just refers very casually to a mortar's POO. And then in the command center there is like wall maps where there is an officer in charge of marking every POO in-- no kidding-- a little brown marker. And there was this place to the northeast of Fallujah. It is a bend in the river. Topographically it looked like a scrotum. So everyone called it the ball sack. And that is the place where most of the mortars were launched. And so you would see your old friends on the base. And you would say what are you up to these days? And they go oh you know I am just POO hunting in the ball sac. Yeah be careful. Ball sac's no joke. He was back the funny guy. The guy people actually wanted to be around. And it was easy. Mike started getting better at using questions to pivot to funny military stories. Like when people asked about helicopters he talked about how a friend's epic farts would stink up the whole bird. Did it feel like you were connecting with people? Yes. It is euphoric. It was great for years. It felt great. There was an element of relief in having solved the problem. Yeah. That is what an officer does. You are handed a problem. In the military it is called a mission. You design the solution to it and you execute it. It was around this time that Mike met Erin. She was a friend of his little sister's and they would started emailing each other during his first deployment. And he developed a huge crush even though he would never met her in person. So now that he was home he finally went out with her and a bunch of her friends. So they are out and someone brought up the Iraqis. Said are they even doing anything for themselves over there? This was such a cartoonish idea of the war it annoyed Mike. And without thinking he found himself telling a story to prove how seriously the Iraqi army took their jobs a story where in order to find a terrorist the Iraqi army rounded up all the men in a village bound them and put them on their knees with their heads against the wall. That is how seriously they took this. He stopped talking and realized crickets. He looked up at Erin. She was horrified. And he thought oh god oh god. I have got to tell a funny story now. So he launched into one of his classics Fred the Scorpion which goes like this. So my first deployment I was a platoon commander. And some of my Marines found a scorpion. And that is a big deal. You can feed it vermin. You can fight it against other scorpions owned by other platoons. So this scorpion unbeknownst to me kind of became the platoon mascot and they kept it in a cardboard box in their barracks right underneath someone's bed. Mike finds out about the scorpion. Turns out it is one of the most deadly species in the world. He is their boss so he orders them to kill it. But everybody is really attached to Fred so they come up with this crazy plan to euthanize him. They dropped him into a bucket of diesel fuel for I think three days. And he is all shriveled up and everyone's pretty convinced he is dead. They pick him up he springs back to life and he runs off into the desert.  Yeah Fred the Scorpion. I miss him. OK. So Fred the Scorpion. Yeah. It goes over great. Is it a decoy for another story that is real? Yeah. And the story-- so there was a curfew at night in the surrounding communities like  and Fallujah and Ramadi. So people could not drive at night. Power was intermittent and it was hot. Some Iraqi families would sleep on the roof at night to keep cool. It was not unheard of for kids to get stung by scorpions up there. And they would be faced with the decision of do we get in our car and try to take our child to get medical help and risk getting shot? And that is something I heard all the time from Iraqis. What do we do if our child is dying of a scorpion bite? Can we violate curfew then? The curfew was imposed by the Americans. And he could not promise that an Iraqi family traveling to the hospital to save their kid would not get shot by Americans who were trying to protect themselves from suicide bombers. So when Iraqis asked him this question? The answer you want to give them is yes please bring us your kid. Let us help. The actual answer is you are taking your life in your hands. And so that is the story you do not want to tell. Yeah scorpions are not just this innocuous-- a scorpion bite for an Iraqi family causes an impossible decision and puts Marines in impossible situations. And for years we were faced with that. But Fred the Scorpion the decoy story worked. Everyone at the table laughed. Erin relaxed. Two months later she quit her job and moved across the country to be with him. Nearly 10 of Americans served in the Second World War. Back then you very likely had a co-worker a son a neighbor who was serving in the war effort. In Vietnam far fewer served. 2 of the population. Today only about half a percent of our population has served in Iraq and Afghanistan experiencing something that is mostly invisible to the rest of us. So when people ask these seemingly simple questions about the war at a Christmas party vets today have to figure out how to communicate this very large nuanced morally complicated thing to people who are probably coming to the conversation knowing nothing at all. Silence is an option a lot of vets go with. There is also dodging the question entirely or the whole gory shock and awe method. The funny stories work around was Mike's solution. And for years it worked. Sort of. There was a downside. Mike came home from his final deployment in 2007. Then he and Erin moved to Louisiana to start their lives together. Both of them went back to school they held dinner parties went to shows. Everything seemed fantastic. But Erin was disturbed by the fact that Mike could be distant. Every once in a while when he got really drunk he would lose his temper and start yelling. He often could not sleep and had trouble making friends. At those dinner parties he could still make people laugh by telling those funny stories about the war. But Erin says they were always the same few stories and he would just held them over and over and over again. Here's Erin. I could recognize that it was a mask that it was not the real thing. I mean he was vaudeville. You know and I was guilty of being like Mike tell us. Tell us the time with the POO.  But like I would hear people ask him questions. And I would catch him telling decoy stories. I think he just wanted a break and he wanted to live and he wanted to be happy which was OK. Until it was not. A couple of years later on a chilly evening one of Mike's best friends from college visited the two of them in Louisiana. The friend was spending the night and they were all on his porch at 200 AM drinking. His friend was talking. And I think he kind of said almost apropos of nowhere you know 5000 people dying in a war is not really that much historically speaking. And I lost control of myself. Before I knew it I was in his face screaming with a finger pointed right at his face and I had to be physically pulled away by two other people who were there. I think what I was screaming at him was yeah 5000 Americans but you do not care at all about the 100000 Iraqis do you? Is that what you are telling me? Actually the number is really in dispute. You see estimates between 115000 and 500000 deaths. Do you think that your friend might have been more careful with his choice of words if you had not projected a level of chill about your experiences you know? That is absolutely correct. Yeah. Yeah my friend would have been more careful with his words had I not had such a perfectly cultivated veneer of chill that I would spent years creating. This kind of thing had happened a couple of times before but this incident was the worst and Erin was worried. She was the only person who knew how much he was suppressing. Because during Mike's second deployment he would handwritten her a letter every day telling her the truth and his feelings about it his fear his grief. But once he came home Mike never mentioned any of these things again not even to Erin. Whenever she tried to ask a question about them he just said my friends died there so I do not want to talk about it. So the morning after Mike's outburst with his friend Erin cornered Mike and told him look this is happening because you have not told a real story about the war in years. The night before which I was gone completely out of control she was like well at least you were being real with him last night. At least you respect him that much. And how did you respond? Uh I do not think I did. She had me. She was right. There was no response to that. Mike had thought the decoy stories had brought him closer to people. But he was now realizing it might have been doing just the opposite. That is not a good feeling when you cannot even communicate to someone the stories that are 