The Vanishing of Harry Pace - Episode 3  This is the - excuse me - The Vanishing of Harry Pace a miniseries on RADIOLAB. I am Jad Abumrad here with...  I am Shima A. Oliaee. Man I jumped in too fast again.  There is an A in there?  I jumped  in too fast.  Anyhow this is episode three - the last in the Harry Pace trilogy.  And it is all about the gray space.  Ooh.  So...   On last week's episode...    I am white - white white.  ...We were left with this kind of uncomfortable question.    Are you Black?   No. I am as white as you.   You are lying.   I am not.  I am just saying - my sense when I heard this story I thought the dude could be white. I was - I kept saying wait is he white? 'ecause that sounds like some white boy  - is he white? And you know Shima would not tell me. But I am like he white. That is white - like sorry babe.  So Harry Pace vanishes by passing into white society. And then there is the question of what to make of it. Like was he pressured into passing? Did he choose to? Was he actually white all along and passing for Black? And what does that even mean even?  And I love this notion of this possibly white guy who put on Black - not face but a Black persona to ultimately help liberate and free and get access to things for Black folks. I love that part of the story.  Now there is no way for us to get into his head because Harry did not leave any journals or letters behind about this moment. All we really have are these two pictures. And so like inevitably what we ended up doing with our collaborators Kiese Laymon and Imani Perry was just like staring at these pictures and trying to read into them.  OK. I am going to show you pictures of Harry Pace. Are you ready? I am going to...  I am ready.  ...Share my screen. I think it is pretty big. Can you see it?  Oh wow. Whoa.  On the screen there is a black-and-white photo of a very attractive man.  Looks about maybe 18 - I do not know.  Broad shoulders three-piece suit and a knowing grin on his face.  See? I would have claimed this brother right here . Oh man. That was my first assumption. I was like oh...  Wow.  ...I know this brother. I feel like I played ball with a version of this brother before.  So what is it? Is it the hair?  Yeah.  Fam - it is the part...   ...The part in the hair. It is the hairline.   His hair is kind of wavy.  And if you threw a mustache on him you could not tell us he was not Black.  .  Oh my God. You throw a goatee on his brother it is a wrap. Nobody's questioning.  OK. Let us go second picture. Thoughts? Older older Harry Pace - probably the time when he was testifying.  Ooh.  This is the picture...  That had been on our wall.  ...That Harry's grandkids had on their wall - the one that Peter showed them the day he handed them each a packet.  And he says do you all know who this man is?  We will hear from them in a second. It is the one where he is in a pinstripe suit.  It is kind of the sepia tone.  And he looks weary and maybe a little lighter-skinned.  Now see this is the Harry Pace I imagined the whole time you were talking.  I do not know what Kiese is talking about. He has wavy - this looks like a Black man to me. I do not know he is talking about. He looks like many...  What is it?  ...Black men I  know.  This is scholar Imani Perry.  And it sounds odd to say. It is sort of a weird thing to say when not talking to another like Black Southern  person. But you know there are Black people who are lighter than white people like who have - really have white complexions. It is not - so it is not even just appearance. Like it is carriage. It is sound.  Wait can I see the first one again?  Sure. Can you see it? Oh no.  Wait Eve.   Wait what?  Eve come here.  Kiese called to a friend who was in the room with him but off-screen.  Is that brother - is this brother right here - do you think that is a brother or is that a...  Who is?  He could be Black. Is he Latino?  He could be? She said is he Latino?   I do not know fam.  Race is not something that is. It is something that happens. So the only way we know the answer is to see what  happens.  So in terms of Harry's story this is what happens. After he dies Harry's son Harry Jr. he drops out of college and enlists in World War II as white. He then marries a white woman and moves into an all-white neighborhood. His kids attend a segregated school. Harry's daughter Josephine pledges an all-white sorority in college marries a white man raises her children in an all-white lake community. It seems that Harry Jr. and Josephine together destroy any evidence that they are Black. That includes his legacy his life and his memory. They hide the secret so well that even their kids had no idea who their father was. Basically Harry's story dies in one generation.  We knew very little about my father's family. Well I do not know how far back you want to go. I will try to make it brief.  You do not have to edit if you want to. You can tell us the long version.   Yeah.  Well that is true. Yeah. I went to San Jose State and graduated in 1967. And this was at the height of the Vietnam War.  This is Peter Pace grandson of Harry Pace.  I was under indictment for about two years for the felony of draft refusal.  Wow.  So I was pretty much unemployable. And rather than going to jail I needed to get two-years' work in the public interest. I ended up getting a job working with emotionally disturbed kids. And I met a couple counselors there.  And they formed a band.  The Shasta Band - and we got together borrowed some amps and stuff and made some noise.    Do not you hear the music baby? We started off being the Soylent Band because of the drummer. He had this fascination with Soylent Green.  Oh my God. That is a reference by the way to an old film starring Charlton Heston.    Soylent green is people.  Did you sing in the band? Or what did you play?  Yeah. I was primarily the singer. You know they kind of saw me as being - having frontman potential at the time with my Afro.  Did you ever wonder why you had an Afro?  No. When I was in the high school you know I really wanted to have a flattop.  .  That was the thing.  Oh my gosh.  But in the '60s all of a sudden it was cool to have an Afro. And my hair did that. It got pretty big so big that when I got in the car I had to slump 'ecause it would get flattened out on the...  .  No way.  ...On the ceiling. I did not really question it.  But he says there were a couple moments.  Once I was at a festival and some guy came up to me. And he said what are you? And I thought that was an odd thing for him to say to me. I said what do you mean?  Yeah.  I mean what are you? Yeah.  Weird.  Now Peter really did not say anything in that moment. He just went back to tuning his amp because in his mind there was not really a question. His family - they lived in Northern California.  I brought some pictures.  Yeah.  Oh perfect. And they were very white-bread.  Christmas in Stockton.  Yeah.  This is a picture of the whole damn family. That is my father...  .  ...Sitting up there on the right.  Harry Jr. Harry Pace's son.  In a buzz cut.  And that is Jo's  husband. Thats my mother sitting next to her. This is Aunt Jo.  Josephine Harry's daughter.  That is Gail my cousin.  I have got to tell you with all the retro glasses and buzz cuts...  Yeah.  ...It has a sort of a - I hope this does not sound offensive but kind of a Leave It To Beaver vibe.  Yes .  I do not know why that would be offensive.  But again there were moments.  You know actually it is funny you would say that. And this is kind of an anecdotal thing and it is kind of silly. Way back in the days when I was starting to play music...  He says one night...  I was practicing in my little house. For some reason I looked down at my skin. And it was like a whoosh  kind of thing. All of a sudden I am looking at it and I would think I was looking at a Black person.  You are saying the skin on your hand looked Black to you?  Yeah. I mean it sounds silly but it was distinct. I have got to tell you I was probably - I was - think I was on LSD.  .  And you were playing an instrument? Like what - you were...  I was just playing. And I just kind of looked down at my hands and my arm and everything and I said oh my God. I have turned into a Black man . Like I said it is silly. But it happened.  I love it. Fast-forward to 2006...   ...A very different time.   A website called thefacebook.com. Consider this site the 21st century version of the old paperbound yearbook.  This is when the internet really starts to go mainstream genealogy sites are popping up. And after years of Italian mafia rumors about her husband's family Peter's wife Susan  does this search on this website called Google. She searches Harry Pace Chicago lawyer.   And she thought maybe with the internet she might be able to find something out. And...   ...What came up was Harry Pace was the founder of the first African American record company.    Woke up this morning the day was dawning...  And she just kind thought well that cannot be right.  A couple months later...  We were visiting my sister in Santa Barbara. My wife kind of presented it with a giggle.  Like oh look what I found. Do you guys know that there is this other Harry Pace out there?  Here I will show you. And she pulled it up on the laptop. And we are looking over her shoulder at it. And it gets into 1917 Harry Pace married Ethylene Bibb. Well my sister - her middle name is Ethylene.   So at that moment we all looked at each other and thought whoa. It was mind-blowing.   But we did not know what to do with it. After we kind of got over the giddy aspect of it you know we were trying to decide what to do with this knowledge. And it was kind of discussed that maybe this would be hurtful to other members of the family and that we should be careful about disseminating it.  Peter says they made the pact for many reasons one of which was that there were still members of the family living in gated white communities.  They were - yeah - with a restrictive covenant.  Wait what?  Wow.  Blacks are not allowed in there - Lake Quivira .  Given that your grandfather tried to take down restrictive covenants did it eat at you like after you made that decision to keep it quiet?  That ate at me. Yeah it did.   Peter told us that he kept thinking about events from his childhood.  Did I dream this? But in the '50s and '60s there was a dentist professional man and his family that tried to move into our neighborhood. There was a homeowner's association meeting in our house where they were talking about how the property values were going to plunge because this African American dentist and his family were moving into our neighborhood.  This is in your house with your dad Harry Pace's son at the meeting?  With my dad yes.  Wow. The guy who tried to desegregate the neighborhood? His son tried to re-segregate it. And he thought about other memories.  My youngest sister when she was invited to go to the senior prom by an African American kid...  The only Black boy in the school - he was very handsome and he was a football player.  This is Peter's sister Susan.  So I was very excited and I said yes. And...  ...My father said absolutely not.  ...He flipped out and made me cancel the date.  My father forbid her.  Susan what was your reaction when you found out about your grandfather Harry?  It was like oh my God. You know it was just like I cannot believe this has been kept from us. All these years I thought I was something else and I am something else. The next morning I called my husband and I was in tears. You know I thought this was just going to be - you know that my husband's going to leave me. He goes honey this man's incredible. So it was just confusing.  Why did you think he was going to leave you?  This was my own thoughts in my head. I did not know how he would react because you have to understand - all of a sudden my world was rocked. I am just trying to figure it all out.  Suppose you had known this all along. Do you think you would have a different life as a result of knowing this one thing?  Yes.  Oh wow.  Yeah. I mean I was born in 1953. And I do think we probably would not have lived in the neighborhood that we lived in. I probably would not have gone to the school that I went to. Life would have been different yeah.  I would like to think that my parents realized that they were doing this for us you know so that we would have the benefits of the privilege that comes with being raised white.  Without the burden of the lie.  Yeah. When you pass you have to learn how white people see Black people. You understand how white people feel to the extent that you hate Black people. You hate your own people. And I think my father had gotten to that point.  And what changed for you that made it...  Yeah.  ...So you did not want to keep this a secret anymore?  It was a mixed thing because the more we read about this man the more remarkable he was. My grandfather Harry Pace as you know was successful over and over again. And pretty soon that kind of - for me personally - became the primary thing that we kind of won the genetic lottery in a way.  Oh wow.  I decided that secrets are toxic you know that we needed to share this with family members.  And so in the summer of 2006 Peter sends out a text to all of his kids.  And we got a message from my dad...   ...Saying we have a mandatory family meeting. You guys need to leave work to come and talk to us. He did not give us any other information. He said nope you have got to come to the family meeting and I will tell you everything.  So this is how we started the series - with Eric Pace Harry's great-grandson driving three hours from his YMCA job to his childhood home in Redding Calif. walking into the living room seeing his whole family gathered there. And this is really where Eric's journey begins which is an interesting mirror to Harry's. And that is after the break. This is The Vanishing Of Harry Pace the miniseries on RADIOLAB. I am Jad here with Shima.  Hey.  Let us get back to the story.  So picking up where we left off Eric Pace great-grandson of Harry Pace gets a text from his dad Peter drives three hours walks into the living room of his childhood home where he discovers his family has already gathered.  My dad tells us to go sit in the living room. And we are not a very formal kind of family and so that was strange. We are like OK this is getting weirder and weirder. And then he holds up a picture that had been on our wall our whole lives. And it was this picture of his grandfather. And he says do you all know who this man is? And we said yeah that is your grandfather Harry Pace.  I think I told them - I said you know how we have never really known anything about Grandfather Harry Pace? Well we have discovered some interesting information about it.  Then he handed us the packet.   It is about 10 pages long.   And so we started waiting. And within like about 30 seconds my sister - my older sister started - said out loud oh so does this mean that we are African American?  I think my two daughters - they just kind of shrugged their shoulders and thought yeah is that it?  Which Eric says for some reason really set him off.  I was just so - I just - you know it was so - I stood up and I said are we done here? And he is like yeah. I am kind of shocked that I reacted like this but I literally was like are we done? Like I do not know why I got so angry. I kind of - like they were like Eric come sit back down. We want to talk some more about this. And I actually left and was like fuming. I do not know why.   I actually ended up jumping in my car and driving - just driving down the road.  Where did you go?  Down I-5 for like 50 miles.    I was born by the river.  This whole family secret thing rubbed me the wrong way - that somebody would hide something about - something good about my family. There was definitely a quick understanding that there was some kind of racism in my family. And I was having some kind of crisis in my head.  He says he felt like something he did not know he owned had been stolen from him and his dad.  I - my dad wanted to be a rock star. Imagine if he would have known about this. And then there was also a strange kind of feeling like well...  Does this explain me in some way?  I was obsessed with Sam Cooke. And I would just - I would just listen to him. I was obsessed with soul music and I also was...   OK to grind. OK to bomb . OK to accumulate. I want it all.  I was in this hip-hop band. And I was in a hip-hop band with a white dude I might add. It is kind of - you know I felt like an appropriator leading up to this. And then afterwards I was like OK maybe I am not an appropriator. Maybe this obsession with Black culture and Black music is not so delusional.  Eric says he pulled off at a truck stop read the packet one more time then got in his car and drove back. On that drive back he just felt kind of changed. You know he was a 21-year-old kid feeling already uncomfortable in his own skin as we all are when we are 21 and this just felt like an answer to something.  How I understood what this all meant was that I was now like officially Black.   It is kind of funny. I was like you know bumping hip-hop music bumping like Bob Marley and stuff. And I just felt like I was Black. I was like a cool African American now. I like went to the Black barbershop and got myself all...  You went to the Black barbershop.  Right away.  Wow.  What kind of haircut did you get?  I got a - what was called a lineup. And they were like - at first they were like what is this white boy doing in here getting a haircut? This is crazy. I told them all about the Harry Pace story and they were like...  .  They were like for real? Like what? They listened to the whole Harry Pace spiel and they listened to me talk about how he had the first Black record company and I showed them the Wikipedia page. They were like cool. They were like - I was like yeah. Black people totally approve of this transformation that I am going through.  It was a major change in his orientation.  When I made it back to college I remember going up to some of my Black friends and being like guess what. I am Black. What is up brother? You know like...  Some people found it interesting. Some people found it irritating.  It was really embarrassing in hindsight. It was stupid.  Oh baby. That is so sweet.   Youre so kind!  No. I just love it.  She is so generous. She makes me look like the . But...  Our collaborators Kiese Laymon and Imani Perry predictably both had very different reactions to this moment.  I do not know. I was just moved by that. I am generally moved by young people feeling excited about learning something about themselves.  I like listening to people be happy you know what I mean? And...  .  ...Maybe I do not know is Blackness this like one thing you can get injected with and then you are like hey I do - this is why I like Bob Marley? And I am not sure Blackness operates the way the younger Pace assumes it does.  Kiese's point is that you cannot just take the good stuff or what you assume to be the good stuff about being Black without also acknowledging that that stuff came out of hundreds of years of violence and racism.  And the fact that that does not ever come up in this conversation then makes me feel like you know this character is dipping into a Black like grab bag of stuff. But it is only like the good candies you know? There is no  peppermints. There is no goddamn whack-ass butterscotches. It is like all Snickers.   You know what I am saying?  I get that. Well I guess for me that is the remains-to-be-seen question right? Do you know what I mean? Like so he finds out. Then what does he do with it? To me the question is OK so now what do you take this to mean?  That is true. That is true.  One of the things that kept coming up in our conversations with them and also with Eric and Peter his dad is the idea of the one-drop rule.  It was almost like he took it to heart that the one drop meant that he was African American.  Now the one-drop rule was the legal definition for race throughout the 20th century. One of the most famous examples was a man by the name of Homer Plessy who looked about as white as Eric and had roughly the same amount of quote unquote Black blood in him as Eric.  Grandparent is quarter.  Then eighth so...  Great-grandparent is eighth. Great-great-grandparent sixteenth...  Yeah. Eighteen-ninety two he goes into a whites-only railroad car sits down announces to the conductor that he is Black. He gets kicked out. He sues the company. Case goes to the Supreme Court. And one of the big questions not so much in the case but looming over the case was if you are America and you are obsessed with separating these two races what do you do with a guy like Homer Plessy who looks white but says he is Black? You could ask this same question about Harry Pace. And the ultimate solution was the one-drop rule which is you are legally Black if you have even one drop of African ancestry.   Now this can all sound like a bunch of bull that does not matter anymore. But this legal definition according to Kiese and Imani has seeped into our thinking in ways that are still very much with us.  Yeah. Oh yeah.  You know growing up in Mississippi we were always taught whether it is right or not that one drop could mean you were contaminated to white people and whiteness. But on the flip side we were also taught that one drop could mean that you were like someone who was going to be not just potentially like loving of us but one of us.  So the one-drop rule - absolutely its origin is in racism and the idea that whiteness must be pure. But what Black people did with it was to create a kind of collective identity.  So I just think it is interesting the way the one drop - on one hand it is a contaminant. On another hand it is like an entryway into a community.  And that is exactly how Eric took it.  Like whoa I am in the club. I am part of the African American experience. Like this is amazing you know?  For seven years Eric openly called himself a Black man.  I was full of attitude. I was like I am going to piss off my family. Like there is going to be no more secrets anymore. Like...  ...Which led to a lot of fights.  Unfortunately it kind of put Eric a little bit out of the fold as far as the family's concerned.  But then things shift one more time. In 2013 he meets a woman named Candace .  Candace Edwards  from Trinidad and Tobago. I am an ex-national team...   Candace Edwards.  ...Soccer player.   I met Eric Pace  at a concert.  It was Third World.  Third World yeah.  They are like an '80s famous reggae band.  Yeah.  She said she liked his sense of humor.  The rest was history.   They end up getting married in Vegas. And ultimately they fly to Trinidad and Tobago to meet her family. And there Eric recalls this one night.  We went to a soccer game.  They call it a sweat. Like a soccer practice.  Yeah.  He was sitting in the parking lot near the field...  It is nighttime.  ...Listening to Candace and the team play in the distance. And while he waited...  I was writing lyrics.  I do not know what this life means but if the light's green I go past like lightning. I hit the button the virus Miley Cyrus. I am the highest. Multiply it by the nicest. You are stuck up I get my bags of rice up. I was kind of trying to feel the environment and kind of get some inspiration from my surroundings. And all of a sudden I noticed movement to my left. And I see a little boy standing in front of me. He was a short little guy. And he just looks at me for a second and just says hey white man...  .   ... Your girl just wants you to know that she is going to be 15 more minutes.  He said there was something about the way the kids said it.  It was just his confidence that he walked right up to me and was like hey white man. This is totally appropriate to say to this guy that I do not know.  The casual certainty of it. You are white so I will call you white man. He says that moment snapped him out of his one-drop dream. White man .  White man. I guess you just have to go with it.  That just put everything into perspective.   So what is interesting to me about that is that in Trinidad he would have always been white. So they did not have a one-drop rule. Phenotype is what defines race in Trinidad and Tobago.  Meaning how you look - skin color facial features hair. It is not about blood.  Like the debate does not exist in Trinidad in the same way.  I mean in America if somebody was to refer to me as a sweet darky then that would probably be like a headline or you know a talk. But in TT they call you a sweet darky. That is fine...  Yeah.  ...There.  Because you have dark skin.  Dark skin - I am chocolate.  You cannot do that in America.  Yeah you cannot.  You cannot do that. It has a totally different connotation in America.  Yeah.  Point is the entire frame of reference was different. And maybe it was that or the fact that he was in a place where he was a minority for the first time but it just hit him different in this moment.  Did not matter what I thought. There was no possible way that I could ever kind of like convince these people that I am any way connected with them. It was almost like a delusion in my head.  He says sitting in that car - again the car...  I just had another identity crisis where I felt like wow I do not feel like I have lived a upbringing in the Black world that qualifies me to claim that I am Black.  And so at this point - and this might be the ultimate answer to Imani's question...  OK so now what do you take this to mean?  ...Eric decided he just needed to learn more.   I have found that it is all worth studying and it is all worth understanding.  About history about W.E.B. Du Bois W.C. Handy Ethel Waters - and he dedicated himself to making a documentary about his great-grandpa Harry Pace. Meanwhile Eric and Candace...  Actually we started Pace and Candy Record Company.  Oh you are wearing the shirts. That is cool.  . They started a music group as a homage to Handy and Pace.  We both make the beats together.    You have nothing to do within a week. You have nothing to do within a week.  We call it psychedelic soca.   .   That is what we call it.    Only he knows what. The vessels go.  Their music is actually surprisingly experimental and interesting. I do not think Harry Pace would have liked it.  Harry was an opera guy . You know like...  Not a synth guy.  Well we want to close with one more digression. In talking with Imani...  Yeah I was like...  ...The idea came up that that thing that Eric experienced in the car - shifting how he sees his relationship to race waking up from the one-drop rule - Imani says that America might be in the beginning stages of that same kind of shift.  You know what he experienced in the barbershop - that is my experience generationally of Black culture. It is like OK yeah come on in. You are one of us right? But like you know young millennials and Generation Z - they were like first of all you do not look Black. You do not experience Blackness in the same way. You just found - I mean it is just a very - it is a different moment.  Why?  I think something has happened where the sense of what Blackness is is very - it is almost overdetermined by the encounter with state violence. So it is like if you do not experience this sort of racialization when people look at you or how they treat you that that is the outer limit of Blackness.  She says that a lot of people are starting to talk about the quote unquote Latin Americanization of race in America. Apparently in a lot of Latin American countries - and I guess this is also true of Trinidad and Tobago - they see race as about phenotype - how you look how you are perceived. And as an example of maybe where we are headed Imani mentioned Brazil.  Yeah it is wild.  When I went to Brazil Brazil was the first time I would ever been in a country where just like everybody looked like me. Like I sort of - I felt at ease and sort of like at peace in a way that - it is just a contentment that I had never felt before about the way that I looked.  This is screenwriter Cord Jefferson. He also worked with us on the project. And if you recall we began the whole series with that memory of his of standing at the mirror with his white mother and his Black father looking at the reflections and asking...  What am I? And I neither looked entirely like my mother nor entirely like my father. What am I?  He says Brazil was eye-opening on many levels and he ended up writing an article about it.  Brazil - in 1976 Brazil's census the national household census - last question on the census asked people what color they were. And they got 136 different responses.  Wow. So 136 different racial categories essentially.  Yeah.  He read us a bunch.  Acastanhada - somewhat chestnut-colored alva - snowy white alva escura - dark snowy white alvarinto  - kind of blonde alva rosada - pinkish white amorenada - somewhat dark-skinned avermelhada - reddish azul - blue bem morena - very dark-skinned bem branca - very white branca-avermelhada - white going on for red branca-melada - honey-colored white branca-morena - white but dark-skinned.   That one's amazing. Bronzeada - sun-tanned bugrezinha-escura - dark-skinned India cor-de-canela - cinnamon-colored cor-de-cuia - gourd-colored.  Oh my God. We are only in the Cs.  Cabocla - copper-colored cor-de-cafe - coffee-colored canela - cinnamon cafe au lait - coffee with milk cor-de-ouro - gold-colored cor-de-rosa - pink meio-amarela - half yellow meio-branca - half white meio-morena - half dark-skinned meio-preta - half Black melada - honey-colored mestica - half-caste mestiza parda-clara - light brown parda-morena - brown morena parda-preta - Black-brown polaca - Polish women Polish woman. Polaca - polish woman - translation of Polish which means someone very white. Pouco-clara - not very light pouco-morena - not very dark-complexioned pretinha - Black either young or small puxa-para-branco - somewhat toward white.   Sorry - it is a moving color.  I know right? - somewhat toward white.  It is moving towards whiteness.  I guess the question is if as you say younger Americans are Latin Americanizing their idea of race - this is more of a thought experiment than anything but like if America ends up going the direction of Brazil with all of these many racial categories that designate the sort of middle spaces is that a better world?  No. No absolutely not a better world. And in having been to Brazil - right? - and you see children killed by death squads Black children begging everywhere you go on the street it is clear that in Brazil the darker you are the more oppressed you are which is true in much of Latin America.  Imani's sense is before we splinter off into all these different categories maybe let us first try and address the mistakes of the past which gets harder to do the more we splinter.  So Brazil is trying right now to figure out how to compensate people who have experienced racism in that country.  Oh wow.  And the problem they are having is who is white and who is Black.  Yeah.  And so they have tribunals where they are literally measuring people's nose width and like testing and measuring...  Crazy.  ...And like true like phrenology stuff. Like bring out the calipers. We are measuring skull shape and nose width to see who is...  Oh no.  ...Black and who is white which is like a whole nother like sort of like mess on their hands right?  Oh whoa.  It is just like a really....  So you know it is complicated. But we cannot be romantic about any of it. I think that is the thing.   All right Shima.  Yes.  In the end what I am left with at the end of this Harry Pace trilogy is just a feeling of like - these categories these little boxes on the census form that I guess divide and also bring people together - what I am left with is the loneliness when you do not have a box when you are between boxes. Some people have asked us actually why are you guys you two Middle Easterners telling this story. And I think most of all it is because we connect with that loneliness.  Yeah.  And we have both gotten that question...  What are you?  ...Our whole lives.  Yeah.  I mean what are you?  There is something about people not being able to know quite where you are from when they look at you that allows you movement but also never like a safe home.  Yeah. That is actually something I want to say picking up on your word movement. I really do believe that the act of trying to move out of your head and get into somebody else's see how they answer that question - like to try and see that person's humanity regardless of the choices they have made in their life whether we are talking about a white family living in an all-white neighborhood or a Black man a hundred years ago trying to make change and encountering something horrible - like trying to see the world through that person's eyes I think that is the work. That is the deepest work we can do as journalists. And I will always hold to that. But you know we are just a two-person team. It is not something anyone can do by themselves. And we had a lot of help.  This is when Trixie  comes and brings the lemonade and says oh oh wee  let us sing another.   That is a good idea. We should wave in that tape.   In the cotton fields of Dixie is a dear old Southern home where the mockingbirds - oh get that flossy - and moonlight love to sing in the land where cotton is king. That is what this was for. And then Aunt Madge would bring some lemonade. Here you all go.   The Vanishing of Harry Pace was created by Jad Abumrad and Shima Oliaee and is presented as a collaboration between Awesome Audio RADIOLAB and Radio Diaries. The series is based on the book Black Swan Blues The Hard Rise And Brutal Fall Of America's First Black-Owned Record Label by Paul Slade.  Our editorial advisors are Kiese Laymon Imani Perry Cord Jefferson and Terrance McKnight. Jami Floyd is our consulting producer. Our fact-checker is Natalie Meade. Series artwork was created by Katia Herrera. Special thanks to Nellie Gilles Ben Shapiro Deborah George and Joe Richman.  This concludes our trilogy on Harry Pace. But the series is not done yet.  No. We have many more episodes coming to you in the next little while.  Yes. More on that in just like four or five days.  Not even I think actually.  Yeah.  Yeah. Anyhow thank you for listening. We will catch you in the next one.    ...That man  Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.