Morgan began taking Pilates with her mom from this woman named Mary Archbold during her sophomore year of high school. And the way the class worked I guess was like most Pilates classes. Mary Archbold would demonstrate poses and they would watch her carefully. And Mary Archbold would spend a lot of the class walking around correcting students' positioning pushing down their shoulders and adjusting their hip alignment standing right next to them touching them. And I mention that only to say Morgan and everybody else in the class got a really good look at her close up for like an hour. I was in her classes for about probably two times a week for a year almost a year until I realized that she did not have two full arms. That seems crazy. Yeah. To be fair a lot of people were fooled. Mary Archbold is very good at concealing something you would think would be hard to conceal. Her right arm is a regular full arm. And her left arm stops at the elbow. And she does wear a prosthetic arm but it is solid and the joints and hands do not move at all. If you actually looked at it you would see it is obviously fake. But in addition to teaching classes she performs professionally as a dancer and has figured out ways to move so that the audience cannot tell. When she auditions directors and choreographers cannot tell and the caster. And Morgan discovered the truth about Mary's arm only when Mary outed herself. She decided to do a show on stage about the experience of having just one arm. The show is called Jazz Hand. Get it? Jazz Hand-- the woman is a professional dancer-- Jazz Hand Tales of a One-Armed Woman. And at the time this show was going up Morgan was away at summer camp. And her mom gave her a postcard for the show which had the title of the show on it and a picture of Mary showing clearly that she just has one arm. And still somehow Morgan and her mom did not suspect the truth. And I hung the post card up in my room along with a bunch of other letters that people had sent me. And pretty soon people in my cabin had started asking me. They said Oh who is that? And I said Oh that is Mary. She is my Pilates teacher. She is great. And they were like Oh does Mary only have one arm? And I said No Mary has two arms. And they said Oh well in the postcard she only has one arm. And I looked at them. And I was like No no. Mary definitely has two arms. They must be doing some sort of special effects for the show. You know Mary is a dancer. She was a cheerleader. I see her do Pilates all the time. I see her twice a week all the time. I go to her classes. I mean Mary definitely has two arms. And they said OK! Why did she write a show about only having one arm? And I said I do not know. She is creative! But when Morgan calls her mom on the phone she mentions what the girls at camp had said. And her mom reassures her No no no. Do not be silly. Of course Mary has two arms. We both know that. Her mom-- Karen is her name-- told me sure she knew that Mary's show had that subtitle Tales of a One-Armed Woman. You know I did not really think anything of it. I thought it could have been like a metaphor for something else. Like working at a deficit something like that. Yeah yeah yeah. She had one arm tied behind her back? Right. And then you start paying attention. And you realize oh my god! And then later that summer I got home. And my mom said Morgan I have something to tell you. And I was like What? And she was like We are such idiots and Mary does really only have one full arm. So the fact that you went to her for an entire school year twice a week--? I was definitely embarrassed and I definitely felt really really stupid. And I know that-- I have spoken to some other women in our class about this. And they also they are like I felt so stupid. Because it is like how do you not notice? You are spending so much time with someone. And it is just completely invisible. Yeah. What was the buzz in class? Were there are a lot of people who did not know? Oh I think barely any people knew. There is a famous quote that is attributed to an old-time magician named Harry Kellar who died back in 1922. Though as best as I can figure nobody knows if Harry Kellar really said this. But apparently he was such a master of misdirection of getting an audience to look exactly where he wanted them to look and never look anywhere that he did not want them to look that people claim that he said quote A brass band playing at full blast can march openly across the stage behind me followed by a herd of elephants yet no one will realize that they went by. Not that he ever tried that. Nobody thinks that. Well today on our radio show Hiding in Plain Sight we meet people who do what Harry Kellar never achieved-- they are the elephant on stage and the brass band. And nobody notices. We will meet this woman who demonstrates Pilates in front of people for years without them noticing her fake arm. We will meet the man who brought down the Cali drug cartel from the inside. He was their own director of security. And more from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act one There is Something About Mary. So I guess I have now put this off long enough. It is time to finally Mary Archbold one-armed woman. She was born that way. I can hide it. It is definitely now a lot of stuff I do subconsciously. It is inherent in the way I move. Do I have this right? You told one of our producers-- or maybe your husband told one of our producers-- that you were in a production of West Side Story and they did not know that you had one arm most of the cast until the cast party? Yes yes. We were about probably five weeks into a run of a three-month production. And we had a cast party and someone pointed it out. And the majority of the people I danced with-- I mean and these were my dance partners-- did not know. And then is that moment for you a moment of horror or a moment of pride? Half and half. There is the horror of what reaction is it going to be? Yeah. And then there is the quiet pride that maybe you saw me as me before you saw me as an actor with a disability. Do you feel like those two things are contradictory? Yes. Yeah I am not sure I understand that. It is like you are saying you want them to see you. Mm-hm. But you includes the fact that you have only one full arm. True but it is not my leading characteristic. And oftentimes when people find it out first that is sort of how they describe me. I am like categorized one-arm Mary. But everyone when you see them you see something some superficial thing in their hair or the way they are dressed or their age or whatever it is or their race just whatever it is. Right. And they get classified. And I would be happy to be classified among any other things. You can call me the short girl. You can call me the brunette girl the blue-eyed girl whatever you want to say just not the disabled girl. And it is funny. At home with my family with my son with my husband I never wear my arm. I am a lot more functional without it. I can chop. I can do everything much easier without it. So maybe it is a vain thing that I go through all of this. A vanity thing? Yeah absolutely. And because I am a performer it is sort of a professional necessity because otherwise the only role I will be called in for is wounded vet who just came home from Afghanistan. And this way I get called in for housewife. I get called in for mom. As for her techniques for how she manages to misdirect people from noticing her hand they are all startlingly simple. They are so simple that hearing them makes you realize how easily tricked we all are how unobservant we are in so many situations. There are the basics. She always wears long sleeves to cover her prosthesis so only the hand shows. Though the hand is a giveaway. It is worn down so the skin is shiny and does not look like skin. When she goes out on auditions for choreographers she does big gestures and expressions. And it is over so quick they actually never get a chance to notice that her wrist does not bend and her fingers do not move. When she needs to demonstrate poses in Pilates class that would expose the hand and arm and give her away she just uses one of the students as a model. And in every situation professional and personal-- I stand on a certain side so that they really only see my real arm. It is all about misdirection. If you are looking very busily at my right side you will not notice that my left side's not doing much. What about where you put your hand? Would you consciously keep it below people's sight line? Oh yes. Like at a party I will not hold a drink in my hand. I will take a sip and put it back down because if I meet somebody they are going to want to shake my hand. Oh I see. And if you had a drink in your hand you would have to put the drink down to shake your hand. Right I would not just-- And that would be unnatural. Right. Because normally what you would do is you would switch from one hand to the other-- And then shake hands. And then shake. But you cannot do that. So you-- So I always put a drink down on a table. What else? If someone comes at me-- and these are the people oh drives me crazy-- where they take both hands. The handholders when they meet people and they are like Oh it is so nice to meet you! And they shake your hands these people scare the hell out of me. So I will how often cut them off at the pass. If they are going to reach out for my hands I will grab a hand and pretend to spin into them and spin out like we are dancing. Or I say I am a hugger. Give me a hug! But is not a hug kind of a dangerous thing too? Because if they feel your left arm against them then-- It will not touch them. It will not touch them? Yes only my right arm will. Is it true that before you were with your husband you would go out on dates with boys. And you would not let them know originally? Like when they first were going out with you you did not let them know? That was not the first thing you would say? No absolutely not. So how far would it get? Depends on the guy. I would get physical with certain guys and we would get a certain amount. And they still would not know. But you have your shirt still on right? Yes. OK. But if the shirt came off funnily the left sleeve would stay on. So the rest of the shirt could come off but I would leave the left sleeve on. Wait and they would not notice anything weird? I mean you were a college guy once. I mean were you concerned about the left sleeve? If there was a shirt open are you going to be looking? Let me check out her elbow joint and see what that looks like. But when you are that close to somebody at some point your hand touches their left arm right? Like-- Not if it is under a pillow! Because it is made of silicon-- not if it is under a pillow? Yes I would wrap my arm underneath a pillow that would be under their head so that they would not realize that my hard arm is underneath them. And then with those boys would there come a point with some of them where you would have to reveal Oh by the way just one arm? There was one guy that I actually really did like. And we went out on three dates. And on the fourth date-- and we had smoochy-smooched up until then nothing too much-- but I felt like I needed to come clean with him. And I did at dinner. And he did not take it so well. He came back at me with Why do you think so little of me that I would care? That is a good question. What did you say? I said I do not think so little of you. At the time I said Maybe I think so little of me that you would not want me with a prosthetic arm. Of course that was long ago. She is performed that whole Jazz Hand show about her experience as a one-armed person and invited her students and all kinds of people she would been fooling to come and see it. At her wedding because she had a sleeveless gown she got opera gloves to conceal her arm. And she actually had them specially made to be long enough to cover her prosthesis. And then in the end she realized that everybody at the wedding already knew the truth. They already knew and accepted her and she did not wear the gloves. Act two Objects May be Closer Than They Appear. Anton DiSclafani has this story of a person a human being who is completely visible in plain sight close nearby but utterly confusingly confoundingly frustratingly unreachable. This February my husband Matt found a wallet on the front steps of our apartment. He was walking our dog. The wallet looked custom-made brown leather with braided edges and a Celtic design embossed on the front along with the initials JJV. It had 300 inside and a license-- Julian Vinegas which listed a St. Louis address a street away. Was it stolen? I asked my husband. Stolen by someone not interested in cash? It was a little bit of a mystery how a fully intact wallet came true reside literally on our front steps. It went without saying that we would return the wallet and cash to Julian Vinegas. I floated the idea of going to the police but my husband rejected it. The Wire was all he said. Most of Matt's knowledge of the police comes from watching The Wire and the cops on The Wire would have definitely stolen the money. I looked for Julian Vinegas on Facebook. He came up on my first search-- Julian Vinegas St. Louis Missouri. His security settings would not let me post on his wall so I sent him a message. This was so easy. But why stop there? My husband and I went to Julian's apartment. I pushed the buzzer and after a couple of long minutes of waiting a window raised above us. Yeah? a distinctly unfriendly voice called. Are you Julian Vinegas? He was not. Julian Vinegas had apparently moved and he did not leave a forwarding address. When we got home I checked Facebook. There was no message from Julian but there was a post on his wall about a concert he would been to the night before. Jane's Addiction was a blast last night. However I somehow made it home without my phone keys and wallet. I never lose things! WTF. Anybody got any leads? I have a lead! I shouted at the computer. Check your messages! A little while later another post. I am starting to feel like maybe I stashed them in the house somewhere but I have checked everywhere-- including the back of the toilet the oven and the freezer. Check your messages! Then I remember that Facebook puts all the messages sent you by people who are not friends into a folder labeled other which many people do not know exists. I could not friend Julian because of his privacy settings. But I could see his friend list so I friended several of his friends and messaged them. And I emailed Julian at likely Gmail addresses--   No response. You are getting obsessed my husband said. But I was just getting started. There were other leads in Julian's wallet-- three frequent buyer cards from Smoothie King a coupon card labelled Passport Club that promised 20 off hats at various hat stores a business card for an attorney a Sur la Table gift card a FedEx gift card a ticket voucher to a local movie theater a receipt from a record store called Vintage Vinyl where he bought season six of Weeds a very faded student ID from the University of Puget Sound. I called the University of Puget Sound. The woman who answered was certain she would be able to give me Julian's info. She said the University of Puget Sound kept very good track of its alumni. But there was no Julian Vinegas in their databases. I called Vintage Vinyl but they would never heard of Julian Vinegas and had no record of him. I called the number on the attorney's business card. But the woman who answered refused to give out any information. I called Smoothie King where Julian had amassed three punch cards. The woman there said she had not heard of him but that I could leave the wallet at the store. And if he came back they would return it which seemed like a poor way of doing things for various reasons. I still had not gotten a reply on Facebook. On Julian's wall I saw that he went to something called Metal Mondays at a St. Louis bar called Limits. I called the bar and left a message. I thought surely somebody would get back to me-- one of his friends or the bar. They did not. I read his wall a dozen times a day. A week passed and then another. He seemed to have given up on the wallet mentioned it less and less. I got to know Julian Vinegas. I learned that he hung out with friends a lot. He partied a lot. He liked music a lot. He did not seem to particularly care about punctuation. And though I had so much access to his thoughts to his whereabouts I was unable to let him know I existed. I felt like a stalker. I felt like a ghost. And then Julian posted that he was going to a Raekwon concert at the Gargoyle. This is it! I thought. If he is not there I will turn over the wallet to the police crooked cops be damned. Matt who had become my unwilling accomplice sat with me at the bottom of the stairs at the Gargoyle. I knew exactly what Julian looked like because I had looked at dozens of his pictures. But just to be safe I asked men if they were Julian even when they only vaguely resembled him. One guy told me No. And his friend yelled out But he could be! We waited. The concert was going to start soon and I did not have any proof that Julian was going to be there except a Facebook post from a few days before. And he had been out since 331 AM last night so I thought maybe he was tired? Then he walked down the stairs. I recognized him immediately. Are you Julian Vinegas? I asked. Before he could even confirm that he was Julian Vinegas I handed him his wallet. Wow he said. Immediately he tried to give me 40 which I did not take. He seemed happy to see his wallet but not euphoric. This moment a complete stranger not only finding his wallet but going to such great lengths to return it somehow did not seem as improbable to him as to me. We chatted for a few minutes. It was kind of like meeting a celebrity. You think it will just be so incredible that your mind will not be able to handle actually meeting someone who you know so much about. And then it is like yeah your mind does handle it. Julian had moved two blocks away from me to another apartment. He would lost the same exact wallet twice before. Really? I asked. Yes he said and it always gets returned to me like a boomerang. I wanted to say No it is not like a boomerang. It got returned to you because the wallet became my problem and I focused my obsessive mind on it and went to lengths that most people would not. But I did not say that. We saw things differently he and I. And I realized standing there that I did not know Julian Vinegas at all. I thought I did. But I did not. Anton DiSclafani. Her book The Yonahlossee Writing Camp for Girls comes out next summer. Coming up Coke Brothers. And by that of course I mean guys who sell cocaine for a living and how a guy who they knew and trusted sent them to prison. Car-tel Talk in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program Hiding in Plain Sight stories of people doing just that. We have arrived at act three of our show. Act three The Seven Year Snitch. At its height in the early '90s the Cali drug cartel controlled 80 of all the cocaine in the world. It was a 7 billion a year international business. But the cartel collapsed. Its former leaders went to prison mostly because of one man a high-ranking cartel insider who decided that he wanted out and he went to the authorities. Though I have to say that going to the authorities is nothing like a guy in Jersey ratting out a mafia boss here in the United States. This was Columbia a country with no functioning judicial system. The cartel had bought off Colombian cops prosecutors politicians judges. Karen Lowe tells the story of the man who stood up to all of that while staying and working right under the noses of the Cali godfathers. The man who took down the Cali cartel was named Jorge Salcedo. He is in witness protection in the US now. In order to talk to him my producer and I met him at a hotel near the beach in Southern California. Jorge was a little nervous around the mic. Is it going to be that close all the time? It will be that close yeah yeah. Yeah You are going to be tired. I will get tired. That is true. Jorge Salcedo is a greying soft-spoken engineer who loves literature and tinkering with things. And that is who he was before all this started. He was doing well in Colombia. He ran an assembly line that made car batteries. He was designing a way to recycle motor oil. And he was bored. Jorge's father had been a high ranking member of the military. And now in his 40s Jorge wanted that kind of prestige and adventure. So he joined the Colombian Army Reserves became a surveillance and intelligence specialist. And then one day in 1989 Jorge was working at his battery factory in Bogota when he got a visit from an old friend. The guy's name was Mario del Basto. Mario had recently quit the military and he had a request for Jorge. Here's how Jorge recalls it. He just came to my office. And he was very secretive about what was going to happen. He told me You need to come with me to Cali. I said Where are we going? I will tell you later. Just come do not ask me. I trusted him so much that I said I do not see anything bad. And he said We are going to go to The Intercontinental Hotel and they are going to be calling us. And just wait for what they are going to tell us because frankly I do not know what it is. The people who were going to be calling were members of the Cali cartel. Since leaving the military Mario had gone to work for the cartel and Jorge knew that. But he got on the plane with Mario anyhow. I asked Jorge why. Jorge said he suspected that he might be meeting with some mid-level Cali guys and that seemed OK with him. It intrigued him. He thought it might even be a business opportunity. I kept asking Jorge to clarify. Do you think it was OK to do business with the drug cartel? You are asking me? I see that your questions go to How can he accept something like this? to How corrupt is he already? But when you are a Colombian you get used to something that is not conceivable other ways. Our country has never been in peace. I have been all the time living under violent circumstances. When he got to Cali Jorge was surprised to find that his meeting was not with some mid-level guys but with the cartel's four godfathers. And what they wanted from him was equally surprising. They wanted help in their war with the Medellin cartel. You have probably heard of Pablo Escobar the ruthless leader of the Medellin cartel. They wanted Jorge to help them kill him. I was introduced by Mario who just said Gentlemen here is Jorge Salcedo the person whom I told you about. And the first sentences ever pronounced Well we have been told about your connections with a group of mercenaries in England. This is why they reached out to Jorge. While he was in the Army Reserves Jorge had come in contact with a group of British mercenaries a crew of about a dozen men who ran secretive off-the-books missions. Jorge was their primary contact in Colombia and the cartel knew that. They wanted to hire these British mercenaries to kill Escobar. They told Jorge-- As you know we have been attacked by Pablo Escobar. And we are very worried for our families. And then they were very explicit with their plans. They got very much in detail. They said We are going to get him in this place. It was already a plan that they had developed. So when I was told This is what we are going to do at that moment I knew they had made me aware of a big secret. And I had no way out. No way out. I know this is the way it always happens in the movies right? But it is true. The cartel had just laid out a plan to kill Escobar in a very detailed way. And now Jorge knew. Jorge says at that moment the conversation in his head went something like this. I will help take down Escobar but I will not be involved in any drug trafficking or anything dirty. Once Escobar's gone I will take my money leave maybe start my own security business. I asked him over and over again about this. And he kept saying You pretty much have to be a Colombian to understand. Escobar was out of control murdering people on a scale that was shocking even for a drug lord. One notorious incident he blew up an airliner with 107 people on it because he wanted to kill one man a presidential candidate who it turned out was not even on the plane. Escobar was terrorizing the country. So Jorge did want Escobar dead. Nearly everyone did. Over the next four years with the help of the British mercenaries the cartel tried twice to kill Pablo Escobar. But they did not succeed. Eventually Escobar was killed in a shootout with Colombian authorities in 1993. Meanwhile Jorge had risen to chief of security for the Cali cartel. Now his job was to protect the head godfather Miguel Rodriguez Orejuela his four wives and all their children. My presence was required every time that he was going to move. He would tell me in advance what sort of movements were expected. Jorge was actually into the work. It gave him a way to indulge his military and technical skills. But he was originally hired to help kill Escobar. So the day after the authorities shot him Jorge asked to speak with Miguel the head of the cartel. And basically the conversation was My mission is over. I am happy to see that nothing happened to your family to yourself. But it is the time for me to retake the original life that I had years ago. And he said No no no Jorge. You are very valuable to us. Do not even think about it. Much better times are coming. They had some sort of gratitude for what I had done but on the other hand it may be that gratitude was that if he leaves he knows too much and I have to do something else. I did not look at that under that perspective. Really? In all that time it did not occur to you that you had too much knowledge to leave? I was in a way a little too naive. However he justified his role-- for instance Jorge says he never saw drugs he did not touch a gram of the stuff-- there was no way he could escape the violence. He heard about grisly murders and cartel assassins. Once he was at a hacienda as four suspected snitches in other rooms were strangled and then disemboweled. And I just said Next is me maybe in this very night. So that was a time where also I said Oh my god I do not belong here. This is not my world. What am I doing here? Jorge was stuck in a cartel that was growing quickly. With Escobar gone and his organization in disarray the Cali cartel soaked up Medellin's drug business. A US Justice Department official told Congress that at its peak the cartel was quote The most prolific and successful criminal enterprise in history. But there was one way the cartel was still vulnerable. If you could get cartel members extradited to the United States then they could be prosecuted for bringing drugs into the country. And while Colombia was notoriously soft on the cartels the US had no problem handing down tough sentences. But in the early 1990s the cartels found a way around that too. Colombia outlawed extradition made it unconstitutional. Cali cartel attorneys had actually helped craft the law's language. But the extradition ban did not cover everyone in the cartel. There was a kind of loophole. William Rempel is a reporter who spent more than 10 years reporting Jorge's story for a book he wrote called At the Devil's Table. There is a technicality and the law also included the fact that this protection extended only to Colombians-- Colombian citizens. So anybody in the Cali cartel-- and they employed Guatemalans Cubans Chileans Argentinians-- all of those members of the cartel were still subject to extradition. And some of those people had risen to high places. First among these people in high places was the cartel's accountant Guillermo Pallomari. Pallomari was Chilean which meant he could be extradited. He also had intimate knowledge and computerized records of all the cartel's transactions including bribes to officials. If the authorities nabbed Pallomari they would have a blueprint of nearly every act of corruption the cartel was involved in. He presented such a risk to the cartel that they asked him to go into hiding. The Cali godfather Miguel Rodriguez Orejuela was not one to accept risks like this. Miguel was a no-nonsense kind of guy dubbed The Lemon because of his sour disposition. And even though Miguel liked Pallomari Miguel knew something had to be done. So he talked to Jorge. Miguel tells me very sadly You know Pallomari has served us very much. But we have agreed that he needs to die. So there is a killer with the name of Yusti. And it is your task to coordinate with this killer that he kills him. At that particular moment I was praying. I was saying Oh my God you work it out so I will not do this. Just help me. I am not going to do it. On the other side I was just being a candidate for an Oscar Award by my performance. I said No problem. I will take care of the thing. Jorge actually kind of hated Guillermo Pallomari. The accountant had been behind some business decisions for the cartel that he disagreed with and he thought Pallomari had a tendency to be sloppy. But still Jorge says he never ordered anyone to be killed. Going after Escobar was one thing. He was a national menace. But this was different. So he says he made up his mind. He was not going to kill Pallomari. That left him two options. He could leave or reporter William Rempel says he could take down the entire Cali drug cartel. He choose option number two. And the only way to bring down the cartel would be to actually save the life of the accountant who could deliver such a terrible blow to the inner secrets of the cartel and to help the United States and the Colombian government capture Miguel the boss of the bosses. How was Jorge going to do this? He could not trust anyone in Colombia. There was no way to know who might be working for the cartel. And so Jorge did the only thing he could think of the same thing you or I or the average seventh grader might think of if we needed help taking down an international crime syndicate. Jorge went to a phone booth he knew was not tapped and called the CIA. He did not know anyone at the CIA of course so he called the main number for CIA Headquarters in Langley Virginia. He got the front desk. Let me tell you what I said. I said I am calling from Cali Columbia. And I just have very valuable information about the head of the Cali cartel and I-- The operator asked him for the name of the person he wanted to talk to. He explained he did not have that. How about an extension? she said. Well no. He did not have that either. Again William Rempel. It ended with her saying Well maybe you should call back when you know who you want to talk to. I walk across the square. And then again I was myself praying help me God. I am totally alone. There is nothing I can do. Then Jorge stumbled on one another long-shot solution. He knew a lawyer in Florida who had done some work for the cartel and Jorge happened to read in the newspaper that US authorities were after the lawyer. So Jorge contacted the attorney with a pretty simple proposition. Put me in touch with American authorities and I will talk. And they will be so grateful to you it will get you leniency. This worked. The lawyer knew someone in US Customs in Miami. That person knew someone in the Drug Enforcement Administration. Soon Jorge was on the phone with two DEA agents David Mitchell and Chris Feistl who were already on the ground in Colombia. They agreed to meet in a cane field 45 minutes outside of Cali. But Chris says Jorge had a few demands. Jorge was scared of any Colombians because they might be collaborating with the cartel. Well before we got there Jorge said on the phone that he had two conditions to us meeting. One was he said you have to come alone. And I said There is no way I am coming alone. I am coming with my partner. We do not go anywhere by ourselves in Cali. And he said OK that was fine. But then he also said I do not want to see anybody who is Colombian. If you bring a Colombian with you or someone who even appears to be Colombian the deal's off. And I told him Jorge do not worry. When you see us you will not be disappointed. Both agents were blond both over 6' tall. And when Jorge arrived and he started walking up to us and my partner Dave said Hey Jorge ar