  Ooh no no. No that is awful! I am putting my headphones back in!    This week at a staff meeting our producer Tracie Hunte told us a story. Really it was the story of a moment from the weekend as the protests in response to the killing of George Floyd were really escalating.   Can you hear it through my headphones?   I just asked her to tell me that story again on tape.   Okay so you were listening to a certain song.   Yeah.   What happened exactly? Can you set the scene?   Yeah. Yeah it was Saturday and I had been feeling pretty sad all day just feeling kind of grumpy. And I was like Okay. You know what? Self-care Saturday. Let us just take a really long hot shower wash your hair smell good feel good. And so I did all of that you know and I was just feeling very good physically for the first time in a while actually. And I decided I was gonna play Nina Simone. I just typed in Nina Simone in Spotify and just let them just start you know picking songs for me basically. I was not really being really specific. And I opened -- so I have a balcony in my apartment and I opened the door to let some air in and I am just instantly barraged with all this sound. This cacophony of police sirens people chanting. And then all of a sudden in my room the song that was playing was Backlash Blues by Nina Simone. And I was like Whoa! What is going on? Like wow this is a very weird sound experience right now.   What is that -- what is that song just for people who do not know it?   So Backlash Blues she actually wrote it with Langston Hughes great Harlem Renaissance poet. He wrote the lyrics and she wrote the -- I guess the music. And -- and the song is just like ...   Who do you think I am?   Who do you think I am?   Raise my taxes and freeze my wages send my son to Vietnam.   You got me in second-class houses second-class schools. Do you think all colored folks are just second-class fools? Mr. Backlash I am gonna leave you with the Backlash Blues.   I am gonna leave you with the blues yes I am.   Wow.   And I mean other than the Vietnam reference it seemed really on the nose for right now.   Yeah.   Like wow. Like this is Nina Simone in 1967 singing this out in this like warning a prediction or something.   Like talking forward to us 50 years.   Yeah. And one big question over this week and I think we are gonna have this question a lot is like everyone is like Why is this happening now? And I am like literally this is why it is happening. This is -- it is right here. When things keep piling on piling on piling on you know there is gonna be a release. And -- and you know you look at the last couple months and it is just been pile on and pile on and pile on. It is Coronavirus a virus that is killing mostly Black and brown people. It is you know unemployment. And then you have like three really horrific killings of black people in three months. It just felt like there was a building up of stuff and it almost -- and it kind of made sense.   Yeah.   And so it was just a really bizarre moment. And then I listened to Sunday In Savannah. At the beginning of this recording she is saying something like ...     Oh I am so glad you guys came out tonight. I did not know that you would because of everything that happened. And I was like Wait. What happened?   Huh.   And I did some Googling and I found out that she performed three days after Martin Luther King Jr. was assassinated in Memphis.   One more Sunday in Savannah. Hear the whole creation shout and praise the Lord.   And so she had dedicated the whole show to him. And ...   Everybody knows about Mississippi goddamn!   She sings Mississippi Goddamn. And then there is like a couple moments in Mississippi Goddamn which also once again feel kind of prophetic. Like this is a very angry song already but then she kind of has like a moment where she is just kind of like has this kind of ad lib moment where she is saying ...     We are not about to be non-violent. And there is something very -- I do not know if alarming or strange or I do not know what the right word is. But there is something kind of amazing to think like these are the songs that she is singing for Martin Luther King Jr. and she is saying yeah let us get violent you know?   Mm-hmm.   What is gonna happen now in all of our cities? My people are rising. They are living ...   And I should point out that you know when she was performing several cities in the United States were burning because there were riots in reaction to Martin Luther King's death. She also ...     She has like a period where she just starts talking. And she is talking about other Black artists who have died ...     ... in the last few years.     Like she is just -- and she even says I do not know how to feel anymore. I am just so numb.     And hearing her say that? Like just  they are shooting us one by one? Yeah it is just -- I do not know. She is just so necessary. We just need her so much. And I just keep thinking like what would she be thinking about this moment? What would she have to say? And I do not know she -- it feels like she already said it.   Yeah.   And I found this quote that she said. How can you be an artist and not reflect the times? That to me is the definition of an artist. And I know that like one thing we were thinking about doing is reaching out to musicians finding out how they were reflecting the time. And I am just gonna be having -- and I think even just in my work I am gonna be thinking about this challenge. How can you not reflect the time? That is what you are supposed to do.   Yeah.   And I -- you know I kind of do not know if I am up to it.    Honestly I -- you know I think we are all feeling that from very different vantage points.   Yeah. I think we -- we all are. We are all feeling a little -- you know I feel like every Black journalist has this -- whenever this happens a lot of Black journalists we get on our little -- in our group chats and we are like Is journalism really the thing we should be doing right now?   Yeah.   Is that gonna save us? You know like we go into this profession knowing that like we are gonna be entering mostly white spaces but we do it because we really believe in serving our community. And you know when moments like this come up you -- you doubt it and you are just like Is this really -- what else should I be doing? And I -- you know I keep coming back to like I think I am in the right place. I do but I am not sure. It is hard. It is really hard.   Yeah.   He had seen the mountaintop and he knew he could not stopAlways living with the threat of death aheadFolks you would better stop and thinkHow we are almost to the brinkWhat will happen now that the king of love is dead?  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.  -30- 