From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Elna Baker sitting in for Ira Glass. Kids have a stage where they learn to be embarrassed. It begins when they are toddlers but some of us do not seem to take the lesson to heart like my friend Jane Marie. I have known Jane for years. She used to work at the radio show. And her shamelessness was the quality I most admired about her especially as a woman. You know she did not care what people thought. Am I acting nice? Am I dressed too sexy? Am I being loud? She did not ask those questions. She was totally opinionated and scrappy. Jane was never embarrassed and for a pretty specific reason. The way she grew up-- she was Methodist-- she was taught you are not the center of the universe which made her feel free like no one was watching. To be embarrassed would be to assume that anyone in this room or anyone who witnessed this actually spends more than 5 seconds thinking about me. And they do not. Why would you think anyone but God gives a shit about anything you are doing ever? They do not. Like you are nothing. You mean nothing in the world. It is obnoxious basically to think that like any of your actions-- that anyone is actually looking in your direction. This worldview that others were not judging her helped her not judge herself. Those thoughts just did not occur to her. Did you have an inner critic? What do you mean by inner critic? Like a voice that-- LAUGHING That is actually funny sorry. I am like  come again? So I was surprised when she texted me and said she would heard I was looking for embarrassing stories to put on today's radio show. And that she had one a big one that she would never told anyone but her therapist something that changed who she was. And I will get to that story in about a minute. But first let me just say I love embarrassing stories. I always ask for them at parties. If I hear a good one I will retell it for years. Some of them so funny. But that is not the only reason I like them. I think the best ones say so much about us reveal sides of ourselves maybe we would rather not see. And to prove the point that embarrassing stories have a lot to teach us I decided to harness the power of the radio program. And we asked you for your embarrassing stories. People sent in over a thousand of them. Today we will hear some of those and talk about what they reveal. But we are going to kick things off with Jane's story because honestly of the hundreds of embarrassing stories that I have heard I have never heard another one like Jane's where it changed someone so deeply. Her story is our first act. Let us call it Belle of the Gall. Jane's story starts at a big charity event at a bougie hotel in Beverly Hills. The night is a fundraiser for children with epilepsy. It is held in a grand ballroom with fine china and excessive centerpieces and some of the most powerful producers and executives in Hollywood. This is not Jane's scene. She is there because she is interviewing for a job a job with a big studio. A job that would be a major leap for her and pay a ton more money than she would ever made. They would met with her several times for interviews and they would invited her tonight and paid for her ticket as a kind of fun looser let us go do something more social and see how we all hit it off. Knowing where it is held and knowing it is a gala Jane wears a ball gown a two-piece dark green dress that shows off her midriff with a giant billowy skirt. She walks into the event and to her surprise-- People were wearing like business casual instead of like-- it was not black tie. And so I am overdressed. They are passing around champagne flutes. I grab one but promise myself I am only going to have half of this one glass of champagne before we sit down at the table. Like I am going into this with full control of myself. Like I am-- You are there to make a good impression. I am there to make a great impression on these people. I want to work with them. And I want them to think I am respectable. And it is a weird thing. Like I hate that I still have to talk about the world this way. But when you are the only woman at the table or one of two women at a table and they are all like old older white dudes CEO types who in a certain way have your future in their hands. It does not feel great. In the ballroom of maybe 500 guests they are seated at the main table front and center. During dinner Jane's looking for her opportunity to shine a moment when they will get to know her better. But it is not coming. The CEO guys are all talking over her. There is no moment to jump into the conversation. No one seems curious about her at all. So they get to the auction portion or the fundraiser portion of the evening. And there is a person up onstage who is calling the auction. And they say all right let us get things kicked off here. Jane has an idea. One time-- the only other time she is been to a gala-- they would had an auction too. And to surprise her table as a joke when they started the bidding before any of the celebrities that night-- Lady Gaga or Angela Bassett or Heidi Klum-- could get in a bid Jane raised her paddle. It was for an item that was tens of thousands of dollars. Jane was broke. Her friends at the table knew she could not afford it. But she figured I am surrounded by rich people. Someone will absolutely outbid me. And they did. The item went for hundreds of thousands of dollars. Everyone thought it was hilarious. So she looked at this table of CEOs and thinks-- I know how to spice up the evening because I have done it before. I am going to throw my paddle up again. I am going to throw my paddle up again get things cranking have a funny story for our table to laugh about. And so they opened the bidding. And what I hear is we are going to start the bidding out at 25000. And I shoot my paddle up in the air with the same confidence that it will get outbid immediately and then we are moving on. And then we are cooking with gas and everybody's like you are a blast you know. Jane feels a rush. Ha that was fun. She waits to be outbid. And I had somehow not heard that this round of bidding was really just-- it was not something that anyone else could bid on. It was not an auction at all. It was a pledge. So it was a 25000 pledge from the eight people sitting at my table. It all happened really quickly. After I raised the paddle they were like yay. And they put the name of our table and everyone at our table up on this board. There was a TV screen a large TV screen hanging from the ceiling and the name of the company I was with and our table number and the amount of my pledge. And I look over and the one person I know best at the table it looks like he is having hives like an attack. Everyone else is just slack-jawed. Oh my god Jane what did you just do? What did you just do? What did you just do? And they are like mouthing this. Or even just saying it out loud depending on how close they are to me. They all just stared at me and were like how are you going to fix this for our table? Sometimes when something embarrassing happens to you you exaggerate it in your head think it is a bigger deal than it was. But in this case no. I wish I could take this away from Jane and tell her her memory's wrong. Her memory's not wrong because I am here to tell you yes it was that bad. It really was. It was that bad. You are not making that up. That is Adam Davidson Jane's only friend at the table. He is the guy who broke out into hives. As I am remembering it I just-- that feeling of wah wah wah wah wah wah. The universe is different now. The universe is-- fix it fix it. We are off course.  You know like that kind of emergency. Right. So part of the panic is like if I do not stop this I am going to have to pay 25000. Uh yeah because I said I would. What if there is no way out of this and I have to like max out all my credit cards? No I really was like can you-- OK because I do not have auction experience also I am like can you take it back? She decides to try. At the other end of this giant ballroom there is an exit. Jane thinks there will be people in charge there. They can help me. So she bolts up out of her chair and heads there fast as she can. Through dozens of tables full of people I mean I really was having to be like excuse me pardon me pardon me excuse me excuse me pardon me pardon me excuse me. Like just I gotta get out of here. So I get through the double doors at the back of the room as quickly as I can and it slams shut behind me. Who is running the auction? she yells. A volunteer points her to a woman with a laptop. Jane rushes over and explains it is all a mistake. I do not have money. The woman is surprisingly understanding. She says What would you like to do? What to do you want me to do? And I was like well I just need to like I take it back. I cannot spend that money. And she was like OK. And then bleep bleep blarp she is in her computer. And I said thank you OK. And then I walk back into the ballroom and I am looking up at the leaderboard essentially of all the pledges. And we are at the top. And then it disappears right as I walk back in the room. It felt like a spotlight was turned on. Like the whole room turned around to look at you. The whole room it is record scratch. And everyone knows that I just took 25000 away from this charity. But of course it was not Jane's name that was on the screen. It was the company's the one she is hoping to work for. So very quickly it was not oh Jane did this. It was our table did this. Again Jane's friend Adam. And it was not like we went from first to second or first to third. We went from number 1 to like the bottom. So yeah I was embarrassed. I think everyone at the table was embarrassed. Yes we were embarrassed. Would not you be embarrassed? And so I get back to the table and I sit down and have kind of like a  was not that-- you know like a nervous laugh. No one is enjoying that. And so I just start focusing on anything but the people around my table. I am just really intently listening to the auctioneer guy. And we have to watch this really sad video that is like a mini-documentary about the children that we are supposed to be there to help. And they dim the lights. The movie is about 15 minutes long. The music is emotional. It is parents and their children with epilepsy talking about how scared and sad they feel how much they need treatment. Sitting there in the dark watching this this is the moment that hits Jane the hardest. It is not when everyone looks at her. It is when she realizes what she is actually done. She would only thought of this evening as an opportunity for her to make an impression. That was gross what I did. It was gross and wrong. And watching these children with this illness on a big screen I was just like I am the worst person on the Earth that I bid and then I took it back and then I said no.  There is was a part of me that was like oh could I just take out a few more credit cards or something? And then it is like a tidal wave of what just happened and what I did and how mortifying it is. Just the layers of like the reasons I should be embarrassed and criticizing myself. You know why would you even do that? Why would you do that? And then when you did do it why would you try to get out of it? The answers to those questions are uncomfortable because they force Jane to see things about herself she does not like. Embarrassment can do that. It can show you your blind spot. It exposed a fatal flaw that I have to pay a lot of attention to now. And what is that fatal flaw? Um hubris. Something about that made me feel like my confidence had bad consequences that there was something bad about it. The night ends. She does not get the job. And she has it on pretty good authority that the decision boiled down to her big mistake that night. This stings but that is not the crux of what that night did to her. It has actually changed a lot about how I act in public. I am just much more self-conscious after that. Really? Like I used to get super pumped about going to a party. And now that is kind of fraught. I know this is going to sound counterintuitive but I have started leaving the house sometimes without makeup because it is like I do not want people thinking that I am thinking about what they are thinking if that makes sense. I do not want anyone to think I put makeup on for them. But this is just like the weirdest stuff that now pops into my head about what other people are thinking where I wish I just did not care. I have always been that way worrying what other people are thinking about me. And I cannot imagine what it would be like to discover this as a full-on adult. Jane says everything feels different to her now. I feel completely neutered a lot of the time. Really? Yeah I do. I feel like it made me second guess myself a lot I guess. I used to write essays about parenting and sex. And I would give advice and I would go on radio shows. And now I am just like shut up Jane shut up Jane shut up Jane shut up Jane shut up. No one is asking and no one wants to hear it. That is crazy to me that you can do something embarrassing once and suddenly you have that inner policeman for the rest of your life. Is there anything that can make it go away you think? I do not know. What could change it? I do not know. I just do not even have the desire. It is like why would I want to change it so that I could like put another ball gown on and go embarrass myself in front of a bunch of people? Like no that does not sound fun. You know? It does not sound fun anymore. Like I do not think that the lesson I learned was necessarily all bad. And honestly when I think about the old version of me it was kind of gross in a way you know? It is kind of obnoxious. It is like that is a baby. I would honestly never thought of embarrassment as being helpful to anyone. It pummels us humiliates us. But Jane's glad this happened to her. She is glad for her new awful self-consciousness. She says her ego is smaller now which means that with everyone in her life she is quicker to admit when she is wrong and apologize. And overall she says it is calmed her down. She observes more hangs back never wants to be the center of attention-- which she says is a lot less hectic. Jane Marie is the host of the podcast The Dream. Act 2 Judgment Day. Part of the reason I am interested in embarrassment is because of this realization I had recently. I am so embarrassed of myself all the time. At least once a day I break out into a rash from embarrassment like a couple of days ago when I learned from a coworker that all my life I have been mispronouncing the word incongruous. See? I get embarrassed when I think people are looking at my eyebrows or when other people see my dog poop. Embarrassment is on me all the time and I want to get it off. And one of the ways my obsession with embarrassment has played out in the last few months is I am in a group chat dedicated to it. There are four of us in it. One of the people Kiese Laymon I only met when we started this group. Any time we feel embarrassed or do something embarrassing we write to each other. It is how I know we have both worn Spanx for decades or that he is self-conscious of his hairline or how he walks. These little secrets you would never know about someone otherwise. Sometimes we swap stories of past embarrassments like the time Kiese was teaching a class at Vassar College on hip-hop as literature and the alumni magazine wanted to do a story on him. This was back when he was in his 20s. They did the interview and then a photographer comes to take his picture. So we are in the library and I am like where do you need me to stand? And they are like well could you crouch? And I was like huh? I as not never crouched for the photographs before. And they were like you know crouch and like do something cool with your hands. And I was like what do you-- what do you want me to do? And then the lady says could you do rap hands? And I am just like wait a minute now. You want me to do rap hands in a picture that is going to accompany an article about my teaching hip-hop as literature and hip-hop and literature? And you know my stupid ass did that shit? Like I am doing rap hands fam. Like I cannot lie to you. So then the fucking article comes out and my students particularly my Black students are like bruh you teach about representation stereotypes fetishization. There is nothing ironic about this picture. You look like a fucking fool wannabe rapperprofessor doing crouch rap hands. I know so many of Kiese's day-to-day screw-ups from our embarrassment group. But it is funny. I never asked him an obvious question. All right so I guess-- I think-- you know I am coming into this totally blind so I do not know what you are about to tell me. What is your most embarrassing story? My most embarrassing story has to do with Heavy. So I wrote this book called Heavy. I have been spending my entire life trying to write it. And I needed to write it to help my relationship with my mother and my relationship with my body. But also it is a book that I wanted my grandmama to really be proud of. The New York Times names Heavy one of the best 50 memoirs in the last 50 years. A lot of the book is about Kiese's shame around his weight. He went from being 319 pounds to anorexic getting down to 159. Then gaining it back then losing some. By exposing everything about his struggle with his weight he overcomes it. Near the end of the book he writes I am no longer ashamed of this heavy Black body. Something else he talks about how important his grandma is to him. She is funny the voice of reason in his life. And she is one of the only people who is never on his case about his weight. In Heavy he writes about his grandmother She responsibly loved me and never harmed me. He is disappointed her many times-- got kicked out of college lost all his money to gambling. But writing this book was a way to prove to her he is not his failures. And it is his attempt to fully explain himself. By the time it comes out I think I had won a lot of awards that I did not expect to win. And with every award I just was like yo my granny is going to be proud of me. Two months after the book is published he flies home to Jackson Mississippi for Christmas. It is the first chance he gets to celebrate the book's success with his whole family. And he brings a stack of books each of which he is signed with a dedication to each family member. He runs into the living room with a big smile on his face. Everyone's there. He heads straight to his grandma and gives her a big hug. She looks up at me and then she looks over to my mom and she says is this Kie? And then she is like yeah Mama that is Kie. And I said Grandmama what you asking am I me for? And she just straight-up said because you are so fat baby. You look way too fat to be Kie. And she said it in front of my family. She said in front of my little cousin Nicole. And I just started sweating. And I was like what the fuck what the fuck? Am I having a panic attack right now? And at the time I did not understand why. Like I did not think I was having a panic attack because of embarrassment or shame at my grandmother calling me fat. It was some combination of humiliation shame and embarrassment. Shame and embarrassment often get lumped together. But what makes embarrassment distinct is it is always tied to other people. You need an audience to be embarrassed. Like I can be ashamed in my house by myself. Yes totally. You know what I am saying? Like I can be in shame like a boiling pot of shame. But embarrassment to me is much more dramatic. I feel like when you ask me stories about embarrassment they are all going to be stories about how somebody saw me. Because if I came in my house and there was nobody there but my Granny and she did that it would hurt. I mean it would hurt. But it would not come close to that hurt of having her say it in front of the entire family. And the family doing their version of looking down. You know we are going to act like we did not hear that when everybody heard it. So I just walked right back out of the house got in my car for a second tried to get my breath right. And I had some Xanax because I was on book tour earlier and I use Xanax to sleep on the planes.  So I was like yo should I take a half a Xanax? What the fuck is going on with me? I did not know what was happening. So I did not. I took the Xanax one of the Xanax and I went back in the house tried to do it again. Went back to my Granny. Walked in the room Granny hey blah blah blah blah blah. Kie boy I do not know how you got so fat but you need to stop eating. And I think the shameful part was like I could write all the books in the world I wanted to. I could write one of those books as good as I could ever write them. But I was still going to look and feel not just fat but gross to my family. Did you also feel like you had in writing a book and working as hard as you possibly could to look at this stuff that you had overcome the capacity to feel so ashamed of yourself? Yes. I thought in writing about among other things body and sex fatness and sex I did. I fooled myself into believing that I was delivered from it. And I think when I came in the room thinking Heavy would shield me from their critiques and being greeted initially and then my grandmother calling me fat looking at me like I am fat. Not seeing anything but a fat ass middle-aged man when she looks at me is kryptonite is my kryptonite. She would always been the one person who'd never judged him. And when he tries to make sense of this turnaround the best he can come up with is with the success of the book and the money it brought in she now saw him as a man. And in her eyes men were supposed to be productive and lean. He spends the next few days with his grandma and she keeps bringing it up. It looks like Kie ate Kie. He is as big as a house. How did he get so fat? And I just think that was embarrassing to think that a book was going to change your life and make you not look and feel fat to your family and to the person who means the most in the world to you. And the book did not matter at all. Oh it is crushing.  Oh it is so funny. I have to laugh my way through all of that. But yeah it felt pretty crushing. But this is not something he tells people in everyday conversation. Honestly when I asked him for his most embarrassing story I expected the kind of funny story you tell at a party. That is usually what he delivers when people start telling these kinds of stories something more like Rap Hands. That embarrassment and the embarrassment I felt in my granny's house in some way I do not even know if they should be called the same word. Because I literally-- like I like telling that story. I have never told the story I told you about my granny because I do not like remembering that. I do not like telling it. You know what I am saying? Totally. I mean because there is certain things that you can laugh at. But you cannot laugh at the thing that makes you want to die. Yeah I mean the embarrassing stories that I tell are always not true. Like the drama of the story will be true but I am going to hide that mushy sometimes toxic center that thinks telling embarrassing stories will make people like me more. You know what I mean? So when I am telling embarrassing stories the part of the story I am not telling is I am going to tell you all this story because I feel very fucking insecure and I want to make you feel or laugh. So if I am not telling that part of the story I am being dishonest in the storytelling. And most of us are not telling that part of the story when we tell these self-deprecating stories about whatever. I am only telling you this story because I want to control the velocity and pace at which you like me. That is what I think those stories lack. They lack the preamble. They lack the sad history that makes you need to tell a funny story in the first place he says. And maybe that makes sense. Who wants to bring that up at a party? Kiese Laymon is the author of Heavy and Long Division. Coming up a date that ends in nudity but absolutely not the kind that you might want. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Elna Baker sitting in for Ira Glass. Today's show My Bad. Today we are looking at embarrassing stories and what those reveal about us. We are at Act 3 Traumarama. Like I mentioned earlier we asked you listeners to share your most embarrassing stories. We got hundreds of Facebook and Instagram messages and nearly a thousand emails. OK quick note embarrassing stories can sometimes involve bodily functions and we have one or two like that. If that is not your thing do not say I did not warn you. Anyway these stories you sent in I invited the regular host of this show Ira Glass in to share those. Hey there Elna. Hi Ira. So can I ask you something? Yeah. OK you said earlier that you get embarrassed every day. Really? Oh yeah. I had something really embarrassing happen to me two nights ago per this show. What was it? It started with tripping and falling. I was carrying a pizza on a plate and I tripped and it fell face-forward onto the couch. Uh-huh. This is in your own home? No this is at the guy I am seeing right. And it was like a white couch so it stains. So I am cleaning it up. And then there was a perfect piece of mozzarella curl. And you know it fell so I should not have eaten it. But I wanted to eat it. So I picked it up out of the-- it was stuck in the couch. I picked it up and ate it. And as I bit in I realized--  It was not-- It was a full toenail like a big toe toenail. LAUGHING What? It was so-- How does that look like mozzarella? Mozzarella has three dimensions to it. A toenail? LAUGHING It was the grossest thing I have ever done. I do not think that is on you. I think that that is on him for leaving the toenail in the couch. He should have been embarrassed. Yeah but the needle that needed to be threaded for me to pick up a toenail and put it into my mouth the sequence of events that would be the only reason I did that happened seamlessly. And was he watching? Yeah. He was embarrassed too. He was very embarrassed. Because it was his toenail. Yeah. He goes that just does not-- it just does not seem like me. I was like well whose toenail is it then? Yeah somebody broke into your apartment cut their nails did not take anything and left. I have been reading about that in the New York Post happening all the time. OK but we are not here to talk about me. We have all of these listener embarrassing stories I want to share with you. Yes and I am very curious about what you found. All right so one of the things that stood out to me most from reading all these emails is that so many people wrote in saying I am the only person who could have possibly done this. And then five emails later was someone in the inbox with the exact same story. Really? Yeah. Like there were 16 women who wrote in with epic period fails. Though I have to say that is one you could kind of anticipate. Yeah but you could not anticipate that three people were mistakenly the reason that a bomb squad got called in. OK yeah did not see that coming. Or two people showed up dressed above and beyond to a costume party only to find out that it was the wrong day which also actually happened to me. So what was that like? OK so there are these I guess different categories of responses? Yeah basically like the same things came up over and over again. OK break down the big ones. I want to hear what is the number one? So I would say the biggest one the number one was bathroom stories. Like a quarter-- a quarter of the people who wrote us bathroom stories. Followed by naked stories. That is number two. Number two not to be confused with number two. I will say that both of those are so basic. I think that people get embarrassed by the things that you were told not to do when you were a kid. Like-- Do not be naked. Do not be naked. Use the bathroom. Exactly. And so those are the biggest categories. And then what do the rest break down into? Little kind of like various piles. There is embarrassing yourself in front of a crush. 65 people wrote in about that. Wow 65 people? Yep. Or embarrassing yourself in front of your boss or a celebrity 79 people. Mm-hmm. I like that those two are lumped together. Keep going. Tripping and falling usually at an important event. That was 35 people. And then there were people who were caught in a lie. All right so tell me one like that getting caught in a lie. OK. So there is this guy Will. He told a lie for very understandable reasons. In middle school he is ruthlessly bullied for being Haitian. Oh wow. Yeah. And this is like during the height of the AIDS epidemic. Our country actually banned people from Haiti from entering the US. Because of AIDS. Exactly. Right. And there were jokes about Haitians on late night TV. And so in middle school Will is picked on all the time for being Haitian. He is beat up. He is teased. So boom I go to high school ninth grade new year new location. This is a location far away from my home. New kids new teachers ninth grade going well. Two months in getting some friends. And then one of the kids asked me yo you got an accent. Where you from? I am like oh shit here we go again. And so there is all the kids waiting for a response. And I just remember I am like yo I am Jamaican. And they was like oh whoa yeah mon eh bope bope bope. And I was like oh shit now I got to be Jamaican for the rest of my life. And I just remember during my conversations with people I would just throw in Jamaican phrases like yo did you do you homework bope bope? Where you going? Yo I did not understand the lesson. Blood clot. You know just saying that just to keep up this Jamaican image. It sounds to me like you did not even really know much about being Jamaican. I did not know anything about being-- I knew very little about being Jamaican. I knew how they sounded from their music but it was all just-- I took the stereotypes of Jamaicans and I became that. So he pulls this lie off for three years. Wow. Yeah. At school he is the Jamaican kid. But then another Jamaican kid-- like an actual Jamaican kid-- shows up and everyone's like oh you got to meet Will. Oh that is not good for him. Nope. And then he just started questioning me. Oh where you from? Where your family from? And I am just making stuff up. I was just freestyling it. Then he paused and said that boy not Jamaican. And I was like oh shit oh shit. And I just said no no no no. You are from Jamaica. I am from Jamaica Queens. I am not even from Jamaica Queens. I am not from Queens at all. I am from Brooklyn East New York. OK so that is people caught in a lie. Tell me another category. OK so I especially love the category of embarrassing stories where people tried to avoid embarrassment. And in doing that they embarrass themselves. OK let me hear one like that. OK so this happened to this lady Mary Gray from Murrells Inlet South Carolina. So she is a bridesmaid whose dress arrives and it is way too small. Day of the wedding she convinces another bridesmaid one size up to swap dresses with her. This dress fits but it is tight. And so she starts to get this irrational fear that if she is bulging out of her dress she is going to upstage the bride and groom. Oh like people will look at her instead of-- Exactly. This cannot happen. And then this idea hits her Saran Wrap. So I go into the kitchen. I find the Saran Wrap. I get it out and I just start wrapping. And I go around and around and around until I am cinched and the dress zips up beautifully. And I think yeah this is going to work. This is actually genius. And out the door I go. So she is standing in 105 degree heat at the altar-- Right South Carolina. --next to the bride and groom. And there is a big crowd watching. And she just starts getting hotter and hotter and hotter. I can feel the sweat starting to kind of roll down my back. And I am looking down at the floor and I am seeing spots. And I am a fainter so I know what that means. So as subtly as possible I turn around to my groomsman partner and I ask him to unzip my dress. And of course he has no idea what I am talking about. And he is like what? And I said I need you to unzip my dress. So he does it. He unzips my dress. So now everyone knows that I am wrapped up in Saran Wrap. And are you just mortified? I am just really focusing on not passing out. So I decide that I am going to take off. She ducks away. Her dress is open. She misses the rest of the ceremony gets so