It is the little things that count sometimes like for instance being able to charge your phone from an extension cord that is coming out of the base of a tree. I know that sounds weird but that is what it was.  These are the inventions of our people. A teenager named Farhad showed it to me. This was at a refugee camp in Greece. New lights had just been installed nearby and they hijacked power from that buried cable to the tree.  Yeah it comes over from  and it is coming under the ground. And the cables actually right through here.  There is this one guy who is just really good with technology and electricity. And somehow he just hooked it up. Before this Farhad would wait sometimes for two or three hours to charge his phone at one of the chargers they have at the refugee camp. Now coming out of the ground right at the base of the tree was a cord with a socket on it and then extension cords that allowed six phones to be charged-- incredible. Farhad breaks into English. I am very happy today. If you heard our radio show last week you know that we went to refugee camps all over Greece. There are 57000 refugees in Greece most of them escaping violence in Syria Afghanistan and Iraq hoping to get to Germany and other countries in Europe. But unless the politics change dramatically they will probably be stuck in Greece for a long time-- six months easily maybe a lot more. The Greek government is building these camps to last for years just in case. And the camps people kind of know that. But mostly I think they do not like to admit it to themselves. So you see this weird mix of unrealistic hopes and then people just starting to settle in for the long haul moving ahead with their lives falling in love having babies running little businesses inventing projects. Today on our show we have stories of people trying to have semi-normal parts of their lives in a place that is not normal at all. From WBEZ Chicago It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. It is our second show from Greece from the refugee camps there. Stay with us. Act one You Just Keep On Pushing My Love Over the Borderline. It is hard for single guys at the camps. Camps are mostly families. In some camps like the one at the baseball stadium in Athens they segregate the single men together because the families do not like them around. They view them with suspicion. And of course Europe sees these guys the same way. People worry they are terrorists troublemakers. Getting permission to get out of Greece and get into some other European country might be harder for them. And just at a practical level lots of these guys are young have never lived without their moms washing and cooking for them. A guy named Abdul said this thing to me off mic that he was embarrassed to repeat on tape but my interpreter Baraa translated. He said-- Basically now we are like girls. Like we will make our bed in the morning and then like we clean dishes and we clean up the entire tent. His tent was incredibly neat. You do not see single women traveling alone at these camps. They are almost always with their families who are traditional and protective. But they are there and there is flirting between men and women for sure and sometimes more. One of our producers Sean Cole did meet a couple that got together as refugees at the camp in the north that was 2000 people in tents at a highway rest stop a gas station basically called EKO. Here's Sean. The main thing about the couple I met Tarek and Hadil is the PDA. They are always moon-eyed and handholdee. And the story of how they met super delighted my translator Manaf. It is like a James Bond.  James Bond. They do not just remember the day they met they remember the date March 12. And it was right after they would crossed over the water from Turkey and they were still living at the beach. Tarek was in the water going for a swim and Hadil was up on the shore. He is coming out to the sea hair wet. And she is charging her mobile phone. It is like a soap commercial.  And their eyes met. Each of them would have noticed right away how deeply good looking the other is. Tarek is 25 and could play the lead in a Syrian production of Jesus Christ Superstar-- long hair beard hypnotic eyes. Hadil is 19 and no joke looks like the lady who played Mary in the movie Jesus Christ Superstar-- except when I met her she was wearing a headscarf. It was love at first sight for Tarek.  So when I saw her I said wow you look beautiful. Can I speak to you?  And she refused a couple of times but I did not give up. I kept continuing. How many times did you approach her?  I tried for like 13 14 or 15 times maybe-- Wow. --just you know. You are persistent.  Yeah her plan was to come from Mytiline to here. My plan was to go from Mytiline to a camp called Kavala. But I changed my plans to be here with her. Tarek kept pursuing Hadil even as the crowd of refugees they were in was on the move from the island to Athens and from Athens north by train closer to the border. He did that thing you do on the bus on a school field trip making people switch seats so he could be next to her. She still did not want to talk to him.   The situation is not appropriate because obviously I am a refugee he is a refugee. As a refugee I have never thought never imagined that I would be ready to meet someone. I had plans of going to Germany settle down and then think of these hard matters. But seeing this young guy it is like oh suddenly I fell in love with him and I want to be with him. And so I did not care about the conditions. And so what was it that changed your mind?   If he was someone who gave up I would not have pursued it. But I liked his persistence. That is what worked. Manaf stops translating and turns to me. That is a good tape. And so before you know it Tarek and Hadil are planning a future together. But as with tens of thousands of other refugees in Greece those plans involve gaining passage across multiple national borders none of which show any promise of opening.   Basically we are in a bit of a tough situation. Her parents are in Germany. And I need to see them. If I did not see them they will not approve this marriage. Marriage . They will not marry her to me. Tarek tried to get across the border himself once with some smugglers-- no luck. It is not Hadil's parents are totally opposed to the relationship. It is just customary that they have to meet him first. But they are not the only members of Hadil's family with opinions on this. In fact she was traveling with family. She had them there with her at EKO Camp.  My sister and my aunt. Do they know about your relationship?  Yes they do. Do they approve?  They do not approve? Oh no. What do you say to them? Have you tried to convince them?    I spoke so many times to them tried to convince them. But they completely seemed to be against the idea.   The problems are many I think. One of them is the fact that I spend more time with him than I do with them.  And B how people would see us around the camp.   It is the way he touches me and holds me. He is very affectionate and very romantic which I love very much. But to them they are saying to me hold on a second. There is nothing formal between the two of you. So to people it might seem a bit out of order. So they are worried it is going to look scandalous?  Yes exactly. And finding privacy is not exactly easy at a refugee camp especially this camp which is the size of a highway rest stop-- because again it is a highway rest stop. Tarek says he went as far as to procure a secret tent for them their own private tent that nobody knows about. I asked him when shopping for a secret tent what are the criteria you are looking for? Has to look like all the other tents he said so it does not stand out. That is smart.   I love her very much. And those people will not stand in our way. Our love is stronger than this country that is blocking the border. Wow you should be a poet sir.     He writes poetry. You do? I could tell.  Yeah he writes lots of poems and recites them to me. We should really-- I asked Tarek if he would read us one of his love poems at some point. Not right now this second. I figured we would just do it when we came back the next day. But then when we did go back the next day our fixer went to find them and came back alone with some news. What are you kidding? Hold on one second. Wait-- wait-- wait-- wait. Our fixer Ammar said he had found Tarek all by himself in the tent deeply upset. He is very furious right now because they took his girlfriend or fiance so whatever yeah. The sister and aunt did? Yeah the sister and the aunt took Hadeah-- Hadeah? Hadil but yeah she was gone. Tarek would not talk to me about it. He said no more recording. So Ammar sat with him in the tent for a long time and finally convinced him to spill out the whole story. Maybe he is drunk right now. He looks like drunk. So he told me that the aunt had bring like four men and attack him and beat him-- beat him. He looks like this. Bent over. Yeah just like-- yeah-- yeah. But there is no marks. There is no-- there is one mark here. On his elbow? Yeah big one. It is just-- yeah-- yeah. So the uncle-- He do not want to talk about it. OK. They went to go smuggling. To go smuggling? Yeah of course. That is her family took her with them to get smuggled across the Macedonian border so they could go north to the rest of Europe. He is completely broken. He is completely-- I learned the rest of the story later. It was not just that Tarek and Hadil were all huggy and kissy around the camp. Hadil and her family are Christian. Tarek's Muslim. Hadil had only started wearing a headscarf when Tarek asked her too as a first step toward converting for him. And the family was not cool with this. Plus this plan to get smuggled into Macedonia had already been underway for a while. And Hadil was suddenly saying no I am staying behind with Tarek. And so they pried her out of there beat Tarek up bundled everybody into a bunch of cabs and headed off to meet with a smuggler. Tarek alarmingly told the police. He reported them to keep them from leaving which he is totally unrepentant about except he feels bad that the smuggler got arrested. The plan was foiled so the family turned around and headed south to a different camp. And they were gone. And this is where I figured the story would end. Tarek did not want to talk to me anymore. And then a couple of days later I was at a different camp interviewing some folks with Manaf the translator when Ammar our fixer who had talked with Tarek interrupted us. Do you feel like the foreign media is trying to cover up the talents of refugees or-- say what? Just a second. Oh yeah-- yeah-- yeah. I need to talk to you and Manaf too just for a second. We walk a few feet away. It is about Tarek Ammar says. My first thought is oh no he is tried to kill himself which I know sounds dramatic. And that is not what happened. Ammar says Tarek has heard from Hadil. She and her family are planning to head back to Turkey the next day and that he needs to get to her to get her out of there. He needs a car he says. Ammar tells him I do not have a car. I am a refugee like you. Yes says Tarek but you hang out with those journalists. Maybe they can help? We had heard that driving refugees around could get you in trouble with the police. There was no way we were going to do that. But then I did do something that I am not proud of something that if I had thought about it a little more I would not have done. In the next moment I heard myself say maybe I can get him some money for a taxi. Reporters are not supposed to get involved like this in their stories. We are supposed to observe not intervene. Looking back it was a mistake. But in that moment every reason I could think of not to help them seemed small and almost cruel. I handed Ammar 100 euros. We all agreed he should tell Tarek it was from him and Manaf. I never saw Tarek. Apparently he was so happy he did a little dance. He picked up Hadil at a cafeteria near where her family was staying and brought her with him back up north to a camp near the Macedonian border. After that I was not worried about ethics. I was worried about Tarek and Hadil. What if Hadil's family found them and beat Tarek up again? At the very least they would have to be worried sick not knowing where Hadil is. Also I do not even know these people. I do not know if this is what is best for them for her. But I have talked with Tarek and Hadil on the phone since then and they both said things are as good as they could possibly be right now. For one thing they are married. They had a Muslim wedding and a Christian wedding. And Tarek says he even got some money together to pay a lawyer to help them get the marriage sanctioned in Greece. Hadil's aunt and uncle and sister never did go to Turkey. According to Tarek they actually managed to get farther north in Europe illegally. It is not that they are OK with the relationship but now that it is official they feel like they have to go along with it. Hadil's parents though are totally on board with it now. Mostly when we hear about luck in the refugee camps it is bad luck. But of course with so many people something has to go right for somebody. It is just the law of averages. And Tarek and Hadil beat the odds in a ridiculous way. Even just meeting each other was a slim possibility let alone his convincing her to give him a chance and convincing a bunch of near strangers to kick him 100 euros so he could get her back. A few weeks after all this my fixer Ammar was texting with Tarek. And Tarek said The most ridiculous thing of all is that all these feelings of love that you have in your heart the big sacrifices you have made and the unexpected problems all come down to a taxi fare. It is a bastard of a feeling when you are racing against time and it is not on your side. Sean Cole. Act two Thank You for Smoking. People do not have a lot of money in the refugee camps. To explain people's financial situation Joanna Kakissis NPR's reporter in Greece who is producing these two episodes on the refugee camps with us she explained to me that these refugees from Syria and the Mideast that we have all seen arriving on boats in Greece she explained that they came in several distinct waves. The first wave-- So in early 2014 when I first started following the story everyone I met was fairly well off. I mean-- All the refugees coming through. Right. And they had paid something like between 3000 and 5000 euros to buy fake passports or fake IDs and fly to Germany or Sweden or wherever they were headed. 5000 euros is about 5500 American. And so we are talking about people who are cardiologists people who are geophysicists people who are big corporate managers. Then the second wave arrived. This is last year 2015. And it arrived because another route from Greece into the rest of Europe opened up what they called the Balkan route. You did not have to pay for a smuggler. You could just walk north out of Greece using maps that people were sharing on WhatsApp. Or much easier you could take a bus. So this route was actually much much cheaper. You know it was just a matter of buying bus tickets from one place to the other. And that is why you saw so many people coming because suddenly it was less expensive. And so what kind of people were you seeing then? Then that is when you started seeing schoolteachers shop owners barbers. I mean like the best way to put it is that people with just not that much money. And so these were the people when the border to the rest of Europe closed this March these were the people who got stuck in these refugee camps. Most of them are middle class and working class families who carry the equivalent of 1000 or 2000 and definitely did not have enough to spring for 3000 to 5000 per person for a smuggler and a fake passport. So they arrived without much money and now it is been nearly five months. So to survive lots of people get money from family overseas wired to them Western Union to spend on essentials. And you can see what that means at our next stop. This is a camp that is been built on the grounds of an abandoned psychiatric hospital. It is kind of a spectacular setting at the base of Mount Olympus. So you have this snow capped mountain looming surrounded by thick forest. Yellow paint is peeling off the old hospital buildings on the grounds-- 1300 people living in white military tents the Yazidi which is a religious minority from Iraq. And unlike the other camps that we visited the people here are looking for a country that is going to take all 1300 of them. They do not want to be split up. Before the borders closed they would been trying to join other Yazidis who'd already made it to Germany. One of our producers Miki Meek visited. This camp is in the middle of nowhere. The closest town is about 16 miles away. Very soon after the Yazidis arrived people began setting up their own town in the camp slipping right back into their old jobs. A group of men who used to be barbers back in Iraq lined up chairs by an electrical outlet outside. Haircuts go for 2 euros. Eyebrow and beard threadings go for 1. Three women on the other side of the camp made an oven out of a metal barrel they covered with mud. They are bakers. You can buy five pieces of naan for 1 euro. But the most popular spot is in a makeshift shop along a dirt path at the front of the camp. A guy named Ahmad built it. He threw it together with UNHCR tarps and old doors and shutters he found in the abandoned psychiatric hospital. He made an awning out of a thick green sleeping bag from the military. Ahmad pointed out the most popular item in his shop.  The most selling item obviously is cigarettes. People buy cheap brands like President Bond Royale and Gold. They go each for 2 and 12 euros. A pack? A pack yes. So I know it is wrong. It is not healthy. But it is a very good way to calm you down.   We here we live in continuous stress unknown future. People need a cigarette. People need to smoke right now. Exactly. So people need to smoke to get on with things. So you are smoking super lights President. This is your brand?   I will sell you two two packs for 4.50 euros. So you are selling selling even in an interview. Smoking is such a part of life for men at the camp that wherever we looked someone was smoking or offering us cigarettes. Sometimes I would look over at my interpreter Manaf during an interview and he would be holding a lit cigarette in each hand. It was too rude to say no.  Lighter. Lighter. Give me lighter. Give you lighter. At first I thought Ahmad must be the one guy who figured out how to hustle and make money in this situation. Give me euro. He was always pacing in front of his shop always selling charismatic. Then I learned he is hardly making any profit. I am pretty sure he is running the world's only cigarette charity. Ahmad pays to take a bus down to town a couple times a week where he loads up on cigarettes. Total cost per pack including his bus fare 2.35 euros a pack. And then at the camp he turns them around and sells them for only 2.50 euros. That is just a 15 cent profit barely covers his costs. He gives good deals for fruits and vegetables too. They get three meals a day from the Greek government but they are like TV dinners nothing fresh. So people stop by right after meals are distributed-- Tomato-- tomato. --to make up things like eggplants cucumbers bananas.  This bag of sugar as well 89 cents. Ahmed said he sells sugar for what it costs because it is too much of a necessity. Everyone needs it for their tea. But there is a thing I started noticing. A lot of people would walk up to Ahmed during the day silently hand him money and then walk away from his shop without taking anything. There is a man right here and he just walked up and is paying Ahmad 2 and 12 euros.   Obviously I trusted him with the money. I was not there in the shop. This month comes in picks up what he wants. Then he goes-- So he is paying-- . This is when I realized this is not a normal store. Ahmad can leave it open and unattended and people can take what they want on credit. They do not even leave him a note. They just tell him later. Everyone is low on cash even the most powerful person in the camp the religious leader Sheikh Nuri. Even he has to get stuff for free from Ahmad. I watched him stop by the shop after lunch.   I took some spices onions and tomato for free. So basically the way it goes if I need something I would come to the shop and take it. We are all like this. We are barely surviving. Most of us will have to borrow from Ahmad. Ahmad is ready-- Ahmad is ready to help us. Without him I think we do not know what we would do basically. This camp is different from the others we visited. The Islamic State targeted these Yazidis for extinction invaded their home in the mountains of northern Iraq and began a mass extermination campaign killed the men kidnapped the women and girls and made them sex slaves sent the kids to ISIS training camps. Maybe you remember these are the people President Obama helped save with airstrikes in 2014. They are survivors fleeing genocide. They are used to looking out for each other. Ahmad said it is ingrained in them. So when people come to his shop and they cannot pay he is fine with that. He tells them to pay what they can when they can if they can. He carries a little black notebook in his fanny pack listing each family and what they owe him. What does it say?  Name Hadeato. 2 euros previously owed plus 4 euros today for vegetables.  Marwan another name 13 euros owed in the past. 3 euros tomato 2 euros onion. So are not you are just losing a lot of money?   I started the shop with 500 euros as a capital. Now I have lent the equivalent of 200 euros.  If we continue like this obviously I cannot run my shop much longer. Back in Iraq Ahmad also had a shop selling groceries and other stuff. And he says he made about 250 a day in profit. Now he is making 11 a day. He spends 8 on food for his family and 3 on cigarettes. He is here with his wife and seven kids. His store back home had backgammon chess and cards that men would come play at night for money. Ahmad still runs a tiny gambling den. It is in the back of his shop lit by a couple of rechargeable UNHCR lamps that hang from the ceiling at night. I sat next to a young guy 25 years old named Haider. He says he kills about four hours every day in the back of Ahmad's shop.   He starts laying down cards. Did you just win? I just scored the lowest. Basically he is won the game. The 50 cents everyone put into play all goes toward a bag of mixed vegetables for the winner. Or like in Haider's case he just uses the winnings to retire some of his debt with Ahmad. How much money did you have when you came to Greece?   So I had 500 euros. What about now?   You are standing up and pulling money out of your pocket. So how much? How much do you have there? 3 euros. You have 3 euros. Yes-- yes. I basically have 3 euros to last me three days. So Ahmad here is here to help me if I needed anything. This was an unusually unprofitable day for Ahmad. He was out 240 euros. He borrowed 100 euros to buy produce and given out another 140 euros on credit to different families. Also he did not sell much. Could not you for a while if you had to stop taking stuff on credit just till you got a little bit more stable?  I think my philosophy in the shop is to be able to help others. And stopping giving things on credit is simply out of the question. Because as long as I know that I can support the minimum. So if need of my family then the rest would obviously have to be giving as a form of assistance to others even if they could not pay.  Then I would shut down the shop and just become a customer myself. He told me he would rather go out of business than stop giving credit to people at the camp. Miki Meek. Coming up John Oliver Larry Wilmore Trevor Noah you are now on notice. Refugees are entering the fake news business. Tremble at the competition in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues.    This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's it is our second show from the refugee camps in Greece. This week you do not have to live like a refugee. We have stories of people trying to get on with their lives even though they are stuck in a refugee camp. And before we go any further with our show I just want to say an incredible team has built an interactive tour of the camps that we visited with little movies and photos and three dimensional architectural renderings. And it pains me as a radio producer to say the following words to admit that seeing something might actually give you a fuller view of it but it is true. They did a great job capturing all kinds of things about daily life that you cannot actually see over the radio. It is at our website thisamericanlife.org. And this brings us to Act Three of our program Act Three Last Resort. So as we talked about a little bit in last week's program the Greek government's response to the refugee crisis has had a lot of heart. The refugees are treated with respect. They are treated with warmth in many places that we visited. But it has not gone so smoothly. Two government agencies have had trouble sorting out who would do what. It is still disorganized. Housing conditions for the refugees nearly everywhere are substandard. One official from an international organization that is working with the Greek government told me at one point It is 57000 refugees. And they said Compare that to the refugee situations that they deal with elsewhere. Jordan has 700000 refugees. Lebanon has over a million. Turkey has over 2 million. 57000 refugees this person said that is a soccer game in Europe. It should not be this hard. So there is a camp trying to set the gold standard for what refugee camps can be in Greece. It is near a village called Myrsini on the coast of the Ionian Sea a four hour drive west of Athens. LM Village it is called. It is a former resort an actual beach vacation resort that went bankrupt seven years ago-- 38 bungalows painted bright orange and yellow each with its own bathroom and electricity and kitchenette a little plot of grass all facing the sea with a secluded beach just for them. One of our producers said when she saw it the first time With a little TLC and some water in the pool we would all want to stay there. So this March right after the borders closed this beach resort refugee camp opened basically because one person the mayor of that area willed it into existence. Joanna went there. This mayor is different from other Greek mayors in one important way. This mayor's from Syria. His name's Nabil Morad. He actually made history a couple of years ago when he became the first immigrant elected mayor in Greece. And back then Nabil was focused on the typical things that mayors think about-- you know fixing roads and street lights marketing the region's strawberries improving tourism. But as the refugee crisis unfolded in Europe and he saw so many Syrians displaced and homeless it really got to him. He took one look at the empty beach resort in his municipality LM Village and he thought why not? Why not bring them here to this beach resort?   You need to provide shelter in an elegant way in a good way. You do not just stick people in tents.   That is the message we in this camp want to send to the rest of Europe that when the refugees get to you do not forget they are people. They need to be treated with respect and with care. That is why the success of this camp is so important to me. Nabil is the Greekest Syrian I have ever met. He moved here 27 years ago married a Greek served in the Greek army works as a doctor and runs a clinic with his Greek doctor wife in Greece. He is so fluent in Greek he often speaks in old world slang my grandmother used to use. Nabil knew he was the best advocate for a better lifestyle for refugees. To rally locals around his cause Nabil in a kind of Mr. Smith Goes to the Ionian Sea way held a town meeting in Maria Palaiologos cafe in Myrsini. That is how small a town this is the cafe does not even have a name. It is just Maria Palaiologos cafe. At least 100 people packed inside and more spilled out onto the street.   Some of them had created an atmosphere of fear and terror about the refugees that they are criminal heathens lazy.   An old man told me about he was a buy a shotgun to keep them from getting into his home. Others were talking about rapes. Nabil told them he wanted to bring only families Syrian families people like him-- no single men no Afghans no Pakistanis just Syrian families. He knew his audience. He also told the group it would not cost the municipality anything to host the Syrian families. The state would cover everything but trash collection. A week after the meeting at the cafe he called on his municipal council to vote on the plan. It really went over. Out of 26 council members only one voted no. Here's how desperate the Greek government is to get people set up in camps. It took them less than a week. In fact just four days after the vote buses filled with Syrians over 300 arrived at the abandoned beach resort. Nabil and his family were there some local councilors too. Remember Nabil had promised that only families would come live at the resort. Nabil hoped that was true.   Well we were very nervous because we did not know who got in. Since things were done in a hurry I did not know what to expect. Who will I find on the buses?  The whole village had gathered. There was some that came out of love. And there was a group against my decision for the center waiting to see so they could protest more. They wanted to reaffirm their lies using the first image of the refugees. They always say the same.  If they are men they will steal kill and rape. When they saw just as I did the children that were coming out of the buses first at this point I relaxed. The crowd started hugging the children. Some of them started smiling. Nabil remembers meeting a baby who was just five days old.  She was in a little basket. I got close to the family. When I went close I said in Arabic Hello how are you doing. They understood who I was. The mother took the baby put it in my hands. I melted. I melted. My knees were shaking from holding her.  You were moved I said.  Very very.   I understood her mother who gave birth alone in a hospital and did not even know the language with no one of her people there to wish well for the child in Arabic.  That is why I was so moved. This camp is meant to be better than other camps and it is. There are kids on BMX bikes. There are soccer and basketball games. There is a trampoline and ping pong. Men play chess on a lawn with a view of the sea. The beach is to the west so there is a sunset on the water every day. Sometimes a group of friends women dress up in beautiful printed velour dresses that cover them from head to toe just to go for a walk on the paved empty road lined with ornate old fashioned lampposts.  The Syrians told me that after finally making it to Greece and sleeping in tents pitched on streets in field in the mud they were relieved to get here and rest on beds and actual homes with their own bathrooms. One woman told me she had not had a full night's sleep in months until she got here. The camp has been open now for four months. And Nabil never expected how demanding it would be. He is the one who recruited volunteers organized doctors and midwives called in immigration lawyers got supplies donated. And then when the refugees arrived he realized a critical oversight. He brought hundreds of people who only speak Arabic to a rural area where the only other person for miles who also spoke Arabic was him Nabil which meant that he is the person who explains that the food is not rotten or where to buy Halal meat or which direction Mecca is. The Syrians ask him to help them get papers to go to Germany. They ask him if EU leaders are going to fly them out of the local airport. Sometimes when someone needs to get to Athens for asylum interviews and does not have a ride he will buy the bus ticket himself. He gets calls from the camp all the time day or night. The Syrians ask him everything including-- because remember Nabil is not only the mayor he is also a doctor-- they ask him lots of questions about their health.   Like here he is walking around the camp just saying hello to two women. One of them says her friend is very tired. The friend says her body and throat hurt. Nabil checks her throat.   You need an