It is OK to say this right? There is a lot of long-term joy to being a parent. But the daily job of it the mundane feeding your kids and driving them around and disciplining them-- there is not always a lot of pleasure in that. Which is why whenever I have talked to Elna Baker about her parents-- Elna works here at the radio show-- whenever Elna talks about her parents I have always been so impressed at the happy originality of some of their parenting moves like the ingenuity that her dad brought to tasks that no parent enjoys. For instance let us say he would discover that one of the kids had broken something or eaten a piece of cake that nobody was supposed to touch. He would gather the kids together. So with five kids he would ask all of us which one of us had done it and we would all lie. And so his way of determining who really did it was he would say line up tallest to shortest-- he would always make us line up tallest to shortest. I do not know I think he saw Sound of Music. And if you have five kids why not? Yeah? So we would line up against the wall. And he said I am going to do the hot knife. And what he would do is he would take out like a butter knife. And he would hold a match or a lighter underneath it. And he would say stick out your tongues. And so if you are the liar it will burn your tongue is what was explained to us. You are nervous and all the saliva on your tongue will dry up. But if you are telling the truth-- Then you will have enough moisture on your tongue and it will not burn. OK of course that is ridiculous. What was really happening was he would not hold the flame close enough to the knife to heat it up at all. So the knife was not hot and then he would put the knife on the tongue of his oldest daughter. And so she would be the first. And by the time he went to move on to me the second child one of us would confess.  One of us would be like I did it. I could not help it. I am so sorry. So Elna's dad definitely tried to do the right thing as a parent. But he did not mind entertaining himself in the process. And occasionally he would ad hoc his way to moves that had a secret kind of long-term genius to them that took years to pay off. Like for example the day Elna hit her sister on the head with a broom. That day began with Elna's parents sending all five kids out to clean up the garage which her parents would do now and then. I think we thought we were doing real cleaning but mostly they just wanted to spend some alone time with the kids not in the house. They would make up either outdoor chores or the garage. Elna's little sister Julia found a pair of skates in the garage and she was just skating around which annoyed Elna who was really trying to work and clean the garage. Elna was nine Julia was five. Elna told Julia to get to work. Elna was ignored which in her mind was not how things were supposed to go between her and her little sister. And she got so mad that she took this broom-- and it was one of those big industrial booms with the big heavy wide tops-- and she bashed Julia with it bashed her in the head. Blood pours down Julia's face. Elena suddenly realizes like oh my god this is serious. What did I do? It was not like a line-- it was like a stream of blood came running down her head. And I genuinely thought I had maybe accidentally killed my sister. Julia runs to their dad who administers first aid. And I remember just watching from the corner of the bathroom just towels of blood from the top of her head. Once the bleeding stops and Julia's bandaged up Elna's dad comes out into the hallway and he asks Elna what happened? Elna knows how much trouble she would be in if she admitted the truth so she lies. She says it was an accident-- the broom slipped. I remember him saying are you sure that is what happened? And I said yes. Julia of course had told him what really happened-- that Elna walloped her intentionally. And now Elena's dad was in the annoying situation that parents find themselves in now and then. One child says it happened one way one says the opposite. And he gets an idea. So he brought everyone in. We all sat on my parents' bed. And he proceeded to conduct a family trial where each child had to give their testimony of the events in the garage. And he videotaped this? Yes. That is right. There is video of this. They had just gotten their first video camera. And her dad thought oh maybe this is the kind of thing you use this for. Or who knows maybe he just thought the camera added gravitas to the proceedings. We were cleaning outside and I was . OK so there is this shot here of your little sister. She looks like she is been crying and she is about to burst into tears more any second. Like her eyes are big and wide and watery. Her hair is wet from the blood and she has a bandage in the center of her head. The bandage is like a comic prop. It is just a Band-Aid a regular Band-Aid stuck to her hair. And then Elna holded the handle up high and then it went down. So was it Elna's fault? Yes. She did it on purpose? Yeah. OK Elna what is your story? I just told you. Well I did not do that on purpose. I was just holding it. All right. Now I just want to describe the way you look in this. First of all you have a huge smile on your face. Yeah. I am trying to play it super casual. I asked Julia to come and help me get all the stuff out of the thingamajigger. And then she accidentally got hit with the broom the side of it-- I am just going to note that you never meet your dad's eye you never look up at the camera you are totally avoiding everyone's gaze. And she started crying and I went over by the car and I said it is all right. You are going to be OK. And I hugged her and I looked at her head and I took her inside and dad fixed her all up. Elna's dad pulls the other kids as witnesses. Elna's older sister did not actually see anything but concludes in the testimony that Elna probably did not mean to hit Julia so hard but probably did hit her which actually seems like the truth of the situation. Elna's dad turns back to Elna after each bit of testimony and Elna's voice gets higher and higher as she holds on to her lie. And the broom accidentally slipped and it accidentally hit her on the head and I did not do that on purpose. Can I just say if there are any little kids listening to the program today-- seriously learn from this. Listen to how high Elna's voice gets when she says no I did not. Do you believe she did it on purpose? She did it on purpose. I did not. The dad moves into the sentencing part of the trial asks Julia what punishment would be fair. Julia thinks spanking. And it feels like that is where this is headed. Elna's dad turns to her mom to administer the punishment and then her mom just turns everything upside down when she says-- I am not convinced that it was on purpose. Oh you are not? No because if you think about it-- She says the way Elna was holding the broom it really could have been an accident. It is stupid to hold a broom with the heavy part in the air she says. So the only thing Elna's guilty of is stupidity? Yeah. Elna what do you think of that? It pans from my mom to me and you see that I have just taken in that I might get off. And I have this-- I go from this moment of where I was just almost crying and I have this really mischievous smile on my face and I say I guess I am stupid. I guess I am stupid. And with that she gets off. No spanking no consequences. And then Elna says a funny thing happened. It just stuck with her. Would not go away. I thought about it way more than if I would just been spanked. I carried the guilt of this for most of my childhood. Like in church when they would talk about lying or sin this is the thing I would hold onto and relive because it was the worst thing I would ever done. And then also feeling so much worse because I would then lied about it and gotten away with it. Did you also worry that after you died that was going to keep you out of heaven? Yeah I did. Like I thought a part of me was evil because I was capable of doing it. Doing it of lying she means. Of tricking her parents. It was a scheming selfish part of her that seemed worse than just hitting her sister. And I was afraid of that part of me because I got away with it. And then do you think it kept you from hitting her more? Yeah I never hit her again. I would want to hit her. I would clench my fist and make this face but I never hit her. Not that she stopped being mean. She was still so mean to her sister. She told Julia she was stupid. She said mean things in front of her friends. She trained the baby in the family Jill to start crying if Julia ever picked up. But Elna grew up remembering the trial. She did not remember it was videotaped though. Then nearly 20 years after the event her brother found the video in some old boxes. And they popped it in and they watched it together as a family with her parents and everybody. And to Elna's surprise-- OK she thought back when she was nine she thought she was like a criminal mastermind or something to put this lie over on both of her parents. And you watch it now as an adult and I just think watching me how could you possibly believe me? I am so obviously lying. Obviously I am guilty. And I say to my dad how on earth did you not think that I was guilty? And his response was I knew you were guilty the second you walked in the house. I knew that she did it. You could just see her eyes just shifting back and forth so you knew or I knew she is a little liar. This of course is Elna's dad Gary Baker. He told me that after she lied to him at the very beginning he staged the trial expecting that she would cave she would do the right thing she would tell the truth. And then she did not. Her mom by the way told me she also was not convinced by Elna. She tried to push the idea that it was an accident for Julia's sake so Julia would not be so scared of Elna going forward. But once she raised the possibility of not punishing Elna her dad grabbed at the idea and just made a judgment on the fly that that would be a more effective punishment for Elna given Elna's personality. I decided that she is going to have to live with this. She knows that she did it. She knows that she hurt her little sister. She knows the truth. And so she is going to live with that for the rest of her life. And you thought that would be better than just spanking her? Well because the spanking would be just a temporary thing a little smack on the behind. Obviously it worked. Her regret over that whole incident-- she still feels it. And lots of other regret about Julia also. Not long ago Julia had a baby. And Elna and she are close now. And Elna says she is spent 15 years apologizing to Julia. And she says Julia's baby looks just like how Julia looked as a baby. And I would hold the baby and look at her and she is so beautiful and so delicate. But it made me remember holding and seeing Julia when she was a baby and how much I hated Julia as a baby. Like I hated that baby. And in my mind I thought uh the feeling's mutual. Like I thought the baby hated me and I hated the-- we just never got along me and that baby. It is a baby. The baby had no opinion about anything. So it was not just the things that Elna did to Julia that were painful to think about. It was also-- what does this say about me that I felt this way about her and that I did this to her? And how much have I changed? And Julia's moved on and the rest of the family's moved on. They joke about how Elna used to treat Julia. Recently Julia found an old workbook that she did back when she was a Brownie-- in Girl Scouts back in third grade. And there is this one page-- And the top of the page says I wonder. And then I wonder why I wonder who I wonder when. And you have to fill in the blanks. These are very general questions. OK yeah? And this is what Julia says. I wonder why Elna is so mean to me. I wonder if anyone likes me. I wonder whether my sister loves me. I wonder how come Elna does not like me. I wonder where I could be happy. You were awful. I was awful. And she read it-- the whole family everyone was laughing everyone thought it was really funny. But I actually had to leave the room. I just felt really bad. And I still feel really bad about it. Some regrets just never go away you know. People tell us that they forgive us. We try to forgive ourselves. And we still know we did wrong. We hurt somebody. It was real. And that feeling it can immobilize you. If you are lucky it teaches you something that you take into other situations. But I think often it is just like this pebble in your shoe that teaches you nothing. It does not slow you down really. It just hurts. It just hurts in this way that does not stop hurting. And today on our radio show it is all about regret. We are taking the title of today's episode from an old Frank Sinatra song.  SINGING Regrets I have had a few. This of course is from the song My Way. It is a song I should say I have never liked except for that one line. SINGING Regrets regrets I have had a few. No matter who sings that line-- Aretha Franklin Pavarotti-- SINGING Regrets I have had a few. That line always stands out in this bombastic ridiculous song as the one sincere thought in the song. Though My Way is such a crap song that the line right after Regrets I have had a few basically obliterates any sincere feeling of regret. It kills the one sincere moment in the song. SINGING I have had a few. But then again too few to mention. Oh really? Too few to mention? Not me buddy. Not most people. If you do not have regrets it means you have not screwed up. It means you have not had your heart broken. It means you have not been bloodied. It means you have not failed you have not failed. Like why even live? Why even live a life? Today on our show we live a life that is full. We travel each and every byway. At least each and every byway that is full of regret. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. SINGING Much more than this I did it--  Act One Tattoos and Memories and Dead Skin on Trial. So if you are going to do a regrets show why not start with a classic. Right? A classic regret. This story is about a tattoo that a guy decided he was not happy with anymore. If you are listening to our program on the podcast or on the internet I just want to give you a heads up. There is cursing in here that we have not beeped. If you prefer a beeped version of our program you can hear that at our website thisamericanlife.org. The story was put together by Emily Hsiao with original music by Merel van Dijk and Anthony Barilla.  Hello? Hi Hannah! Muffin how you doing? Geez I have not heard from you in a while. . How you been? .  Actually I am with this girl Emily right now that is interviewing me. She is a fucking college kid or something. She is interviewing me. For what? I do not know. She does a radio thing or something. She saw I have a ad in Craigslist about getting rid of the swastika tattoo I got. She wanted to know about that. So now she is all curious about prison. . 24. I am not doing that. What the fuck is wrong with you? I am taking her home right now. .   Whenever you are ready. I am ready. I have to ask to turn the radio off because it is going to be distracting. And eventually after you smoke if we could close the window? Jesus Christ. Is this going to be a trying experience? Uh only if you make it a trying experience. I think it should be relatively painless. Relatively painless. All righty. Let us start with the basics. Can you tell me a little bit about yourself? I am Bruce Roderick from Centerville. I was born in Provincetown-- 1951 to Portuguese parents. And I moved to Yarmouth in 1964. And what else? Keep going. Just start from the top. What do you want me to say? I do not know what were you going to say? I thought you were here to look at my tattoo. I have a small swastika tattoo on my left arm that I wish to have covered up. I cannot afford to pay what a tattoo shop is charging. It is only on a one square inch area. Please if you do tats on your own call me or text me. I just want it covered up blacked out. Nothing fancy. I did it when I was young and I want it off. I just started using drugs when I was 15. Summer kids coming down from New York in Provincetown. They being little rich kids private schools they were already using drugs and they would bring that shit down. And the town kids would get around them and we would start using it. Sniffing glue smoking pot taking pills. And then it just progressed to other things. I started using heroin which I liked more than anything. I just continued-- since that day I have always done heroin. I do not do anything else. I dropped out of school when I was 16. Worked a little bit. Then I started getting in trouble and was a runaway living the streets of Boston. And started going to prison when I was 17. What was it for? That was for a shooting and-- so on drugs. Summer of '69 I believe-- '69 yeah. I was going to go to Woodstock I got arrested that weekend. I received three year sentence. I made parole I was out for a month I went back then. And then I started robbing drug dealers. Wow. What was robbing drug dealers like? How did you do that? I would knock on the door they would open the door I would put a gun in their face go into the house and take the drugs. Have you ever killed anyone? No. Why would I sit here and admit to something like that anyway if I did? Yeah good question. Right? I was robbing drug dealers and that was my career right up until 1985 when I went to a house. I went into a house in Centerville and it was-- police were in the house. They posed as drug dealers. And there was a confrontation in the house I ended up going to prison for. I spent 12 years in jail on that one. Went back in again for selling heroin. Got out went back in again for selling heroin. Now I just got out again. Now here I am I been out two years. Almost three years. This is the longest that I have been out here free and have not been using. What is prison like? What is it like? Prison is very-- there is racial alliances. You have to hang with your own kind. And if you let a black or a Spanish or somebody else not of your race to take advantage of you sexually or whatever then you become a punk I guess-- you want some gum? Which means anybody can take whatever they want from you because you did not stick up for yourself. You are fair game. I think I even got some pictures here. Pictures from prison? Yeah I got a couple I think. That is me when I was younger. I was a jailbird. That is my niece my niece. That is me in a bar in Boston. That is a jail picture. That was my father. That is me in my mother's house. My parents were devastated. No one in my family's ever gotten in trouble before. But they always stuck by me. Do you think your parents should have practiced tougher love? What beat me more? What is tough love? They did not say yeah yeah here's 20 go get high-- no. My father was disgusted by my behavior. My mother was heartbroken. I my mother's favorite. Of course not they did not want me to do the things that I did. Well you know what are you going to do? You do not think of nothing else but yourself when you are doing those things you do. This is North Fork Prison here. That is me there. That is one of my good friends. He is a dope fiend. This guy hung around for like 10 years right? And he was like my best friend and I did not know he was in for rape. And that is prison. Whoa. I have not even gotten to your tattoo yet. I have just been so enthralled. There is the tattoo. See it? It is not even that big you can barely even see it. And I got it done around 1986 '87. It was supposed to have white power. I was covering up a question mark I had right there when I was a kid. And this guy Willie Durette he did a lot of my tattoos. I think he was in my cell doing a tattoo for somebody else. And I had some biker book or something. When I saw that tattoo I asked Willie if he could cover the question mark up a bit. And I put that on and now I want this covered up. That is all I want is that blacked out. Did your buddies get swastikas as well? Oh yeah most of the white guys back then had swastikas. Swastikas are SWP-- Supreme White Power. FTW-- a lot of them had that. That used to be another big one. Fuck the world. Did the swastika represent Nazi ideas in prison? No it does not represent nothing. It is just a fucking tattoo. I do not have anything against Jewish people. But that symbol the swastika says otherwise right? The swastika was just a symbol period. What does it mean to you? I like the way it looks. I used to have a big flag. Above my wall I had a big swastika flag. I gave it to my roommate up in Revere before I moved out. But you know that it carries so many connotations? That is exactly why I am taking it off my arm. I read an obituary about this Jewish guy that was in the camps. And this guy worked in the gas chambers the showers. They would take the bodies out of the shower and bring them to be burned. This guy that was his job. That is why he was able to survive. He was in there towards the end of the war. But anyway he just died recently. And in his obituary it said he had written this book. And I read the book. And then I just did not want the tattoo anymore. Because it is a very offensive thing. And I am getting older. I do not want to die and have God see that on my arm. I spent over 30 years in prison. I would like to have those years back. I never had any kids. My mother and father are both dead. They never saw me succeed in nothing. I am 61 I do not have shit for money. All of a sudden I woke up and I was 60 years old. It just flew by. The time flew right by all behind drugs. And that is it. Are we done? No. Yeah we are. We are? Basically yeah. I am sorry. But where are you going? Where do you have to go? I will give you a ride I am saying. This interview is over. I am sorry. That is OK. Did it go all right? Yeah. We gotta defrost. All right. What did you think I am a dirty racist? I did not know. What do you think now? Still that dirty racist? You still got that fucking thing on? Yeah. I do. Right on. All right. You gotta get out of here. OK thanks. My patience is wearing thin. Thanks Bruce. Have fun. Take care. You better say I am a nice fucking guy in this. All righty. Thank you so much. What is up . Why the fuck did not you go pick up Charlie that day? He is so fucking pissed.  That story by Emily Hsiao-- it is one of the very first radio stories she is ever made. She created it at something called the Transom Story Workshop which takes people who have never done radio-- in eight weeks it trains them to make stories in Woods Hole Massachusetts. You can Google Transom Story Workshop if you are curious about that. The music was created for the story by Merel van Dijk and Anthony Barilla from the band Merel  Tony. You can find other music of theirs on SoundCloud-- Merel and Tony. We first aired this story back in 2014. Since then Bruce found somebody to black out his tattoo.   Coming up a story with original songs by Stephin Merritt. I will explain what that is about after the break. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. On today's show our theme of course-- SINGING Regrets I have had a few. That is right. Stories of regret. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two-- This is Just as Hard for Me as It is for You. One of the most basic parts of being a parent is trying to sort through a bunch of options and figure out what is going to be best for your kids. Everything from what foods they should eat to where you are going to live so they will have decent schools. This next story is about a father trying to do that trying to figure out what is best for his children and having some regrets about how things worked out. His name is Will Ream. And the choices Will has had to make have been pretty dramatic ones. And to tell a story we are going to try something that we have never attempted before. We asked a songwriter a great songwriter-- Stephin Merritt from the band The Magnetic Fields and other bands also-- to collaborate with us. And mostly as you will hear Stephin has composed music that is going to run underneath the narration and the quotes like we always have in our stories. Like the music that we had written for Act One of our show today. Though in a couple places-- and really it is just a few places-- Stephin wrote songs. Like real songs with words that he will sing. SINGING I will sing something that sounds like this. So during the story that you are about to hear when Stephin is singing he is going to be singing things that the dad in the story Will Ream actually said. The lyrics are all verbatim quotes. Or they are as close to it as Stephin could get within the structure of a song. One of our producers Miki Meek first encountered Will Ream when Will Ream had just left everything he had ever known. He had grown up in this incredibly isolated town called Colorado City in the deserts of northern Arizona. He would been raised inside this religious group there-- a fundamentalist group a whole community of people that had split off from the mainstream Mormon church over a century ago. Has lived out there in Colorado City in the desert since. So here is the story. Here's Miki. So when I first met Will in 2012 he was living in a rundown house outside of Salt Lake City sleeping on a mattress on the floor and just trying to figure out how to start his life over. He was not even sure how he would gotten to this point because three years earlier he was a married man living in Colorado City. He and his wife had four girls and a little boy and they were surrounded by family and people he would gone to church with his whole life. He was happy. But then things started getting strange at church. Church leaders went into this weird paranoid mode seeing outside threats everywhere and in everything. And they began to ask Will and some other men to do all sorts of stuff they had not asked for before. The church leadership had people it wanted to intimidate. These were former church members and people who were questioning them. So they would send Will and these other guys from church out in the middle of the night to vandalize these people's stuff-- disable farm equipment change locks on gates. And the church told Will and the other men-- you cannot tell your wives. My gut reaction was if I am married to her then we are supposed to be as one. So why am I supposed to keep secrets from her? Because it seems to me like that would be detrimental to our relationship. Did you ask that? Did you feel like you could ask that? I could not ask that. That is just not something that was done? No. That was not something we did. Will says he felt like he and his wife had a good marriage that they were close. And now here he was leaving in the middle of the night and staying out for hours and not telling her why. Church leaders told Will you do not owe her an explanation. If she wants answers she should pray harder. Even for a young religious wife who was used to a man being the final word this was too much. It dragged on for almost a year. She would say like what were you guys doing last night? And I would say I cannot tell you. Or a man does not need to tell his wife everything. And I would use that line that they told me which now-- even just now when I said it it makes me go tense. That is something that hurts that I was that stupid. And there were quite a few nights where I remember she would be really distraught. And she would go into the bathroom into the shower and just weep it out. And I would turn my back on her. And force myself to not feel. If there was anything I could ever do to take that back I would have. But I drove her to a place where she was very depressed and very hurt because she loved me with all her heart. If I would known at that point what I was choosing at that point if I was choosing her or the church I would have chosen her. But I did not even realize it was really that big of a problem at that point. One day Will came home from work and his wife was gone. She left him a note saying she needed to think. He tried to work it out with her for a year and a half after that. She even moved back home for a while. But in the end Will says she wanted nothing to do with her old life. She did not want to be a mom or a wife and she checked out on Will and their five kids. She would not talk to me for this story. But Will says they had gotten married when she was 15. So when she left him she was still in her early 20s. She had never experienced anything outside the church. Now she started seeing other men and drinking. Will was devastated and he resented the church for causing their breakup. And things were getting even weirder at church. Will's particular branch of fundamentalist Mormonism is headed by the Prophet Warren Jeffs. You may have heard of him. He got investigated in Utah Arizona and Texas for sexual assault and marrying underage girls. He was sentenced to life in prison. Will and the other followers were told if they had enough faith God would release Jeffs from prison. And so to test their faith lots of strange new rules came down. Do not eat sugar. Only wear homemade clothing-- and it cannot be the color red. Will remembers one Sunday a new set of rules came down specifically aimed at everyone's kids. They talked about how the kids were not supposed to play. I think that was probably one of the biggest things for me was they were not supposed to play just to have fun anymore. They were asking the people to get rid of their children's toys and to not allow them to ride their bicycles. They basically were saying that we needed to sacrifice everything that meant anything to us. Everything from our desires to our physical belongings to our homes to our families to everything. We needed to be willing to sacrifice everything for the good of the prophet. I just remember leaving that place feeling like shit thinking is this really what I want? Is this really what I want for my kids? Will got desperate. He reached out to his bishop at church. I told him I says I need some help here. I am losing it. And he just says you need to pray more. You need to get over it. That is all he said-- you need to pray more. And I just thought about that and I thought huh. You are turning into what I used-- or you are giving me what I used to give my wife. And there was no life left in me at that point. I would walk at 2 3 4 oclock in the morning. All through the night just pace walk up in the canyons walk just everywhere just trying to get some kind of clarity. SINGING I had this big blank sheet of paper where I was going to write my reasons to live. Or why not end it all today? And kids was the only reason I could give. I felt betrayed by my religion and by the only person I had ever loved and opened up to. You bet I felt betrayed. They all said pray. Yeah well I prayed. I have had the knife sitting in front of me. I have had the pills sitting in front of me. And I have been sitting right up on the cliff's edge with one foot dangling off the ledge. And kids was the only reason I could give. They all said pray. Yeah well I prayed. When the church told kids they were not allowed to play that was the last straw for Will. He would already lost his wife and now his whole life was about trying to make things OK for his kids again. He had a radical thought-- maybe they just had to get out and start over. So on his 33rd birthday Will loaded his kids into a van and they headed north. Once they got 20 miles away he stopped the car and explained to his kids what he was doing. I says we are going to go and make a life for ourselves somewhere else. I asked them how they felt about that. And they all said that they wanted to come and build a new life. Were you scared at all at that time? Did you doubt yourself at all? I wondered. Oh yeah. I really did. I wondered if we were all going to be destroyed tomorrow and I screwed up. Maybe a week from now. But I actually felt like hope. It was genuine hope for the first time in a long time that I could give them another shot at life. It was like taking a breath of air after you have had your head under water. You know? Will ended up way north in a city called Ogden not far from Salt Lake. He and his kids moved into a small apartment and started living among regular people for the first time. Doing stuff regular people 