When I was a kid I was 100 about astronauts spaceships sci-fi and I was 0 pirates. The fact that pirates were badasses that they did not obey rules that they were rebels that did not speak to the little nerd boy that I was. But one of our producers Elna Baker she was into pirates. She liked how scary they were. And she told me this amazing story that has been her favorite since she first heard it. It is a true story about a man named Stede Bonnet. Who is known as the Gentleman Pirate. And basically it takes place in the early 1700s. He was from Barbados so he grew up on a plantation a sugar plantation to one of the wealthiest families in Barbados. He had 94 slaves. He was married had three kids. And he traveled in high society which is unusual for a pirate. Yeah. The vast majority of people who turned to piracy did so out of desperation and this man did not. So who is this? I have told this story so many times to so many people that I just wanted to make sure I was getting the facts right so I decided to talk to a pirate historian. That is Mark Hanna. He is also a professor at UC San Diego. The vast majority of pirates start their lives by mutinying or they gather a crew together and they steal a ship from someone. He actually had a ship built. Thought I will go down to the local shipyard. I will have my ship built according to specifications that I think are best. And then he hired a crew and he paid them wages like regular normal-people wages which was a big no-no. The vast majority of pirates if you do not capture a ship you do not make any money. You want your crew to be invested in the outcome of attacking a ship. So if you know hey I am doing OK. I know I will be paid this week you are going to be a little less aggressive about capturing a ship. And so I think Bonnet right off the bat did not understand the economic model that is the basis of most pirate attacks. Then why did he want to be a pirate? What kind of midlife crisis is just like I am a wealthy landowner with a wife and three kids and I am going to just go marauding on the seven seas? Well it is explained in a book from 1724 this way. Captain Charles Johnson wrote quote this humor of going a-pirating proceeded from a disorder in his mind which is said to have been occasioned by some discomforts he found in a married state. Wait. What is he saying? He says-- and other books say the same thing-- that what led him to piracy was that he had a nagging wife. No way. Mhm. They are blaming the wife? They blame the nagging wife. So Bonnet has this ship built and he calls it The Revenge. And he makes sure that it has a cabin with a well-stocked library. Which does not seem that weird if you are going to be on a boat for months at a time that you have a lot of books. Most pirates are illiterate Ira. I think he had absolutely no idea what he was getting into. I think he might have heard stories in the local taverns about the excitement of life at sea. Perhaps he heard stories that you could go to other islands and maybe meet other women. But clearly he had no idea what he was getting into. And it seems like the reality set in very soon after he had started off on his voyage. And this is what I love about this story is that instead of just dreaming of this alternate life where he is a bad guy he goes for it. And he is the worst pirate. Like he does everything wrong. Like for instance the captain of the pirate ship is supposed to be the most experienced sailor. Yeah? And Bonnet has no experience sailing. So it looks like when he was about to attack a ship he would have to look around and ask advice which is not something you want to be seen doing as a captain. You want to be seen as decisive fast aggressive. But they have a few successes. They take a few ships. He even gets a reputation. This is when they start calling him the Gentleman Pirate. Does he kill people? No actually. He is kind of a nice pirate. He captures people. He takes their goods. And then he lets them go. But then he attacks a big ship a Spanish man-of-war and over 30 of his men are killed or wounded. And it is a huge disaster. Bonnet is gravely injured. And they have to escape and flee to the Bahamas. And there he met one of the most iconic pirates in world history Edward Thatch who is better known as Blackbeard. Yeah. This is where the story takes a remarkable turn. So basically here's this guy who has idolized pirates and who does he happened upon but basically the most famous pirate in the world. Who is in fact Bonnet's polar opposite. He is a successful sailor. He is aggressive. He is decisive. He is cruel. He is sadistic. But he is also charismatic and bold as opposed to Bonnet who is indecisive nervous. And Blackbeard was this consummate performer. He was incredibly violent. He was unpredictable. There is a reason he is one of the most famous pirates. Even pirates were like whoa this guy is out of control. When he would first appear on your ship he would have prepared for that moment by tying these pieces of twine called slow matches into his long big beard and he would light them on fire just as he appeared so that there was this cloud of smoke. And in the smoke you would just see the eyes of Blackbeard. So he looked like he was appearing out of hell. I do not understand that at all. It just seems like the fire would catch fire to his beard. He had a method I am sure. And this was actually a strategy. Their whole thing was to inspire as much terror as possible because if they made you incredibly afraid you would give up the ship without a fight. Oh this never occurred to me until this second. So the skull and crossbones and all that it is all like a brand to make people scared. Yeah. Their brand was death. They arrive with a skull and crossbones. If you think death is coming for you you are going to surrender. But in fact some pirates like Blackbeard they did not even kill many people. In fact there is no evidence Blackbird ever killed anyone till the very end. So it was very theatrical. They are putting on a show and they understood that. And I like imagining these pirates scheming and plotting it out being like OK no here I have a really good idea. This is so scary. So now basically the most skilled pirate meets the least skilled. And Blackbeard treats Bonnet in a very friendly manner which is uncharacteristic of Blackbeard. Bonnet is gravely injured. Blackbeard comes on board and says I will captain your ship. As help to you? Yes. Extremely rich man. Yes. Who does not know what he is doing. Exactly. All right. And he lets Bonnet hang out and heal in the captain's quarters while he captains the ship. So do we know what Blackbeard gets out of this? We do not know. But Bonnet's a novelty. Blackbeard would not have gotten a chance to ever hang out with an aristocrat. They end up being together for almost a year. Wow. And at some point Blackbeard gives Bonnet his ship back. And when Bonnet finally goes out on his own again he fails at pirating so badly his crew begs Blackbeard. They are like we cannot work for this guy. He is a terrible pirate. Please take over this ship. And so Blackbeard intervenes and he puts his second-in-command in charge of Bonnet's ship and he invites Bonnet over just to stay on his ship for a while. Then he tells him you know you are just not cut out for this lifestyle. Just sail with me. So again it is this ruse of like hang out with me. Put your feet up. Relax. This was a transformative moment for Bonnet. I think this was a moment when he realized he made a huge mistake. In fact Captain Charles Johnson recalled that he at this moment saw his folly and quote he reflected upon his past course of life and was confounded with shame when he thought upon what he had done. So he clearly fell into a deep deep depression. Because he was like oh I had a midlife crisis and I left my wife and three kids and now I am a pirate. And I am horrible at it. Yes that is exactly right. In fact he tells the rest of the pirates that he actually really regrets actually becoming a pirate. And the rest of the pirates are embarrassed just to look at him. Yeah. And in fact one of the historical accounts said that when he ventured out on deck he wore an elegant morning gown and usually carried the book he was reading in his hands and then he would sort of sulk with despair. So he has all this regret about being a pirate. And then something incredible happens which is that the king issues this decree that there is a pardon available for pirates and you can return to your life without any criminal charges. So when they get to port he takes the pardon. And Bonnet's plan is to become a privateer. What is that? It is like a mercenary navy that works for the king. OK. But when he gets back to his ship Blackbeard has betrayed him. That is so not a surprise at all. He is plundered his ship and he is taken his men and marooned them on a deserted island and he leaves them for dead. Bonnet saves them. He is really furious at Blackbeard and in fact decides he wants to go after and capture Blackbeard himself which is as you can imagine an astounding misperception of his own skill sets. Here's this guy who had minor success. His crew never respected him. Goes after probably one of the most successful pirates in world history who is much more aggressive and thinks that somehow he is going to enact revenge and he is finally living up to the name of his ship for the first time. So he is back in the game. Yeah. He never actually catches Blackbeard. But while he is chasing him he finally becomes a real pirate. He takes 13 ships. He got violent. He flogged his own men. He threatened to burn down a whole town and to shoot his own crew if they surrendered. And in the final battle where he was captured he and his men kill 18 people. So you could say that he had some I guess personal growth. Learned specific lessons from Blackbeard. Learned that if you are going to do this you have to put on the show and you have got to actually appear to be someone who it is worth surrendering to. Yeah so Bonnet eventually has matured into a murderous pirate. Wait. So he had a romantic idea of what it was like to be somebody who murders people and takes their stuff and then he actually ends up actually murdering people and taking their stuff? Yeah. That is horrible. Yeah. He becomes a bad guy. And they catch him. And they put him on trial. So he finally got his wish. The world finally thought he was a pirate. Like mission accomplished. Yeah. And now he can be hanged at 30. And there is actually a transcript of his trial. So did he admit being a pirate? Was he proud? No. He pled not guilty. He said his crew held him on board against his will and that he was not doing any of the piracy. And apparently this kind of defense is typical. Mark Hanna told me pirates usually deny that they are pirates or they rationalize it like there is some good reason that they did this. They were poor sailors or they were badly treated and it was only fair to start stealing from these big trading companies' ships. So did the defense work? Did he get off? No. He went to the gallows in Charleston South Carolina. There is actually a marker in a park there. So the guy goes and hangs out with pirates. And even though he does not seem to have the smallest aptitude for pirating he still ends up becoming a pirate. Today on our program we hear the story of another guy-- a guy who is alive right now a guy today-- who gets near to pirates. Did it change him? We try to figure that out. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Arrr you going to stay with us? No we are not using that!   Act One Pirate Change Denier. You may remember hearing about Rachel and Paul Chandler a few years back. They are a British couple who were spending their retirement sailing around the world. But in October 2009 in the middle of the night a band of Somali pirates boarded their boat with guns and kidnapped them for ransom. They were held for months in the Somali bush where they were threatened and fed a steady diet of goat liver. Back in England Rachel's brother a guy named Stephen Collett was negotiating with the pirates. He spent eight months trying to work out a deal mostly with a pirate called Ali. They finally came to an agreement. 440000 for Rachel and Paul's freedom. A contract was written up and signed and faxed to Ali's office in Somalia. Some pirates have offices and fax machines. And then the day before Rachel and Paul were scheduled to be released the pirates let Stephen talk directly to Paul. We have made arrangements Paul to deliver the money to the pirates by plane to a town called Adado tomorrow at 11 oclock. Yeah? 11 oclock? Yes. Yes. Now if the plane cannot land again to collect you then you will stay with a Mr. Mohamed Aden tomorrow night in Adado. Mohamed Aden? Yes. In Adado. Now Mohamed Aden is the district governor who lives in Adado and he is not a pirate. I repeat he is not a pirate. OK. Yes. That is good. He is working on our side. He is a good man and you can trust him. Mohamed Aden the guy Stephen mentions who is the governor of a region in Somalia where Rachel and Paul were held he is actually American. Somali-American. He was born in Mogadishu but spent half his life in Minneapolis. Most people call him by his nickname Tiiceey. And when Stephen says-- He is not a pirate. I repeat he is not a pirate. That is actually the question of this story. Tiiceey took a public stand against piracy worked to end piracy in his area. But right now he is locked up in a Belgian prison. He was arrested for piracy and for criminal organization. He denies the charges. Though of course as you just heard denying you are a pirate is an old tradition in pirating. So is he innocent? Is he a pirate? Is he colluding with pirates? And if he is how does a guy who comes all the way from America with the best of intentions hoping to do the right things end up in this situation? One of our producers Dana Chivvis looked into it. Tiiceey used to be just another boring dad in Minnesota. In 2008 he was finishing a master's degree in public administration at Minnesota State and starting a small health services company. He lived in a three-bedroom condo in the suburbs of Minneapolis with his wife Shamso and their five sons. He was a regular Walmart-shopping football-loving homework-checking father. He was also active in the Somali community in Minneapolis and he did the thing that do-gooder ex-pats do. He raised money from other members of his clan to send back home. He tried to improve things back in Somalia. Clans run Somalia. There is no powerful central government there. And Tiiceey's clan is made up of hundreds of thousands of people. In 2008 the clan was trying to restore order to the part of the country they are from a region called Himan and Heeb a 5000-square-mile patch of sand that had not had a functioning government since the early '90s. A place with no running water rife with bandits and warlords where camel herders wandered the desert and pirates plundered the seas. Where you could not drive from one town to another because the warring tribes would not allow it. So members of the clan from all over the world gathered in Dubai to come up with a plan to create a government there. Tiiceey went to that conference. He says he was actually picked to run the meeting. And he did such a good job the clan elders drafted him to be part of a small team that would actually move to Himan and Heeb for three months write a constitution and get a government started. He is the guy who has trouble saying no so he flew to Africa directly from the conference. So wait. They did not let you go back? You could not go back to Minneapolis? No. You went-- Unfortunately no. --straight to Somalia. Because they were afraid if we go back home we would never come back. Oh my god. Yes. So in a way it was a setup. Yeah it was a setup. You were conscripted. Yes. At the end of those three months he would done such a good job that the local elders asked him to stay and run the place for a few years. He did not want to do it lobbied against it for a week. But his friends finally sat him down and said you have no choice. If any of us had been asked we would do it. So he agreed. The day they appointed me that was my scariest day in my entire life. He is saying it was the scariest day in his entire life. That is Tiiceey talking to me in January. He is calling me from the prison in Belgium so it is a little hard to hear. I was scared like a little girl. Do you remember calling Shamso and telling her this news?  Actually what I did is-- I could not face-- to be honest with you she is what is called the boss. She is the one who wears the pants in the house. He says it was hard to bring himself to tell his wife so he asked his friends to call her figuring she could not say no to them. I was a coward. I did not have the balls. At first he told his wife Shamso he would only be gone a few months. But now he had to explain to her-- well his friends did actually-- that he was going to stay in Somalia for a few years leaving her with five boys to manage back in Minneapolis while he lived in a lawless country they would both fled years ago. When I asked him what his goals were in Somalia he said he did not want to die. First of all my dream was not to die here. Not to die there. But work wise my dream was to make the situation the best I can. To make safe to build a good buildings you know roads like a lot of people working and there is a lot of income. But it was a dream. I have been talking to Tiiceey since December when I visited him at the prison in Belgium. It is a massive and foreboding place with a moat for some reason. Tiiceey does not look like a pirate. He looks like a professor. He is 6 feet tall and a little chubby. He is 44 years old with a goatee that is starting to grey. And since we met he is been calling me from a phone in the lounge area of his cell block. We have spent hours talking about his work in Somalia and his legal case. There is always a TV on in the background so it can get a little tough to hear. Hello? Hey Dana. Good evening. Hey Tiiceey. How are you doing? Good yes. How you doing? I like talking to Tiiceey. He is smart and he has a good sense of humor. At one point we were trying to figure out how much these phone calls cost. He thought they were really expensive. 5.75. So 5.75 a minute is the best price? Oh my god. It is a rip-off. It is like calling Antarctica or somewhere. No man it is not. And they are accusing you of piracy. Look at that. Touche. Touche. Turns out by the way Tiiceey overestimated. The calls were much less than that. Only about 1 and change. Overestimating might be a character flaw of his as you will hear. So here's the story he told me about how he went into Somalia full of hope and good intentions and ended up in the clink in Belgium. Tiiceey's first priority as governor of Himan and Heeb was to hire police and set up a court system. He knew he could not make any progress unless there was some security in the area. He hired police and paid them 50 a month. He told me he did not pay his small administrative staff a salary at first because he wanted to save the little money he had for the police and the judges. Make sure they would stay on his side. Tiiceey was setting up a government from scratch so it is not like everyone just accepted the new order. His first month there the court heard a land dispute. Two men claimed to own the same piece of property and the guy who lost the case was pretty unhappy about it. So he and a bunch of relatives with guns surrounded the disputed land. Tiiceey's soldiers showed up and the occupiers-- They opened fire. And one of my soldiers died. Tiiceey's men ended up killing three of the occupiers. I am not proud of killing people but that was actually the turning point of the respect that we get. That is the day the administration became a real administration. After that incident people started to respect Tiiceey's new administration. He had authority now. He was writing laws and he was able to enforce them but it was still pretty scary. Every morning when you wake up you are thinking about how I am going to die today. If I am going to die am I going to die with bullets? Am I going to die with ? Am I going to die with suicide? Am I going to die with my staff killing me? Seriously. And that is the environment you are working on. What I do on a daily basis is to solve the problems for the people whether it is lack of food or it is water. That is Tiiceey talking to a New York Times video journalist in 2009 a year after he started the government. In other work you cannot measure your success but this is very easy to measure for success. You can see in the people's eyes that you helped them and you feel good. You feel good about that. That interview happened because a New York Times reporter named Jeffrey Gettleman caught wind of the changes happening in Adado and he decided to go see for himself. To get there he had to hire one militia for the start of the journey who handed him off to a second militia who drove him the rest of the way into Adado. So as we pulled in we saw lots of new construction lots of houses with brand new shiny metal roofs a relatively new school new stores lights. It was like an oasis of development in the middle of a very neglected remote area. Did you feel safer there than you did in your other trips around Somalia? I felt pretty safe there. And maybe that was totally ridiculous but I felt safe there because I trusted Tiiceey. And he had control. I had been in Somalia enough I could tell who was the real deal and who was a pretender and he seemed like the real deal. But Tiiceey still had one major problem to tackle pirates. They were more powerful than anyone else at that time. The years that Tiiceey was governor 2008 until 2013 that is when the piracy epidemic was raging in Somalia. In fact piracy was so pervasive that it was basically its own industry-- one that cost the world economy billions each year. In 2010 more than 1000 people were taken hostage at sea. Nobody not the Somali federal government or rich Western nations had been able to roust them. Tiiceey's region was home to one of the most notorious pirate towns in Somalia a place called Harardhere. Tiiceey set up local governments in other towns in the region but when he went to Harardhere the elders there told him not to bother. The pirates controlled everything. They would even set up a pirate stock exchange there in the building where anyone could go and buy shares in a pirate venture. They had more guns and more men and more money than Tiiceey did and they were not going to listen to him. In April of 2009 Tiiceey says he met with the president of Somalia and told him he needed help fighting the pirates. Luckily the president had worked to eradicate piracy himself in the same area in 2006 and it had worked for a little while. The president knew someone who could help Tiiceey-- a guy called Mohamed Abdi Hassan. He goes by the nickname Afweyne which means big mouth. He was a Somali businessman and also the godfather of modern Somali piracy. Afweyne is the guy who figured out that you could run a piracy business like any other legitimate business-- by raising capital from investors and then funding piracy ventures on the high seas. Did you have the thought of like why would I hire a guy who is a big pirate to run my anti-piracy campaign? To be honest with you-- I am not hiding anything-- but at that time he was a businessman. So he was not hijacking ships? No no. He was . He had an office in Harardhere at that time. He was bringing khat. Khat. Khat. Oh that was his business. Khat is a leaf that gives you a little buzz when you chew it. It is legal in Somalia and pirates apparently chew the stuff all day long. What was Afweyne-- as a member of the committee what was he actually doing? He knew most of those guys especially the middlemen. He knows a lot. Most of the middleman pirates. Yes yes even the kingpins. He knows a lot because most of them used to work for him. If this does not seem like the greatest idea to hire one of the most notorious pirates to help you end piracy Tiiceey said he did not have much of a choice. And actually Afweyne turned out to be really helpful. This was their plan. Step one pirate shaming. Convince the local imams to start teaching people that piracy is forbidden in the Koran so the pirates become ostracized. Step two create an economic incentive. Give the pirates other job opportunities that do not require hijacking and kidnapping-- like maybe create a market for fish. Step three pirate rehabilitation. When they caught the lower-level pirates the foot soldiers Tiiceey sent them to a rehabilitation camp. Taught them new job skills including how to read and write. And with the pirate bosses the kingpins Tiiceey had one especially attractive incentive to offer them to get them to quit the business. Immunity. Which Tiiceey points out only applies to the Somali government. It does not mean the US or Britain or Belgium for instance could not capture them later. But he does not mention that part to them. You think I never lied to them? I lied. I lied. I tell them many lies. You told the pirates many lies the kingpins many lies? Of course yes. I tell them many lies to get them. To get them out of hiding. Exactly. You have to lie because this is your livelihood. You want this to finish. You want this to be your legacy. By 2012 pirate attacks on big ships had effectively stopped in all of Somalia. A lot of that had to do with stuff that was happening on the water. Foreign navies were patrolling the ocean. And maritime companies started putting armed security on their boats and sailing faster and further from the coast. And in Himan and Heeb in December 2012 Tiiceey held a press conference where he sat onstage as a bunch of local pirates publicly retired in front of cameras and reporters in return for immunity. It was a huge moment for him. It was a good legacy. It was the biggest thing I would ever done other than I introduced the region to peace order and good governance. So that is something. A few months after the press conference Tiiceey got an email out of the blue from a guy called Yunus Collier who was with a film company in Europe. He said they wanted to make a documentary about piracy and they wanted to talk to Tiiceey about how he dealt with the pirates in Himan and Heeb. Tiiceey agreed to meet in New York for a few days to talk about the project. The filmmakers put him up at the Trump International Hotel and Tower right on Central Park. The first morning there Yunus shows up. Ti noticed he was a little hyper and his clothes were not as nice as he was expecting. So Tiiceey teases him. You do not dress like you are in a film company. Right. It was not fancy. Because usually it was not fancy. I cannot see that. So I joked about you do not dress like you are working in-- In film. I have got to go. Oh OK. Monday I will call you. OK. Have a good trip OK? Thanks so much Tiiceey. Have a good w-- have a nice-- I do not know. I guess have a nice weekend. You are in prison but. You can say that. OK. Sometimes I forget he is in prison. Anyway we got back to the story a few days later. Tiiceey says Yunus's boss was there also. They spent three days together. Took Tiiceey on a helicopter ride around Manhattan and out for nice meals. Eventually Yunus got down to business. He wanted Tiiceey and Afweyne to be consultants on the film. He said that is what we want. We have got to show you a script. And he says that we are going to pay you your time. How much were they going to pay you? They said we are going to pay if the project had finished and everything finished 200000 each. Oh my god. That is so much money. Yes. Yeah 200000 each going to pay that. Tiiceey agreed. They had one last meal at the Grand Central Oyster Bar. The filmmakers asked Tiiceey to convince Afweyne to help too. And once Afweyne was on board they would all meet in Europe for a week where they would get to work. Seven days in Europe 200000 each to consult on a film about pirates. Pirates. Who could refuse? Tiiceey and Afweyne landed in Brussels a month later. When they showed their passports there was something wrong with Afweyne's visa. They were escorted to airport police. My gut feeling tells me that I am in trouble. Really? Whatever it is. Yes. So after one hour federal police came and he introduced himself. He says my name is Van Osselaer. I am the federal police. And I am here to take your freedom away. It was all a ruse. All of it was fake. Yunus Collier the meetings in New York the documentary film about eradicating piracy. It was the Belgian federal police the whole time. An elaborate plan to lure Afweyne to Belgium where they could arrest him and prosecute him for the hijacking of a Belgian ship called The Pompeii. The Pompeii was taken in April 2009 which was actually just a few months before Afweyne joined up with Tiiceey to fight piracy. The Belgians found Afweyne's DNA on a coffee cup in the captain's cabin of The Pompeii. They would used Tiiceey to get to Afweyne. Tiiceey's lawyer says the Belgians were not after Tiiceey at all. But in their excitement over catching Afweyne they got carried away and locked Tiiceey up too. Did you feel a little like the world's worst prank had just been played on you? I feel like a cheap. You feel like a what? Cheap. Cheap. Very cheap. Very cheap. Humiliated and very cheap. Tiiceey and Afweyne the guys who say they put the pirates out of business in Himan and Heeb were both charged with piracy. There is pretty strong evidence against Tiiceey. The Belgians are saying that when Tiiceey started working with Afweyne Afweyne was still hijacking ships and Tiiceey got wrapped up in Afweyne's criminal organization would insert himself into the negotiations for hostage releases and used it to run a little side hustle. He would demand additional money from the hostages' families-- tens of thousands of dollars-- for use of the airport at Adado. That is extortion. The Belgians claim he extorted money from the families of hostages in four specific piracy cases. One of them is the kidnapping of Rachel and Paul Chandler. That is the recording you heard at the beginning of this story. Rachel's brother Stephen is on the phone with Paul telling him to trust Tiiceey. He is a good man and you can trust him. He is not a pirate. I repeat he is not a pirate. But Stephen told me that was not how he actually felt about Tiiceey in that moment. In reality-- I was very skeptical of him and thought he was just a greedy little thief to be honest. Coming up more of Dana Chivvis' story. We hear what actually happened between Stephen and Tiiceey-- the actual recordings of theirs conversations as they are trying to get the hostages to safety. It is not pretty. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program I Am Not a Pirate-- stories where people make that claim. Apparently it is something people say when they are not a pirate and also when they are a pirate. We are in the middle of Dana Chivvis' story about Tiiceey a man who returned to Somalia to try to help out and ended up accused of criminal conspiracy with pirates. And we pick up the story in the middle of a negotiation that Tiiceey was involved in with Stephen Collett. He was trying to arrange for safe passage for his sister and his brother-in-law Rachel and Paul who were being held by pirates. Again here's Dana. At this point in the negotiation Stephen had agreed to pay the Pirates 440000 for Rachel and Paul's release. Tiiceey was not involved in that part of things but he had offered to help Stephen with the logistics of getting Rachel and Paul out of Somalia. Tiiceey wrote an email saying his administration quote are not part of the pirates and do not deal orand share money and we are not expecting ANY-- this word is capitalized-- ANY payment from the pirates or Paul and Rachel family. The only support we are offering was humanitarian support and to facilitate Paul and Rachel's safe passage. Stephen needed permission to use the airport in Adado which as far as I can tell is just a dusty landing strip a few miles outside town. As governor Tiiceey was the only person who could give planes permission to land there so Stephen called Tiiceey to get that permission. Thank you for ringing back. How are you doing sir? I am fine. Did you-- They talk about logistics and then Stephen asks-- How much is this going to cost us? Becaus