   Hey this is G a Radiolab mini series episode two. Im Pat Walters. And in episode one we told the story of a guy who was given an IQ test when he was a boy and it changed the course of his life. Not for the better. His name was Darryl but he came to be known as Larry P. He took on that pseudonym when he became the center of a court case that basically put the IQ test itself on trial. For months lawyers presented evidence that the tests Darryl took were racially-biased. And in 1979 a federal judge banned the IQ test for use on African American children for making decisions about special education in the state of California. The test could still be given to white kids Hispanic kids Asian kids just not to black kids.    And as you can imagine this has caused some issues.   Test test test.   Chapter two begins about 25 years later.   Were in Hayward California. A little town just south of Oakland.   Not too far from where Darryl lived. And it starts--   Hello. How are you?   Tired.   with a couple.   Hi. Well my name is Pamela Lewis   My name is Ricky Lewis.   I am Nicholas Lewiss mother   Im the dad of Nicholas the son that we fought for to have equal rights. Thats it.   Thats great.   Its 2004. Pam and Ricky have five kids ones in middle school ones in high school and their youngest Nicholas is in kindergarten.   And how did you learn about this thing?   It was just by pure accident. I picked up a stupid paper that my husband brought home from work one day because he worked for the Daily Review--   Back then Ricky had a job delivering papers to local businesses.   They had extras. I would take one mainly for the sports.   I see you got all your Warriors gear on.   Yes I do. Go Warriors .   Anyhow one day Ricky comes in with some extra papers. Pam grabs a piece of it and she sees this article.  It was just a little tiny thing.   About a court case. Not the Larry P. case a different court case but it mentioned the Larry P. case and it said black kids in California cannot be given IQ tests.   And I seen it and when I was reading it I was like this cant be true in this day and age?   She said she immediately thought of Nicholas.   He didnt look caucasian. None of my kids look Caucasian. You can tell theyre bi-racial.   And she thought like is this going to affect him? Like are people gonna be making decisions about what tests he can and cant have because of the color of his skin?   It sparked me to call the school and find out is this true?   And he told us it was a 1968 court ruling and it was true.   Now just for the record the case was decided in 79 not 68 but whatever.   At that point were you thinking   I was dumbfounded. This ruling has lasted all these years?   Did he explain that like the ruling banned tests that were found to be biased against African American students?   I did not care Pat. I did not care. My son was going to have the same rights any other child.   I mean my wife and I we just told him that is not right.   After that first conversation Pam and Ricky ended up having a series of meetings with the school some of which ended in yelling.   I threatened. I told em Ill sue you guys.   And eventually after a few of these meetings the school administrator came back to them and said basically look we know you are upset here is what we can offer you.   You remember the offer that was given to us?   Well he said that our child would be able to take that test if we just put him down as Caucasian.   That ridiculous offer If you mark Nicholas down Caucasian he will get the tests. But if you choose to mark him African American then he will not.   The superintendent said you had to mark eitheror.   I remember this coming up.   We tracked down the school administrator who was on the other end of that conversation.   My name is Dr. Blaine Cowick   He works in a different school district now. But back when he was meeting with Pam and Ricky he says...   I was in a situation of really having to defend this ruling   And he says when Pam and Ricky got upset with this he actually called the state school board asked them like what are we supposed to do about this?   The only resolution that I was given to kind of help was that the parent has the right to determine what race the child is.   And I turned around and looked at him. I looked at my husband. I looked back at him. I said so you want me to deny my husband's heritage for my son to have this right?   That really got to her.   Yeah I would agree. You know it really does not make a lot of sense.   I was totally pissed at this point.   I have had many friends tell me that parents became irate disappointed   Very upset.   Frustrated-   Very upset-   I ended up talking to a bunch of school psychologists who work in the California public schools.   I am James Hiramoto   Jana Baker   And they confirmed for me that situations like what happened with Pam and Ricky theyre not that unusual.   Sometimes a reaction might be Well why not? Or Well what if I say that it is okay? Like as a parent. Can I just like sign something to prove that it is okay that I do not care? Uh no.   What happens if they check African American and Caucasian?   If it is marked anywhere um-- there is there is no nothing that talks about percentage.   Have you had kids you have assessed where you have thought like Well maybe theyre  African American and so just to be safe I am gonna not use an IQ test?   I have. I have.   That is so weird.   It is. It is a very awkward situation.   Wait. Can I ask a basic question? Two questions actually.   Mm-hmm.   I mean first do schools still use the IQ tests as much these days as they used to back in the Larry P. days? When the ban was put in place?   Not quite as much as they used to but they still use them a ton. So more than a million kids a year are given the WISC which is that IQ test that we talked about all of the last episode. It is still the most widely-used IQ test.   Really? Wow.   Since then lots of other IQ tests have been made and released.   the Arthur Point scale Cattell Horn infant intelligence scale Columbia Mental maturity scale---   All of these tests you are hearing are actually banned for Black kids in California still.   Gasol Developmental schedule. Goodenough hairs drawing test Merrill-Palmer preschool performance test...   Well that brings -- that brings me to my second question which is   Ravens progressive matrices   have the tests changed? I mean it is been awhile. Have the places that were found to be biased been de-biased?   Yeah. Well that question led me to...   Are you still there Dr. Kaufman?   I am here.   this guy named Alan Kaufman.   Im just trying to park and---   No no problem.   A woman just left the OR blocking me   Oh geez--   Caught him while he was driving. Hes a professor at the Yale Medical School and he says the tests have changed and he would know. Because he was the first one to start changing it. The story is ...   Starting in 1968 I was working for the Psychological Corporation in New York City--   Alan was a young guy at the time   I was 26--   And he starts working with a psychologist named David Weschler. David Weschler invented the WISC the test we talked about in the last episode.   David Weschler was really the founder of clinical assessment   He was like this giant in the field. And Alan this 20-something nobody--   My assignment was to help him revise the WISC.   Now this was happening right as the Larry P. trial was getting started.   The Black Psychologists Association was very vocal--   So Kaufman says the test company had pretty much accepted like we need to change the test. But Weschler? Not so much.   So I would go to his apartment on the east side of New York City   And they would go question by question.   What is the color of rubies?   Kaufman argued Uh that question is clearly biased. I mean the correct answer on the test is rubies are red but A...   If your family has more money you were more likely to know what was a ruby was   And B Kaufman says Ruby was a popular name in the Black community. So certain kids might think the question was referring to people not gems.   That item was eliminated   But I understand it didnt always go that easily with him   No. No and there was a little vein that he had on his scalp that I knew when he got upset it would start to pulse a little. And he was so upset I thought it was gonna explode.   He says they had knock down drag out fights about IQ test questions. But many of the questions we talked about in the last episode ended up being removed.   There were a bunch of changes   So by the end of this process how much of this test was different?   Oh. Probably 40 percent different.   Since that original revision the WISC has been revised three more times   Hello Susie?   Yes   This is Susie Rayford.   I am the primary developer of the Wechsler Intelligence scales. I write the questions design the research plan.   And Susie says all the questions on the test today are different than they were back in the 70s. In fact about ten years ago they replaced every question on the test.   And then we also statistically analyze the items...   She says they are now able to do these sort of advanced statistical comparisons where they can compare the responses of rich black kids to rich white kids poor black kids to poor white kids.   It goes through that kind of scrutiny.   And if one group performs differently on a question theyll get rid of it.   But you welcome that because you dont want to put something out thats wrong or thats gonna hurt people.   The biggest change though is the way the test is standardized.   It usually tries to be representative of the census   This is Brandon Gamble again the former school psychologist we heard from in the first episode.   How many African Americans were included   These days the WISC is quote unquote normed on a population that apparently follows the US census.   The samples are much better.   So given how much the test has changed like how do you feel about the fact that this ban still exists? Still stops school psychologists from giving the test to Black kids in California?   Yeah. Its ridiculous. I think--when the state dictates what psychologists can and cant do that to me is a problem.   Because Brandon says an IQ test can give him useful information about a kid regardless of their race.    When youre talking about IQ tests youre talking about abilities. Your ability to see things visually and be able to answer questions around seeing patterns. So you can target particular skills around cognition.   Hello are you there now?   Yes. Can you hear me clearly?   I can   And Ill admit I didnt completely understand what Brandon meant until I talked to this guy   My name is John Catoe and I am a dad of a young man who experienced a learning disability in his young life.   John's encounter with the Larry P. ban happened about 20 years ago. He was living in Santa Monica California at the time. He works in transportation. He was managing the subway system there and his son Justin ...   He was I believe seven or eight   Even if you gave them the simplest of things to read he could not grasp what he read.   The teacher was not really sure what was going on. They were wondering is this just a reading specific thing or is there some broader cognitive disability happening? So John decided to talk to a specialist   And he recommended first that I get an IQ test. And so I went to his elementary school and requested that from his principal. And she informed me that she--he could not have an IQ test because in the state of California it was not legal.   And when the principal first said that what went through your mind?   I thought it was crazy. I said you know she was trying to explain to me why it was not allowed. She knew there was some court case   And John says he got it. He understood. He remembered having to take an IQ test when he was a teenager to try to get ahead in the Army.   To try to be a lieutenant to be an officer.   And he says on that test   There were terms Id never heard of   Like magenta.   Well when you grew up in a very poor neighborhood it is basic colors. Its blue red purple yellow white brown. I did not know what that question meant.   Nonetheless John says when it came to his son if taking that test even if it was biased could help him so be it.   And I understand you know the whole the economic and environmental impact about an IQ test. But my son needed one. I was not accepting the argument because of his ethnicity they were prohibited from giving him a test. At first I asked if I could waive it. Is there any way can waive this? And I was told no. I honestly said Well okay then he is not African American. His mother is Caucasian and my history of my family its mixed race. So lets reclassify him. She said I guess you can do that. And then I said to her Look at the absurdity of that.   Ultimately Justin ended up getting IQ tested by that specialist outside the school system. And in the end the test helped reveal that Justin had a very specific problem.   What was determined was Justin has this imagination. So when he was reading when he was younger he could not separate the two.   John says Justin would start to read a sentence but before he could get too far into it even just a few words he would start to imagine what was going on and just get lost in that universe.   He tried to read and go off and live it and you cannot do that   Like he would just never get very far before his imagination would take over.   And the IQ test helped them figure that out?   In a way yeah. Because the thing about an IQ test is its made up of all these subtests. And so the psychologist was able to use it to figure out Justin was fine with math. His memory was fine. He had a good vocabulary processing speed and puzzle solving abilities were fine you know. So they were able to rule all these things out and investigate the root of the problem. Which turned out to just be his really active imagination.   It was a book one book that got Justin to read and it was Harry Potter. He would not put that book down. He would stay up late into the night and start reading it. That was the end of his problem of reading.   Brandon Gamble says hes worked with hundreds of kids like Justin where an IQ test helped him figure out what was going on. And so thats why Brandon says the Larry P. ban isnt necessary anymore. He says the thing that he sort of keeps his eye on now when it comes to these tests isnt so much the racial bias question but something kind of bigger. The basic idea that an IQ test could be used to define a kid.   There was a period and I would say from like the 1930s all the way through the 80s people would just give the IQ or cognitive tests.   This is what happened to Darryl from the first episode. And of course the test was skewed against him because of racial bias. But Brandon says even if wasnt even if Darryl had been a white kid making a decision any decision about his future by just using an IQ test--   Thats horrible. You really dont know that kid. Its only a snapshot of a three-hour window of sitting down with this kid in a very abstract clinical setting. That cant be the totality of who that child is.   To really understand who a kid is and every psychologist I talked to said this you have to spend a lot of time with them.   Visiting the home like observing the child in the classroom like extensive interviews with their families. Especially if youre working cross-culturally theres some things that you may not understand.   So it sounds like your perspective on the IQ test is that like you can evaluate the students without the IQ test.   Yeah if you cant do IQ testing theres 99 other things you can do.   Wait so then why do it at all? I mean I guess I get that it can be helpful sometimes like in the case of the kid with Harry Potter. But like really what it was that helped the kid was Harry Potter. You know thats what helped him read better so if were in a situation now where we have all of these other tools available and we know that the IQ tests --- however useful it can be --- it also has some very bad mojo historically attached to it ----- well is it actually still worth keeping it around?   Yeah I found myself thinking that a lot. Just like from a pure cost-benefit perspective maybe it needs to go. And thats how Id been feeling until we came across this one story that pretty much completely changed my mind about that.   Really?   Well do that story after a quick break.   Hey welcome back to G a Radiolab mini-series. I am Pat Walters.   Ok Pat so what is this story you were referring to that totally changed your mind about IQ testing?   Well I am gonna tell you. But first let me do a quick digression.   Maybe I should take a step back first--   In talking about the ups and downs of the IQ test it turns out that so much of it has to do with how we talk about it. So I wanna get back to an interview I did with Siddhartha Mukherjee.   Why is a cancer geneticist talking about G?   We talked to Mukherjee in the first episode of this series about the history of IQ tests and G which is the shorthand for general intelligence. And in our interview he kept circling back to this one idea about language.   One thing that we learn over and over all from the history of medicine is that the way you define terms the way you define anything makes an enormous difference as to how you evaluate it what value society places on it. I can give you a thousand examples from the history of cancer. I can ...   One he gave me that I thought was really interesting has to do with breast cancer.   The word radical mastectomy contained the word radical in it because it was meant to address the term root.   Which apparently is what radical means of or pertaining to the root of something.   Radical as in radish. But it morphed socially and culturally into a word that meant aggressive and brazen and therefore the right thing to do for a woman with a terrible disease.   Like once that word came to mean extreme Mukherjee says more and more people who saw their cancer as extreme started to feel like that would be the appropriate response. Even if it might not have been.   These words that we use in medicine and science are extraordinarily important.   And when it comes to intelligence he says the thing you gotta remember is ...   Right off the bat is that the word intelligence is a colloquial word. I just cannot emphasize that enough.   Like the concept of intelligence way predates modern western science.   Yes yeah. I mean you can look at ancient literature and you will see that some people are smarter than others. Like Odysseus is really smart.   Intelligence researcher Stuart Ritchie again.   In ancient China    It has been defined through social and cultural practice.   It varies from one society to another has varied from one society to another. And for the history of human beings we have found that perfectly acceptable. We have ...   Everybody understood that there were lots of different ways to be intelligent. Like to be intelligent just meant to be able to understand which would mean a million different things. Until 1904 when Charles Spearman came along and said ...   We have planted our flag on intelligence. We know what this is and it is defined as your score on these tests.   But the fact is according to both of these guys ...   It might be a lot more complicated than that.   There is something captured on the IQ test called G. I do not have a problem with G. It maybe it sends a shiver down my spine because of human history. I do not have a problem with it fundamentally. It is a fact. But I do have an argument making a simple one-to-one translation between that idea and this thing this word that carries so much value and meaning. The word being intelligence.   Is there a better word?   Yeah well ...   Maybe we should have called it something like cognitive function.   I mean a lot of the researchers I talked to and psychologists and even the test-makers seem to be using words like cognitive function or cognitive ability more.   When I talk about intelligence all I mean is -- see look I am using the word intelligence even though I said at the start of the interview I should not use it.   Yeah.   But they also kind of slipping back into just calling intelligence a lot. I mean Mukherjee says like what an IQ test measures is your ability to navigate in problem space.   Your ability to navigate in problem space?   Yeah. I do not really know what that means. Like I cannot picture problem space.   I cannot be more specific than that because that is exactly what it is. Sometimes an analogy helps which is you meet a person who is a good general athlete.     And when you see them manipulating their way through space ...     ... they have a particular way of manipulating themselves through space because they understand physical space.   According to Mukherjee problem space is kind of like that but mental. How well can you move ideas pictures and numbers around in your head.   Your ability to navigate in problem space?   Yeah its a little hard.   It gives me something though. I like the idea of space there because its boundaried. Its bounded in some sense.   Yeah   Its not everything. Its just a space.   Its a space and it leaves a lot of stuff out.  Yeah exactly.   But regardless of what you call it -- even if you call it intelligence G or whatever -- f you use the test in a different way at a different altitude lets say it can change the world very dramatically and not just in a bad way.   If the IQ test has sort of like a...heroic moment in American history--   Mmhm   --this is it. It--it sort of like stepped up and saved a lot of the people that it was designed to hurt.   Interesting. OK tell me more...tell me more     OK   Tell me more   Okay So it is the early 1970s     And the story is about this guy named Herb Needleman   He was uh Needleman was--   He was a pediatrician in Philadelphia.   About six feet tall brown hair blue eyes. He was this intense kind of arrogant guy very sure of himself.   That is Lydia Denworth.   I am a science writer.   She wrote a book about Herb--   He was really engaging   Apparently when he had been a teacher students really liked hanging out with him because he was   At that point he was fighting the Vietnam War stuff.   He had gone to Vietnam and started a nonprofit where he would uh bring injured kids back to the US for treatment.   Wow.   He was kind of like this--students liked hanging out with him and hearing his sort of crazy stories. Anyway when Neddleman was training to be a pediatrician---   I was referred a child who was a very sick little girl.   That is Herb Needleman talking to Morry Regun on the NPR show Tech Nation   Needleman actually passed away a few years ago and they were nice enough to let us use clips from their interview. Uh in any case.   this little girl shows up.   Little three year old girl a Hispanic girl from the local neighborhood. It was a poor neighborhood where the hospital was located. And this little girl was really in terrible shape.   She was lethargic   Could not talk. It was acute lead poisoning.   lead poisoning. Somebody else made a diagnosis and I knew what to do because I would had a couple lectures on it.   It was known that lead could make you sick but it was thought   The conventional wisdom was--   That it could only make you sick at really high doses.   When I started the conventional wisdom was 60 micrograms per deciliter was a toxic dose--   For comparison today the CDC the Centers for Disease Control have what is called a reference level which is that anything over five micrograms per deciliter is cause for alarm.   Wow oh my gosh   And in fact you know now that there is no safe level of lead in anybody's body--   Wow  --but especially in children.   And keep in mind this is an era when lead     Was all over.  Everywhere.   Almost all the houses were painted with white lead.   This exciting new kind of beauty.   Lead paint was the standard.   Instant paint.   The reason lead was put in paint was--   You simply roll on--   that it made the paint go on the wall more smoothly.   There has never been anything like it.   Its sticky. It is bright.   Bold shimmering.   And also when paint chips off and you get a big piece of it lead paint is actually quite sweet.   Its sweet.   Really?   Yeah so to little kids--it tastes good.   Sweet and crunchy. They eat it.   So Herb is there in Philadelphia sees this kid with acute lead poisoning. After her sees another. Then another and another. He knows high levels of lead are bad but he starts to wonder what about low levels?   Well I decided I would pursue it.   Question was how?   So people knew that lead in the body went into bones and it went-- It mimics calcium in the body so it would be anywhere in the body that calcium would be found   So the tissue you would not look at is bone but you cannot do that. You cannot stick needles and kids bones.   You certainly cannot go cutting out pieces of their bone. He knew he couldnt get bone. And then one day sitting there in his office at this community health clinic--     -- in north Philadelphia--     he looked at children playing in this school yard of this elementary school and he thought teeth! Teeth are the answer!     So he partners up with the dentists. And he has the dentists ask the parents to bring in their kids baby teeth. Right away the parents are like well weve got a little bit of a tooth fairy problem here. You know the kids arent just going to give away their teeth. Im not going to find your research study with my tooth fairy money. So Herb like   They started by-- Needelman went out and he got all these silver dollars   I was the Tooth Fairy--tooth fairy.   So he gets the dentist to bribe the kids to give him the teeth. He then tested the teeth   Measured the tooth lead levels   And brings in a bunch of the kids gives them a series of tests   Extensive battery of neuropsychological tests   Including--     IQ tests   And what he discovered the key thing he discovered...if you get just a little bit more lead in the body--like for every ten micrograms per deciliter more lead in your blood and thats an extremely small amount your IQ score--     Falls four points.   So if youre um exposed to just a tiny bit more lead you get four points quote unquote dumber so to speak on the IQ test?   Essentially yes.   I dont quite have a sense of scale. I mean is four points a lot?   So the interesting thing about it is like the IQ test is set up to kind of put everybody on this bell curve.   Mmhm   Where you have most everybody is in the middle and then youve got these sort of tails were you have the people who score really high and the people who score really low. High would be around 130 140. And low would be down around 70. And so four points in the middle doesnt make that big of a difference.   Ok   But if you think of it on a much larger scale cause really what were talking about is shifting an entire population down by four points well what that means is that--   At the top you--you end up with half as many people who are going to score above 130.   Wait that feels like a lot.   Yeah and twice as many people scoring below 70.   Wow.     When we published that in the New England Journal of Medicine in 1979 it had a considerable impact.   It was a huge deal.     It made national news. He had done it. He had shown that a long term low level lead exposure was actually connected to a kid's day to day experience in the classroom right? And in life.     The study led the government to ban the use of lead in paint put some limits on how much lead that could be in gasoline.   Not too surprisingly the lead industries were not happy   And they tried to discredit Herb Needleman   It was a nasty period in our lives   They accused him of scientific misconduct.   There was a big fight over whether his 1979 Boston study was accurate. The long story short they re-analyzed it multiple times and the numbers held up. So then what happens? In the mid 80s     lead had been reduced some and-- in the environment.   But then in comes Ronald Reagan.  CLIP  There are no constraints on the human mind. No walls around the human spirit except those we ourselves erect.   And he decides lets cut the industry a break. Lets loosen things back up again.   And there was a guy at EPA named Joel Schwartz who had been hired as an economic analyst there. Joel Schwartz is asked by his bosses in about 1985 to calculate how much industry would save if the regulations on lead in gasoline were lessened which was what the Reagan administration wanted to do.   Mmhm   And he says well but what about the health effects? And he is told Ah you know this is the way it is is what they want. So what he does-- So Joel Schwartz was a clever guy he says. OK I will do this job. I will calculate how much industry will save if they do not have to regulate leading gasoline. And that number was about 100000000.   Okay   But then he did something else. He did the first major cost benefit analysis that linked health effects and economics. And the really innovative thing that Joel Schwartz did was to also calculate the cost to society of leaving lead in the gasoline. And the way he did that was that he used those four IQ points. They did an economic analysis where they were able to figure out that for each one point change in IQ that equated to a 1 change in the wage rate.   Huh   Again on a population level with every step down in IQ there is a connection to how much money somebody can earn. You got lower levels of educational attainment and ultimately lower levels of earning. So when he did this calculus the industries could save 100000000 if they have lead. Society if you count based on Needlemans four IQ points the cost of society of leaving lead in gasoline was close to 1000000000   Woah   And that is based on lost education lost wages and increased health care costs.   He writes this report gives it to one of the top officials at the EPA this guy named Joseph Cannon who had pretty much already made up his mind he was not going to regulate the lead industry anymore.   They did not need regulation. There was no need for more regulation.   But apparently he looks at this report   And he said you just cannot look away.     You know you cannot look away.     January 1st 1986 the EPA effectively banned lead from gasoline   And within just a few years   The average blood lead level of Americans dropped by 90   Wow   And blood lead levels around the world began to fall after that. It was a pretty important effect     The thing this lead story made me realize is that uh that these IQ tests they measure certain thinking abilitiesWhatever you want to call it uh intelligence G problem space but when you need to find out if like an environmental toxin is affecting the way kids think having this standardized measurement of that is really powerful. And so something like the IQ test lets you see these almost invisible um like subtle effects on large groups of people.   Mmhm   And after that lead thing there have been many many many many studies. Like you can go on PubMed and search like IQ test environmental effects and you find all of these amazing studies   Really?   People use IQ tests to look at the way smog affects kids thinking abilities or--or like violence in the neighborhood.   Wow   And there is a whole list of this that Rachel has   Thats interesting you know I--it just reminds me of what that judge said in the last episode in the--in the ruling that um essentially IQ tests are social evil masquerading as empiricism.   Mmhm   This is kind of the universe. And you know its basically the same test.   And the thing we dont say in the in the lead story--   Hmm   Which we should add or say here is that Herb Needleman he did the studies on only white kids.   Really?   So the people would couldnt say like oh the poor kids are scoring lower because theyre black.   Wow he did it only on white kids why?   He did it only on white kids because he was worried--because a lot of the poor kids who were being affected by lead were black and other minority kids. And he was worried that if he took a sample of you know affluent white kids who had low lead exposure and he took a group of poor kids with high lead exposure who also were black that people would say oh those kids--the poor kids scored lower not because of lead exposure but because they are black. And black people--   Ohhh   --are less intelligent than white people.   Wow. So he actually--he actually segregated his sample.   Yeah.   So that he could avoid bias. Their bias.   Exactly.   Wow thats complicated.   Yeah so at the end of the day I dont think you can really say that the IQ tests or even the whole idea of like measuring human intelligence in this way is any one thing. The test isnt inherently evil in this way that a lot of people you know not psychologists necessarily but regular people think about it. But it does have this--this um power in it and it was designed to do a certain thinga bad thing. By--if you went all the way back to the eugenic roots of it. And that is always in there. But its not the only thing thats in there.   Sounds like an Agents of Shield episode and a--084 or like an unknown entity that still has power after centuries.   Wait what are you talking about? What is an 084 like what--what is that?   Well 084 is an unknown phenomena--on uh within Marvel comics.     What was the metaphor that psychologist Brandon Gambles threw out during our interview. Uh he was talking about the IQ test but he was referring to this TV show called Agents of Shield.   A Strategic Homeland Interagency Logistics Division. Im a total nerd.   He says every so often the heroes in that show will find this object that they call an 084   And an 084 is this unknown phenomena   And its an object they know is powerful...They dont understand...what kind of power it has. Or how to use it.   And sometimes these unknown phenomena can you know you dont even know what it is but if you touch it      It takes you back in time it can disrupt you its toxic. Um it can even kill you.   Or it could save you.   Its an inanimate object by itself but once its activated it becomes this extra thing.   He says its a little bit like that with the IQ test with the science of intelligence. Sort of became that the moment G walked into the room. It became this powerful thing with many different potentials that were still struggling with.      -30-