 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGEMENT from PRX and NPR. We proudly present A Love Supreme episode. And now it is all well and good to love somebody. That is what all the songs are about. The problem of course - getting them to love you back. Katie Mingle tells her story.  If I could assign an image to Mexico it would be a human heart - beating bleeding ready to burst. If the U.S. is gray or blue Mexico must be red or orange burning with emotion and bordering on gaudy. For example on the show La Caremia  the Mexican version of American Idol the contestants sing on a stage surrounded by water. Dolphins leap into the air. At times the singers become so overcome with emotion that they throw themselves into the water still singing. And so when I think of Cynthia my feelings float around in the landscape of Mexico - her named drawn out across the sky with airplane smoke letters or sung with the dramatic swipe of some Latin-sounding chords on the guitar. Cynthia I love that you do not love me. Cynthia I would walk through the desert to find you roses. Cynthia everyone needs someone to dream about. Cynthia sold silver jewelry in Tempoztlan which is a neighboring town to Cuernavaca where I lived. Sometimes I would take the bus there and sit with her while she did this. To get to the bus I had to make my way through the main market. I had to patiently wade through the long hallway of people selling batteries shoes belts and alarm clocks. My body pressed up against a sea of other bodies. I had to go past the pirated DVDs pushing all the way to the part that smelled like fresh basil and tangerines and sweat. The ticket cost 15 pesos. The ride was an hour long. Once I finally got there I usually regretted going. Cynthia and I did not have much to talk about and sometimes I felt like I was bothering her. There were always men coming by just to flirt with her. A British guy came by once and bought some expensive earrings. He asked her about the book she was reading and acted really awkward trying to come up with things to say. What a loser I thought. And then I realized I would been sitting there for the last two hours acting awkward trying to think of things to say. And this is how it mostly went with us - 90 percent awkward 10 percent wonderful. I would sit on the curb beside her smoking shifting my weight around looking at my feet. I wanted to grab her and say hey I am interesting. I am funny. If you could know me in my language you would like me. Around six she would pack up for the day. And we would ride the bus home together or she would find some friends in town to hang out with. Once we rode on a moped with his hippie kid - up into the hills of Tempoztlan to his house. There were three of us on the moped and he was driving like a maniac up the dirt roads. Wild dogs were chasing us. I liked it anyway because Cynthia kept saying hold me tighter. And we rode up into the lush green hills of the town - up and up to where you could see the valley below and the clouds making storms above a blue-green sea. In his cinderblock house in the mountains the hippie kid put on reggae music and they talked and laughed at jokes I did not understand. I sat awkward and inanimate in my beanbag chair absorbing the array of psychedelic posters - Budda with fractals and marijuana leaves fanning out behind him Bob Marling hitting a spliff.  It was comforting to know hippies had the same posters no matter where you might be in the world. The boy heated up some tortillas in a small microwave and we eat them rolled up with lime and salt. I thought he seemed annoyed that I was around. He probably liked Cynthia too. But she treated him with the same flirtatious indifference as everyone else. Cynthia was friends with Jimena the woman I lived with. That is how we met. And that is how we first kissed because Jimena forced us all into playing Spin The Bottle. Then later we all went to sleep - me in my bed and Cynthia in a different bed on the other side of the room. When the lights were out and the room was dark and still she said to me in English good night. Good night Cynthia I said back. And I lay there wishing I could figure out a way to accomplish the impossible task of getting from my bed over to hers - wondering if there was even the slightest chance that she wanted me there when suddenly out of the hot darkness she said to me Katie. Then I went to her in her bed and we lay there our faces close together our legs entangled. She told me she liked kissing me in the game and then she kissed me again. We kissed again and again and again. And she said I could kiss you forever and not get tired of it. But as it turned out she could only kiss me for about two more weeks before she was pretty well over it. And I was left there so starry-eyed finding myself writing her name inside of hearts during my Spanish lessons taking the bus to Tempoztlan. She was such a mystery so inconsistent. Sometimes on our way home on the bus she would hold my hand secret-like so none of the old cowboys and tired families could see. We would talk quietly as the bus rattled through the blue dusk. Then other days she would stare out the window cold and distant. Eventually this ambiguity became too hard to bear. In another language in another culture I needed something to hold onto. I wrote her a letter in Spanish all about how I felt. When she read it she looked at me and said what the hell are you talking about? She really said it just like that but in Spanish and she laughed. Maybe I had not explained myself right in the letter. Then she stopped coming by. I did not have a phone and neither did she. I did not know where she lived so I could not find her. And so Cynthia left my life as quickly as she had come into it. And I am sure she does not miss me. And I am sure she does not often recall that night when we first kissed. How did I ever let that one slip away is what I bet she does not think to herself longingly. Fine Cynthia be that way. See if it stops me from thinking of you when I listen to the catchy heartfelt anthems of Mexico or when I daydream of your country so far away now with its blood-red heartbeat where dolphins leap. I know it was me all along with my heart on my sleeve. So I will be red and you be blue. But Cynthia everyone needs someone to dream about - even you.   That story was written and produced by Katie Mingle with help from SNAP JUDGEMENT's own Nick van der Kolk. A version of it originally aired on the show Resound which you can found at thirdcoastfestival.org. 