  This is Radiolab Im Jad Abumrad   And Im Robert Krulwich.   And today our program is about memory   Oh my god. Hey were the radio people   Yeah please you want to see the furniture   I think most people think about memory kind of like   So were interested in this filing cabinet   A file cabinet in your brain   Im looking for a fairly large capacity   This is traditional style   Something happens in your life   Is this real wood?   Yeah this is real wooden files   You file it away   Oh this is pretty good   And later when you wanna remember something you flip back through the files theres the one   This one?   Yeah   You pick it up oh yes I recall. And there it is thats the memory.   Can you lock it?   Yes we have the key   Sure sometimes you forget where you filed it   Let me see if I can get--   But its there   Oh I cant--   Somewhere. However when we asked scientists about this analogy they pretty much all said  Scientists No no no no   The filing cabinet analogy is completely wrong.   Period   Well maybe thats because your metaphor is a little outdated frankly. I think of memory as more like a more like a hard drive   Here we are about to go into BH   That you might find at a tech store   So much gear. Can you show me your hard drives?   Sure   Like your brain is basically a biological disc drive   This little one is 320 gigabytes   How big is big these days for a hard drive?   And everything you do   Up to two terabytes   Everything you see   Could I put all the images Ive ever seen in my life could it go onto this hard drive?   Um   Somehow all that experience gets stored in your head in some kind of neural code   Digital information is stored in zeros and ones   Then later when you wanna go back to it you just find the right file call it right up and there it is   Its all up on your computer screen   Your memory. Just as you left it   The way you put it in the way you take it out its all the same   Never changes   Never changes zeros and ones   But again if you ask scientists about this analogy theyll tell you  Scientists no no wrong   Memory isnt like that. Memory is not an inert stack of zeros and ones   Malfunction system is shutting down   Well if neither of those metaphors are an apt description of memory then what--how should we think about memory?   Well maybe and this is what were gonna look at this hour. Maybe its not as mundane as those metaphors would suggest. Maybe memory is more creative than that   Creative?   Yes. Yeah.   On a literal level its an act of creation   Exactly   Were reconstructing those memories   Construction   Maybe its more like painting or sculpture   Everyone is constantly their own artist   We take bits and pieces of experience   Sometimes things get sharpened some things leveled   And infused with imagination and   Out of that construct   Construct   Construct   What feels like a recollection   Its a beautiful process   Its unbelievable   OK well well see all that in the next hour coming up   Right. This is Radiolab and later in the show by the way a truly unbelievable story of amnesia. But lets begin simply as we can. What is a memory? Like where do you find a memory where do you go to find it? Theres a scientist we met Joe Ledoux works at NYU who started looking when he was very young in the most obvious place   As a child I worked in my fathers meat market and the way they--the cows were slaughtered in those primitive days was with a .22 rifle   Theyd shoot them in the head?   Theyd shoot them in the head yeah. And my job was to clean out the clean the brains   This makes a convenient beginning to this story because perhaps   The texture of the brain is very fun to play with   While the young Ladue had his fingers in the cows brain   You stick your fingers in there and have the sense that I Was reaching into the cows soul   Maybe he was also thinking where in that mess are the cows memories?   It had these rough membranes over it and just stripped it--   Can I touch a memory can I pinch it between my fingers?   One bullet   One bullet   One tiny little bullet and my job was to go in and find it and remove it because if you were eating brains you didnt want to chomp down on lead   In any case Ladue developed a thing for brains. And many years later in college hed get another chance   I was taking courses in psychology   Professor of his asked him to come into the lab   --studying the brain mechanisms   And work on rat brains. No bullets involved. This time he really would be searching for memories   And I got hooked on it   you with me?   Yeah   Alright. It was the 60s right. Ladue was in school and it was an interesting time for the field he was about to enter. Scientists had just discovered this drug. They found that if you give this particular drug to   I think it was done in goldfish first   yeah give it to a goldfish squirt a little in the tank   Into the water   Suddenly   The goldfish   Cant make a memory   After goldfishes learn something   Theyll swim around have all kinds of experiences but later remember nothing   They wont form a long term memory for it   What does a goldfish learn then I mean--   Uh. I actually have no idea. But apparently they do learn stuff except when they have this drug in their system in which case theyll learn stuff and forget it immediately. And the implications of this were huge   Oh yeah   According to science writer Jonah Lehrer   Absolutely   Because now for the first time scientists could say that a memory its a real thing   Its a physical thing. Its not simply an idea its a physical trace left in your brain.   A trace made largely of   Proteins. You know proteins are the building blocks of memory   Well how do they know that?   Because of that drug   Its called anisomycin   The amnesia inducing one.   Mhm   What it does it target proteins   It prevents new proteins from being formed   It busts them up   And that means what exactly?   Well no proteins no memory. Well let me give you an example of how this works. And this is something Ledue ended up doing after college   The methodology can we start there?  Sure   He would take a rat put it in a box then play it a tone   Just a five kilohertz pure tone   Sort of like boooop   Something like that yeah   Now imagine youre this rat. Your entire world is in this box. And suddenly a sound as if from God. and then the sound stops and youre like what was that--ow hey he shocked me on my feet   The shock is you know a mild electric shock.   I mean its less than getting static electricity   this guy who works in Ledoux's lab   Hi Im David Bush   He actually demonstrated it for me.   Alright so what--   Or on me   What Im going to do is have you put your fingers on there   He made me touch the bottom of the cage   Im putting my fingers on the bottom of the cage Im a little scared. Yeah. Ah   Its really not that bad its static electricity really   How--   If youre you if youre a rat it might be a whole other thing   Even for a rat   But whats the point--why are we doing this?   Oh well theyre trying to make the rat for a memory. And heres how we now know that that works from the rats perspective. The moment it hears the tone and then feels the shock inside its head a bunch of neurons start to build a connection   Whenever you create a memory its an act of cellular constructions   What were talking about now is associative memories. Associations between two things in the outside world   Between  and .   Those two events have to somehow be connected   Because if youre building a bridge over a chasm and that connection   Thats basically a memory. A memory is a structure that connects one brain cell to another. So the next time that the rat hears that damn tone inside its brain tone brain cells are physically connected to shock brain cells its gonna know. That after this  comes this . And so instead of just listening passively its gonna freeze  The back is hunched and theyre just frozen solid   Bracing itself for what is about to happen   Exactly   When Ledoux and his team see the rat freeze like that they know it is in the midst of remembering   Theyll do that the rest of their life   For life   Lifetime memory   However   If you inject a chemical into the brain that prevents these neurons from building this new architecture that a new memory requires the rat will never form a memory. Because its neurons are prevented from forming all these new proteins which a new memory requires   And so whatever the rat was doing during the injection it will never remember   Play it the noise and then shock it and then play it the noise and then shock it and then play it the noise and then shock it and the rat never learned   It will be like  hey whats that   ooh whats that   ooh cool whats that    Perpetually surprised by the shock   So the basic rule is that if you get to the memory while its being made you can bust it up by inserting this drug   So the memory never is actually formed   Right never committed to memory. But if the memory gets made and the protein bridge is there in your mind its built and built for all time   So if you have the memory in there then you cannot erase it   Yeah its about timing. If you get there first you can erase it but if you get there after no.   OK   And thats what everyone thought. Until 2000. One day Ledoux was in his office and a guy walks in the door   The person who walked through the door that day is Karim Nader   Karim Nader. I would often just go into Joes lab and just tell him ideas and stuff   This is Karim   He was a postdoc in the lab   I went into Joes office and said Joe what do you think would happen if--   What do you think would happen if instead of giving thet drug while the rat was making the memory what if way after the fact we gave it the drug while it was remembering the memory   You remember something   Could we mess with the memory then?   I thought wouldnt it be cool if that happend   I said well that will never work   He said thats never gonna work   Dont waste our money   It was just a very naive question   Yeah because the memory is already there   Right   You cant erase a memory thats just already there. I mean have you ever seen that movie Eternal Sunshine of the SPotless Mind?   No   No? Well thats essentially what he was proposing   Yeah. it was crazy   Here at Lacuna we have perfected a safe effective technique of the focused erasure of troubling memories   In this movie Jim Carrey has all these memories he wants to get rid of   Im here to erase Clementine Christian   And so he goes to this company that   Good morning Lacuna   Performs this service   How are you today Mr. Baird   And so they have him in this room   Comfortable? Please try to focus on the memories.   And hes retrieving all these memories   this is the day we met. Hi there. Hi. Im Clementine  And each time he retrieves one   Im Joel   they zap his brain   Got it. I love you. Got it.   Could we zap a memory that was already there? Could we go in and erase old memories. That was Karims question  KNL I was just looking to do something conceptually challenging just kind of fun right  and just out there   Joe thought he was crazy   I didnt think the experiment was gonna work and he said OK and so he went away and he did the experiment without telling me and   A couple months later Nader walks back in the door   Walked in the door and he said   Like Joe this is really crazy but it actually worked   It worked   Karim says he took a rat played it the tone   Give them the tone and give them a mild shock to the feet   So it could form a memory. Tested it just to make sure and sure enough when it heard the tone it froze   Yeah   Which means it had the memory good. Then he waited. A long time   60 days   60 days?   yeah   Two months later he played the rat the tone and as its frozen thinking oh no oh no I know whats about to happen. Right at that moment while it was remembering he gave it the drug   And then the next day we just put them back into the box and we just gave them some tones to see how afraid they were of the tones. And the ones that got the drug they behaved as if the tones it doesnt mean that theyre gonna get zapped anymore   All of a sudden the rat had been set back to square one. Now it was like  ooh whats that . Memory was gone   There was no memory   No memory at all?   No   That was the shocking result of the Nadar experiment   Thats Jonah again   The rat is already terrified of the shock but if you inject the chemical as the rat is remembering what the sound means the memory disappears. Its as if the memory had never been there in the first place   Really?   Yeah. Joe looked at me and he just looked very surprised   What exactly did you say to him?   You know holy bleep. Take a look at this because its so bleep crazy   It took me awhile to really kind of believe that it was all true   Plus Joe and others had a concern. Maybe this drug isnt erasing a memory maybe its just giving the rat brain damage and erasing everything   So we designed an experiment that would test the specificity of these effects   He wondered could he pinpoint and extract one single memory of many   Thats an interesting question   Right   The idea was to create a memory network in the rat   So in his latest study what he did was he taught the rat to be scared of two tones. Not just one   So ones like a voop.  and the other one is a pip  like repeating sounds of a pure tone   And he teaches the rat to be afraid of both of these tones each one results in a  Only this time when he plays the tones 45 days later he picks just one of them. Maybe for instance this one  to pair with the drug   And then the next day you test both and only the one that was paired with the drug is affected.   So you erased tone one but not tone two   Exactly.   So do re mi--you can just erase re?   That would be the idea   Wow. That really is Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind   Well that movie came out about two years after we published the study that really got all this going   Do you think they stole from you?   I dont think they stole but maybe they were thinking along these lines and they were--   They mustve read it and been like oh my god.   There was a write up in the Science Times and we proposed this would be a treatment for PTSD   Post traumatic stress disorder. People who go to war or have been through trauma   People haunted by really bad memories   They just cant escape the thoughts and memories. They keep reliving   How would that work in a therapy situation though?   Suppose you have a holocaust victim whos lived for 50 years with these memories and you know you would say lets talk about what went on in the camp and today you saw Mary in the line to go to the chambers.   You say close your eyes and just imagine   Relive it   And right as youre talking about it you swallow a pill?   Yeah   More or less   So in fact weve done that   Theyve done that?   They have. Karim Nader now works at McGill University in Montreal and he has teamed up with a clinical psychologist to try this on people and it seems that when you give this drug as a person is remembering or reliving a traumatic event the memory is eroded somewhat. And the next time they think about it its not quite as painful.   One woman. She had been raped as a child by a doctor and when she told her mother her mother said she was making up stories. Apparently she never spoke to anyone about this. And she used to get undressed in the dark in front of her husband.   Wow   and so she came in to the clinic   He said says she took the drug while thinking about the trauma   And then a week later   She told the story again. And this time it wasnt nearly as hard   She improved dramatically. To the point where she was telling the story on TV   On TV? Wow. So she went from telling no one about this including herself to being so open that she could tell thousands of people?   Yeah. she just felt that the emotional part was no longer overwhelming her   Some ethicists say that its wrong to mess with memory but you know thats what therapy is too. Its a process of changing your evaluation of situations learning new things storing new thins   At one point she said weve given her back herself   I--I know that she feels better but theres something slightly creepy about this   Yeah   That she feels better because something is now missing in her. Something that troubled her but shes been in a way a part of her has been deleted. Look. I think of myself really Im Robert Krulwich and Im a certain age but really what I am is Im a strong of memories   Yeah   I mean that is as close to a way of describing the real me as I can find. I own those memories and they define me. But youre saying you can come to me when Im already formed when Im already there. You can give me a shot and you can fundamentally change me   Theres an assumption in what youre saying which is actually kind of wrong. There really isnt anything like a real memory. I mean think about it. If you can erase a memory while its being created thats how we started. And now we learn you can erase a memory while its being remember using the same drug? What that really means is that everytime you are remembering something youre actually recreating it. Thats the only reason the drug works. And so if youre recreating it each time then each time youre remembering something its a brand new memory   Well no but Ive always kind of assumed that underneath all of this remembering there some kind of special absolutely original memory locked in a vault somewhere   No. No. that is the crazy implication of this experiment   That the act of remembering on a literal level its an act of creation. Every memory is rebuilt anew every time you remember it   And not only is it an act of creation as Jonah says Karim would say its an act of imagination   Every time you remember something youre changing the memory a little bit. Were always changing the memory slightly   You think youre remembering something that took -place 30 years ago. Actually what youre remember is that memory reinterpreted in the light of today in the light of now.   So does that mean theres no such thing as a memory for all time that hides in a secret vault somewhere that all youve got is the most recent recollection of the experience   Yes   Well then how do I know that any memory is verifiably true?   you dont. You dont and one of the ironies of this research is that the more you remember something in a sense the less accurate it becomes. The more it becomes about you then the less it becomes about what happened   So lets just do something--imagine a couple in love and its their first kiss. He kisses her and she kisses him back. She remembers the kiss of course and he remembers the kiss of course. As they go through the rest of their romance and the next 36 years together the kiss will essentially become replaced by two independently rembroidered and increasingly dishonest kisses?   Assuming they think about that kiss enough. Thats kind if what the theory implies   But certainly theres gotta be somewhere--between the man and the woman theres got to be some true kiss or is that kiss just gone?   That true kiss vanished the minute their lips separated   Huh   As soon as reality happens it beings diverging in all our different brains. In a very synoptic level   Heres where you cue the really sad music   They just grow slowly farther and farther apart.   well let me do it a different way. Lets suppose that Joan and Bob kiss and then they part. Its a great kiss. And then they never think about it again. I mean it was a great kiss in the moment but they never think about it again   yeah   30 years later Bob is in a railroad station Joan comes out of a train their eyes meet Bob sees Joan sees her eyes and remembers suddenly that kiss.   That memory is more honest than if hed been thinking about the kiss everyday of his life since   Oh. You know thats even sadder.   You know but its true. Thats what scientists say   Absolutely. We had a conference last week and Yadin Dudai was here and he proposed that the safest memory the memory that is uncontaminated is one that exists in a patient with amnesia.   What I meant is that there is a sort of a paradox   This is Yadin?   This is Yadin   Im a professor in Israel   Reporter Ann Heppermann tracked him down for us   Intuitively you think if you use a memory you know you know better because you remember it better. You recall it better you know the details better and so on and so on but this is not what science shows. If you have a memory the more you use it the more youre likely to change it. So if you never use your memory its secured. So taking it a bit father the safest memories are the memories which are in the brain of people that cannot remember.   OK well I guess we should go to break now   Oh yeah. So we should tell you that Jonah Lehrer is the author of a new book called Proust was a Neuroscientist   And Joseph Ledoux from NYU before him he also wrote a book called the Emotional Brain. And Karim Nader I dont think hes written a book. But he will   Im sure he will   And also thanks to our producer Ann Heppermann   And if you need more information you want to hear anything again one word. Radiolab.org   Radiolab will continue in a moment  ADS   This is Radiolab Im Jad Abumrad   And Im Robert Krulwich   And today on Radiolab were looking at memory and   Forgetting   Right forgetting. And were looking at how these two processes remembering and forgetting are intertwined. And writer Andrei Codrescu has an idea about this   The other day a friend of mine was explaining how she had to move these pixels around her computer and had to add 20 megabytes of memory to handle the operation. I had the disquieting thoughts that all this memory she was adding had to come from somewhere. Maybe it was coming from me because I couldnt remember a thing that day. And then it became blindingly obvious. All of the memory that everybody keeps adding to their computers comes from people. Nobody can remember a damn thing. Every Time somebody adds memory to their machine thousands of people forget everything they knew. Americans are singularly devoid of memory these days. We dont remember where we came from who raised us when our wars used to be what happened last year last month or even last week. School children remember practically nothing. I take the Greyhound bus every week and I swear half the people on their dont know where they got on or where theyre supposed to get off.   the explanation is so simple. Computer companies are stealing human memory to stuff their hard drives. Greyhound I believe has some kind of contract with IBM to steal the memory of everyone riding the bus. Theyre probably connected by a cable or something. Every hundred miles poof. Another 500 megabytes gets sucked out of the passengers brains. The computers thirst for memory is bottomless. The more they suck the more they need. Eventually well all be walking around with a glazed look in our eyes trying to figure out who it is we live with. And then we will forget our names and addresses and well just be milling around trying to remember them. The only thing visible about us will be these cables sticking out of our behinds feeding the scraps of our memory to computer centrals somewhere in oblivion USA.   I think its time for all these memory sucking companies to start some kind of system to feed and shelter us when we forget how to eat walk and sleep.   Andrei Codrescu with an essay from the book 101 Damnations. And he actually has a new book of short essays about New Orleans called New Orleans Mon Amour. Anyways Robert   Yes   Mon Amour. Andrei hes trying to make a point about you know historical amnesia in America and whatever. But what if we were to take what hes saying literally. And explore it. Like we know you can subtract a memory we did that earlier. But what if you could add a memory. Like actually add a memory in back into a brain that wasnt there before   what do you mean by add memory?   Implant a false memory   Ooh.   Count back--OK. 10 9 8 7 6 5 4 3 2 1. My name is Elizabeth Loftus Im on the faculty at the University of California Irvine   Depending on who you talk to Elizabeth Loftus is either a hero or Dr. Evil. Her research which goes back more that two decades has completely changed how we think about memory   Well for many--   I spoke with her recently about it   For many years I and other psychologists were doing experiments in which we distorted the memories of events which people had actually experienced. So we would take somebody whod seen a simulated auto accident or a simulated crime and we would alter the details in their memory report. Wed make people believe that they saw a car go through a stop sign instead of a yield sign. And we found it was not that hard to alter peoples memories of these previously experienced events. But more recently were gone even further and shown that you can plant entirely false memories into the minds of people. Memories for things that didnt happen   Like what?   Well we planted a memory that when you were about 5 or 6 years old you were lost for an extended period of time in a shopping mall   Mom?   you were frightened you were crying. And ultimately you were rescued   Are you lost?   By an elderly person   Find your mother   And reunited with the family   Mommy. There you are   And how did you implant that memory?   We told them that we had talked to their parents and that we had learned some things that happened to them when they were a child   They basically interview the subjects about their past. Theyd say hey do you remember that time you were on the bike and you fell?   Which they were making up   No no they would start with a true story they would start with a true story. And they would say hey do you remember that time which was true remember that other time which was true. And that other time which was true. And somewhere in the middle of all those true stories they would slip in the lie   The false made up story about being lost and frightened and crying and in that particular study we found that about a quarter of our subjects fell sway to the suggestion. They had adopted it as their own memory   A quarter of her subjects when she checked with them later no had in their head a memory of being lost and then found in the mall that never happened.   I would have been the number one guy in that quarter   What is happening in that situation is people take their image of an actually shopping center      Actual family remembers and they construct an experience   There you are   Out of these bits and pieces. Investigators in this field have made people believe that they had accidents at family weddings or that they were a victim of a vicious animal attack or that they nearly drowned and had to be rescued by a lifeguard. Even with these pretty traumatic ideas you can make people believe that it happened to them   Actually we had this very same experience. When I was in law school we had this professor. He was a professor of property and he was doing a lecture. Adn in the middle of the lecture and this was not you know in anyway we were not prepared for this. All of a sudden a guy zips into the class into the very front of the class and grabs something from the professor and runs out   Just stole it?   Stole it. I dont even remember what it was but it happened so suddenly. And Professor Bergen said oh my god did any of you see the curly haired guy that just went--he just sort of threw it in. The curly haired guy. But it turned out that what he called the curly haired guy when the man came back later to present himself was not a curly haired guy at all. He was a straight haired guy.   So the whole thing was staged?   yeah we were all eyewitnesses and we all had been coached inadvertently to see something that was nott true. And we all saw it.   What I find interesting though is why that kind of suggestion works so well on memory. And Karim Nader the guy we heard from earlier scientist he puts it this way. Suppose you witness a crime and the police ask you some questions later and they say did you see a red camaro leave the scene?   And youre thinking about it going yeah no no red camaro   No didnt seen one. But then maybe the policeman asks you again are you sure you didnt see one. And suddenly youre like well.   I think maybe there was maybe I forgot   You start to question it because as he puts it when you are remembering something the memory is unstable   the memory comes back up to this unstable state.   Its being rebuilt recreated. And in that moment someone without even meaning to can slide something new in   And as the memory gets restored with the image of the red camaro the next day when the judge asks you was there somebody with--was there a red camaro there from your perspective its a real memory   Yeah but whats so fascinating to me about that phenomenon assuming its true   Yeah   Is that the red camaro that is now in your head   Yeah.   Is a vivid technicolor red camaro you can see the light bounce off the hood. Its just feels real you can taste the air   Its amazing how detailed these things can be.   Which is why when someone contradicts your memory and says that didnt happen that way youre like yeah it did screw you   Well it feels like its also a robbery. Theyre taking it from you.   And in fact this got Elizabeth Loftus in a lot of trouble. Back in the mid 80s there were a lot of people--I dont know if you remember this coming forward with repressed memories like I was abused by a Satanistic cult and performed rituals and whatever all that stuff.   Oh right I remember that   We now know that a lot of those memories were imagined. And she says at the time she was one of the only people to raise her hand and say um excuse me. And it got her in a lot of trouble   Ive never really seen anything like the wrath of hostility when I began to write articles and publish on this subject it was pretty amazing the vitriol   What kind of things would they do or say?   Oh they you know my life was threatened arm guards would have to be hired at universities where I was being asked to speak. I had the bomb squad at my house on one occasion. One day I was taking an airplane flight and when the woman sitting in the seat next to me learned who I was she started to swat me with her newspaper. And it was kinda hard to extract myself from her. Because you know airplanes are crowded places. You know the fact of the matter is memory is malleable and we might as well face the truth   Well now this isnt to say that you could have a repressed memory and it might--it might just be true. I mean all repressed memories are false   sure sure   And in that regard this next story youre gonna hear. I dont wanna tell you much about it. Ill just tell you its a painter   And its produced by Nata Perang   The first thing you notice in Joe Andos studio si horses. A big milky one straight ahead sepia ones to the left and right staring at you like they dont care about you but they dont mind you either. Theyre really like dreams of horses   I never paint horses that are being manipulated with a bridle or anything. Theyre mostly just hanging out. It comforts me to have paintings of horses around   Over the past ten years the horses have multiplied and Joe doesnt even know why he keeps painting them   I guess its kind of like--I just kinda tune it in or something like youre tuning your guitar you know ding ding ding into you know the two strings resonate you know and you know its in tune.   In a Manhattan studio surrounded by stacks of these animals you start forgetting youre in Chelsea. Maybe youre in a stable instead. Sometimes even the jessing starts to smell like mulch and hay. When Joe got here in the mid 80s no galleries were offering solo or group shows and like all the other hundreds of artists in New York he was struggling   I had been in New York for about six years and nothing was happening. And I was beginning to think nothing was gonna happen. And I was you know had a kid and I was married and so I stopped painting for a few months which is a long time for me. And I missed it. So I started painting again for myself. You know after the dishes were done and all my domestic chores were fulfilled. Id sit down at the dining table and paint   And what showed up on these canvases were pastures lush and open. The kind of pastures youd see on a postcard from somewhere in Wyoming or in this case Tulsa Oklahoma. Where Joe grew up.   Well I can show you some of my paintings. Me and my buddies wed park out here and wed get high in the evening like this is a summer evening you know.   Joe runs his hand through the air in front of a massive painting leaning against the wall. Its of a field at dusk   Beautiful   Its like hes showing me property   And we would trip and we would contemplate the universe you know. Like what do you thinks the stars? Whats behind them.   Its one of those fields with thick grass thats matted where people might have laid down.   You know   Theres some trees to lean against separating the grass and the road   Our high school sat on Route 66 right on the edge of Tulsa and you know you pull out of school at lunch time and you take a left and you could drive down Route 66 into the heart of Tulsa. And you could take a right and you could go out to--theres farmland. You know this was in the early 70s and we of course would take a ride.   So when Joe stopped trying to paint for anyone else he drifted backwards into his adolescence. All those breezy right turns out of the school parking lot   And ultimately this is what people lined up for   Joe had one show then another one. Studio visits from private collectors. Then calls from the Metropolitan Museum of Art. The Whitney. Even sitcom art directors. All the while he kept on painting his deserted landscapes then as he describes it.   About ten years ago horses started showing up in my repertoire so to speak   The pastures werent empty anymore. They started to draw mares and foals to themselves. Some in the far distance some so close that theyre out of focus   And then about a year ago I was--I started painting girls   Joes first attempt at the human form. The girls are all on their own canvases. Theyre undressed stepping out of a darkened space. Some of them look like theyre about to say something.   And Im just following my gut Im painting these pictures and I dont really know why. And you know after a few months I was sitting back and I was sort of reflecting. I was looking at all of these things and I noticed that they all looked the same. They all looked like the same girl.   Looking over all the paintings in the studio they clearly are the same girl. But in a dozen different angles. She has the look of a 16 year old in 1972.   Like my first love kind of thing   Her name was Kay   It was like my first soulmate like the first--you know how the first time you feel like youre not alone   Shes beautiful. Oval face almond eyes that look right into you.   and then I remembered this moment with her and me and the horse in the car   Joe realized hed been painting a memory. The fragments of one afternoon 30 years earlier. Each ingredient emerging slowly   We were parked in the backseat of my nova 67 nova in this pasture and we were in the backseat and a horse looked in the window. It was just like this moment where it was like  you know this horse was there and shes there and and uh. I was in love I had a beautiful naked girl there with me in the backseat of my car you know. It just didnt get any better. I was skipping out of school so I wouldnt have to be in class. You know I was on east street. I probably had five dollars in my pocket you know. Enough gas to get some I had some cigarettes. I dont know.   Why did you break up?    I think I cheated on her. I think thats why   No.   I think thats what happened. I went to the lake I did something I shouldnt have. Right--you know in front of somebody she knew. She moved away to Minnesota for some reason and she called me one day and we we went to--went out dancing and we drank beer and danced and I took her home to the place she was staying. She was staying with some friends in this old house behind an appliance store. And I dropped her off and she looked at me like this and says arent you coming in? And I says no I have to go see somebody else I forget her name.   You had a new girlfriend?   New girlfriend. And she lit a cigarette and slammed the door and she died in a fire that night. I got a call the next morning.   A car door slams. A girl turns and looks over her shoulder at a guy she wont be seducing that night. A fragment of a moment frozen in time   And I mean the funny thing is she was so spirited if anybody was gonna come back and haunt me she would   How old were you?   Probably like 21   How old was she?   She was probably 19   That day in the car with his girl and the horse looking in Joe thinks the memory of that one afternoon in Tulsa might be some sort of post traumatic pleasure syndrome. An echo that bounced off Jupiter and caught up with him again   And then again theyre just paintings too. Theyre just color. Theyre just excuses for me to make another painting.   Theres something alluring about Joe Andos paintings. They draw you in. maybe thats why people pay big money for them. But they only thing that anyone who wasnt there in the field with Joe Kay and the horse can do is look from the outside into an impenetrable past thats finished. That memory that story is self sustaining and whole looping endlessly in an alternate universe   Thats the reason I dont title these. I dont put--theres no theres no ending theres no beginning. Its just every day I stir it up again.   Joe Ando has a new memoir its called Jubilee City and its published by William Marrow.   We will continue in a moment.  ADS   Ready?   Mhm   this is Radiolab Im Jad Abumrad   And Im Robert Krulwich and on this show weve been talking about   Memory   Remembering and forgetting yeah. And this next story is about the most drastic version of this particular back and forth that I can think of. It just cant get any worse than this. This is a story of a man named Clive Wearing. It was told to me by the famous neurologist and writer Oliver Sacks   First of all who was Clive Wearing when he was well   He was a gifted musician and musicologist who was really a pioneer in Renaissance music. Especially the music of Olandus Lassis   And he had a group called the London Lassis Ensemble   This is Deborah Clives wife   And in every concert his signature tune was music of Dedonham music the gift of god   Boy music the gift of god thats sort of interesting   Exactly   And then what happened?   Then rather suddenly in March of 85 he became ill   It began he says with just a headache   And he often had headaches because he often overworked so it was nothing out of the ordinary   But it didnt go away   We called the doctor and the local doctors pronounced that it was a very bad flu bug   The nature of the illness was not clear no its gravity   Yes on the whoo. Fifth day of the headache he was suddenly out of it   Suddenly he couldnt remember things   He didnt know my name didnt know his home address   When the diagnosis was made of a herpes encephalitis the damage had been done   He was left says Oliver with the most severe amnesia ever documented   This was a man who at least when things were very severe would forget something in the blink of an eyelid   Its very hard to imagine what this must have been like. His wife Deborah wrote about it though in a book of her own and she says his ability to perceive what he saw and heard was unimpaired. But he didnt seem able to retain any impression of anything for more than a blink. The view before the blink utterly forgotten. Each blink each glance away and back brought him an entirely new view   Every moment is his first waking moment  Its a long time since Ive seen anything. My eyes are open today for the first time   There is no other moment for clive except this one   I cant remember now what was going on this morning or why I was here. Ive never seen anything   This was Clive from a documentary filmed a year after he got sick   There is no memory for me at all anything at all. I dont know what the hell is going on.   You can hear his wife Deborah trying for the umpteenth time to explain to him what happened   Ive never seen anyone at all. This is one of the things thats wrong with you--   All he can feel is that hes not there   --recognize   That hes been nowhere   Ive been blind the whole time Ive been dead the whole time. No sense of touch.  The brain hasnt been able to--Not as far as Im concerned. Conscious actually means that the person involved is actually connected with it. This hasnt happen. Youre not being able to store--well everything that you experience has been lost its been--its not registering. Thats right its not making any impact its not leaving a trace or an imprint on the brain. So it happens and then it fades.   Proust has a wonderful description of waking up from deep sleep in a hotel on a strange room and perhaps feeling confused or not knowing where you are or whats around you or not even knowing who you are. He says that memory comes like a rope let down from heaven to draw one out of the abyss of unbeing. No such rope is available for Clive.   but the staff at the hospital tried to help   We put a diary by his bed and we initially wrote in it you are in St. Marys hospital Paddington. It is such a such. And then we encouraged Clive to write things down.   So he starts to keep a journal. He is extremely intent on trying to document his state. He is very very precise   He would look at his watch to see what time was this momentous event occuring or first consciousness. So he would write down 06 awake first time. And then have the same sensation and put 07 awake first time truly awake first time. Ignore the last entry. Now Im awake. This is the first real awakeness. And so the diaries are line by line a succession of astonished awakenings   Peoples interesting in th diaries are rubbish what does that mean? Did you write that?   I have no consciousness at all until now the first time.    But its is it your handwriting.   Yes it is but I know nothing about it at all.    So how do you think it got there?   I did it. I presume the doctor did it.   But you must be--no I havent. I havent seen the book at all until now. No all Im saying is--no thats means I havent seen it I have no knowledge of it at all. Thats all. Theres no knowledge of that book. Its entirely new to me.   But youve put--who would put that?   I dont know but no no--or heaven's sake you should  the bloody thing.   It seems about as horrible as anything I could imagine   Yeah. Clive gets the sense of deep horror many many times a day   Same as death no difference between day and night no thoughts at all   No one quite knows what to do with someone with amnesia   Ive never seen any human being since Ive been out. I dont remember sitting down on this chair for example   Theyre not mad theyre not retarded   Its precisely like death   Clive has now suffered with this total amnesia for more than 20 years   Can you imagine having one night 20 years long with no dream? Thats what its been like. Just like death. In that sense its been totally painless   and yet somehow some things have sustained. The love he has for his wife Deborah remained part of him. But even though he doesnt remember for example his childrens names he doesnt remember anything about his immediate past or even his relatively distant past. When Deborah walks into the hospital room and he sees her what happened?   He gasps   Darling oh--   With relief and excitement and they hug and he kisses her with enormous passion. He is suddenly being rescued from the abyss. There is suddenly something and someone familiar   Have I not seen you at all until now? Havent I seen anyone  at all until now?   She goes home and the phone is ringing. Shes just visited him.   Yeah and she may find--she might find twenty calls on the message machine   From a man who does not know shes been there   Hi Darling Clive here. Its ten to seven. I dont know anyone in this place I know nothing about this case at all Id love to speak to you please. Can you come and see me please as soon as you possibly can? I dont care about anyone else in the world but you please please come. Love you   14 minutes later   This is Clive here. I dont want to speak to anyone else I only want to speak to you Darling can you come and see me please? I havent seen you yet and I want to. Please come Darling. Bye bye.   11 minutes later   This is Clive here. I have no idea whats been going on. Is there any way you can get to me tonight? Please do come. I want to see you please. Please come please come darling. Its clive here. I dont care about anyone else. This is Clive here in case you dont--   Now he does not remember her in every way. He may fail to recognize her if she jsut passes he cannot describe her. He may forget her name but he does not forget her embrace her warmth her love her kisses her caring for him.   So the question is what happened here that he could forget everything it seems but not her. When I asked Oliver he referred to an experiment a particular experiment   Well this was a famous or infamous experiment done by Clapored who was a neurologist a French neurologist in the beginning--and this was done at the beginning of the 20th century.   And there was this famous patient who basically had a version of the of the memory problem that was in the film memento   Thats science writer Steven Johnson   Basically she couldnt remember anything longer than kind of five or ten minutes it would just disappear. And every day she would go see her doctor and he would greet her and shed say hello and introduce herself and hed say well we see eachother everyday but she wouldnt remember. And then one day--this is kind of a funny story because its not exactly what you want your doctor doing. One day what he did was he concealed as he was shaking her hand he concealed a little thumbtack in his palm. And reached and shook her hand and pricked her hand. And she you know recoiled and said well youre a terrible doctor. And then the next day   When she came back again and didnt know who he was   Didnt recognize him at all as usual and said hello and introduced herself and then he reached out to shake her hand and she paused. And she had this instinctive kind of feeling like there was some kind of threat here. If she had no memory if she couldnt remember who this guy was how could she is somehow remember this this threat. The threat posed by the pinprick in the palm   Well this is Olivers notion   I think memories of pain and joy I think are sort of primordial   Deep down in the oldest parts of our brains Oliver thinks there may be a place for the memories that matter the most   And I like the idea of a sort of subcortical safe vault   For Clive protected in the vault out of reach from his amnesia was love for his wife and one thing more   Yeah Id taken him off the ward to get some peace because he was hypersensitive to noise. And the most peaceful place happened to be the chapel. And we picked up an old hymn book. And for want of anything better to do and because Clive talked jumble most of the time at that stage I began to sing.   And all of a sudden like it was the most natural thing in the world   He joined in      He could sing. I was amazed he could still read music and sing   Was it a tentative sort of stumbling or--   No no just like falling off a log   Full voice strong everything?   Yeah. And I was so thrilled   Did you want to sing another?   Oh you bet   And another   Absolutely   and if he could do that she wondered well what else could he do?   We even brought is choir in   the one he used to conduct in London   To the hospital chapel. I had a hunch that if we stood Clive in front of them with a piece of music he would be able to conduct. And it happened just as Id hoped. His singers were flabbergasted. There was their old conductor bringing them in completely and utterly himself   And almost the instant it was over. It was over. He had no memory of what hed just done. In fact later on she showed him a tape of that very performance   What would you say if I told you you conducted the Lassis ensemble this week?    Thats hilarious   I thought youd say that   Thats absolutely hysterical. I dont know.   Do you want me to prove it to you?    This is the strangest thing Ive ever seen   On the screen right in front of him there he is on the pedestal baton in hand and hes conducting   Hes fully in the music fully himself. So music in a way becomes this Prostian rope from heaven which will recall him to himself   And no one really knows why   I remember that now   What music does that makes this possible. Not just in Clive but many others. Maybe its something about music itself that its so richly organized that every time youre in a  song you can feel what has been and whats about to be. Maybe Clive was just carried along in the architecture of music   But when the music stops he falls out of time. Music gives him a piece of time in which to exist   Out of time out of memory out of himself. Theres two things left. Theres love and theres the joy of music. Everything else is gone. But for some reason those stay.   Thanks to Deborah Wearing shes written a book about Clive called Forever Today a Memoir of Love and Amnesia. Thanks also once again to Oliver Sacks whos included a piece about Clive in his new book on music and memory called Musicophilia. And thanks to Uden associates producers of the 1986 Jonathan Miller Documentary Equinox Prisoner of Consciousness.   Thats our show for today. And never fear if you didnt absorb anything we just said because you can always go to our website radiolab.org we will give you links there to any of the books you just mentioned. I think--   Also subscribe to the podcast right?   Yes. Radiolab.org   Or go to iTunes 