Jad Wait wait you are listening   Brenna Farrell Okay.  Jad All right.  Brenna Farrell Okay.  Jad All right.  Brenna Farrell You are...  Jad ... listening...  Brenna Farrell ... to Radiolab.  Robert Radiolab.  Brenna Farrell From...  Jad ... WNYC.  Brenna Farrell C?  Jad Yep.  Jad Uh hello.  Brenna Farrell Hello. Jad.   Jad Brenna Farrell.  Brenna Farrell How are you?   Jad How the hell are you?  Brenna Farrell Oh my God. Uh great?   Jad  Wow.  Brenna Farrell It is I feel like I am literally talking to another world.  Jad I am Jad.  Robert I am Robert.  Jad This is Radio Lab-  Brenna Farrell   Jad ... and today we are reconnecting with an old producer of ours Brenna Farrell.  Brenna Farrell Yeah. Past life.  Robert Who since leaving Radio Lab she is been busy with work.  Brenna Farrell Mm-hmm .  Jad But also-  Brenna Farrell Raising two kids is crazy hard.  Jad ... with family.  Brenna Farrell I am just trying to like take my vitamins and like exist on a low grade panic attack-  Jad   Brenna Farrell  ... all day.  Robert Well I guess we should start by let us just try to recall like what it was that is what I do not even know how you bumped in I you do not normally-  Brenna Farrell Okay. So back in 2015 my husband Nick and I were in our tiny apartment back in Brooklyn and we were new parents. Our son Marty was 18 months old at the time and um one morning I think it was about 5 a.m. like still dark Marty woke up and he was just you know crying crying crying and so I tapped my husband. It was his turn to get up early and go get Marty. So he got out of bed. I fell right back to sleep.  Brenna Farrell And the next thing I knew I was like felt somebody tapping me and I sort of rolled over in my bed and there was just this little person looking up at me covered in this greasy stuff all over. His face was shiny and here was laughing and he held up in his hand this giant jar of diaper ointment this special medicated stuff that we had bought just that last week and I just thought Oh my God. He just ate all this medicine and I have no idea how much he ate.  Brenna Farrell And I look around and my husband who had gotten up with him changed his diaper and like put him down on the floor to play had because he was exhausted fallen asleep in the chair while watching him. So I just flung myself to the edge of the bed and I grabbed Marty in one arm and started frantically searching the label-  Jad Which was filled with words like petrolatum cerecin panthenol glycerin bisabolol. But Brenna says she did not register any of those words because right underneath that list of ingredients-  Brenna Farrell ... I just saw this bold type that said uh If swallowed call your doctor or Poison Control Center immediately. And so I am clutching my son and I am clutching this jar and then I yelled to my husband to wake him up and I am like I need you to find the number and call Poison Control while I hold Marty. And so Nick snaps into action.  Jad Leaps off the chair into the other room-  Brenna Farrell So he can make the call.  Jad ... and Brenna is left sitting there on the bed holding her 18-month-old son who is about to what throw up pass out die? She is not sure.  Brenna Farrell Like have you ever felt that hollow feeling where like your whole chest just huh drops and you just it is like it feels like missing a step. You are just like you have just utterly sick and then just like all sweaty up on my temple. So I am sitting on the edge of our bed. Marty's in my lap and I am eagle-eye watching for like whatever's about to start happening to him. And I had always heard that like y- you have your mother's instinct or whatever that is and like moms know best and moms can tell when something's wrong with their kid and like sometimes maybe that is true but for me-  Robert Brenna says she just froze.  Brenna Farrell ... I was imagining like this huge like glop of ointment has worked it is way down your esophagus and now what is it doing to your stomach lining and what is gonna happen when it like I was just like and I cannot take it back like what do I do? So Nick has gone to the next room and I hear that he is on the phone with someone and then just moments later he came back out and he said Well. That was the most pleasant phone call I have had in ages. There he was completely calm kinda like smiling at me in the doorway and I am just still hunched over the bed like hanging on to Marty thinking what is going on? So Nick straightened up and then went into like Oh okay. Here's what happened. I called. They immediately picked up-  Jad Brenna says that Nick told her uh he talked to this man. The guy asked him super matter of fact how much Marty weighed. Nick told him 20 pounds or whatever. He asked then what brand of diaper ointment did Marty eat? And he told him the brand. And then the guy did a little mental math and said Your child's gonna be fine.  Brenna Farrell Totally fine. This was probably not a big deal at all. It was really common.  Robert No vomiting no no nothing?  Brenna Farrell Nope. He was like just like a slippery little piglet at that point. So cleaned him up and then uh you know let him play. But for the rest of the day I just kept thinking What the hell is Poison Control? I honestly did not think we still lived in a world where you could just call a hotline like get on the telephone and talk to a live human who somehow knows everything about this one specific brand of diaper ointment and then bam like 45 seconds later this full blown crisis in my mind was just gone. And then I you know I I just was having this weird moment of like there is this invisible network out there that was just kind of primed and waiting to help um who are these people?  Brenna Farrell So a few months later I am totally obsessed with Poison Control-  Brenna Farrell Check check check.  Brenna Farrell ... and I ended up in a sky scraper in downtown Chicago. Up 19 floors down these four twisty turny corridors to the oldest Poison Control Center in America.  Brenna Farrell We are here. When I got there-  Carol You know our staff wished there was some natural light-  Brenna Farrell ... Carol the senior director took me on a tour. It is a lot smaller than I would have expected.  Carol You can say it is a dump.  Brenna Farrell No it is not a dump. But it definitely is an office.   Carol   Brenna Farrell Was uh I you know I think I was expecting like just banks of like high tech gleaming computers and instead-  Carol That phone has not worked in at least five years but it is still there.  Brenna Farrell It was this narrow office with gray carpet.  Carol We have a crusty mushroom poster up there.  Brenna Farrell Gray cubicles.  Carol I do not know whose Cubs hat that is but it is been here for a while.  Brenna Farrell The place kinda reminded me of like a basement college computer lab you know like where all the machines are kinda still running Windows 95 or something like that. And sitting in front of those computers-  Erin Poison Center.  Brenna Farrell ... were the poison specialists.  Erin Um I am I am the snakebite person. I love handling snakebite calls.  Brenna Farrell There is Erin who is into snakes.  Erin Like the little old lady who is like working in her backyard and there was a snake and she chops off his head with a shovel and then she brings the snake head into the ER to show them what bit her.  Brenna Farrell And there is Connie.  Connie I am sort of the go-to person for mushrooms. How I look at it-  Brenna Farrell She takes mushroom calls even when she is on vacation.  Carol Is that true?  Connie Yes.   Carol And she gets excited about it.  Brenna Farrell There is Cindy who used to work in the ER.  Cindy I am a nurse by background.  Brenna Farrell There is Jessica.  Jessica Yeah I take the home calls.  Brenna Farrell There is Art.  Art I I am interested in all of it. It is all fun.  Brenna Farrell And then-  Carol Tony Brenna's here.  Brenna Farrell ... there is Tony.  Tony Burda Hello.  Brenna Farrell Hi Tony. How is it going?  Tony Burda Hi.  Brenna Farrell So good to meet you. He is the expert in everything.  Tony Burda Illinois Poison Center.  Art I am ringing? Okay.  Jessica Illinois Poison Center.  Brenna Farrell And while I was there the stream of calls it was just non-stop.  Jessica All right. Bu-bye.  Brenna Farrell As soon as one of them would hang up the phone-  Erin Poison Center.  Jessica Illinois Poison Center.  Brenna Farrell ... another call would come in.  Jessica He is five? Normally healthy? Okay gently wipe off his lips with a little warm water on a wash cloth. Give him something to drink.  Brenna Farrell They all told me that in order to work here you need a background in medicine special training in toxicology on top of that it helps to have a good memory good math skills but you know more importantly what you really need is to be able to stay-  Tony Burda Uh... calm  I guess.  Brenna Farrell ... Calm.  Tony Burda I usually tell people they are gonna be overwhelmed by the first three months.  Connie Poison Center.  Brenna Farrell Because sometimes the calls you know-  Jessica Oh glow stick is not going to be a problem  Brenna Farrell ... they are adorable.  Cindy Oh gosh.  Brenna Farrell But other times...  Cindy Oh boy.  Brenna Farrell ... they are like this.  Cindy He has a temperature of 104.  Brenna Farrell This is an ER call.  Cindy And what was the sugar again?  Brenna Farrell A hospital was calling about a male patient who had been found unconscious.  Cindy Completely sweaty diaphoretic at home. So the medics are assessing him. His blood sugar was 40. His Tylenol is 372. His pupils she said are bouncing all over the place. I do not know what that means.  Brenna Farrell After she hung up I asked Cindy if this was a self-harm call.  Cindy The it is believed to be yes. She was saying that his wife just died of cancer. Yeah.  Brenna Farrell Is that somewhat rare to get one that serious?  Cindy No. Not at all. We get them all the time. At least you know mm...  Cindy Poison Center. Can you spell that? Can you spell the name of that drug? And how many milligrams did you say?  Brenna Farrell I ended up spending about 12 hours there that day and i- if you sit in a poison control center that long you just-  Art Poison Center.  Brenna Farrell ... these calls are washing over. They are just coming and coming and coming.  Cindy Poison Center.  Brenna Farrell You start to feel just kind of-  Art How is your child doing?  Brenna Farrell ... overwhelmed by the fact that every single time the phone rings-  Art How many times did she vomit?  Brenna Farrell ... there is somebody on the other side of the line and they are in a moment of uncertainty-  Art Okay.  Brenna Farrell ... or panic-  Cindy Now when did she take the Tylenol overdose?  Brenna Farrell ... or crisis.  Cindy This could be pretty serious.  Brenna Farrell And the scale of that is just kind of shocking.  Carol We manage 80000 calls a year out of this room.  Brenna Farrell And that is just this one center. That is just Chicago. If you take the poison centers all across the country they handle almost 3 million cases a year. So you get a call like mine or much worse about every 14 seconds or so.  Robert Phew. Whoa.  Carol You know this is a very poisonous planet.  Brenna Farrell And thinking about just how many of us are bumping into these things that we think might be poisoning us-  Carol Arsenic mercury...  Brenna Farrell ... or that are poisoning us.  Carol Gold is poisonous to some extent silver not so poisonous but it will turn you blue.  Brenna Farrell I decided to call up Deborah Blum director of the Knight Science Journalism Program at MIT and poison enthusiast.  Deborah Blum I love poison it is true.  Brenna Farrell Even wrote a book called The Poisoner's Handbook.  Deborah Blum Yeah my husband worries about that a lot.  Brenna Farrell   Deborah Blum In fact he has not let me pour him a cup of coffee for the last six years since my book came out.  Brenna Farrell Are you are you serious? R- he really would?  Deborah Blum  No seriously he is always like Oh I will get it.  Brenna Farrell So Deborah says it kind of helps to think of Poison Control as part of this much larger back and forth. Kind of a dance an evolving dance that we have been doing with our poisonous planet for thousands of years.  Deborah Blum We have been dancing with them in different ways for a very long time. If you go back and look at the hieroglyphics in Egypt there is actually references to death by peach.  Brenna Farrell Hmm.  Deborah Blum And that refers to cyanide poisoning because cyanides are the primary poison in the pits of peaches and plums.  Robert Death by peach is actually written in a wall of a temple somewhere or a tomb?  Deborah Blum That is exactly right.  Brenna Farrell And Deborah says if you go back to the beginning of that dance you will find that like so many things it starts with murder because we humans first got really interested in poisons when we realized we could use them to kill each other.  Deborah Blum And one of my favorite examples is actually arsenic.  Brenna Farrell Which in early 19th century Europe was by all accounts-  Deborah Blum The perfect homicide poison.  Brenna Farrell It was tasteless it was odorless.  Deborah Blum You could put it into vanilla pudding or oatmeal.  Brenna Farrell It mimicked a natural illness.  Deborah Blum Gee it kinda looked like they had a bad gastroenteritis.  Brenna Farrell And at the time we had no way of detecting it.  Deborah Blum Literally when we come into the 19th century science has not figured out a way to detect a single poison in a corpse.  Robert Well so what ruined this perfect murder?  Deborah Blum Well there was a chemist in Britain named James Marsh who worked out this incredibly it is I mean by to standards today primitive tests which involved mincing up the tissue from the dead person and adding some acid and heating it up and distilling it and then as this vapor comes out it cools onto lass. And if there was any arsenic in the original tissue that arsenic forms tiny dark crystals and you got a sort of blackish silver mirror forming over the glass.  Robert Oh...  Deborah Blum And that was actually the first great test in uh forensic toxicology. The Marsh test.  Robert This is sort of the moment Deborah says that modern science joins our dance with poison.  Deborah Blum Because j- as you see the rise of industrial chemistry and and our ability to synthesize cyanide and strychnine and some of these amazingly toxic elements you also see people's realization of how useful they are.  Matt Kielty Man people are so cool around here. Are we in Soho?  Annie McEwen We are in West Soho.  Matt Kielty West Soho.  Brenna Farrell What started happening was at the beginning of the 20th century there were all these new cleaning products hitting the market designed to kill germs and pharmaceutical products designed to kill headaches or whatever. And suddenly all these poisons that used to just be out there in nature were in our homes.  Robert Or in the drugstore aisle. For example.  Matt Kielty Did you see these fun sunglasses?  Annie McEwen Sure.  Matt Kielty They are right over here.  Robert Here are our producers Annie McEwen and Matt Kielty taking a jaunt-  Annie McEwen Okay here we are in Hudson Pharmacy.  Robert ... on our time on Tuesday afternoon this is during working hours-  Matt Kielty Man they only got the weird Dorito flavors.  Annie McEwen Come on.  Robert ... to the local drugstore.  Annie McEwen Cleaning aisle wow! So.  Matt Kielty Oh my.  Annie McEwen Drano. It is at the bottom of the shelf easy for kids to reach. Now let us read the ingredients.  Matt Kielty Contains sodium hypochlorite sodium hydroxide and sodium silicate.  Annie McEwen Okay. Let me see once second. Quick check online. Sodium hydroxide. According to Wikipedia it is used to digest tissues. Say there is like roadkill in a landfill they will put the roadkill in a sealed container with sodium hydroxide and water.  Matt Kielty Oh my it is like Breaking Bad.  Annie McEwen Yeah a- and the body turns into a liquid with coffee-like appearance apparently.  Matt Kielty Turns people into coffee.  Annie McEwen It like makes people into coffee. Yeah.  Matt Kielty Okay.  Annie McEwen A little higher on the shelf.  Matt Kielty Ah everybody's favorite childhood cartoon.  Annie McEwen Mr. Clean meadows and rain scent.  Matt Kielty Oh yeah.  Annie McEwen Same thing.  Matt Kielty Sodium hydroxide.  Annie McEwen Coffee people. Wait do not open it. Do not open it. It is not- it is if you open it you have to buy it.  Matt Kielty No.  Annie McEwen   Matt Kielty   Annie McEwen Yes. Look. So.  Matt Kielty What is this thing? This opens.  Annie McEwen Nope. There is Windex. I see Windex. Oh this one is just called ammonia.  Matt Kielty   Annie McEwen If you mix ammonia and bleach what happens? A poisonous gas results.  Matt Kielty  Whoa.  Annie McEwen It also occurs naturally in the atmospheres of Jupiter and Saturn.  Matt Kielty That is impressive.  Annie McEwen Next one. This little gray bottle up on the highest shelf.  Matt Kielty Goddard's Brass and Copper Polish.  Annie McEwen A brass and copper polish.  Matt Kielty Contains 2-butoxyethanol.  Annie McEwen It has a sweet ether-like odor.  Matt Kielty Here I am gonna pop this... oh.  Annie McEwen Did you just open it and smell it?  Matt Kielty Oh it said harmful if inhaled.  Annie McEwen Oh Matt. Okay well it says it can cause adrenal tumors in animals. It is carcinogenic in rodents.  Matt Kielty Jesus Christ.  Annie McEwen Um...  Matt Kielty Well I hope I did not smell too much of it.  Annie McEwen Matt!  Matt Kielty Let us just get out of here.  Annie McEwen You do not wanna get some chips?  Matt Kielty No.  Annie McEwen All right.  Deborah Blum We are very comfortable with the fact that we walk down the grocery store aisle or open up the medicine chest and we are surrounded by these different you know in pill form or liquid form or spray form or whatever but these different compounds that actually are dangerous. We are used to that. We live with that right?  Brenna Farrell Wow snakes.  Brenna Farrell Which brings us to a guy.  Brenna Farrell Let us see. Oh and there is a plaque for Louis Gdalman.  Brenna Farrell Actually I saw this plaque dedicated to him on the wall at the poison center in Chicago.  Brenna Farrell In appreciation of the initiative and devoted service of Louis Gdalman RPH founder of the Poison and Drug Information Center.  Brenna Farrell Anyway a guy names Louis Gdalman.  Katherine Louis Gdalman who was a brilliant scientist in the state of Illinois.  Brenna Farrell Louis passed away back in 1995 but his wife Katherine-  Katherine Yes.  Brenna Farrell ... is still very much alive.  Katherine Absolutely.  Brenna Farrell She is 98 now but she met Louis back when she was a 20 year old nurse working in St. Luke's Hospital in Chicago.  Katherine It was 1940 and he was a pharmacist in the hospital and everybody knew Lou and we all loved him and I was the lucky one. I caught him .  Brenna Farrell Louis was sort of a shorter man dark hair big dark eyebrows.  Katherine And he had a great personality and he would take care of everything that came along.  Brenna Farrell Friendly but when it came to his work he took it very seriously.  Katherine The pharmacy was directly across the hall from the emergency room.  Brenna Farrell And so what started happening is Gdalman noticed this trend. Like just to back up this is the 1940s and doctors are totally winning against infectious diseases. And what that meant was that as far as the public was concerned keeping your family healthy and germ free is a big deal and that meant keeping your home-  Advertisement  So clean.  Brenna Farrell ... super-  Advertisement  Gleaming clean.  Brenna Farrell ... duper-  Advertisement  So white.  Brenna Farrell ... clean.  Advertisement  It really looks clean does not it?  Brenna Farrell And at the same time-  Advertisement  Use A Tack.  Brenna Farrell ... there is just this explosion of new cleaning products coming into the market.  Advertisement  Bavo leaves your sink brighter than any other cleanser in the world.  Advertisement  Johnson's Jubilee.  Advertisement  New blue Cheer. Great for dishes as well as laundry.  Brenna Farrell So our kitchen cabinets and cupboards under the bathroom sink-  Advertisement  Deep cleaning Oxidol.  Brenna Farrell ... was getting like filled up with all of these things. Like strong smelling powders and liquids-  Advertisement  Bavo.  Brenna Farrell ... and brightly colored bottles and boxes.  Advertisement  Of all leading cleaners Mr. Clean is now the most powerful ever put into a pot.  Advertisement  Ooh and it smells good too.  Brenna Farrell And getting back to Louis what he began to notice was that more and more these doctors were coming across the hall to his pharmacy. Like first one and more and more and you know they were saying like Hey we have got this kid over in the ER. He just got into this new cleaning stuff and we have no idea what is in it. Can you help us?  Katherine So uh the interns and residents in the emergency room would naturally come across the hall to see Lou. And Lou helped them find out what the child had taken.  Brenna Farrell For example if the child had swallowed Ajax.  Advertisement  Use Ajax! Boom boom.  Brenna Farrell That meant he had actually eaten-  Advertisement  Boom boom.  Brenna Farrell ... sodium carbonate and sodium dodecylbenzene sulfinate which could mean nausea diarrhea or vomiting.  Katherine And Lou used to keep cards on every patient that he saw.  Brenna Farrell So with each new product that was brought into the emergency room Lou would write up a new card. White Sail Bleach sodium hypocholoride chest pain vomiting. Safety clean...  Katherine Lou decided this was a thing that was very needed.  Brenna Farrell Because by the 1950s there were over 250000 different trade name substances on the market. And so doctors they just could not keep up. And so Lou's stack of cards it grew taller and taller and taller and pretty soon word got out. Docs across the country would hear that there is this guy in Chicago who gives out help on poisoning cases. And so many calls were coming in at all hours of the day and night eventually Gdmalman just started telling the switchboard operators they could go ahead and transfer the call to his home.  Katherine We would get calls from all the different little uh emergency room in the hospitals in the state.  Robert And what was uh w- what is it like um i- once you are doing this then it seems to me that you do not really have normal hours because emergencies will take place whenever they take place. So w-  Katherine Yes.  Robert How did w- what was he gonna be on call 24 ours a day or-  Katherine They-  Robert Or-  Katherine Yes.  Robert Really?  Katherine Yes. Yes he was. We would get calls in the middle of the night. Yeah or even during dinner time.  Robert So what happens if you know he is in the tub and you are cooking dinner and the phone rings?  Katherine I would uh take the phone to him in the tub.  Robert   Katherine  Er a- and uh that is the way it started.  Brenna Farrell And eventually Lou's little operation became the first poison control center in the United States in 1953 in Chicago.  Jingle 1-800-222-1222 1-800-222-1222. If you think it might be poison then the first thing you should do is call 1-800-222-1222. Poison is the kind of thing you are not supposed to touch. Old prescriptions cleaning stuff or spider bites and such. If you swallowed somethin' bad or think you took too much call the poison control center hotline we are the people you can trust. For poison-  Kirsten Hi there this is Kirsten recording from Orlando Florida. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Pocket Casts Great podcasts deserve a great platform. That is why Pocket Casts delivers a beautifully designed simple but powerful experience that offers more control. It is the premium app for podcast listening search and discovery. And it is now free. Download Pocket Casts today at pocketcasts.com or find us in the Apple App or Google Play stores.  Jad Two one Jad.  Robert Robert.  Jad Radiolab.  Robert So we are back with reporter Brenna Farrell who is continuing to um to inquire into things poisonous.  Jad And uh before the break we just uh learned about Louis Gdalman who started the oldest poison control center in the country back in 1953 in Chicago.  Brenna Farrell Yeah and so today now we have 55 poison control centers all across the country and it is one phone number that anyone anywhere in the U.S. can call whenever they need help.  Art Poison Center.  Brenna Farrell Are there uh certain times of day like is there a rhythm to the day generally?  Tony Burda The usual pattern is busy in the morning you know kids are getting ready for school and the parents are getting ready for work.  Jessica People brushing your teeth with muscle rub cream kids drinking a little mouthwash you eat some sunscreen eating some old mayonnaise.  Tony Burda Double doses uh in the morning you know. Each parent will give the kid uh ADHD uh medication or and then then the mid-afternoon kind of tapers down a little bit.  Cindy 'Til like four five is the slowest.  Jessica And then...  Cindy The evenings.  Tony Burda The busiest time of the day overall. And it is like between 00 pm and 00 pm.  Jessica And it is people coming home from work trying to get dinner.  Cindy Super glue instead of eye drops. Super glue instead of lip gloss.  Tony Burda People take the dogs or cats medicine by mistake instead of their normal medication.  Brenna Farrell  Oh no really?  Tony Burda Uh yeah th- that is a frequent scenario.  Jessica At night it gets to be with adults.  Erin I ha- literally I have a list here of all the things that have been used instead of lube.  Connie It is just busy it is you know just the hectic schedule that we are living in right now.  Brenna Farrell And Gdalman's old stack of cards that is become this huge database that is tracking like in real time these things that are cropping up.  News  ... over an outbreak of Salmonella that may have made 22 people sick already.  Brenna Farrell Whether it is a Salmonella outbreak or like-  News  The last 11 deaths appear to be connected to heroin being sold in western New York that is laced with fentanyl.  Brenna Farrell ... a weird drug reaction that people are having or maybe it is a new product that is unexpectedly dangerous.  News  ... popular laundry detergent pods that look like candy now they are being linked to a tragic death of a child.  Brenna Farrell They can see that in real time and the health officials or whoever else know about it.  Jad Wow.  Brenna Farrell W- which is pretty cool but I mean honestly just selfishly thinking about myself as as a mom um coming out of the trip to poison control I remember writing down this feeling of like y- you know what if I just approached all the scary decision in my life the way that poison control did? You like what w- like kind of thinking what would poison control do? Like it just it felt like such a relief to be experiencing-  Cindy It was phenobarbitol 64.8 milligram tablet. And how much does she weigh?  Brenna Farrell ... like this super rational place like it was just completely rational.  Cindy And when did it happen? How long ago?  Brenna Farrell We have this data we are gonna-  Art What is the name of the product?  Brenna Farrell ... take these questions from you-  Cindy  Brenna Farrell ... and then we are gonna tell you this is what we think is gonna happen-  Tony Burda She does not have any stomach pain now she is a- awake...  Brenna Farrell ... and they will let you make a decision or they will tell you like straight up do not worry about it.  Tony Burda Yeah I think she is gonna be A okay for um from here on out.  Cindy And then take it again but you will be okay. Okay?  Brenna Farrell It just felt like it it stripped away a lot of the um like the guilt and the anxiety and the like should I do this-  Jad Yeah.  Brenna Farrell ... and politics-  Jad Yeah.  Brenna Farrell ... and all those other things that h- often swirl around even seemingly to me innocuous questions about how do I keep this person this little person safe and healthy there is all this stuff swirling around it and they just l- we did not have to get into any of that.  Jad Th- it still remains for me the most interesting part of this is the the idea that we are just supposed to know things. Like you know I talk about this with my dad I mean there was this time in medicine when um it was all about the doctor in the white coat. It was this paternalistic thing doctor knows best. And no one wants to go back there but like tha- the- there was something emotionally clean about that where as now we we have all the information. It is right there. This is hand in hand with the rise of the internet. And so increasingly we are expected to be our own experts and it is usually presented as this sort of simple idea that information is power and uh it is not power. I mean it is but it is also paralysis.  Brenna Farrell Yeah. I actually had ar rule where I would not I would only let Nick look things up. 'ecause I could not like I was not it started when I was pregnant I like would have a panic attack. 'ecause there was so many different things. And like always the top searches are the ones that like you are gonna die um.  Jad Oh yeah. And you re- you like you get into the comments field oh forget it.  Brenna Farrell Oh god right?  Jad I mean there is something about when you look at an answer on a screen and you are just one click away from an and the exact opposite answer.   Brenna Farrell Yeah.  Jad And then when you are on the phone with someone it is just you and that person. Like there is no other distraction.  Brenna Farrell Yeah.  Jad Like there is something built into the technology that creates exactly the kind of connect you need at that moment.  Tony Burda You know people when they call you it is an emergency they are they are panicking and I think half the battle is getting them to settle down and...  Brenna Farrell So this is Tony Burda the know-everything guy we mentioned earlier.  Tony Burda Well I started in February uh of '81.  Brenna Farrell He is been that calm voice for 30 years. And while he was in pharmacy school he had an accident.  Tony Burda Well I actually started pharmacy school as a sighted person but I finished as a blind individual.  Jad What what happened?  Brenna Farrell Uh he he did not want to say.  Tony Burda Oh I do not want to dwell on on it but um you know...  Brenna Farrell But like I was sitting there seeing him doing all of this math and spitting out these numbers-  Tony Burda Receptor sites and half lives and  distribution and...  Brenna Farrell ... which is totally incomprehensible to me. But he told me that he also like pretty quickly had discovered early on that there was this whole other part of doing this job.  Tony Burda That was in September of '82 let us see I would have probably had like a year and half of experience at that time. I remember I was sitting in the Poison Center with another pharmacist and we had the news radio AM station on. It was about 30 in the morning it was news news flash.  News  A bizarre and terrifying story today in the Chicago suburbs of Arlington Heights and Elk Grove Village. A 12 year old girl and two men who were brothers are dead after taking poisoned capsules of extra-strength Tylenol.  Tony Burda Several people died from cyanide that they believe was from Tylenol.  News  ... but five deaths in Chicago and that number might be changed to six.  News  Six deaths have now been linked to the capsules which were laced with cyanide and late today...  Brenna Farrell It was this terrifying moment were thousands of people just simultaneously were all thinking Oh my god this thing I brought into my home to make me feel better it could kill me.  News  Today across the country Tylonal products were being pulled from the shelves.  Brenna Farrell The police are like driving their cars slowly down the street with loud speakers being like-   Do not take any Tylenol until further notice.  Brenna Farrell ... Take back your Tylenol.  News  Do not take any Tylenol Extra Strength for the time being until you hear otherwise.  Brenna Farrell And so you know Tony told me he is sitting there hearing these news broadcasts going across the radio and he just turned to the guy sitting next to him in the poison control center and said...  Tony Burda Holy S. We are gonna we are gonna get killed.  News  Poison control.  News  The phone has been ringing off the hook at Rush Presbyterian St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago.  Tony Burda You know it was just boom boom boom boom boom. Soon as you hung up the phone you know the phone ring again.   Uh we have been receiving calls about once every 15 seconds.  Tony Burda This other pharmacist and I just grabbed the references and try to make ourselves cyanide experts you know real fast.  Brenna Farrell And the interesting thing about this case is that in every single one of these calls that was coming in you know someone was terrified someone was panicked but they were not actually in any danger.  News  Officials here say if anyone has take a cyanide laced Tylenol capsule they probably would not be able to make it to the phone to call.  Brenna Farrell So in some way this moment if you think about it it it really kind of highlights this thing that is really at the heart of poison control. The specialists not only were calm but they w- they they are job was to just reassure. Like they were letting people know it was gonna be okay. But if you flash forward to now that is changing. It is they are getting more calls that are more serious. They are getting calls from hospitals they are getting calls from people who have taken multiple drugs and so they are like-  Jad And that does that mean that they are getting less calls from like normal people parents and that kind of thing?  Brenna Farrell Yeah those calls are going down.  Jad Huh.  Brenna Farrell And that and like calls overall since like the in the past decade there have been fewer calls to poison control.  Jad Do you know why?  Brenna Farrell My sense is we do not like to make phone calls anymore. Like people do not-  Jad Hmm.  Brenna Farrell ... they are like you know like the internet is there and that is what we are used to and that is easy. And so they are they just launched this new like instead of calling you can go to the website and plug in answers to the questions that they roll through and it will give you the same answer based on hopefully the same knowledge. But then as a person who is lived through it I am like oh my God please do not take away that phone call. 'ecause it when you are in that panic the though of having to sit and type an answer out while you are holding your kid and like wondering if you have really screwed up i- it is like you are taking away something really valuable that maybe we are not valuing here.  Deborah Blum I did have this one event when my older son I have got two sons was very little. We were living in Sacramento.  Jad That by the way is author Deborah Blum again.  Deborah Blum And uh they did not have fluoridated water so our uh doc gave them these tiny cute they were really cute fruit flavored fluoride pills the kinda thing you could get a toddler to take. I do not know what we were doing but somehow we had given him his daily fluoride pill and then like idiots left it on the kitchen counter. And he grabbed it and pretty much inhaled the whole bottle. And I was a- really freaked. I just did not know how poisonous that was gonna be and I called poison control.  Robert You did?  Deborah Blum And... I did. I I was like am I supposed t- what I wanted to know was whether I should panic right?  Robert Yeah.  Deborah Blum I mean he seemed fined he it was not like he was getting sick in any way and uh they were completely non-freaked out about it.  I was like-  Brenna Farrell  That is their specialty.  Deborah Blum Y- Yeah. It was-  Robert  Do you remember that experience? Do you remember hear- did you hear their words or did you hear their tone?  Deborah Blum It was the tone. They were so calm and they could tell I was freaked. And and I can just tell you I am standing in the kitchen we had this phone my son's by me I you know he can tell I am freaked but he does not really know I am freaked and I sat on the floor. After I talked to them I just sat down on the floor with him because I was just so grateful right?  Robert Mm-hmm .  Deborah Blum And I was. And that is what I remember is how grateful I felt.   You cannot deal with poison. Hello? Um my my two and a half year old daughter just ate most of the tube of a .85 ounce thing of crest.   Good afternoon poison control how may I help you.   Oh yes hi there I gave my son 12.5 ml of children's Motrin.   I understand. And what is his weight.   Uh he is about 25 to 30 pounds so.   So question um...   Um 0.243.   0.243?   Mm-hmm .   How much does the child weigh?   Um she weighs... darn it I think 24 pounds.   This is a brand new tube that she ate it?   Um just a tiny bit used maybe a pea sized amount used.   ... aid station.   Um that should not be a problem.   Tarro...   Tarro and?   Tarro. T-A-R-R-O.   Yeah?   Uh that is what it says that is all I can see. It says others tarro.   Does it say anything  tool or...   No.   Anything else-   It just says tarro.   ... that you can read?   Uh yeah four take tubes five dot Y or five percentage it might be percent I am not sure.   Five what?   Five dot Y?   5.4 maybe.   Maybe. Yes. 5.4.   Yeah  four eight 5.4 that is not a problem.   No?   No.   Ah thank heaven.   Yeah so give her something to drink and she will be fine.   Okay.   Definitely not uh even close to the possible toxic dose.   No this happens all the time. She should be fine.   All right well thank you so much for your help I appreciate it.   You are welcome. You know he will be fine.   Wow um l- uh Leti-   Letitia.   Was it Letit- Letitia? You just put us at ease and I appreciate you very much.   Oh we appreciate that too.  Jingle 1-800-222-1222 1-800-222-1222. If you think you might be poisoned. Poison is the kind of thing you are not supposed to touch. Spider bites and poison if you swallowed something bad or think you took too much 1-800-222-1222.  Jad Calls to poison control are confidential by the way uh we got permission from the callers you heard to use the audio. If you should ever need to call poison control the number is 1-800-222-1222. And if you text the word Poison to 797979 it will save the number in your phone.  Robert Deborah Blum's latest book The Poison Squad is gonna come out this fall and you can find out more on our website.  Jad Thank you also to Nick Capodice Wendy Blair-Stefan Mariana Moser-Jones Andrew Perella Whitney Pennington Richard Dart and Natalie Wheton. This episode was reported by Brenn Farrell and produced by Annie McEwen with help from Jake Arlow. I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Thanks for listening.  Jingle If you think it might be poison and you do not know what to do call 1-800-222-1222.   To play the message press two. Start of message.  Brenna Farrell Hey everybody it is Brenna. I am calling in the staff credits with Marty. We will see how far we get. Hey Marty you ready? Radiolab...  Marty Radiolab by Jad Abumrad.  Brenna Farrell And is produced by...  Marty And produced by Sauron Wheeler. Dylan Keefe-  Brenna Farrell Is our director.  Marty He is Marty Marty.  Brenna Farrell No director of sound design. Can you say that?  Marty Director of sound design.  Brenna Farrell Maria Matasar-Padilla...  Marty Maria Matasar-Padilla and then the rest includes .  Brenna Farrell Maggie Bartelamayo.  Marty Oh Maggie at my school.  Brenna Farrell Okay.  Marty   Brenna Farrell Rachel Cusick.  Marty Rachel Cusick David Davoo...  Brenna Farrell Gracie Hunt.  Marty Gracie Hunt. Matt Kielty. Rob Krulwich. Annie McEwen. Latif Nasser.  Brenna Farrell Melissa O'Donnell.  Marty Melissa O'Donald.  Brenna Farrell Marianne Mac.  Marty Marianne Mac. Pat Walters.  Brenna Farrell And Molly Webster.  Marty And Molly Webster. With help from Marty!  Brenna Farrell  Yeah. Amanda Arohin.  Marty Yep it rob rob I already did that. Hmm um oh I wri I lee   Brenna Farrell Bye.  Marty Bye. Now can you tell the puppy to bark?  Brenna Farrell Yes   End of message.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 