Jad Abumrad Jad here. So uh next week we are gonna launch a new miniseries here on Radiolab from Molly Webster. Molly is somebody who if you have listened to the show for a while... Like you know her voice you know her vibe she is been reporting mostly science stories here at Radiolab for about five years. She is begun to host the show on occasion. And uh next week she is gonna start up a month long series about the seemingly ordinary but in truth utterly bizarre and magical and deeply weird and ethically fraught business of humans making more of themselves.  Jad Abumrad Now this is a beat that evolved over time for her. And I thought um as a prelude to Molly Town let us uh play one of the big foundational stories that got her and all of us thinking about this whole world. Uh I am not sure that we have ever spent so much time and energy and money frankly reporting a story as the one you are about to hear. Those of you who have heard this check back in with us in a week. For those of you who have not I think this is actually one of the best things we have ever made. In any case here it is. And next week it is on.  Intro Hey wait you are listen- . Okay. All right. Okay. All right. You are listening to Radiolab... Lab. Radio from WNYC. Yep.   Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad Webbs?  Molly Webster Oh am I allowed to talk?  Jad Abumrad Yeah do it.  Molly Webster Oh I am Molly Webster.   Robert Krulwich You just graduated.   Jad Abumrad Join the party Molly join the party. And uh today we have a... I do not know we have a birth story.  Robert Krulwich We are calling this birth story because that is what it is. The- we are gonna tell you about babies who were very recently born. And who one day will turn to their parents and say to them Tell me how I got here. Like like what is what is what is-  Jad Abumrad What is my story?  Robert Krulwich What is my story? And the parents in this case will say Well...  Jad Abumrad That is complicated.  Robert Krulwich That is... Yeah. This is one way the kids will hear what we are you are about to hear and they will go Really?  Jad Abumrad It is a collaboration with a a team of reporters in Israel called Israel Story they are a group of folks who do sort of long-form reporting and storytelling. They have been doing it in Hebrew for three years. And they are in the middle of their first English language season right now and-  Robert Krulwich Which we are gonna be in.  Jad Abumrad Exactly. And uh this is uh two producers that we work with in particular Maya Kosover and Yochai Maital. And uh this story begins with Maya.  Maya Kosover Okay it was party. We were all dancing. Israeli music in the middle of Jaffa.  Jad Abumrad It was her birthday. We were at her apartment and this guy Tal...  Maya Kosover Tal was dancing with his partner.  Jad Abumrad These are friends of yours?  Maya Kosover Yeah Tal is kind of a megastar in the deaf community in Israel 'ecause he translates the news in the TV to uh deaf people to sign language.  Jad Abumrad Oh wow. So he is like the little guy in the corner of the TV.  Maya Kosover Yeah.  Jad Abumrad And his partner?  Maya Kosover Amir.  Jad Abumrad Amir or Amid?  Maya Kosover Amir.  Jad Abumrad With an r?  Maya Kosover He is a psychologist that works especially with children that are autistic.  Jad Abumrad Huh. Anyway they are at the party.  Maya Kosover So we were dancing all together and then uh Tal was Oh my god maybe it is going to be the last party that I am in 'ecause I am going to be a parent. And not only a parent I am going to be a father for three. And then-  Jad Abumrad Whoa.  Maya Kosover We were like Oh my God three babies?  Jad Abumrad   Maya Kosover How is that going to happen?  Jad Abumrad And it turns out how that was gonna happen. Is a... whew it is a crazy story involving uh four countries-  Molly Webster Three women.  Robert Krulwich Two guys and and-  Jad Abumrad Three babies-  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Jad Abumrad As we mentioned.  Robert Krulwich Planes and-  Molly Webster Planes wait jet planes-  Robert Krulwich Jet planes-  Molly Webster Two of them.  Robert Krulwich Hundreds of thousands of dollars.  Molly Webster At least four languages?  Robert Krulwich Yes. Oh yes. All that.  Jad Abumrad But we should we should go back a bit to the beginning.  Amir The first thing that I saw in Tal is is uh is his ability to be a father.  Jad Abumrad This is Amir.  Molly Webster Really?  Amir Yeah.  Molly Webster How so?  Amir Because um he was a good man you know he was very uh gentle and and really an adult uh uh to be the family. I do not know how to describe it.  Tal Mench.  Amir Mench.   Molly Webster And but did you see that like on the first meeting or was this like four months in?  Amir My career is established to work with autistic people and to take notice for every sign of of communication and uh and to understand other people and to analyze them. So it was really immediate I say.  Tal Let us say after two or three times you say okay eh I want children. So are you interesting?  Amir I wrote a manifesto about my future what I want to do what I want to do in my career. It is kind of my vision and I gave it to him and I said this and this is what I want.   Jad Abumrad Sign at the bottom please.  Amir Yeah. It kind of was a contract. It is like this is what I want. If you want to join me eh so let us do it.  Tal So let us do it.  Jad Abumrad And Tal what was your reaction to the to the manifesto?  Tal I like it. It is look like someone who want a future.  Robert Krulwich Did your own parents have any either of your parents have any views about that? Saying do not do or this is weird?   Tal Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Suffice to say their families did not approve especially when it came to the idea of them having kids. Now how to have those kids. That is a question.  Yochai Maital Basically there there are two options. If you are a gay couple and you want to have kid there used to be three options.  Jad Abumrad That is Yochai Maital from Israel Story. Here is how he and Maya laid it out for us. Option one which is now not as much of an option.  Yochai Maital You could adopt a kid from a third world country.  Jad Abumrad But he says over the last few years what happened is that those third world countries figured out who was adopting their babies and one by one they banned it for gay couples.  Maya Kosover Yeah.  Yochai Maital The second option which is becoming very very popular in Israel is sort of the new family. That is what it is called in Hebrew at least. Sort of getting together with another woman who wants to be a mother but does not have a father. And then they do a joint parenthood.  Jad Abumrad They all live in the same house?  Yochai Maital No the mother lives separately and it is kind of like divorced parents that get along really well.  Maya Kosover They sign a contract before the process and everything is like in the contract.  Jad Abumrad Tal and Amir said that early on uh they tried this route.  Amir Eh Tal got the an offer from one of his friend to do the co-parenting but then I spoke with Tal and ask him Listen it is very important for me to have a baby of my own and with my sperm.  Tal Eh and I said to Amir I want to try but I do not care if in the end we have only one baby in your sperm so it will be my baby the same.  Amir I think I was more stubborn about it than Tal.  Jad Abumrad Amir could not really explain why it was so important to him just that it was important to him. But reflecting on it later Maya from Israel story put it this way.  Maya Kosover It is very Jewish and Israeli. I mean if you are are not in the Israeli mainstream if you are gay or if you are different and you will have your own baby it is like a signature of being part of the game you know?  Jad Abumrad Whatever the reasons uh Amir and Tal talked it over and then they went back to this woman Tal's friend who had offered to do the co-parenting...  Amir And we asked her if she can uh obligate to us to bring two children one of eh of Tal's sperms. And one of my own.  Jad Abumrad In the end she said...  Amir No.  Jad Abumrad And at this point a year had gone by.  Amir So then we have decided that maybe the best option will be...  Yochai Maital Option three is is surrogacy.  Jad Abumrad Meaning of course if you are a gay man that you take your sperm take some eggs from a woman put your sperm in those eggs into the womb of a second woman who carries the baby to term.  Yochai Maital But surrogacy is illegal in Israel.  Maya Kosover Only for gay couples yeah.  Jad Abumrad In Israel if you are a hetero couple you can use an Israeli woman as a surrogate. But if you are gay you cannot.  Yochai Maital So there is a big problem. But that problem also creates a big demand. As you can imagine there are quite a lot of gay couples in Israel and so the company's sprang up basically offering international brokering of sperm eggs and uh ovaries.  Maya Kosover Babies outsourcing.  Jad Abumrad  You can see this play out every year at these conferences in Israel conferences.  Yochai Maital Conferences where they get prospective parents together.   We are here for our first time in Tel Aviv.  Jad Abumrad So it is this big room of people.  Yochai Maital Several hundred people.  Jad Abumrad Pretty much all gay men.   Pardon me for not being to speak Hebrew very well or at all. Shalom.  Jad Abumrad Basically what happened to these conferences is that surrogacy agencies will get up and basically sell their products.   We now offer a surrogacy in uh Mexico...   Thailand...   Panama...   The United States...   India...   Anybody been to Fort worth? Very nice place. You can go see a basketball game you can go see a baseball game.  Jad Abumrad These agencies will find women in all of these places who will serve as the surrogate for your child. And depending on which country you choose and whether or not you provide the donor eggs or they do or a million other factors. The costs will vary.   We offer very competitive prices. For example 36000 complete start to finish in Mexico 38000 in Thailand   Anywhere from 65000 to 85000 150000. It could be that much.   That is excluding the donor of course but we have a good selection of donors including um Jewish donors as well.  Tal Yeah you have session with the lawyers you have session with the families you have session is with doctors.  Jad Abumrad Tal and Amir went to two of these conferences successive years and coming back from the second one.  Tal We take a calculator and you start  to think how we can make it. Raising money money money.  Amir Yeah.  Tal Yeah.  Jad Abumrad They figure if they go with a company that does surrogacy in the U.S.  Amir It is probably going to cost 150000 or...  Robert Krulwich Is that lawyers and-  Amir Lawyers the hospital...  Tal The sperm delivery uh the egg donor. There is a lot of people that we need to pay  Jad Abumrad And he says keep in mind when you pay that money you are not guaranteed a baby.  Amir You will buy a process.  Tal Yeah.  Amir We do not buy a baby.  Tal One of our friends did this kind of process and they spent five times and they still did not succeed.  Robert Krulwich Five times.  Jad Abumrad Yeah they figured with that kind of risk doing in the U.S. was just too expensive. And so they started looking at surrogacy agencies which operate in India and Nepal.  Tal Because over there you can do the same thing and it will cost you about 60000.  Robert Krulwich So it is almost half price.  Tal Almost a half price Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Now one of the tricky things according to Yochai is that in 2013...  Yochai Maital India basically outlawed surrogacy.  Maya Kosover For gay couples. I mean if you are a straight couple you can do surrogacy in India.  Jad Abumrad But not if you are gay.  Yochai Maital Also in Nepal by the way Nepal also outlawed surrogacy.  Jad Abumrad Effectively the cabinet said if you are a Nepali woman you cannot be a surrogate period.  Yochai Maital But there is sort of a loophole. Indian women are allowed to be surrogates in Nepal but just Nepali women are not allowed to be surrogates in Nepal.  Jad Abumrad So what ends up happening is this really strange situation.  Maya Kosover It looks like it puzzle.  Jad Abumrad These agents in Northern India will find Indian woman move them across the border into Nepal take them all the way to Kathmandu where the surrogacy agencies have set up shelter houses and work with local hospitals and clinics. Maya says for Tal and Amir the decision to do it this way was not easy.  Maya Kosover They they had like different opinions.  Amir Tal had the bigger issue with the moral concept of this process.  Maya Kosover Amir was. like this is the thing that we need to do. I want to be a father.  Amir But Tal...  Maya Kosover Tal was... It was very hard for him.  Tal I thought if it is it is immoral to do... things like that. To use another woman to give me a present like that and and I know she will never will see this baby anymore.  Molly Webster Is it immoral because you are essentially like just using a woman's body or?  Tal Uh yeah. You can say it.  Maya Kosover He felt like he is using other people. Bad luck for his own good.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Maya Kosover She has no choice. She is not doing it out of freedom. She is just doing it for the money and maybe it is not morally okay that we will use this weakness.  Jad Abumrad Tal and Amir went back and forth on this for months. And eventually the argument that won the day was this. That if they are going to do it they are going to do it with this agency called Lotus which to their understanding paid the surrogates 12000. I mean the surrogates were actually paid in Indian rupees but that would be the dollar equivalent. 12000. Now for a rural woman in India that is a massive sum of money. They figured this will not just help her survive it will change her life. She will be changing their life and they will be changing hers.  Tal Maybe this was um-  Amir Kind of like comfort.  Tal Yeah they get money they can change their life they can buy a house they can send their her children to school eh to learn in the university. When I thought and understand it is will be life changer and it is not uh-  Amir Exploiting.  Tal Exploiting her. So I agree.  Jad Abumrad At the start of the whole process...  Maya Kosover One of the main issue was to pick the egg donor.  Molly Webster And like who are these women? Like where do they come from?  Tal Ukraine.  Amir They are from the Ukraine.  Molly Webster They are all Ukrainian. What is that? That is not a country I expected to be thrown into the mix of countries.  Yochai Maital The reason the eggs are from Eastern Europe are generally because uh-  Maya Kosover They are white.  Yochai Maital Because they are white. So it is like cheap white eggs.  Jad Abumrad Cheap white eggs. Wow  that is quite a phrase.  Tal So you have like a website and you see a lot of pictures of woman and then you need to choose the most eh-  Amir It is like Jdate.  Tal Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Jewish online dating service.  Tal Yeah. I think it was the most straight-y-ish act that I did in a very long time.  Jad Abumrad Oh straightest basically.  Molly Webster Oh because you are picking out a lady.  Tal Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Yeah how did you decide which criteria you wanted in a in a donor mom?  Tal Oh the first one was height.  Jad Abumrad You wanted someone tall?  Amir Yeah.  Molly Webster Why why was height your first one?  Amir Because it is uh...  Tal It is more easy to to live when you are height.  Amir Yeah.  Molly Webster Okay.  Tal Then eyes.  Maya Kosover She has these sick eyes.  Jad Abumrad They showed my a picture.  Maya Kosover Light brown hair and she has this nice nose. It was you know very strange.  Tal It was very uncomfortable to choose. For me it was very eh   Yochai Maital Is there a genetic uh improving-  Molly Webster Oh  like a eugenics.  Tal Yeah yeah yeah eugenics.  Robert Krulwich Huh.  Jad Abumrad Now since Tal and Amir had each one at a baby with their own sperm they told Lotus...  Maya Kosover We would like to rent two wombs one of each sperm and to try to use like two surrogate mothers.  Jad Abumrad Lotus said Fine that is gonna run you...  Tal About 50 60000 each pregnancy.  Jad Abumrad Again no guarantees. So Tal and Amir they give Lotus their sperm in little cups. Lotus freezes the sperm sends it to a hospital in Nepal the Ukrainian woman the egg donor is flown to Nepal. Her eggs are harvested somewhere along the way. Two North Indian women are moved across the border into Nepal. Finally the doctors at that Nepali hospital take the Israeli sperm inject it into the Ukrainian eggs create some embryos and they implant those embryos in the wombs of the Indian surrogates. Four countries one baby. A few months go by they get the news that both surrogates are pregnant. The process worked. One is pregnant with twins three babies in all. They are sent sonograms pictures of the surrogate's pregnant bellies.  Tal I all the time look on the picture of her all the ultrasound pictures all the time looking on my cell phone in the picture.  Jad Abumrad 'ecause Tal says there was not really much he could do. 'ecause for three or four or five months not much happened. Until six months in...  Amir Six oclock in the-  Tal Six oclock in the morning. Dana from Lotus call us and uh Amir was answer the phone and they hear him say Okay they are okay? I wake up and say What? Because it was too early uh-  Amir Early.  Jad Abumrad How early?  Amir About eight uh eight weeks ahead.  Jad Abumrad Wow. The surrogate who was carrying twins had given birth.  Tal I was cry a lot.  Jad Abumrad This was the surrogate carrying Tal's baby which turned out to be two babies.  Tal Yeah.  Jad Abumrad And were you on the plane the same day as getting that call or?  Tal Uh day after. We fly from Tel Aviv to Istanbul. And from Istanbul to Kathmandu. It was very crazy day. Then Gail uh-  Jad Abumrad This is one of Tal's friends who was also in Nepal for surrogacy.  Tal Took me to the hospital and wow. I I was shocked because Gilly was so tiny.  Jad Abumrad Gilly was 3.8 pounds. His brother Yuval 4.8 pounds.  Tal And uh yeah I I was very scared to to touch him.  Jad Abumrad He says he expected the twins to stay the hospital for a month. But the nurses were like Nope going home tomorrow.  Tal I thought I do not have enough time to think because I understand tomorrow I need to take them home and to be alone and I never take care of any babies. So I said I said to the nurses Teach me out to feed him. And uh after three days I took them home.  Robert Krulwich So where was the surrogate during these days? Was she at the hospital?  Tal I think she was in the hospital. Yeah.  Amir Because she had the ceasarean surgery.  Tal I was ask if she is okay and if she needs something. They said You cannot see her until she signed all the papers and then you can see her.  Molly Webster The papers had not been signed.  Amir Yeah because we need that. She is giving up all her maternal eh rights. And if she does not want to sign this paper we can lose the baby.  Jad Abumrad The laws on this get crazily complicated but basically they needed Israel India and Nepal to all recognize that they were the uncontested parents and hanging in the air was the recent case in Thailand which is all over the news where the surrogate after the baby was born changed her mind.   Blake and his husband believed this surrogate decided to try and keep the baby because she found out they were gay.  Tal We had the little bit of anxiety let us say if they will going to know that their baby's going to grow in the house with two dads.  Jad Abumrad Any case Tal is in Nepal with the twins. Amir is back in Tel Aviv. A couple of weeks go by and then...  Amir Tal called me and said eh Mozal Tov you are dad.  Jad Abumrad The second surrogate had given birth one baby.  Amir And day after Tel Aviv to Istanbul. And from Istanbul to Kathmandu.  Tal And then it was very very very nice that we went eh only us with the babies. Like no parents no friends no phones.  Amir No phones no work.  Tal To be the first eh eh blocks of our relationship with the babies.   Jad Abumrad And for the next month they lived in an apartment in Nepal just them and their three babies.  Learning to be dads and waiting for the paperwork to be done. Now the paperwork incidentally is a beast because after the surrogates sign away their rights the babies have no nationality. And then they are suddenly illegally in the country. So then the guys have to take a DNA test send it to Israel get it verified. Then they have got to get a passport for the babies. Then several sets of visas need to be gotten. And all of that means multiple trips to the Israeli embassy. And it was on one of those trips that they learned something.  Tal It was really weird because we went over there with our eh kids to get the passport and over there there was another surrogate from a different agency.  Jad Abumrad An Indian woman. And standing next to her was in Israeli woman who happened to speak Hindi.  Tal And we just like you know out of curiosity we asked her to ask the surrogate in Hindu eh how much is eh she is getting.  Jad Abumrad For the whole process.  Tal Yeah.  Amir But the surrogate was very shy.  Tal Yes. Not very delighted to speak about the money.  Jad Abumrad Which made them even more curious. So they persisted.  Tal And then eh we discovered that-  Amir She get only 3000 U.S. dollar or something like that.  Yochai Maital 3000 for the whole pregnancy.  Jad Abumrad Amir was like Wait a second.  Amir In the agreement 12500 supposed to go to the surrogate.  Jad Abumrad That was at least his understanding. Now this was a different woman from a different agency and this was just one woman's account. But still...  Robert Krulwich In your narrative you have described that you thought that the reason that this was okay to do the surrogacy is because you were the phrase you used was This will make a change in the life of the woman that we are paying.  Tal Yes a life changing sum of money.  Jad Abumrad So Maya says they walked away from that meeting.  Maya Kosover Wondering if they should do something in Israel.  Jad Abumrad You know call the agency at the very least. Say Hey we heard some rumors I am sure they are not true but what do you think?  Tal We started to ask question but then-  Jad Abumrad Literally the next day....   Horrendous scenes of death and destruction from Nepal today. After a powerful earthquake that started outside Kathmandu. The death toll is now over 5800 nearly 14000 were injured.   Officials say it is the most destructive earthquake to hit Nepal in more than 80 years.  Jad Abumrad The death toll would ultimately rise somewhere between 7 and 10000. Maya says she was in New York uh in a meeting and she gets this voicemail from Tal   Maya Kosover And he was shouting An earthquake just happened here. We saved the babies and we got down to the street where half naked we do not know what to do. And he is crying over there and then it suddenly stopped. They he lost the connection. Mm. It was uh like 12 hours with no connection to them. We did not know if they are alive or not. You know everything was unknown.  Amir I do not know how but Tal took his cell phone and we just ran barefoot.  Jad Abumrad Amir says they ran out of the apartment down the street half naked holding the babies and the phone. On the way they ran into their friend Gail who had four babies another other couple who had two babies.  Tal We are in the street and we are uh nine babies.   Jad Abumrad They actually shot a video on Tal's phone. You see Tal only in shorts. A bunch of other couples holding babies and they are all literally standing on a pile of rubber. As they are standing there a guy with a badge walks by.  Tal You all are policeman? Hello? You are from the American embassy? We are Israeli citizens. We have here nine nine babies. We need help please. We do not have food for the babies. Thank you.   You need to go from this place very quickly to go from here.  Tal Thank you.  Tal So they took us in to the embassy.  Robert Krulwich The U.S. embassy or the Israeli embassy?  Tal No Israeli embassy.  Yochai Maital They went to the Israeli embassy and the Israeli embassy sort of went into emergency mode.  Tal Gave us a some blankets.  Yochai Maital And they put up put out tents.  Jad Abumrad And shortly after the news cameras arrived. And Tal...  Yochai Maital Tal is uh Tal is... He is like in the media and stuff because he is the he is the sign language translator. And so he realized that he does not have any way of communicating back home that he is alive.  Jad Abumrad So Yochai says uh Tal shoved his way in front of one of the television cameras  and started signing.  Maya Kosover 12 hours after the the earthquake.  Jad Abumrad Maya says she got a call from her partner back in Tel Aviv.  Maya Kosover And she said they are on the news now. I can see Tal speaking sign language to his parents saying everything is okay they are alive. The three babies are with them and they are waiting to the rescue team to come and take them.  Jad Abumrad But what the is also captured was this scene that had not really been grasped yet.  Robert Krulwich Oh this whole thing has been going on kind of quietly. You have an international earthquake. Everybody's watching the television. And in the middle of the story they are like 10 Israeli babies and gay people.  Jad Abumrad It was not all it was more than 10 babies.  Yochai Maital Yeah it was I think 24 babies.  Molly Webster 24?  Yochai Maital Yes.  Molly Webster Whoa.  Yochai Maital Because there is another agency that also...  Molly Webster It is like all of a sudden you realize there is this pipeline of babies.  Yochai Maital Yes.  Molly Webster Moving from Nepal to Israel.  Yochai Maital Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Maya says when the images of those 24 babies splashed across Israeli TV screens...  Maya Kosover Was like the first time that the surrogacy was uh discussed in the Israeli media such way.  Jad Abumrad She says a huge debate broke out.  Maya Kosover One side of the argument was okay we are using women and it is it is unmoral. And from the other hand there was like okay in Israel for gay couples they do not have a lot of choices I mean.  Jad Abumrad And everyone was asking what do we do with all these babies and the surrogates?  Maya Kosover There was like a huge argument in the Israeli media about the questions of there are women that are waiting to to give birth and we need to bring them to Israel to to give birth here because the fathers are here.  Jad Abumrad So they would fly the women to Israel have the baby and then fly them back.  Tal Yes they was stuck about it.  Yochai Maital Yeah they talked about it but I do not know I think that legally they could not do that.  Molly Webster Well because that just it feels like kidnapping a lady.  Yochai Maital Yeah. And so what what happened was that very quickly Israel sent over a search and rescue and medical aid delegation.  Jad Abumrad And all the babies and their parents...  Yochai Maital They were basically just all put on a plane and sort of the process was expedited and they just brought everybody over to Israel.   Back in Israel a parade of newborns. They will celebrate together knowing the medical stress they would been through. And very much aware of that many in Nepal are still going through it.  Jad Abumrad So what happened to the surrogates? Um any idea?  Maya Kosover They checked with the agency what is the situation with the surrogate mothers? And the answer was that two of them are back in India already. And they were not there in the earthquake.  Jad Abumrad And what about all the surrogates who were in Nepal but had not given birth yet?  Maya Kosover Yeah I mean about them. There is a big question. I mean no one knows. There were like a worried fathers in Israel.  Tal It is terrifying. All my thoughts and my prayers are for the surrogate mother and for the unborn child.  Jad Abumrad Tal and Amir made it back to Israel with their babies. They were fine but there was still a lot of questions.  Robert Krulwich And if I were one of you guys I would still be wondering after all these both of these women gave you as you point out a remarkable gift. Both of you believe that you hope rather both of you hope that that gift was well rewarded and was life changing. But both of you do not know at this point you are just a little suspicious that maybe was not. And do not you have this funny feeling you need to find out whether they got paid what you thought you would paid them?  Tal Yes. Like this is why we are so glad that we made the connection with you guys and we heard that you can.  Amir Find them maybe.  Jad Abumrad So we started a kind of a whole new leg of the story.  Nilanjana Hello?  Molly Webster Hello.  Nilanjana Hi Molly. Can you hear me?  Molly Webster Yes I can hear you. Ooh I hear some other things too.  Nilanjana Oh what do you-  Molly Webster Actually it might just be static on the line but it kind of sounded like the ocean  Nilanjana I just switch up the fan. Just give me a second.  Jad Abumrad Our producer Molly Webster was able to track down a reporter in India Nilanjana Bhowmick. And she asked her if she could find those surrogates.  Nilanjana Okay so you had given me a name right?  Molly Webster Lotus yeah.  Nilanjana Lotus. Lotus has got a representative in Nepal. I actually call that person in Nepal and they did tell me the location of the clinic. And I spoke to the doctor and she said that Yes I will put you in touch with one of the surrogates. And the next morning we were supposed to touch base again but then you know she just totally went incommunicado. That is been the same day I opened my mail and there was a mail from Israel you know them asking me like just like to stop the search for some time. And I was like I was so near them.  Jad Abumrad As far as we understand what happened was that the doctor contacted Lotus Lotus contacted Tal and Amir saying Call off the reporters you are putting these women's lives in danger. If someone in their village sees a reporter hanging around they will know those women were surrogates. That is not something these surrogates want people to know. Stop. Here's uh here's my understanding and you guys correct me if I am wrong is that we we had had asked someone to look for them. And that person got kind of close and then word got back to the agency. And that is created some pressure for us to change and you know that is really what we are sort of staring out right now is how to respond.  Tal We heard that there is a real threat on their life because of the culture of the society that they live in. One of them was Muslim. I do not know if if if the Muslim society is going to accept the fact that she carried the pregnancy to a gay couple and-  Amir And to Israelis.  Tal And to Israelis.  Molly Webster Yeah.  Robert Krulwich So that is a very very weird very delicate-  Jad Abumrad Situation.  Tal We do not want anything that may hurt eh the surrogates.  Jad Abumrad Well I mean we want to tell this story. We definitely do not want anyone to get hurt but I do feel like we have an ethical obligation to hear from the women who do this. If not the specific women in this case then people who represent their experience to whatever degree it can be represented. It would be it would feel wrong for that to be a voice that we do not hear.  Tal I do not know. It is like eh it is for us it is it is uh we do not want that anybody will contact our surrogate. And if it says that it is not going to be without the story so let us  because it is not worth it for us.  Jad Abumrad Okay understood. Understood. We will not make any further attempts to contact those two those two women.  Tal Yeah. Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Just so we are all clear. I think what I would like to do is to continue to pursue people who have been in similar situations but are not in any way connected to those two women or to you guys.  Tal Okay. I mean again we need uh only make sure that eh nobody's going to be hurt.  Jad Abumrad Absolutely. Absolutely. That is where we left things with Tal and Amir. And then uh and then the story changed a lot. That is coming up.  Sally Hi Radiolab. This is Sally calling from Melbourne Australia. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org   Listen to your favorite podcast on any device with Pocket Casts. You can start an episode on your phone during your commute pick up where you left off on your laptop at work then finish it home on a smart speaker like Alexa without missing a beat. Download the free Pocket Cast app today for Android or iOS. Find us online at pocketcasts.com or use the app on Alexa Chromecast Sonos Apple Watch and CarPlay.  Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Molly Webster I am Molly Webster.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab and we will return now to our collaboration with Israel Story producer is Maya Kosovar and Yochai Maital. Uh the story of Tal and Amir and their three babies. Now that is how it started for us. It was a story of two guys trying to have some kids but around the point of the earthquake uh the story really shifted for us. I mean as it did for the entire world really.  Robert Krulwich Because we would been concentrating the tale so far on the fathers but with 24 some odd babies that is an awful lot of women...  Jad Abumrad Who had to carry those babies.  Robert Krulwich So what could they be thinking? What is the story about them?  Jad Abumrad How are they feeling about this transaction? Uh how much are they getting? Will it actually change their life? These are some of the questions we had. We gave those questions to Molly and she sort of ran with it.  Robert Krulwich Yeah.  Molly Webster Yeah. So in the months after the earthquake I guess you could say the like the political situation in Nepal changed. How everyone started looking at surrogacy changed. Once everyone saw these pictures of all these babies outside the Israeli embassy being put on airplanes and sent back to Israel. It just cracked open this huge debate not just back in Israel but in Nepal in India even internationally. Basically you had groups coming out and saying like you know the feminists were saying this is exploitation and we are just using these women for their wombs. And there were op-ed articles about should we be shifting women across borders? Is this way you want to do surrogacy? And then sort of the next thing that happens uh like three weeks after we talked to Tal and Amir is that Nepal actually decided to ban surrogacy.  Robert Krulwich Completely?  Molly Webster Completely for both straights for both same sex couples foreign couples local couples. And for for Nepali women could not do it. And Indian woman could not come into their borders and do it.  Jad Abumrad No more surrogacy no more loopholes.  Molly Webster No more surrogacy no more loopholes. But then the confusion was that they banned surrogacy but there were still uh pregnant surrogates on the ground. And so they sort of existed in this gray zone um and in the midst of that was when we went out to try and find surrogates.  Molly Webster In Nepal all the surrogates are kept in what are called shelter houses which are just like houses that um agencies rent out that have a lot of pregnant women.  Robert Krulwich Even thought this is banned they are still they still have these-  Molly Webster Yes they still have the houses. Like the rumors are that they moved the houses further away from the city center like attract less attention. And so we found a Nepali reporter  Bhrikuti Rai I am Bhrikuti Rai and I am a freelance journalist based in Kathmandu.  Molly Webster Uh to go uh try and get into one of these shelter houses.  Bhrikuti Rai So the shelter house is actually quite far from the main city center. Almost half an hour or 40 minutes drive from Kathmandu. It is on a on a hilltop because these are the outskirts of Kathmandu where new settlements have just started. Uh so it was actually a school building which they turned into a shelter because I think the school had left after the earthquake. The moment I reached the first floor I was so surprised. It was very noisy. A lot of children playing around. And turns out a lot of women bringing their young children if they are too young to be left alone.  Molly Webster Really?  Bhrikuti Rai Yeah.  Molly Webster And how many women were there?  Bhrikuti Rai There were around I think 20 or 22 women there.  Molly Webster 20 or 22 women on the first floor of this building.  Bhrikuti Rai Yes.  Molly Webster This shelter house was run by another Israeli agency so not Lotus but a different one. And uh we are guessing that most of the women were carrying babies for Israeli couples.  Bhrikuti Rai And at least the women I saw who outside the room or who had the doors open they seem to be around thirty to early forties.  Molly Webster Really?  Bhrikuti Rai Yeah. But I mean the first time I saw I saw the first woman I talked to  she was wearing like a mustard color sadie. I think she had some bangles. All the women had some bangles in their hands and   Molly Webster She said she was 36 years old  from Kolkata  she has two girls.  Bhrikuti asked How old are your girls? And she said 8 and 12.  And then Bhrikuti asked like Why are you doing this? And the woman said  Oh I am doing it for them.  Bhrikuti Rai It is because you know we have a lot of financial problem. My husband is a rickshaw driver and we do not make enough. And  she worked as a maid in Delhi  Molly Webster And ultimately she said she had no other way to raise money for her daughters to get married because  in Hindu weddings the bride's family pays off the groom in the form of a dowry. And the plan was to use the money from surrogacy for the dowry.  She would been in Kathmandu for three months. So she was in her first trimester  And when Bhrikuti asked her  does she know who the baby is for.  She said no.  But she knows it is not hers.  Molly Webster  And actually all the women that Bhrikuti talked to were very very clear about this.  This is a job.   Bhrikuti Rai The second women I talked to-  Molly Webster 30 years old also a maid in Delhi also two daughters.  Bhrikuti Rai She looked all dressed up. She was already too as if she were about to leave somewhere and then I realized Okay her husband is here.  Molly Webster She had just given birth and she put the job sentiment pretty plainly.  So she said and I am translating here  I will give gladly I will give the baby from my wound. If I will think this is my baby then how will it work? I have two children. I cannot take this child home. I will have to give I have no sadness no problem.  Molly Webster Anytime Bhrikuti asked these women Are you conflicted? Will you have trouble giving the baby up? She always got the same answer.  Bhrikuti Rai  They always say that we would happily give away the child and one of them even said  If the baby comes out right now I will just give it right away drag away. And then she laughed.  Molly Webster Did you get a sense that these women did not want it known that they were doing this?  Bhrikuti Rai Um I mean some of them did and some of them did not because some women were like   Molly Webster They said like Now that I am here my neighbors my family everyone knows. And then when Bhrikuti asked her  do they have an opinion? Is it right or wrong? She answered No I am here for the money. So I would not listen to any opinions. If it was wrong I would not come here.  Bhrikuti Rai But some of them were like  why would I tell anyone? You know there was one particular woman...  Molly Webster 32 years old...  Bhrikuti Rai Very cheerful nail polish on and she had like this pink lipstick on.  Molly Webster She said People in my village simply do not believe these things. That one can have children by getting injected or taking medicine. They will not believe this.  Bhrikuti Rai She kind of do parallels with how some of the people in our village had done something similar when they bred cows or fishes. She said like Maybe they will understand but my family will not understand.  Molly Webster She says  I have told lies to them.  Jad Abumrad So how much in the end of that do they make?  Bhrikuti Rai I asked them   Molly Webster How much money do you get here?  Bhrikuti Rai I talk to four women and the figure was the same   Molly Webster 3.5 lax.  Jad Abumrad Shat does that mean in dollars?  Molly Webster So if you do the conversion um today it is a 5300 U.S. dollars. And the way it works is that they get paid a small amount of money every month that they are pregnant. And then at the end they get a lump sum. Bhrikuti says that for these women at the end of the pregnancy that lump sum...  Bhrikuti Rai Is like let us say around 2 or 3000.  Molly Webster Which is the amount that Tal and Amir heard outside the embassy.  Bhrikuti Rai The total sum that they have when they go back home is quite you know it is not a lot.  Jad Abumrad So 5-ish-000 dollars is what you are hearing.  Molly Webster Yeah.  Jad Abumrad Wow. That is a difference.  Molly Webster To sort of see if this was a number that was just coming out of that shelter house or if it was something that was like the going rate I guess. Uh we talked to six surrogates who are in India that same rate around 5000 kept coming up. And we did hear a range from one surrogate. Um and this was about a friend of hers. Uh we heard as low as a thousand.  Jad Abumrad A surrogate getting only a thousand dollars for a pregnancy?  Molly Webster Yeah.  Tal Hello? Hello. This is Jerusalem calling.  Molly Webster Hi this is New York answering.  Jad Abumrad Ultimately we took this information back to Tal and Amir because this was originally their question.  Robert Krulwich Let us talk about the money part now.  Molly Webster Yeah all right so the last time we talked to you you thought you were paying your surrogates 12000.  Tal Yes.  Molly Webster Uh around ish. We have been off reporting and it seems like the number that is coming up most consistently for what surrogates are reporting as their rate is 5300 U.S. dollars.  Tal What.   Amir It is too low.  Tal It is too low. Really?  Molly Webster Yeah.  Amir I want to cry.  Molly Webster We explained to them that if you actually look at the contract the line that looks like it is payment straight to the surrogate does not actually say this is payment for the surrogate. It says this is payment to surrogacy services. And it is sort of like once you add in that second word it opens the door to all kinds of things.  Tal She is getting less than half. Its very its like you feel like suckers.  Amir So who get the money?  Tal So who got the money?  Molly Webster That question it hung in the air for a few weeks. Until...  Dana Magdassi I have around seven minutes before I go into something. I am just in my car now...  Molly Webster I was finally able to talk to Dana Magdassi who is the head of Lotus which is the agency that Tal and Amir used in Nepal. She had just the morning I talked to her she had just flown from Nepal to Israel and I caught her in a car on her way back to the airport. And she was going to fly off to Australia. And I asked her how much do the surrogates actually get paid?  Dana Magdassi I can tell you truly that I work in Indian and Nepal since 2010 and I cannot tell you exactly how much a surrogate holds in her hand at the end of the procedure because we do not transfer the funds to the uh surrogate herself.  Molly Webster She is saying she has no idea. And the reason she has no idea is because uh she said this and other agencies I spoke to said this is that when you are working on the ground in foreign countries under the umbrella of surrogacy you are dealing with a lot of middle men. And the middle men have middle men and there are sub-middle men. The the the people who find the women in India who get all the paperwork done who get them to the border who get them over the border who then bring them to  someone meets them in Kathmandu gets them to the shelter house. And all those people they need to get paid.  Dana Magdassi I I truly can tell you that I truly do not know after the agent you know how much the surrogates they have in their hand. We do not come and ask the agent exactly how much goes for her compensation exactly how much goes for her uh allowance. We do not go into that. I can tell you that-  Molly Webster Well I guess I was thinking about I would feel conflicted as the head of an agency to be like I think the money is going to some people? But I just do not know like... I think that would niggle at me.  Dana Magdassi Yeah. Well that is the good thing that you are doing what you do. You are not doing what I am doing.  Molly Webster Yeah.  Dana Magdassi Because uh you you know you cannot look at the whole world and say okay I am going to make it uh brighter. I cannot deal with all the problems in the world. We are trying to give them as much as possible.  Tal We paid the money for this woman gets life. And and now we understand it is not exactly like that.  Amir It is not right.  Robert Krulwich I mean that real... I think the deep question here underneath after everything is is over is when when we do a generous thing like we give people families who could not have families before but that becomes a business. Is there something about the business of making a family that is always going to be a little troubling? And there are no perfect ways to do this? Or is there a way to pull this off in some... I I just do not know.  Tal I mean like I still have three more embryos that they are in the freezer in Nepal. I do not know if the next time I will not do the process maybe in the state.  Molly Webster The U.S. is like an entirely different surrogacy scene which we are just not going to get into here. But the interesting thing that uh that uh Dana said and and the head of another agency was that they think that in the next like five to ten years the U.S. will be one of the only countries where surrogacy is still happening.  Dana Magdassi Things are closing down. Most of the things are closing down.  Molly Webster So obviously Nepal has a ban Thailand it looks like uh in a few days after this piece comes out that India may ban it for foreigners. Cambodia there is rumors that they are about to ban it. And even in Canada there are talks of new restrictions on surrogacy. And this is these are bans like not just for same sex couples but uh  hetero couples single people everybody.  Jad Abumrad Oh whoa. And the main reason for all these bans and restrictions is is worries about uh exploiting women?  Molly Webster Yeah.  Jad Abumrad I feel weird about that a little bit though.  Robert Krulwich Because?  Jad Abumrad Because if you are if you are trying to if you... As we heard these women are making a business decision whether or not we agree with it that is an entirely separate thing. They are it seems like they are making a decision and were going to take it away in order to protect them. Feels I do not know.  Molly Webster It is funny because at times it also feels it... you just think okay these women can decide how they are going to use their own bodies.  Jad Abumrad Right its a little bit like a little bit like the abortion debate.  Molly Webster Mm-hmm  it totally is.  Robert Krulwich But but by the same token its its not wrong for a society to say Hey there is certain things we just will not allow. We will not give you that choice because we we find that the choice itself is um is wrong.  Molly Webster Mm-hmm  I mean its fair. But like one of the arguments against banning it is that is that there is still uh demand for surrogacy. And that that is not going to go away. And so it just pushes-  Robert Krulwich To the underground.  Molly Webster This system underground. And so uh-  Robert Krulwich And that way its a lot like abortion.  Molly Webster And that way its a lot you know shadier.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Molly Webster Um but the other thing was is that then Bhrukuti actually went and talked to the women about like  what this job does for them. Like okay so its not the crazy amount of money we thought it might have been. Its 5000. Like what does that do for you?  One woman said-  Bhrikuti Rai That you know when I get this money I am going to go back home and start something on my own  start a small shop you know my own little enterprise.  Molly Webster The other women...  Bhrikuti Rai All of them wanted to use this money to build a house  buy some land.  Jad Abumrad Can you buy a plot of land in New Delhi for five grand?  Molly Webster You definitely cannot get a plot of land in New Delhi for five grand. But what these women do is they take the money and they go back to their original village. And they use it there to buy a small plot of land. And that is totally doable and its actually no small feat.  Bhrikuti Rai Having ownership of land is so important in our society in South Asia.  Molly Webster Once you own land in South Asia it raises your um socioeconomic status. Its something that is passed down through generations. So you are like creating something for your family. And if you are one of the women that maybe already have land the thing you can do with that 5000 is build a house on it.  Bhrikuti Rai That is a very small like mud house or you know-  Molly Webster Keep in mind like these women their day jobs are all maids right? And so they make less than 100 a month.  Bhrikuti Rai They said that had it not been for this I mean they would have never I mean probably never own this much money at at a single chance.  Molly Webster But more than that like  when you go into this or at least when I went into this the thing that I expected to see was like okay these are poor desperate women that are being forced into this like right? They have been dragged across the border. And I think the thing that I was surprised to see when I looked at the transcripts was that even though these women do not have a lot of options and yes they are poor they had chosen to do this. Out of the limited options they had they had looked at them at all and they thought like this is the thing that I am going to do to get what I want. It felt like these women were making a choice.  Bhrikuti Rai I I asked them  What if you are given a chance to go abroad lets say to Dubai or Qatar because a lot of women from India and Nepal they go there. One of them said that you know   Molly Webster Like why would I do that?  Bhrikuti Rai That would be very far away.  Molly Webster She says that here the kids can come their husbands can visit.  Bhrikuti Rai They are fed well   Molly Webster The surrogates get good medical care.  Bhrikuti Rai They are taken care during the whole nine months.  Molly Webster And and for those whole nine months their sending money back home. And back home there is one less mouth to feed.  Bhrikuti Rai I think you know I mean the way we pass judgment you know you just pity on this women. But I think they have they are very aware of what they are doing. They might be exploited to some level like you said. But it seemed like the women are are in some ways they are in charge of deciding how they want their life to be. And we do not have to look at them with um with pity   Molly Webster The last woman that Bhrikuti spoke to she was a 32 year old woman from Darjeeling she spoke in Nepali. And she told Bhrikuti  I came here in March my embryo transfer was done once but I do not know if it was due to the earthquake or something else but it did not get heartbeat and it got washed.  Bhrikuti Rai She said that she lost the fetus in two months. And they tried it twice on her   Molly Webster Bhrikuti How did you feel when the child got washed? Surrogate  I felt bad. What to say. It felt like it was my own. And they will not give money if its unsuccessful.  Molly Webster Wow wait she uh I am like I did not know if you miscarry you do not get paid?  Bhrikuti Rai Yes yes yes.  Molly Webster She says its treated like a business. You get paid for every month you successfully carry. And if you do lose the baby depending on where it is in the pregnancy part of the money is refunded to the intended parents.  Surrogate Most of my friends had successful stories to share back in Delhi. Some of my friends made a house with the money. Some bought land. I felt good.  Molly Webster She basically says she wishes she had done this earlier because now with the ban she was being sent back to her village.  Bhrikuti Rai She was still weeping a little of what could have been if she was you know if the eggs were healthy enough if her health was all right.   Molly Webster Bhrikuti Will you come again if this opens back up and try again?  Surrogate Yes I will come.  Jad Abumrad Producer Molly Webster.  Robert Krulwich Ah there is something on your face that says were not quite done here.  Jad Abumrad No we are done we are done we are done.  Robert Krulwich No no no say say what is on your mind.  Jad Abumrad I am well I am thinking I am thinking about all the different ways we have thought about this story along the way of making it.  Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm   Jad Abumrad I mean you can read it as like this is story about the business of family making.  Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm   Jad Abumrad The outsourcing of babies. You can hear it as a story about exploitation. All these different things are happening in this story.  Robert Krulwich They are.  Jad Abumrad But it occurs to me that this is also a story about the inventiveness of people in some weird way.  Robert Krulwich Invent you mean what do you mean by that?  Jad Abumrad I guess what I mean is like the way that cultures will cross fertilize in these really unexpected like okay-  Robert Krulwich That is true.  Jad Abumrad Like these are these are two these are two sets of needs that are sort of reaching out and finding each other half a world away. And there is a kind of symbiotic benefit. Even while its trouble and maybe unfair. But its still kind of there. And so like I I feel like we could talk about this story in any number of ways but I also feel like one of the things that is happened here this is a story about dreams. And about aspiring to have a better life and how in this case those aspirations meet in this really uncomfortable transaction.  Robert Krulwich Yeah. Yeah well lets thank people. That is what we should do next. Lets thank them.  Jad Abumrad Yeah.  Molly Webster So many people.  Robert Krulwich Okay.  Jad Abumrad First we should uh we should begin by thanking uh the posse at Israel Story and Maya Kosover. Uh we have just we went in deep with those guys  for this story. Check them out it its really cool stuff. At prx.org and israelstory.org. What was the one you were just telling us about?  Molly Webster Oh I love this one.  Robert Krulwich There is there is a story that they did last season in which they went to every town in Israel that has a Herzl Street. Herzl's like the George Washington of Israel. So they all have Herzl Streets they knocked on 48 'ecause Israel was founded in '48. They go knock knock who is there and they open the door and they interview whoever's on the other side of the door. It is just a wonderful cool idea and they get to meet a crazy quilt of Israelis.  Jad Abumrad Yeah well huge thanks to the Israel Story team and to Barry Finkle.  Robert Krulwich Yes.  Molly Webster And to our reporters in India Nilanjana Bhowmick and in Nepal Bhrikuti Rai. And the International Reporting Project for connecting us with reporters and translators in different countries.  Jad Abumrad We talked to a lot of agencies uh for this story surrogacy agencies special thanks to Doron Mamet and Dr. Nayana Patel.  Molly Webster To our translators Tom Wasserman Aya Keefe Karthik Ravindra Turna Ray-Franz and Adhikaar which is a Nepali community organization out of Ridgewood Queens and uh thanks to Ivan Zimmerman.  Robert Krulwich And for music special thanks to  and the Balkan Beat Box.  Jad Abumrad We had production help for this uh story from Andy Mills and this piece was produced and reported by Molly Webster. I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Molly Webster I am Molly Webster.  Jad Abumrad Thanks for listening. Oh and one last note uh we should tell you that uh Tal and Amir did meet their surrogates very briefly one time. And uh its kind of a cool moment. We could not figure out where to put it in this story. But we have that scene on our website at radiolab.org. And its worth listening to.   Message five from phone number-  Maya Kosover Hi this Maya Kosover. Calling you again because I had a mistake last time.  Bhrikuti Rai Hello my name is Bhrikuti Rai and I am a journalist from Kathmandu.  Yochai Maital Hi this is Yochai Maital from Tel Aviv. Calling to read the credits. Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad. Our staff includes Brenda Farrell David Gebel Dylan Keefe Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich...  Bhrikuti Rai   Maya Kosover Arianne Wack Molly Webster...  Yochai Maital Soren Wheeler and   Maya Kosover With help from Simon Adler and Alex   Bhrikuti Rai   Yochai Maital Our fact checkers are Eva Dasher and Michelle Harris. All right...  Bhrikuti Rai Bye bye.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 