A few years' back John and his wife were driving back from a vacation in Concan Texas. They had five kids in this van that they had rented for the trip three of their own kids and then a couple of the neighbor's kids. They stopped at a taqueria in San Antonio for lunch and then got back on the road. And John was feeling pretty good about things. All the kids seemed happy nobody had gotten hurt on the vacation lunch was really cheap though he noticed he was getting some weird looks from other cars on the road. And then outside Sealy coming into the home stretch of the drive he sees this Texas Highway Patrol car. Pursuing me like an angry hornet. I have been pulled over before. This just felt different. I mean it just kind of came out of nowhere and got on my tail and was just so aggressively driving. And I was totally bewildered. So he pulls over. And John says that from watching the TV show Cops all these years he knew that those two patrolmen are on like DEFCON 5. They are shouting at him over the patrol car's PA system. Neither one of them had gotten out of the car. I am fairly sure I could already see a gun sticking out of the driver's side. And it was you know driver with your left hand take your keys out of the ignition and put them on the hood. So of course I reach with my right hand because that just seems impossible. And then no left hand. And you have to reach over the steering column and sort of put your hand upside down and then like get your hand out the window. And I want to see your right hand while you are-- you know and then it was clasp your hands behind your head and with your left hand open the door and then get on your knees. You just kind of just go to pot. You cannot really follow all those instructions because you are confused you do not know why this is happening to you. You are freaking out a little bit. You are freaking out a little bit. By this time I am on my knees in shorts on the gravel shoulder and backing towards this car on my knees with my hands clasped behind my head. And he is thinking maybe the car rental place got the paperwork messed up and reported the van is stolen or maybe the cops thought they were smuggling people in from Mexico. They would been so close to the border on their vacation. So one of the cops comes out of the car and points a rifle at John's head while the other one goes over to the van and starts asking a lot of questions of his wife Jacqueline. And inside the van of course the kids are terrified. His nine-year-old son is crying. And then the cop who talked to Jacqueline now walks over to John over on the shoulder of the road. Well he says do you know what your daughter wrote on the car? I said no. And he told me that she would written words to the effect that please help me we have been kidnapped call 911. And he told me he said well son for 15 minutes there you were the most wanted man in Texas. The exact wording written in dust on the van's back window was help please God call 911 I have been kidnapped. And it was not John's daughter who wrote it. The cop said that it was Ingrid. The cop did not know that that was one of the neighbor's kids. And John was so humiliated and frustrated that when the cop asked him if he knew that what Ingrid did was against the law John's response was yeah haul her in prosecute her. Which they did not do. Before long John was back in the car and on the road. And I am just like what the hell happened? I cannot believe that you wrote that. And Ingrid why did you do that? And then Ingrid was like well I did not write all of it. I just wrote the part about call 911 and Malcolm was the one who wrote I have been kidnapped. And then I am like well who wrote the first thing on there. And Jacqueline was like oh well that was me. This is your wife? Yes. What did she write? She wrote help me please because she would been so stressed out by being with those kids and she knew that she had an hour and a half or so in the car with them left to go before we could get home. So she had come out of the restaurant first and had just written help me please. And then Malcolm came in and wrote I have been kidnapped. And then Ingrid came and put the little cherry on the top of what was to almost get me arrested or killed. And I kept thinking that the story was going to be repeated to me as an urban legend at some cocktail party. Like oh did you hear about this guy who-- you know he would end up getting shot or something and killed by the police. And now I was going to say in the urban legend version you are dead they shoot you. Yeah totally. And then it would be pieced together and then I would haunt that section of highway. John Lomax he has not been alive for 10 years. If anybody pulled over to make out there I would come limping down the road with a hook on my arm or something. So a bunch of kids dimed you out. Your own family dimed you out. Yeah and then I rolled over on them just shamefully. That is the one thing I am ashamed of is just urging that policeman to taking her to jail. You have heard the saying a house divided against itself cannot stand. Yes. And that was a van divided against itself and it did not stand the trip from San Antonio to Houston. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. When you start throwing around the phrase a house divided against itself cannot stand you are trafficking in one of the most ominous and overwrought sayings in Western history. This is something that Abraham Lincoln warned on the eve of the Civil War. It is something that Jesus said when the Pharisees accused him of being in league with Satan. And today in our show we have three stories where that weighty old saying actually describes things in our everyday lives because the people in these stories really do seem like they are on the verge of disaster. We have a political story we have a story of human anatomy and we have a story of a family that just cannot seem to stay divorced which I know sounds a little weird. Just stay with us. Act One War of Northern Aggression. It is a tough call these days but if you are looking for the one state that more than any other is a house divided against itself I would offer for your consideration Wisconsin. Of course maybe you already know that. Maybe you saw the beginning of this epic protests resisting Governor Scott Walker's budget cuts. And then even more controversial his legislation that blew a hole in collective bargaining rights for teachers' unions and all kinds of government employees. In the middle of all that Democratic state senators fled to Illinois where they stayed for three weeks trying to stall the bill. Well the latest-- and this part you might have missed-- is that the fight has not stopped. Walker's bill passed but the feelings against it have split Wisconsin into a political civil war. The latest weapon of choice is this rarely used rule in the state's constitution that lets people knock politicians out of office. If you want to give somebody the boot you collect signatures and if you get enough-- and it takes a lot-- you can force any public official into a recall election where they have to run again in the middle of their term. As of now six Republican state senators and three Democratic state senators will face recall elections in the coming months. One of our producers Ben Calhoun recently went home to Wisconsin. He grew up there. He remembers getting dragged to his first political event by his parents when he was 10. And he spent a week traveling talking to Democrats and Republicans around the state which seems to be gradually losing its mind. You cannot really understand how much Wisconsin politics has changed in the last year without seeing what it was like before all this. In early May you could still spot old Wisconsin politics the way it used to be. Early May was a big deadline for Wisconsin's recall war. Petitions were due and so all across the state Democrats and Republicans were out collecting signatures trying to force politicians into recall elections. On a Saturday morning I met up with these two women these two friends Betty Barns and Pam Packard. They were right where I was told they would be at 900 AM on Saturday which was standing about 150 feet off a busy intersection in the empty parking lot of a doctor's office next to a card table. Every Saturday yeah. Every night 500 to 730. And then Saturday 900 to noon we are here. Oh my gosh you are here every night. Yes. Every night. We have been here every night for two weeks. Wow so you know this parking lot like nobody else. Yeah we do.  Rain sleet snow. Snow yeah. We know it. Betty and Pam were trying to collect enough signatures to force their state senator a Democrat named Julie Lassa into a recall election. Lassa was one of the 14 Democrats who fled Wisconsin trying to tie up Governor Scott Walker's anti-union legislation. Good morning. Hey. What was remarkable about Betty and Pam's set-up the day I was with them is just how much energy they would spent making one of the most controversial moments in Wisconsin state politics making it all as non-confrontational as possible. Part of it is just Betty and Pam's personalities. They are not yellers. They are 99 your grandma 1 Sean Hannity. But there were other things. Like for example you know I said they were about 150 feet from the street? Well Betty and Pam told me they deliberately set up in this parking lot away from the road because even though it made them harder to see this was private property and that way if anyone wanted to come up and argue about what is happening they could just tell them they had to leave. And while I was there their strategy worked like a dream. All morning long no confrontations to speak of until the end of the day when Pam and Betty were packing up to leave and this woman leaned out of a blue car that was passing by and yelled. We love Julie Lassa. OK it is very hard to hear. She was way out in the intersection. But what she yelled was we love Julie Lassa. As in that woman that you are trying to recall we love her. I wondered what Pam and Betty would do. And then for a surprisingly long time they just did not say anything long enough that I started to wonder if they were going to pretend it had not happened at all. That is pretty typical. The yelling? Yeah. What were they yelling? We love Julie Lassa. . Yeah. I do not dislike her. She is a great mom. This is what I am getting at. This was as harsh as it got. All morning on the front lines of the most heated intense political fight Wisconsin has seen in years and this was it. You have someone heckling by saying they love someone and then Betty saying I do not dislike her I think she is a good mom. That is the Wisconsin politics I know. Because having talked to Betty for more than an hour and listened to her complain about Julie Lassa and the Democrats to her friends and neighbors frowning and saying things like dereliction of duty and there need to be consequences I know that what Betty was feeling inside probably went something more like this I think Julie Lassa is a terrible state senator one of those despicable Democrats who fled the state shrugged off the responsibility to stay and vote in the minority and take the political beating I think she deserves and now I want to punish her so badly in fact that I am willing to stand here here in this cold fricking parking lot every night and every Saturday morning just to make that happen. But that was not what she said. What she said was I think she is a good mom. In Wisconsin traditionally you might disagree about politics and you might get worked up but for the most part it is not something you go to war with your neighbor about. Being civil is more important. All the screaminess of our national politics you try to avoid that. And at the very least you do not let it show. But that is the old Wisconsin. And spending time in my home state recently with Democrats trying to recall Republicans Republicans trying to recall Democrats I saw something that was unfamiliar an anger that is infected the entire state. As far as I know there is not a good way to measure pure anger. But I will tell you one rising indicator and this is one pollsters do not usually count I can tell you without question the use of the middle finger in Wisconsin politics is way up. On sidewalks and in parking lots across the entire state people are flipping each other off at alarming rates. And the trend is bipartisan. This brings me to this short video that I saw. You can watch this thing yourself if you want. It is on YouTube. It is a video of the campaign announcement. Quick background on March 9 a Republican state senator named Luther Olsen voted in favor of Governor Walker's bill that attacked collective bargaining. Because of that Democrats decided they were going to take Luther down. They organized a petition drive filed thousands of signatures and successfully forced Luther into a recall election this summer. Enter a Democratic state representative named Fred Clark who announced he was going to challenge Olsen try to knock him out of office. The video that I saw that caught my attention was of Fred announcing that he was running which he did on April 21. OK OK so let us get this rolling and then we can pause it whenever you have a point where you want to explain what is going on in the room. Fred and I watched this video together in his home office the office where Fred runs his forestry business. To get to it we had to go through the first floor which has more than half a dozen chainsaws hanging from the ceiling. Fred explained that he decided to make his campaign announcement in his home town of 12000 Baraboo Wisconsin. For a location he picked the town civic center which used to be a school. So picture a classroom. Fred's standing in front of a chalkboard behind a lectern. Fred's tall and skinny with a neatly trimmed beard that is turning gray. As he gets ready to speak he has glasses hanging around his neck by a string and they make him look more like a high school history teacher and less like a guy who runs a forestry business. I have to say from the first time I saw this video even the first 30 seconds of cheering sounded kind of weird.  Are those boos that are in the background? No at that point you are hearing cheering and clapping.  And as I opened it up I was not even aware that there were Olsen supporters in the room at that point. By Olsen supporters Fred means people who support the Republican he is trying to knock out of office people who'd come there that day to Fred's announcement not to cheer but to heckle. Fred says they were hard to see from where he was but in the video the camera pans back across the crowd. There is another one there. There is one there. Oh wait so you are pointing to--? Yep. So back in here the number of the Olsen supporters that have come in have started raising Olsen signs. It looks like let us see they have got a couple of his old yard signs they pulled up and then some handmade signs. That was my first clue that these guys had kind of worked their way into the room and the fun was going to start. At first it seems like just a little booing and jeering. But pretty soon you can hear people really start yelling at each other. While things get rowdier Fred's up front trying to soldier through his speech. Eventually people start pleading with each other to stop including Fred who looks a little bewildered. One woman yells we are nice in Wisconsin. We are nice in Wisconsin. All right let us be respectful please. Be civil. We have got over 850 volunteers work seven days a week in one of the worse springs in recent memory. Are people just kind of shouting at each other right there? Yeah. Yeah I think at that point there is been some jostling. Olsen supporters had started to whistle and yell and some of our supporters were asking them to be quiet. And that is when the air in the room started to get a little thick. From there it got worse particularly when a friend of Fred's a guy named Chuck he started taking pictures of some of the Republicans. He was pointing his camera at one of them and the person he was taking the picture stuck out a sign to block the shot. Chuck raised the camera higher. And then at that point somebody just reached out and grabbed it by the lens and pulled it down. And I am not sure if it hit the floor or pulled the lens off but at that point you hear Chuck saying you broke my camera. You broke my camera.  That is the point when my friend Homer who is a pretty big fellow but very gentle man decided that the thing for him to do was climb on a table so he could see what was happening just in case it became important later. I think that was a trigger for the Olsen supporters to start shouting at me and interrupting me and-- The rest of the 12-minute video's all like this the Olsen supporters heckling the Clark supporters trying to shout the hecklers down some people pleading for it all to stop and Fred Clark just looking kind of flustered. Remember this is not a presidential rally a race for US Senate or even congressional representatives where this would all still seem a little weird. This is a race for the Wisconsin state legislature. Do you even know who your state senator is? Me neither. The craziest thing something you would never know just watching this online is just how close everyone in the room is personally like in their personal lives when they were not shouting at each other like this. What percentage of the people do you know in the room? There is Charlie Bradley. There is Roger Springman. There is Ed and Jill Brennan. I probably personally know 75 of the people in the room. Did you know any of the Olsen supporters who were there? Did you recognize anyone? Yeah and that is really the interesting part of it to me. I knew a number of them. Fred says among the people harassing him there were some people he was not surprised to see. There was the head of the county Tea Party who Fred says he got along OK with in the past but he was not shocked to see him. But there were others like a school board member someone he knows pretty well someone he sat down and talked to a lot of times. There was a county supervisor who Fred also knows pretty well. I think most interesting was my own town chairman here in a rural township was there protesting. And this is a fellow who I have known for years who'd been a supporter of mine previously and who I have worked with on a number of issues including an issue having to do with flooding on a local creek. Did you get that? This guy that Fred's talking about was a political ally a former supporter who'd come out that day to heckle. Yeah yeah. And I think that is a clue to where we are right now. And now get this. Fred did not used to just get along politically with some of the Olsen supporters who are now screaming at him he used to get along with Luther Olsen the Republican he is now challenging. They had their political differences but according to both of them they like each other think the other's a good public servant and that they are easy to work with even though they are from opposing parties. Matter of fact the morning Scott Walker unveiled his anti-union legislation Luther Olsen and Fred Clark were doing an event together. They were both shocked. Luther the Republican even called Walker's idea radical. But eventually under a lot of pressure Luther caved fell in line with his party and voted with the governor. And that vote drew a line between Fred and Luther. I think Luther's the same guy. I think I am the same guy. We are just in a very different environment right now. And this is an environment that is testing the character of anybody who is in elected office today. I like Luther personally. And in any environment that you might call normal Luther and I could get along just fine. And in fact a lot of people have supported both of us and appreciated the fact that we work together across the aisle as well as we do. So you know of people who would cast a vote for you and vote for Luther in an election. Oh I know hundreds of them. Do you feel like the two of you-- and not just the two of you but like all the people in this room-- kind of got drafted into a situation that was not one of your making? I agree with that. I think what people are wondering about right now is where is the Wisconsin that we knew? I told Fred Clark in my whole life I would never seen anything like this in Wisconsin politics. And he told me people have been comparing this to the Vietnam War protests which raises a question. A lot of controversial stuff has happened between the Vietnam War and today so why was it this issue that is turned the state into a political bloodbath? Wisconsin's a big rural state but it is not conservative. Its politics are in the middle leaning a little towards the left. Organized labor has a long history in the state and Wisconsin's gone Democratic in every presidential election since Reagan. But bottom line it is moderate polite and civil and moderate. That right there is really the break Scott Walker has made. His plan whether you love it or you hate it was a big move away from the middle. He is pulled a pretty moderate state dramatically towards an extreme and done something they do not do in Wisconsin. He is picked a fight. And he is forced a lot of people who do not like to fight to choose sides anyway. I cannot tell you how many stories I heard about people collecting recall signatures on both sides getting harassed. I heard about a guy who got punched by someone who then tried to take his clipboard. Democrats in Milwaukee suburbs told me while they were collecting on the side of the road they had several people in cars swerve towards them hit the gas and then swerve away at the last minute. How many did you end up getting? 23300. And you needed originally? 15960. Oh wow. So that is I mean-- Yep we did it. This is Kim Simac. She spent a couple months organizing a recall campaign that landed 23000 signatures. It was against her state senator a Democrat one of 14 who fled to Illinois. That bothered me a lot. When I talked to Kim I asked her if things in her part of the state had turned personal. She took me into her kitchen. Some of the nasty stuff what I did was-- So you just have this on your fridge? Yeah. Here's one of your classy ones. To collect signatures Kim had mailed petitions out to people in the district. And under a magnet on her refrigerator she had a stack that had come back to her with angry messages on them. Kim did not seem super eager to read them to me which is how I learned that it feels very very awkward to read someone else's hate mail out loud to them. Come to my house for a signature. Go  yourselves. Go  yourself you  suckers. How dare you send  to my house. So they mailed this back to you? Mmm-hmm. We were going to put a big mural together kind of fun and put it on Facebook. And then afterwards it just got to be not so funny anymore. And so we just-- Oh wow. Yeah that is not a nice one. All this hostility it is not just people at rallies and protests. It is seeped down into the groundwater of everyday life. Kim says it is not just anonymous mail. She is lost friends over this good friends. She is lived in this place for a long time. She raised nine kids here but she says it all feels different now. Well I mean at the post office at the grocery store I have had people waiting at the end of my driveway for me that are-- it is scary. We have cameras on the driveway now. I mean all of that that is all ugly. I sent nine kids to this school here and I have had quite a few of the teachers-- I mean I had one flip me off recently. It was like OK. Kim says one of the teachers at the school she mentioned the one where she sent all of her kids a teacher there put together a list of businesses that people should boycott. Kim and her husband who own a horse stable in a camp were at the top of the list. Also the recall Kim organized against her state senator a Democrat named Jim Holperin it was also personal. For Kim Jim Holperin was not just a name on a ballot. He went to the same school as her husband and they run into each other in town though Kim says the two of them have not spoken in the last few years since she started an argument about global warming when they ran into each other at their local post office. Kim and Jim's situation is surprising because of who Jim Holperin is. Jim was actually one of the very first state senators in Wisconsin targeted for recall. And if you met Jim Holperin on the street that just might blow your mind. Jim Holperin is clean-cut gray-haired reserved and nice. If you lived in a town called This Guy Will Never Be Controversial Jim would be your state senator. And he would never ever be holding in his hand an email that ended like this. Your ads on TV are a fricking joke. You ran instead of standing up for your constituents. You have no clue what hardworking people even are you egotistical bureaucrat and useless piece-of-crap politician. Just want to let you know how the majority of us that really work and pay taxes in this state feel about you and the other idiots that are trying to bankrupt us. Good luck getting a real job after you get recalled you jackwad. Sincerely Feel You Are Completely Worthless Bruce. When Walker's legislation came down the pipe and Jim fled to Illinois with the other Dems Jim says the phone calls he was getting were 75 against him but the letters were 75 for him. Some people called him a jackwad. Some people called him a hero. Jim says he does not feel like either. Jim says he feels like what he is always been a conservative Democrat a moderate a guy from the middle. And that is what makes this all so strange to him. I have been viewed I think and I hope over the years as being a somewhat reasonable guy. Well on this issue we have got a divisiveness in this state that starts at the family level and goes to the community level and goes right up to the state level. But the outcome of all that is it is made a guy like me who liked to think of himself as reasonable and I hope was maybe perceived as reasonable and someone independent it is made me seem unreasonable unwilling to compromise and someone who is dug in and unwilling to listen. That is disturbing to me personally and it is the most disturbing part of this whole thing. As election time for the recalls has gotten closer things have gotten more outrageous. The GOP decided to run fake Democrats in the recall elections to confuse Democratic voters but more importantly to trigger Democratic primaries which will put off the moment when Republicans face Democrats presumably to give them more time to campaign and boost their poll numbers. Putting fake candidates on ballots is the kind of dirty tactic that is not unheard of though when it is used it is frowned on so nobody would admit to it publicly. In Wisconsin it is become so us-versus-them that the Wisconsin Republican Party is openly admitting that they are doing this that they are behind the fake Democrats on the ballot. Meantime worried that they might lose their majority in the Senate the state Republican Party battened down its hatches and started fast-tracking a bunch of controversial bills through the legislature. Democrats unable to stop them have gotten extreme too. Even though the crowds at the Capitol are not what they were the other day two protesters opposing Governor Walker's budget used those heavy U-shaped bike locks to lock their throats to the railing of the Wisconsin state Senate. One of them told police officers he would swallowed the key. Talking to Wisconsin politicians about what is happening I often got this nagging feeling that this is all very disorienting. And eventually I realized it is because they built their careers in a political environment where diplomacy matters and suddenly they are fighting for those careers in a place where the rules have changed. The thing about a big move like Walker's it can take a place where people value meeting in the middle and compromise and turn it into a place where everything is black and white. And in a black-and-white world the people like Jim Holperin who like grey they become outcasts and they risk getting attacked from both sides. I did not just get that feeling from Democrats like Jim Holperin the guy with the jackwad email I heard it from moderate Republicans too. State Senator Luther Olsen the Republican whose supporters stirred up trouble in that video you heard Olsen said something to me just like Jim. He said when Walker unveiled his controversial legislation Luther reached out to his Republican colleagues to offer a compromise an olive branch. But there was so much pressure from Walker that the middle ground vanished. Those were his words. The middle ground vanished. Before Luther knew it he was being recalled and Fred Clark was challenging him for his office. And their race kind of sums up what is going on because in any other election Fred and Luther would be a moderate Democrat against a moderate Republican. But in the recall election this summer it will be the guy who voted with Scott Walker and the guy who voted against him. Ben Calhoun. He is one of the producers of our show.  Coming up the laziest organ in your body takes a stand against the others. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme and bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show A House Divided. We have stories of internal strife with possible dire consequences. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two Split a Gut. Comedian Julian McCullough tells a story on stage about this night when he suddenly had this urgent explosive feeling in his gut. He assumed food poisoning and so he asked his friend Sean to drive him home. So we get in his car. He is driving me to my apartment across town. And he could tell that I am getting worse. Like I am starting to sweat a little bit. I am kind of slouched over in the seat. And he is like man you do not look so good. Do you want me to come up to your apartment and make sure you are OK? And I was thinking about my apartment which is a place where you can see the stove and the toilet from the bed. And I was like that is not a big enough apartment for what is about to happen.  So I was like no thank you for the nicest and grossest offer you have ever given me. I will do this alone. So I get upstairs to my apartment. I immediately take all my clothes off which I do every time I come home. But like I really did it this time. So I am naked in my apartment and the problem is that I am still in a great deal of pain but I do not feel an urge to use the bathroom. So I just decide OK it is going to take a little longer. So I go into my room and eventually I cannot get comfortable anymore in any position. I cannot lay down. I cannot stretch my body out. I have not stretched my body out straight in about 45 minutes to an hour. So somehow my body and the pain in my body negotiate a truce where if I am in a prayer position on the floor next to my bed and with my arms on my bed we can deal. I am like this is weird that I am being forced into a prayer position but I am not going to overthink it. So I am in this prayer position for about another 45 minutes and my entire stomach is killing me. And I am freaking out. And basically I do not want to call 911 or go to the emergency room. I grew up in a family without health insurance my whole life and our policy was generally give it a couple weeks. So I did not have health insurance. But the pain was not going anywhere and I was like I cannot be in a prayer position naked for two weeks. So I finally decide after about-- it is probably 1245 in the morning now. I decide I cannot take this anymore something's wrong I have to go to the hospital. And so I get dressed. And I immediately hail a cab so that was lucky. And the driver is like where you going? And I was like-- I can barely speak-- I was like the emergency room please. And he was like which one? And I was like do you want me to yelp it? Make sure you take me to one with outdoor seating. I just want to go to the closest one. How about the closest one because it is an emergency room. So he takes me to the closest emergency room which is Beth Israel Hospital. And of course the waiting area is packed. And I even see a guy with like he is literally holding his T-shirt to his head and there is blood everywhere coming