From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. So one of our producers Chana Joffe-Walt has spent a few years reporting on the history of one school-- it is a public school in a big city-- and at the beginning we kind of thought the story was about segregation and inequality in public schools. But the more she spoke to people and researched what had happened at this one school the more she realized it was actually about the inordinate amount of power that white parents had at this one school. And she found so many stories there that we realized we could not fit it all into one episode of our program and that we would need to release it as its own little mini-series podcast. So last week a little three-minute trailer was released. The name of the show is Nice White Parents. And even before the first episodes appeared it became this war-- thousands of ratings and comments online at Apple Podcasts people saying it is divisive that it is racist to talk about white parents giving the show one-star reviews other people giving it five-star reviews to cancel out the one-star reviews. Remember nobody had heard the show yet. The comments were about some imagined thing that people thought that the show would be rather than the actual story that Chana tells which is kind of funny. I think it also speaks to how the entire subject freaks people out so much. White parent-- how rarely that is explicitly named as the subject of reporting. There is so much reporting on people of color as people of color and so little reporting on white people as white people even when they are at the heart of a story as they are with this one. And when you listen to what Chana found you feel how rare it is. I personally found it illuminating. You can listen and judge for yourself. Today we are presenting right here one of the stories that Chana tells in her series about one of the big turning points in the school's recent history. Before we start I want to note everything you are going to hear this hour was recorded before coronavirus arrived so it is a world where people get together in person with no masks or anything. Do not be shocked. All right here's Chana. I started reporting this story at the very same moment as I was trying to figure out my own relationship to the subject of this story-- white parents in New York City public schools. I was about to be one of them. When my kid was old enough I started learning about my options. I had many. There was our zoned public school in Brooklyn or I could apply to a handful of specialty programs a gifted program or a magnet school or a language program. So I started to look around. This was five years ago now but I vividly remember these tours. I would show up in the lobby of the school at the time listed on the website look around and notice that all or almost all of the other parents who had shown up for the 1100 AM middle of the workday early in the shopping season school tour were other white parents. As a group we would walk the halls following a school administrator almost always a man or woman of color through a school full of Black and brown kids. We would peer into classroom windows watch the kids sit in a circle on the rug ask questions about the lunch menu homework policy discipline. Some of us would take notes. And the administrators would sell. The whole thing was essentially a pitch. We offer STEM. We have a partnership with Lincoln Center. We have a dance studio. They were pleading with us to please take part in this public school. I do not think I have ever felt my own consumer power more viscerally than I did shopping for a public school as a white parent. We were entering schools that people like us had ignored for decades. They were not our places but we were being invited to make them ours. The whole thing was made so much more awkward by the fact that nobody on those tours ever acknowledged the obvious racial difference that roughly 100 of the parents in this group did not match say 90 of the kids in this building. I remember one time being guided into a classroom and being told that this was the class for gifted kids and noticing oh here's where all the white kids are. Everyone on our tour saw this all of us parents but nobody said anything including me. We walked out into the hallway. A mom raised her hand and said I do have one question I have been meaning to ask. And the group got quiet. I was thinking OK here it comes. But then she said do the kids here play outside every day? I knew the schools were segregated. I should not have been surprised. By the time I was touring schools as a parent I would spent a fair amount of time in schools as a reporter. I would done stories on the stark inequality in public education and I would looked at some of the many programs and reforms we have tried to fix our schools-- so many ideas. We have tried standardized tests and charter schools. We have tried smaller classes longer school days stricter discipline looser discipline tracking differentiation. We have decided the problem is teachers. The problem is parents. What is true about almost all of these reforms is that when we look for what is broken for how our schools are failing we focus on who they are failing-- poor kids Black kids and brown kids. We ask why are not they performing better? Why are not they achieving more? Those are not the right questions. There is a powerful force that is shaping our public schools arguably the most powerful force. It is there even when we pretend not to notice it like on that school tour. If you want to understand why our schools are not better that is where you have to look. You have to look at white parents. That is what this story is about. I am going to take you inside a public school building an utterly ordinary squat three-story New York City public school building not too far from where I live. This is not one of the schools I toured and my own kids do not go here. They are too little. This is a middle and high school called the School for International Studies SIS. The story of this school and its relationship with white parents down the block span 60 years but the part I want to tell you begins at SIS in the spring of 2015 right before everything at the school changed. In 2015 the students at SIS were Black Latino and Middle Eastern kids mostly from working class and poor families. That year like the year before and the year before that the school was shrinking. The principal Jillian Juman was worried. Yeah so the last two years we had 30 students in our sixth grade class. We really have room for 100. So numbers I think are hard. Ms. Juman started to reach out to families from the neighborhood inviting them to please come take a look. Parents started showing up for tours of SIS mostly groups of white parents. Ms. Juman was thrilled and relieved. She walked parents through the building saying stop me anytime. If anyone has any questions really anything I want you to feel comfortable. And Ms. Juman says they did have questions mostly about the poor test scores. That was fair. Ms. Juman expected those questions. She did not expect the other set of questions she got a lot from parents. Is there weapons? Is there-- are you scanning? Are you a scanning school? Because kids are dangerous and they have weapons. Scanning like metal detectors? Right. I heard there is fights and those kinds of things. I do not know what school you are talking about. I have never heard of that incident ever happening ever. So the fears of what this building is and what this building has represented has kind of transcended itself. There is a different story of international studies outside this building. How much of that do you think is racism? I think our entire society is fearful of the unknown. Excellent principal answer. Principal Juman is Black by the way. She needed these parents. Schools get money per student. A shrinking school means a shrinking budget. Ms. Juman was worried if this continued the middle school could be in danger of being shut down by the city. SIS is in Cobble Hill Brooklyn-- leafy streets brownstones. It is a wealthy white neighborhood that is gotten wealthier and whiter in the last decade. But white families were not sending their kids to SIS. Ms. Juman told these parents choose SIS. We are turning things around. We are in the process of bringing in a new prestigious International Baccalaureate curriculum renovating the library. Here's the new gorgeous yard. It is an excellent school. The parents seemed interested but I believe that might have had just as much to do with what was happening outside of the school as what they were seeing inside the building. Sure. So my name is Rob Hansen and I am a parent. So we were-- the middle school process is interesting. Rob lives nearby SIS but he had never heard of the school. In his district Rob could choose from 11 middle schools. The majority of white families sent their kids to the same three schools. Rob's white. Those are the schools he would heard of and those were the schools he toured. But they were packed. There were too many wealthy white families in the district to continue cramming into just three schools. There is a couple of citywide ones where we went and we stood in line for like an hour an hour and a half and then joined in an auditorium full of parents and then had them announce that they were accepting 15 students in the coming class. And they would been running tours all day. Most cities have some amount of school choice like this tours and options. New York City though is an amped-up version of what happens elsewhere-- the level of competition the level of wealth the diversity of people sorting into different schools. Everything is more intense. Rob found this process frustrating. Although Rob is very even-tempered even when he is frustrated-- he is Canadian-- when he gets especially hot he starts calling things interesting. And this whole middle school thing was very interesting. He asked other parents on school tours what are we going to do? Someone said have you guys heard of SIS that building down the block? Rob had not. The others had not. They decided to all go check it out together. I walked away and lots of parents walked away from those tours thinking wow people are jamming up into some schools and you are leaving 60 or 70 seats empty empty all year long. You have 30 kids. You spread them out around-- and that is a big school. Then all of a sudden you are sort of like wait a second. There is nobody here. As Rob toured SIS he had an idea. That night he emailed Principal Juman and he asked would she be open to starting a dual-language French program at SIS? They had one at the elementary school Rob's kids went to and everyone loved it. Sure Principal Juman was open. So Rob started spreading the word. SIS is starting a dual-language French program. We should all go. Rob says there was interest but a lot of people he talked to had this question-- wait are other people going? And then families have that kind of fear. Like what if I am-- you know if I look around nobody else came with me. And I came for something that is not here because nobody-- so it is a collective action problem. Wait why is it a collective-- why do you need a collective? I think overall there is a collective action issue. But if you are interested in this in part because of the French dual language part of it if you are the only one to show up there is no French teacher for one student. But there is a program if 15 come if 20 come. But we all have to then take one step forward at exactly the same time. The vision requires people to come. And what if nobody comes? When it came time to choose middle schools parents are supposed to rank their top choices. Right before they did before everyone chose their schools Rob sent a survey out to the families he would been talking to to try to ensure that a group of them would choose SIS together. It was a simple SurveyMonkey. If enough people said yes they would rank SIS as one of their top picks and they would be able to act as a collective. People said yes. The numbers were stunning. In 2014 there had been 30 sixth graders at SIS. In 2015 there would be 103. That 200 increase was almost entirely white kids. Did you think about yourself as integrators? Did you think about-- No. My pause was because I was trying to think if that had gone through my mind. And no. No not integrators-- participants in a school that was going to hopefully be diverse. But yeah that is not a framing or a way of thinking about it that would have occurred to me at the time. Nobody I talked to from SIS characterized what was happening there as integration but here's why integration was on my mind. The New York City Department of Education was aware their schools were segregated. It was also aware that desegregation is the most effective way to close the gap in achievement between Black and white students. But it did not want to mandate racial integration through zoning or school placements. The city was trying to make integration happen through choice hoping to lure white families into segregated schools. The school tours I went on for my own kids those sparkly programs and amenities that was the new approach to integration. But can this work-- for white parents to opt in to integration not because we have to or because it is the right thing to do but because it is a selling point? Because we get a dance studio and STEM and a school that was hopefully diverse-- integration without talking about race.   The kids at SIS though they did talk about race immediately. Fall 2015 the first few weeks of school a senior named Kristen leaned over to her classmate Chris and mumbles there are a lot of white kids in the school. And Chris says oh yeah a teacher warned me about that over the summer. He told me like oh there is going to be a lot of white kids coming in French white kids from upper economic statuses. So be prepared for that. Kristen nods. Yeah I guess we were prepared. And then she turns to me to say I should have been ready for that. We saw the parents on the tours last year. We would see them walk through the hall but we never knew it was so serious that a whole group of Caucasians would come in it would be so diverse. But it was such a big change. Not to be prejudiced or anything but I noticed the big change. High schoolers are more Hispanics and Blacks and with a few Caucasians. And the new group that came in were all Caucasians. They are trying to make it so diverse. Diverse this was a word I heard over and over in the first few weeks of school-- diversity. I love diversity so when I did see other white kids I am like so? Diversity seemed to have two different definitions. White families would talk about all the diversity at SIS and they were talking about Black and Hispanic kids. When kids of color noted the diversity they were referring to the new white kids. For a lot of kids of color this looked a lot like something they would already seen happen in their neighborhoods-- white families showing up in large numbers taking over stores familiar spots. There is a word for that. It is gentrification. But I noticed that no one was using that word about the school. What was happening here was diversity. That is how the adults talked about it. Diversity is a good thing something you are supposed to be OK with. For the most part the kids were. It was different for the parents. Some of them saw specific advantages to the diversity like Kenya Blount the co-vice president of the PTA at SIS. He was excited. Having the new parents coming in and the diversity that particularly comes from the new-- as I will call it the new neighborhood the way that things are changing in the neighborhood is that we have a gentleman who his profession is fundraising. Rob Hansen the dad who started the SurveyMonkey. Rob raises money for nonprofits and foundations for a living. Over the course of the year I will hear Rob Hansen referred to as Todd Hansen Ted Manson Mr. Handsome. Kenya was the only one who went with the gentlemen whose profession is fundraising. The most common was just the guy who gets the money. Rob told the PTA he was eager to raise money for the school. To Kenya this meant more resources at his own kids' school. His boys and all the kids could benefit. He has brought on the challenge and taken it upon himself to raise 50000. 5-0? 5 0 with three zeros after that-- yes 50000 which again goes back to the whole I will say diversity thing and new people who are thinking outside the box. As our PTA I do not think that we were thinking that big. They were definitely not thinking that big because the PTA was run by Imee Hernandez and her co-president Susan Moesker. Imee is not a gentleman who fundraises. She is a social worker. The first time I met Imee she was wearing a T-shirt that said I am not spoiled. My husband just loves me. She is Puerto Rican grew up in Brooklyn. Her husband Maurice is Puerto Rican and Black and really does adore her. He grew up in Brooklyn too. They have one daughter one pit bull one Persian cat and one school. I make it my business to stick myself in her school.  For Imee the new diversity it gave her pause. Like when I saw in September the population that came in I was like oh that is a little frightening.   Describe it for people who are on the radio and do not know what you saw. I saw a lot of white people with very high socioeconomic backgrounds. You know they have money. And that is great but money tends to scare people. And I am one of the people it scares.  I am one of the people it scares because it twists everything around. And I do not like that. I do not like that. I would rather have a dinner where people of different cultures bring their food and we share together than have somebody else cater it. That is how I feel you build community. I am a social worker. That is my background. And that is what I believe in. Imee was in her second year at the school. The year before she put on community events teacher appreciation a spring carnival with face painting and hot dogs. There is money here and there but Imee's vision for the PTA was not really about fundraising. The new parents though they wanted to be active in their new school and they were accustomed to supporting their kids' schools by fundraising. The two approaches came face to face at a PTA meeting in October. Three more minutes-- All right all right. --and then it is up to every-- Oh you are stressed. Yes I am very-- because you all got your-- you know you got to go home.  You got to go home. There are about a dozen grown-ups sitting on small plastic chairs around a classroom table-- the PTA executive board. Principal Juman is here too. Imee's leading and the principal jumps in. She says she wants a minute to share how much the new fundraising committee had raised so far. Imee looks confused. Principal Juman goes on to say the new fundraising committee has had a lot of success. But total they have raised according to Rob about 18000. And then we just had a donation from a family a couple weeks ago who wanted to be anonymous that they are going to give either 5000 to 10000 in December. So this is big money. People seem unclear what to do with their faces. This is good news right? But also wait? What is the fundraising committee? Imee turns to her husband Maurice a retired cop. Maurice is also the treasurer of the PTA because when he retired his wife told him he could not just sit around at home. Maurice shrugs at Imee does not seem to know anything about this new money. Imee turns back to Principal Juman. So can we use that money? That was the question if the PTA can have access to this money. Because I know already-- But what is the PTA? So that is also the question that keeps going around. So this 18000 Rob has raised under the umbrella of PTA. That is Principal Juman. OK. I think. But who is-- who is got it and where is it-- this PTA member do not know nothing about it so you know. How can that be accessed for Mr. Negron? Maurice asks how can that money be accessed for Mr. Negron who wants new gym uniforms or Mr. Lowe to get his microscopes? Imee nods. I mean God bless Rob and more power to him-- Yeah. --but he is not an official member. So I think that is what makes it confusing at least for me. He is a PTA member because he is a parent but he is not part of the executive board. So I think that is what makes it-- That is probably true. Yeah it makes it tricky. I mean and again I am not-- he can bring more money that is great but you know. Principal Juman nods repeats that she wishes Rob had been able to make it. She was hoping everyone could be here and get on the same page about money. But Rob is chaperoning a sixth grade overnight trip. They are late getting back. One mom a white woman who came in with the new group of sixth graders says look I know Rob. He means well. I think Rob-- he is a professional fundraiser. Yes he is great. And therefore he took it as his initiative-- They need money. --to do the fundraising. Yeah. And I think that is great but I do not-- he should communicate with the PTA. And my impression is I do not think he is meaning to offend anybody. No no no. I think he is sort of so laser focused that he is not thinking about well maybe you might want to let somebody know what he is doing. And he is been amazing. He really has. Yeah yeah. That is Principal Juman. At this point everyone seems to feel a little weird about how long they have spent talking about a fellow parent who is not present. And anyway it is money for the school. We are all for that. We just need better communication. Imee says yeah it is just usually money raised by parents goes through the PTA so we can all talk about where to spend it. And then we have to decide who has the say. Because if it is a collective PTA-- Hey. There is Rob. There he is. There he is. Sorry I am late. Then it would be-- Yay. I cannot believe you made it out there every-- Rob walks into the room. He just got back from the sixth grade trip. He sits down and they all start to talk. We need to sort out some questions about money. Then a mom from the fundraising committee says she is worried about me recording and asked me to stop so I do. Going on. Being requested but we do not know-- They let me stay though. I take notes. Rob apologizes and then explains. A group of them have been meeting to raise money for the school. The new dual-language French program is expensive and they promised the principal they would help raise money to cover it. They were just eager to help Rob says so they formed a committee. He is really sorry. He should have communicated and coordinated better with the PTA. But good news is it is going great. Someone has a contact with the French embassy a guy at the cultural services arm in New York. And he says he wants to help cover the costs of new French teachers and books. They have already kicked in around 10000. At this point in my notes I wrote Lots of looks big money. Rob says the embassy suggested we do a fundraiser an event. They can help. Here I wrote Looks-- confused mad? Nobody really talking. Imee says this fundraiser will be at the school though right and free for everyone? Rob says yes. Good good. She asks one more time-- free? I just want to make sure everyone can go. Lots of nods. Rob says totally. This is a community event for our community. After about 20 minutes Imee says we are out of time guys. I cannot tell if this is out of a professional commitment Imee has to stick to the schedule or a personal commitment to getting out of that room. Before I came to SIS I never thought much about the role of PTAs ever. At SIS early on I had this feeling of oh a PTA is actually critical to the success of an integrated school. A PTA has a very simple democratic structure. Every parent has an equal vote-- smart. It is like a built-in system to equalize power to help them make a budget together make decisions set priorities collectively-- or not. So we are lucky enough we have Rob here who has really taken over fundraising and tried to bring it to the next level here in our school. It is another PTA meeting and the whole collective thing is not really happening. It seems like the new parents are still raising money separate from the PTA and the communication problems do not seem to be resolved. And some of the new parents have an idea. They propose a formal separation the PTA and the people doing fundraising. Rob says this way there'ill be two organizations collecting money for SIS. --is there will be two sorts of ways dollars are raised. One would be a community raise-- big sales direct gifts. That would be the PTA side the community funds. Then there would be a separate organization that would go after grants and big donors. Up until this point there seemed to be tension bubbling under the surface between the new parents and the old parents but it was not really until this moment that the unsaid started to get said mostly by Imee's husband Maurice. I think a lot of us feel there is two different groups. There is the fundraising group and a PTA which is-- you know that is what it looks like. You guys have this goal of making 50000 and it is going to the French program. Now as you said what about the rest of the school? Where is all this money going? We have no answer. We do not know. It is very easy to feel steamrolled. That is Maureen a white mom who is new. There are lots of nods. Maurice is asking is this new money you are talking about is it just for the new French dual-language program which is another way of asking is this money just for your kids or is it for everybody? Rob says emphatically it is for everybody. Maurice says really? I mean that is being naive. We think OK they are going to donate all this money through the French embassy. OK we are going to buy new chalkboards. That is being naive. Now you are saying the 50000 is going to be for the PTA community to decide where it is going to go. So I mean I hear what you are saying which sounds great. But again maybe I am still thinking about last meeting when Jillian said OK well we are only going to get a percentage of that. So we still do not have an answer. Later talking to Rob I learned that the new separate fundraising arm he is talking about is actually a foundation. They want to create a school-based foundation at SIS. The plan is to call it the Brooklyn World Project. I asked Rob why do you need another way to raise money? There is a PTA. Most people have heard of a school PTA. Why do you need a separate organization that is not the PTA? Yeah. So probably the easiest way to explain it is to not think about it from the school side but to think about it from the potential donor side. So basic idea that we are following is that the-- let us say the International says we want to do extend a day and we want to do theater. And so we go and we find a donor who loves theater and loves the French language and loves the idea that kids who have never spoken French and had no exposure get the chance to go and compete actually against some of the most established schools in the city. And a donor just loves that. They are like I love it. I love giving that kind of opportunity to kids. I am going to cover all of that because I think it is that important. If that money goes to the PTA you could have a situation where the PTA says or members of the PTA say I do not know that we really like the theater program. I am not sure. I think that we should be using those dollars to do X or Y or Z. Now normally you would be able to say well donor intent is what it is. You should probably use it towards what it was intended for. You mean normally in another fundraising context? Yeah meaning in nonprofits. So there is a basic kind of morality of a nonprofit to say if a donor gives it to you to do something you should try to do that. Donor intent is an important part of it. It is sort of a trust that is established. Rob says because the PTA is a democracy it makes things complicated. The very thing I saw as a strength of a PTA-- one parent one vote-- to Rob that is a problem for fundraising. Parents come and go and change their minds about what is important. A private donor wants stability and Rob is trying to raise money for the kind of programming that was available at his son's wealthy elementary school. At that school Rob was co-president of the PTA. In the previous year his PTA pulled in close to 800000 800000 money that paid for after-school programming and ballroom dancing chess art music a garden-- 800000 for a school that is 75 white and serves a tiny fraction of the poor kids in the district. There are not enough wealthy parents at SIS to raise that kind of money. That year Rob helped raise 800000 the SIS PTA raised 2000. So Rob was trying to be creative. A foundation was a way for his new school to catch up. The school leadership the principal was behind the idea. Ms. Juman told me she saw the foundation as a path to equity and access. More resources meant they would be able to provide all kids with opportunities like say a school trip to France. But the parent leadership they found it annoying. Imee knew the new parents were trying to help the school but she already liked the school. She felt like she was being saved against her will. Plus they are new she said. Should not we be the ones helping them? She was fine with them bringing in ideas but she did not understand why they had not brought them to her first. They had not thought to consult her. She said to me multiple times why are they coming up with all these private plans and meeting in secret committees? You were pissed about that? Totally. Yeah. Because I was not involved. Why were you angry about that? Because here I am trying to build something with the school. Why did not you just involve me? Why did not you just tell me about it? It felt like it was a secret. I do not know if it was if it was not. I am invested in the school. And clearly I have proven to you I am invested in the school and you could not tell us that you wanted to fundraise in a different way? Rob and the new parents did tell the principal that they wanted to fundraise in a different way but Imee felt like what about the rest of us? She felt like the PTA was ignored. At that last meeting Imee went quiet. She told me she just felt enraged and then embarrassed for feeling so enraged. I guess I just threw a tantrum.  And I just did not want to be a part of it which is not right. But I think again in the moment I just felt like-- you know I was hurt. Did not you throw-- was the tantrum the thing I saw? Because that did not seem like a tantrum. No that was not a tantrum. I could have been a lot worse and I was really really trying to restrain myself. Yeah I really was. That was really under control really really under control. It was not but it was really really under control. I asked was there another time? Tantrum? Yeah at home with my husband.  That is when I threw my tantrum. So it was tense among the parents but this is a school for children. Did it matter if the adults were not getting along or who controlled which pot of money? Yes yes it did. That is coming up after the break from WBEZ Chicago when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Nice White Parents. Chana Joffe-Walt is telling the story of parents and their influence over the workings of one public school a public school in Brooklyn called SIS the School for International Studies. Chana picks up now where she left off. The school year moved forward. Rob's fundraising committee moved forward with the French embassy to plan the fundraiser. It was now being called a gala. The PTA moved forward with parent volunteers to plan a spring carnival. It was being called the spring carnival-- quiet resentments locked in place. Here's Chana. I was talking on the phone one night to Imee's co-president on the PTA Susan Moesker. She told me she was worried the school was changing in ways that were damaging to the community. Susan is white herself but she did not come in with the new parents. When she started her son was one of the only white kids in the school. Now Susan felt like they were all being written into a narrative that was not true that SIS was a bad school before and now that the new white families had arrived it was being turned around. It is noticeable. I think it is something that even my child has picked up on-- just like a very different feeling among some of the students and some of the parents. This real sense again that here they come to save our 