So you may have heard that last week Starbucks closed down all of their US stores so they could do this big racial bias training program for everybody who worked at Starbucks-- the same training at every store Starbucks owns 8000 stores over 175000 people-- a very eccentric corporate move that the company embarked on after an incident in Starbucks in Philadelphia in April that you probably heard about. Two African-American men were sitting there calmly waiting for a friend. The manager called the police who arrested them as customers asked why. Well what did they do? What did they do? Someone tell me what they did. They did not do anything. I saw the entire thing. Here's what they did. They wanted to use the bathroom but they had not bought anything. The manager said no. She asked them to leave. When they would not leave because they were there to meet somebody the manager called the police. Two days after this the company said that what happened was reprehensible that calling the police was completely inappropriate that the company stands firmly against racial profiling. And then it went further and announced this training which would shut down the stores for half a day and cost them tens of millions of dollars. That is not what companies normally do. Normally when this kind of thing happens companies either deny they did anything wrong or they accept they did something wrong and then they move on. Like they move on quickly. Moving on quickly is the key. But here Starbucks was taking this incident that was bad press for them from the start and they decided to kind of own it and sit with it and live in it. And they more or less declared we have a problem with racism in this country. And our answer to Philadelphia is that Starbucks is not only going to try to fix its own racism problem it is going to try to help fix America's racism problem too-- which I have to say is basically just inviting people from all sides to criticize them. And then the thing that they do is the biggest implicit bias training that is happened ever in all time. People argue about the effectiveness of implicit bias training anyway. I am just trying to say Starbucks made a very unusual choice. Well Kelefa Sanneh has been examining that choice for us. And he went to attend the training itself which we are going to get to. Our show is the only journalistic outfit that Starbucks allowed to attend one of these trainings and we did record there. That is coming up. Kelefa is normally a staff writer for The New Yorker. Hey Kelefa. Hey Ira. OK so the thing that I personally wonder about is OK in a purely practical way if Starbucks wanted their employees to not do racist stuff or racial profile anybody anymore a training like this seems so like squishy. Mhm yeah. Who knows if this even works? Why not do the most old-fashioned thing out there? If they really care about this why do not they just fire the manager tell everybody else OK here's a new rule do stuff like that you lose your job and then just call it a day? People were calling for them to fire the manager for a while. They were protests demanding that. And they did not do it. Why do this experimental weird thing instead? Why not just fire the racists? So I talked to Howard Schultz. He is the guy who built Starbucks-- basically the Steve Jobs of Starbucks-- about why they did not do the simple thing. Well I think if you are asking would it have been easier to fire the manager on the spot I guess it would have been easier. But it is just not the way we view the culture and values of Starbucks. I felt strongly that this was not a time to blame one individual that the policy was too much in a gray area. And we had not given the proper tools and resources for the manager to make the right decision. And ultimately we were responsible the company and myself. And that is the position we have taken. And just to be clear the manager at this point is not working for Starbucks though they will not say whether or not they fired her. The company said-- and this is a quote-- that it was a mutual decision for her to go. So when this happens they do not make a show of firing her and setting new rules. No. Instead the company says it is going to help lead this national conversation about race that we always hear about. I talked to Howard Schultz about this plan this idealistic optimistic vision of racial healing and progress. And actually he got kind of defensive about it. Really? Yeah. Like when I asked him what seemed like a pretty obvious question about the Philadelphia thing-- I asked him how often does this kind of thing happen in your stores? And he did not know. He said Starbucks does not keep track. If we are going to spend time on this call talking about how often police are called to Starbucks I think it is not what we should be talking about. We should be talking about what kind of country do we want to live in? And what can we do as a company what can we do as citizens to enhance the lives of all Americans? And I think it is a courageous step on our part to talk about a difficult subject. Howard Schultz loves these big dramatic gestures. You might remember in 2008 during the Obama-McCain presidential race Starbucks buys this ad on Saturday Night Live saying if you vote you can come into Starbucks get a free cup of coffee. Yeah I kind of vaguely remember that. Yeah he has a term for initiatives like these. He calls them brand sparks. Brand sparks? Yeah. He defines it in one of his books. He says brand sparks are subtle surprising and rare marketing events usually linked to cultural or humanitarian issues and devoid of a self-serving sales pitch. Oh. That election ad he said it worked. He said it generated goodwill for Starbucks. He said it gave the brand a halo. But this-- he said that this racism initiative-- he said this was different. But this has nothing to do with 2008. So I do not know why you keep going back to the brand spark. Well I-- Yeah. When I suggested this to Howard that this racial bias training thing had something to do with marketing Starbucks he did not go for it. Certainly our customers are going to notice that our stores are closed. And there is been a fair amount of press about it. But it is not anything that we are promoting to send a message. I want to make sure I understand this. You say this is not a marketing event. And obviously to some people anything that a company does kind of looks like marketing. How is this different from a marketing event? This is the antithesis of a marketing event. It is not something that is-- it has nothing to do with trying to sell anything. Marketing is about creating awareness and selling your product. This is not-- we are not trying to sell anything. This conversation with Howard Schultz it happened right before the training. That is where I was supposed to go after our interview which was supposed to last like half an hour. What does-- Are we almost done? What is that? I think we are almost done. I think we are at-- we are at 15 minutes right? So he did not hang up on me. We kept talking. But once we were done my producer and I we get a call from a Starbucks PR rep saying basically look if this is going to be some sort of gotcha piece about how this whole thing is a big marketing event we might not be interested in participating. Well it is weird because there is nothing wrong with marketing. Like they are doing a thing. They want people to know. Marketing is what companies do. Sure. They never really stop doing it right? Marketing is sort of just a word for anything that a company does to tell the world about who it is. OK. All right here's the theory. Is it possible that he is so insistent that there is no marketing in it because yeah he knows that anything his company does publicly affects how the public sees his brand. Like of course doing anything like this is a kind of marketing. But he does not want to admit it because actually underneath it he actually is trying to do a good thing. He is trying to actually address racism. He thinks America is too racist. He wants to do something about it. And he just feels like oh if we start admitting that there is some marketing or we get some brand halo from this that is just going to muddy the message. Yeah although what is weird is this is not the first time Starbucks has tried to do a good thing right? They have had environmental initiatives. They had this voting thing which he was happy to say the voting thing was good marketing. So in a sense this is not new for Starbucks. But what is new is that this is a racism initiative. And I think he has a sense that racism is so incendiary so sensitive that it cannot have anything to do with marketing. Like if there is any sense that this has anything to do with marketing Starbucks people are going to tune it out or maybe worse right? Right because it would be offensive. Yeah this idea like you are taking America's national sin of racism and using that to sell coffee. People might consider that offensive. OK but if he really is trying to do something good here then to put this thing together he worked with-- I read this in the paper the people who you would turn to if you were serious about doing a big anti-bias training. There is like Bryan Stevenson-- Yeah Bryan Stevenson from the Equal Justice Initiative. Sherrilyn Iffil I read. Yeah she runs the Legal Defense Fund at the NAACP. And then less than a week after this big training this other thing happens-- Howard Schultz quits his job at Starbucks. Right. And there is all this speculation. Is he going run for president? And he does not deny whether or not he is going to run for President. He is just like I am going to do public service. Howard Schultz for president right? Maybe he really does care more about fixing America than selling coffee. OK well today on our program from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. We have this multinational corporation deciding to do a touchy-feely racial bias training session. And can you think of anything harder to try to teach people in four hours given how complicated and charged the whole subject is? And on our program today we have this story and other stories of people trying to teach in situations where learning is not going to be easy at all. In one of our stories we see kids who are trying to learn in one of the least hospitable environments imaginable. We watch what happens. Stay with us. Act One All the Caffeine in the World Does not Make You Woke. So when Starbucks gave us permission to record at their big national training last week they did put conditions on this-- all kinds of conditions. They would not let us record the training at one of their stores. It had to be at their corporate headquarters. They would select the participants. So this is not going to be typical in a lot of ways. But we will get to see what the training actually is and to see whether it had any kind of impact on the group of people who we figured given the circumstances would be a group of employees predisposed to be into this. We figured if this training did not do much for them what kind of chance was it that it was going to be any better out in the stores? And if it did work for them well then maybe that would be interesting in some way also. We honestly did not know what to expect. But we wanted to understand OK here's this big company that says it is trying to do this idealistic thing take on all racial relations in America. And OK let us take them at their word and try to understand. What did it look like when they tried to do that? The employees at this particular training were not big like vice presidents not the people in charge of the company. These were mostly mid-level managers from the supply chain and operations and human resources parts of the company. And most of them used to work in the stores as baristas. Kelefa now explains what he saw at that training. This was happening in 8000 stores. And they could not hire 8000 racial bias experts to lead the sessions. So the course was designed to be self-directed with no official leader. I am going to be a learner with you guys. So-- I was in Seattle in a conference room at Starbucks headquarters eight upbeat employees sitting around a table. Two were black. Most of the rest were white. And there was one very quiet PR person sitting in the corner. --and come back when you feel-- Everyone had their Starbucks drinks-- a hot coffee a nitro cold brew a cold brew with milk and one pump of toffee nut syrup. I am going to kind of help get us started but then we are all learners and participants together. There was a huge 68-page booklet printed on broadsheet newsprint in sections like a Sunday paper-- So let us just open our books and get started. --and a timeline running along the bottom telling you how long each task should take. It is page eight. Kind of ingenious really. Let me just watch you. No that is fine. Some pages told the group to watch videos. Those were preloaded on an iPad. Some of them asked people to reflect and write things down. Everyone got a 40-page workbook. --and honor the truth of others. There was even the racial equivalent of a Surgeon General's warning. --feel free to do so. Conversations about race can induce a feeling that experts call racial anxiety. And when we are anxious we cannot always think clearly. If that happens you are supposed to pause share your feelings and then have a short group conversation about how you felt. First let the group-- So yeah there were some moments where it felt like I would stumbled into some sort of beachfront spiritual retreat. And then as a group have a short conversation-- Like here's Common the rapper and actor on the iPad doing the opening meditation. I am grateful to be with you Starbucks partners today because this work is close to my heart. I want you to see something in your mind's eye. Close your eyes for a moment. Yes close them. I want you to think of a time you felt seen. All of this was inspired by the incident in Philadelphia. But the only time the materials mentioned the incident itself was to explain why the training was happening. Instead the training zoomed way out tackling racial bias and discrimination more generally. The guidebook implied but did not quite state that what happened in Philadelphia was racist. So it says open your guidebook. The first exercise started small-- very small. People were asked to pair up and then list their differences. And even here at this meticulously planned racial awareness workshop where everyone knows they are there to talk about race everyone came prepared to talk about race it turns out it is still really hard to get people to talk about race. Do you have children? No kids. No kids. I have three kids. Kids no kids. These are two people who sit near each other in the office but never talked till now-- Whitney who is white and Rodney who is black though somehow that fact is not getting a lot of play. Do you have siblings? Two older brothers. OK. I have an older brother and an older sister. So we are also three-- sets of three. Yeah so we are similar. Wait you are in the middle. I am the baby. I am the baby too. OK.  Did you have a close relationship with your parents? The other groups were like this too-- I am a man. I am a woman. I am a Leo. I am a Virgo. I am from Arizona. I am from Indiana. Rodney and Whitney are the only ones who call out their own races. And as soon as they do they drop it. Like you are white. I am not.  That is true. That feels kind of like a gimme. It kind of is. And like of course people especially white people are hesitant to talk about race at least at first. It feels rude to sit down with someone and jump into race as if that is what is on your mind as if that is how you see them. But there is a training for that and we are at it. So here's how it worked. It was basically broken into three sections. This format was created with help from the Perception Institute a group that does this kind of anti-bias work. There are three sections of the training. First acknowledging that we are all different and talking about what it takes to make everyone feel like they belong. Second recognizing bias in ourselves. Here's how they defined it-- implicit bias that is the automatic stereotyping we do. Structural bias that is the way systems and institutions perpetuate inequality. Third Starbucks policies. This was more about the nuts and bolts of actually running a coffee shop. In response to Philadelphia the company made some changes like the bathroom policy. Now everyone can use the bathroom at Starbucks. You do not have to buy anything. Parts of the training felt generic like a run-of-the-mill corporate diversity seminar. And some parts were super specific to Starbucks tackling forms of bias that no one outside Starbucks has ever considered. Here's a scenario from one of the videos. But we always knew that in our store about 310 PM we would get a huge rush of high school students right when school would let out. And then we always had the one person on the floor that kind of turned and looked and was like oh great here it comes frappuccino happy hour. And so as these kids were in the store yeah they are a little bit rambunctious. But you start taking their orders. You come to realize that it is like you made a huge assumption. Not every drink's a frappuccino. Somebody is ordering a hot chocolate. Somebody is getting a caramel macchiato. Somebody likes passion tea with like 10 pumps classic. Like there is just-- I guess that is an example of beverage bias or maybe frappuccino shaming. There were also videos about baristas assuming patrons were homeless. One was about gender identity. One was about a barista who suspected that a group of black kids was plotting to steal the tip jar. One was about a guy with an accent so thick that the barista could not spell his name on his cup. --about it and said I am just going to call you Bob. And I wrote Bob on the cup. He had a really thick accent. But other parts were surprisingly ambitious and more provocative like a video by Stanley Nelson the documentary filmmaker-- --1960s-- --which argued that African-Americans have been systematically excluded from public spaces. --and allow equal access for all. His film included violent footage from the Civil Rights era.  Changing the law does not always change reality. And it also included footage of a police officer choking a young black man in a prom tux. That is from just last month. It happened outside a Waffle House in North Carolina. No this is wrong! Oh my god! Look at-- Yeah! We just need to recognize that black people are navigating the public space differently than white people-- Everyone in the room-- --that women are navigating-- --seemed pretty affected by it. --the public space differently than men. A couple of people even had tears in their eyes. And despite the uneasiness at first there actually was some blunt talk about race in the group discussions mainly because there was one person there who seemed totally comfortable talking about it. Her name was Adrienne. She is an engineer working on the global supply chain. She is African-American grew up in Atlanta moved to Seattle six years ago to work at Starbucks. And she admitted that for her Starbucks was not always a super comfortable place to be. At one point everyone broke up into small groups and talked about the company. And she remembered coming into work in the summer of 2016 after Alton Sterling and Philando Castile were shot and killed by the police. That was a big thing for me because again you-- I came to work. It was very sad. And nobody said anything. And I am just like did any of-- have you guys been watching the news? Two black guys just got killed. And it was just like ugh. But then that was around the same time that somebody had shot up the gay club in Orlando. Yeah I remember. And everybody was talking about it. And I was just like how is this different? But I do not know. So that was hard. When people are discussing racism or trying to there is this thing that happens. The black people in the room become the de facto discussion leaders. And of course that is understandable. White people especially have been taught that when it comes to racism their most important task is to be good listeners. Some of that happened in this room too. One of the questions in the book was about what it was like to come to work with natural hair. OK so whoever wrote this question was probably hoping there would be somebody like Adrienne in the room somebody who could give an answer like this. --I remember oh god first time I had braids and came into work it was just like to me what is the big deal? But then it is like you have that moment to where I will tell people who have probably never been this close to somebody with hair braided. You guys got 48 hours. You can touch ask as many questions as you want.  But you know that they are there. The questions are there. And it is kind of a distraction. And I kind of want to just get it over with so we can keep moving. Did you really do that? Oh yeah. We had to have a coffee tasting about my hair and how long it took and who did it and was this person African and have I done this before and does it mean anything? And it is just one of those things where it is like you can choose to get an attitude about it or you can just say I am just going to answer your questions. But you have those moments where like oh god do I really want to do this today? We do always have that-- did anyone else have that hair thing? Rodney jumps in the other black employee in the room. Like I can see it in slow motion-- like a white person coming towards my hair. I can actually feel it. It is the same with pregnant women. And it is the same with pregnant women. Yeah. It is the same thing. That is Whitney saying it is the same with pregnant women. She is the white coworker who was paired with Rodney in the exercise at the beginning. It is the same thing yeah. Like why are you touching me right now-- Exactly it. Like there is this-- --stranger? --privacy of space that does not exist. Actually I have felt that with pregnant women. Objectified yeah. Yeah. But I had this great moment. My-- There were not a lot of moments like this where people chimed in added to each other's stories. Generally everyone listened respectfully but quietly like when Adrienne asked the group why do white people care so much about black people's hair? Everyone laughed but no one gave her an answer. In this group it seemed like Adrienne was the only person trying to answer questions like that. The closest they got to really discussing the Philadelphia incident was near the end. They were talking not about Philadelphia but about something else-- something less charged but kind of similar that happened in one of the stores. There was a video of a store manager telling a story that sounded kind of like a confession. One day in my store I was on the register and I was helping customers. And a couple of weeks prior to that my manager had told me about the return policy that customers needed a receipt and it had to be within the last 60 days. This older black man came up to the register with a pound of coffee and he asked to return it. And I asked him if he got a receipt and he said no. Now I would seen other partners in the store accept returns without a receipt in the past. And I would even done that before as well. But for some reason I just really stuck to the policy and leveraged the policy as the reason why I could not give him money back or make an exchange without a receipt. I think what bothers me is that this guy we are talking about with the coffee said he had broken the rules before. For some reason he did not do it for an older black man. This is Adrienne again. That is what bothers me is that you purposefully was like there is a black guy that came in here. I am not going to do it this time. This is the one time I am going to let the rules work for me. That is the type of stuff that I just do not understand. It is just like what in the world did this black person do to you to make you just-- I do not know. It is weird when you grow up and you wonder like why do these people hate me so much? And I literally have done nothing. The training manual had talked about unconscious bias. But Adrienne thought that what this guy did it sounded more like conscious bias an intentionally racist act. Whitney the white operations manager-- she was not so sure. I think it can be truly unconscious though. And she suggested very politely that Adrienne might be wrong about this guy-- that maybe this guy did not realize in the moment what he was doing. Sounds to me like in retrospect that person was like yeah I do not know why I dug my heels in so hard. But I think about it even as a parent why-- like sometimes I will let certain things be fine. And other times I like-- like I will look back later and go like why was I so insistent on following the house rule on this one? I think probably his thought process in the moment was not I am going to say no because this is a black person. But in retrospect was like why was that the time that I chose-- hm well I do not like what that says about me. That feels gross. Then Rodney joined the conversation even though he was not really sure how he felt. But it is-- for that scenario I listened to you and then I listened to you. And it is interesting to hear a black woman's response and a white woman's response because what I heard from you was that there was intent. And there was knowing decision-- this is a black guy. I am not going to take this. And you want to give them the benefit of the doubt. And I am torn. We do not know. And to be honest I do not know what we do with that as a company. I mean like-- Rodney really believes in Starbucks. But at this moment it felt like he was bumping up against the limits of this corporate initiative like maybe he had finally encountered a problem that was not going to be solved by a friendly non-judgmental listening session. In practice this epic social experiment this attempt to lead a national conversation about race this grandiose parting shot from Howard Schultz as he left this company that he built did it help? It is hard to tell. Starbucks said it was not measuring outcomes. But in this one conference room in Seattle it seemed sincere maybe even helpful. It felt like Starbucks was trying to give people what they say they want after an incident like this-- accept responsibility change your corporate culture fight systemic racism all at once. And if it was kind of unwieldy kind of incoherent with a couple of moments of insight what do you expect? It is a weird assignment. We are done? This is the last page. Want me to read it? Yeah. Today was a start. It was not perfect because we are all human and we are all learning. The day of the training May 29 while the group had been impaneled the national conversation about race had been proceeding in the real world although not in a way they would have predicted. While they were watching their videos and filling out their workbooks Roseanne Barr unbeknownst to them was being condemned for a tweet in which she compared an African-American woman to an ape. So by the time the session in Seattle was finished Roseanne not Starbucks was the biggest story in the country. ABC did what Starbucks did not do. They fired Roseanne they issued a brief statement and they tried to move on as quickly as possible. Starbucks having hoped to harness one viral moment had found its careful plans overshadowed by a different one. On Twitter people joked about how Roseanne could use some of that Starbucks sensitivity training. The company's big idealistic vision became a punchline after someone else's racial screw-up. There are going to be more trainings for Starbucks employees over the next year but the stores are not going to shut down for them. Starbucks has gone back to selling coffee. Wherever you are chances are there is one nearby. Go there right now if you want. Order a frappuccino. They will try not to judge you. Kelefa Sanneh-- he is a staff writer for The New Yorker. Coming up the kid who made the other kids in his school wonder if studying is just a waste of time. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life-- I am Ira Glass. Today's program Unteachable Moment stories about people who are supposed to learn some stuff that is really hard to learn and then what happens instead of learning. We have arrived at Act Two of our show-- Act Two Throw the Book at Them. In New Orleans the district attorney prosecutes a ton of kids as adults. Between 2011 and 2015 for instance he sent approximately 80 of 15- and 16-year-olds into the adult criminal justice system in cases where he had the option of charging them as juveniles. That is according to the Southern Poverty Law Center. These kids end up at the Orleans Justice Center which is the jail that any adult in New Orleans Parish is held while waiting for trial. And in part because there are so many kids and in part because some of them are in jail for so long waiting for their court dates they decided to open up a high school in the jail back last year in August. It is a real school actually part of the New Orleans School District. You can get a real high school diploma there. And it looks like nearly any high school too. So gentlemen I am about to hand you these note cards. These are the-- In the hallway there are motivational posters and student essays on the theme of power posted. There is a Where are they now? display with former students' pictures and Martin Luther King Jr.'s mugshot from when he was in jail. But one big difference from regular school? The students are all in orange jumpsuits stamped INMATE in all caps. What do parallel lines tell us? What you mean what they tell us? There is some information we can take from parallel lines that we love about parallel lines. At any given time there are about 50 students enrolled in the school which is named the Travis Hill School after a local musician who was incarcerated himself as a teenager. I should say that some of the students are 18 or over. So technically they are adults. But Travis Hill is different from schools in juvenile detention facilities because these kids all of them are charged as adults. They are all facing adult sentences lots of them really long-- 10 15 25 40 years-- and a lifelong criminal record. And all this raises a very particular problem for this school. Eli Hager who reports on criminal justice issues at the Marshall Project has been visiting the school. Quick warning that we have un-beeped a few words here in the podcast version of the program. A beeped version is at our website. Here's Eli. The problem is being a student and being an inmate are opposites. Everything about adult jail is telling you to be hopeless that you have no future and no worth which makes school feel utterly beside the point. Of course there are always kids in the back row of any classroom asking the question when will we ever use this in real life? Especially in places where there truly is not much opportunity like at the mostly black schools that the kids at Travis Hill all came from. But it is just more vivid here the students' sense of the senselessness of school-- more total and more justified. Take this one kid Ju'ron. He is 17 years old and he is facing 15 to 104 years in prison for allegedly stealing a cell phone from a woman and firing a gun in the air. He says he did not do it. His mom cannot afford bail. So until his trial he is stuck in a place that is not safe. The death rate at the Orleans Justice Center is four times the national average for jails. Ju'ron calls his mom every day but in-person visits are not allowed here. Sometimes he gets locked in his cell for 23 hours a day and gets his feed up as the guards call it through a slot. He goes to sleep on a hard slab. And one day on his way to art class he walked past the man charged with killing his father just a few months earlier. I was scared. He would killed a man that looked like me. So I was glad he did not see me. But I saw him. Now I know to keep an eye out. Do you remember how you were feeling when you were sitting in class after having just seen that person? I was thinking just thinking. I was not going nowhere-- in my head no no no. I was like am I tripping? I gotta get the fuck out of here. I cannot do this no more. There is all type of stuff coming with jail man. I cannot do it. School's not helping me. I mean they are doing their thing. They ar