 From PRX and NPR welcome back to the SNAP. My name is Glynn Washington and today we are in the business of riding a very Slippery Slope. It is about decisions decisions. One small seemingly inconsequential decision can change the course of everything even love - especially love. And for this next piece sensitive listeners and those with small children should be advised it does contain sexual content. Kaitlin Prest brings us the story about a guy looking for freedom and freedom comes hard.  I met Keith Ford in a coffee shop. He looked a little bit like Basquiat. He had a kind of antiestablishment air about him. He would make me cappuccinos and I would linger at the counter chatting and laughing and wondering if he had a girlfriend. We started to have long conversations about his crazy life in Cleveland Ohio.  I was living in this I guess you could call it like a DIY or punk house. I do not recall exactly but I am pretty sure I got kicked out. That first night I still had my truck and I remember parking it on a lakeside street and just like listening to the lake crash on the beach. And there was kind of like the attitude of like well I do not have anywhere to go. But that means I am free - being free from responsibility free from financial burden that I could just wake up and brush my teeth using a bottle of water go out and see what the day had to give me which was basic stuff like where am I going to eat can I take a shower today am I going to take a bath in Lake Erie?  This lifestyle seemed to suit Keith. Most people never even realized he was homeless. He was young. He was well-spoken and more often than not he had a girlfriend.  I think it might be hard for someone who is never been homeless to imagine someone without a home getting into a relationship. But for me like getting into relationships - it is always been pretty easy. I am able to carry myself in a way that is often in opposition to my present circumstance. If I am utterly desperate you would not know that because I will carry myself that way. I smile often I laugh often and I tell jokes. I am upbeat. It is easy to fall in love with me.  Girls would fall in love with Keith all the time.  So many different circumstances so many different women so many different states. I was dating this girl that I liked at the time - came here and started to date this woman - like earth goddess. She had a great apartment in Brooklyn - who would let me live in her house instead of sleeping on the bench - found out that that is how I was living. And she was like no way man you can crash at my house anytime.  He spent a lot of his homeless days living in apartments with girls he met.  At the time I thought I was just in a relationship.  You know so if I stay at your house overnight it is not because I have to it is because you invited me. But it is always kind of like oh you probably should not have done that 'ecause I totally took advantage of it. Like it is an imposition.  These romances had a pretty short shelf life. They would break up and Keith would be on his own again looking for a new place to stay a new situation a new girlfriend. He train hopped from town to town which is how he ended up in Rochester living once again on the street.  I was sneaking into the basement of this row house. But the basement was the most frightening place I had ever encountered. When I opened the door there was like this like exhalation of air. It was just like like oooh. And I was like oh my God I do not sleep here. I do not want to sleep here. Because I was so scared I slept on the stairs like sitting up. You know I did that for a couple nights maybe two or three nights. I had stopped in this cafe because I was like kind of at the end of my rope. There is this woman there who I had seen around. She kind of looked like Mariska Hargitay from Law And Order SVU and I have always had a crush on that woman so I was sold. I am just kidding. You know she invited me to sit down at her table. She is like hey. We just kind of had a conversation about coffee. I saw her again at a grocery store. And she is like oh hey Keith you know. It is kind of funny because I was in there stealing food - putting cookies in my backpack. And one day she invited me back to the coffee shop and that is when she kind of told me her was husband in prison - they took my kids I do not have a job I do not trust a lot of the men I meet because they are not genuine and you seem like a genuine person. She was like do you want to come back to my apartment? And I was like yes. Her house was kind of like this house - old the bathrooms like this huge window letting the sun in. And it is got this like black and white checkered tile on the floor. I am like getting undressed to get in the shower with the feet you know. She kind of just came into the bathroom and was like I brought you a towel and a washcloth. I went to the store. I bought you a toothbrush and some toothpaste 'ecause I do not share my toothbrushes. And I started - I was like picking up on something. Like why would you buy me a toothbrush? And she is like putting these things away just very nonchalantly. She was like you know like I want you to stay here. You do not have to keep telling me that you are going to go back to your apartment. Like I know that you do not have anywhere to live. So if you want to stay here you can stay here but you have to have sex with me. And I was like yeah I can do that. What is wrong with sex? And the first time was cool. I was way into it. She had a great body. She really liked me. We talked about it afterwards. We smoked cigarettes. She made food. I slept there next to her that night. Being able to sleep in a bed was nice. There was like two windows next to it - right? - so the sun would come in in the morning. She had a lot of pillows. I started brushing my teeth regularly. And it just went on like that for a while. You know I was happy. But over time that changed. One time she gave me 20 bucks. And I suddenly felt like uncomfortable. That meant that the exchanges that we were having were not - there was obvious - she never intentionally made me feel like her plaything or her possession. That was something that I felt all by myself. There was a point when we were with a group of her friends and we were sitting at a table. And she got up to go to the bathroom and I remember there was a voice in my head that was like you are going to have to have sex with that woman and shame came up inside of me. Over time I came to dread just being - just interacting with her. I would avoid going out with her in public. I would always like make up some excuse. I could not let on that I was not happy - right? - because then the whole rationale would come crashing down. We would be lying in bed together. She is asleep. She rolls over and put her arm across me and I feel disgusting. Like do not touch me ew. I do not want to be here. I do not want to feel your skin on me. She just was not pretty anymore.  Do you remember the last day you were there?  Yeah. Yeah we were having sex and the bathroom door was open. And I was staring into the bathroom and I lean my head over to meet my own eyes in the mirror. I remember thinking I do not want to do this anymore. It did not feel good did not feel right if that even means anything. I kind of spaced out. It was just - kind of went away. And then I had put my clothes on. I remember she stayed in the bed and just watched me get dressed. And I said what to her. She said nothing. It was not like a big catastrophic blow up or any real conversation. Just one night I did not go back. That experience almost dehumanized sex for me. I regretted it. It is like a part of my life that I would like to not think about.  Afterwards did you have like a little bit more perspective on your situation? Like you would think that you would have a desire to like get a job and get your own place.  Yeah you would think that.  But yet you did not.  No I did not. You would think  any normal person would want their own . My brain does not work that way.  Do you have anything more to say?  Nothing that should be recorded.  Everything should be recorded.  Will you make love to me one last time?  No.  That is the part I did not want to record is you saying no.  .  Now there is a  record of it.  Big thanks to Keith Ford for sharing his story. That piece was produced by Kaitlin Prest and Joe Rosenberg with sound design by Davey Kim. It was adapted from Kaitlin's killer podcast Audio Smut. It is a show that takes a refreshingly unflinching look at matters sexual and it has some amazing stories that you will never ever hear on public radio for obvious reasons. But that just means you should go listen right now. Download it from iTunes or whatever else great stuff is given away for free. You have done it the best and wisest investment of your time you could make. But do not stop there. Do not stop here. No. One bite of the apple is never enough. You want some more ibe to the podcast my friend. There is no time like the present. Full episodes pictures movies the podcast and secrets - real secret stuff. It awaits you right now - snapjudgment.org Facebook SNAP JUDGMENT Twitter SNAP JUDGMENT. Now if you are thinking of hacking the Corporation for Public Broadcasting I would advise against it. No need. Here's a pro tip. They have a special meeting where they give away all their secrets every Tuesday at 130 p.m. It is not very well-attended. Have a seat in the back. You are welcome. Much love to the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange is always trying to exchange public radios for three magic beans. Do not let them get over on you prx.org.  WBEZ in Chicago has a lot of magic beans from PRX. We tried to warn them blame Ira. And though you may have ascertained that this is not the news - no way is this the news - in fact even the Official National News of the Associated Guild recently declared in a 243-page report that SNAP JUDGMENT is unequivocally not the news. At a press conference we will be sprayed with both water and BB guns - even that is not as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 