Jad Abumrad                   Wait wait... You are listening to                             Okay. Jad Abumrad                   All right.                            Okay. Jad Abumrad                   All right. .                            You are listening to Radiolab lab lab.                            Radiolab.                            From WNYC. C. C.                            C.                            Yeah.                                                        At NPR. Jad Abumrad                   This is Radiolab I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich            I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad                   Guys let me explain to you how I got got started with this. Robert Krulwich            You were some kind of of an affair? Jad Abumrad                   Yeah so I will tell you. I was at a party. Robert Krulwich            Party. Jad Abumrad                   Uh it was it was a conference where there have a lot of different people of different disciplines come together. Robert Krulwich            Hmm. Jad Abumrad                   You know one of those. Um there were panel discussions of various things. We were at one of the like functions and uh it was a situation where like dinner had not yet been served and there was a lot of booze being served so everybody was like drunk on an empty stomach. Robert Krulwich             mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad                   So I was standing there with some biologists. Robert Krulwich            Oh they are the fun ones. The junk biologists. Yes. Jad Abumrad                   That is my my people apparently and uh they uh we were they they started lose their shit like genuinely lose their shit about this thing called CRISPR. And like I have never seen scientist this excited about anything so I was like What is this thing? What is CRISPR? and they were trying to explain it to me but they could not slow down enough for me to get it. I gathered it had something to do with genetics and then at one point one of the biologist turned to me and was like I will tell you what it is. I can use CRISPR to take a little dog and poof make it into a big dog. Robert Krulwich             Jad Abumrad                   Give me a Chihuahua I could turn it into the size of a Great Dane. and I was like No you cannot. He was like Yes I can I can do it with CRISPR. I was like What the hell is this thing? Carl Zimmer                     You want me to sit here as usual. Jad Abumrad                   Yeah if you sit here I will get up. I did not mean to imply in any way. Carl Zimmer                     No no no. Jad Abumrad                   We would be sitting here together. Jad Abumrad                   So what happened was I came back and I immediately called science writer Carl Zimmer because I just figured for this kind of thing this is a Carl thing. I got to talk to Carl. Carl Zimmer                      Jad Abumrad                   So I uh I basically asked like Why all the fuss? maybe it was just the alcohol or but maybe there is something really happening here. Carl Zimmer                     Oh there is something totally happening here. I mean it is big. Jad Abumrad                   He started at the beginning. Carl Zimmer                     So they the... You you can actually find like the first reference to CRISPR in a 1987 paper from some Japanese scientist. Carl Zimmer                     They basically describe something weird in E. coli and they said we do not know what this is. Jad Abumrad                   E. coli are bacteria inside humans and like all living things E. coli is made up of DNA A's and T's and C's and G's and what happened was that these scientists were reading a chunk of that genetic code when... Carl Zimmer                     They found this really strange stretch of DNA. Jad Abumrad                   Strange how? Carl Zimmer                     Well so basically what it was um was five identical sequences.  in a row and then they were separated by very short  sequences in between them that were  all different from each other. Jad Abumrad                   These little blurbs so it would be like . Carl Zimmer                     And they looked at this and they are were like What? This is nothing like we have seen before. Jennifer Doudna           Repeated sequences in bacterial genomes are kind of unusual. Carl Zimmer                     Seems very strange. Jennifer Doudna           Some biologists felt that you know there must be a purpose for these. Jad Abumrad                   Among those purpose seekers. Jennifer Doudna           Jennifer Doudna University of California Berkeley. Jad Abumrad                   She is a cell biologist. Jennifer Doudna           Yeah. Jad Abumrad                   So it is Doudna not Doudna. Jennifer Doudna           It is Doudna. I used to be called the dude uh sometimes in in school. Jad Abumrad                    Jennifer Doudna            Robert Krulwich            In the movie she will be played by Jeff Bridges. Jad Abumrad                   Right anyhow. Jad Abumrad                   As time goes on uh scientist are seeing these little repeat blurb repeats everywhere. Carl Zimmer                     Yes. Jad Abumrad                   Or at least in bacteria. Carl Zimmer                     Lots and lots and lots and lots species of bacteria they say- Jennifer Doudna           Hmm. Carl Zimmer                     Okay wait a minute. Jennifer Doudna           That is kind of cool. Carl Zimmer                     They are finding things so often that they said they had to give it a name. Jad Abumrad                   And is this where the name the CRISPR comes from? Carl Zimmer                     Yes. The full official name is Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats. Jennifer Doudna           Clustered Regularly Interspaced Short Palindromic Repeats. Jad Abumrad                   Oh my God. Robert Krulwich            Oh. Carl Zimmer                     I do not know why they called it CRISPR. It is kind of a- Jad Abumrad                   CRISPR it is like- Robert Krulwich            Furniture. Jad Abumrad                   Furniture manufacturer or something. Robert Krulwich            Yeah. Carl Zimmer                     It sounds like an App. Jad Abumrad                   Yeah. Robert Krulwich            Yeah. CRISPR. Jad Abumrad                   CRISPR. But now scientist have this puzzle. Robert Krulwich            If nature at this level preserve something intact here and here and here and here and here and here and some of these here's are are creatures that have been around for 100s of millions of years. You figure well whatever this is- Jad Abumrad                   It is doing something. Robert Krulwich            It is doing something. Jad Abumrad                   But what? Carl Zimmer                     It does not take very long before the first big clue comes up. Jad Abumrad                   All right fast forward 2005. Now scientist have these big searchable databases of DNA sequences. So some scientists think well let us do a search. Let us see if these repeating patterns we keep finding match anything else that is out there in the world. Carl Zimmer                     And these scientists are are using computers to just line up these stretches of DNA with thousands upon thousands of different species and then click all of a sudden they discover... Jad Abumrad                   That is those bits of DNA between the repeats  the stuff in the middle those blurbs. Carl Zimmer                     These are matching virus DNA. Like you can find viruses with genes where these little you know these little- Jad Abumrad                   So the bacteria had virus inside of them? Carl Zimmer                     Yep.  Robert Krulwich            Is that what that means that a that a virus brought it into these cells? Does it tell you anything about the origin of it? Carl Zimmer                     The first recognition was this is virus DNA. Somehow all these bacteria have little snippets of virus DNA wedged in these particular places in their genome. Jad Abumrad                   Which is a little weird if you think about it. I mean these are totally different creatures. It would be like inside a human finding a little bit of mosquito DNA. Robert Krulwich            How do we interpret this? Carl Zimmer                     Well actually there was this one scientist his name is Eugene Koonin who looked at these results and just said Okay I get it. It is a defense system. Jad Abumrad                    What? Robert Krulwich            Why would he think that? Carl Zimmer                     Because he is a brilliant man. Robert Krulwich            What do you mean? If I went to- Jad Abumrad                   But how do you get to that? Robert Krulwich            If I went to a large sanitation dump. Carl Zimmer                     Right. Robert Krulwich            And I found a teeny bit of human hair. Jad Abumrad                    Robert Krulwich            Why would I think oh I get it it is a defense mechanism. I would not know it is just like a bit of human. Carl Zimmer                     Right well you see um that metaphor might sort of betray your lack of skill in microbiology. Jad Abumrad                    Carl Zimmer                     I am just saying like this is not a dump all right. This is bacteria are not going to just let virus DNA get into their genes willy-nilly. Okay. Carl Zimmer                     Remember viruses are the big enemy. Jad Abumrad                   Right. Carl Zimmer                     If you are bacteria viruses make your life a nightmare. Think about in the ocean okay. The the ocean is full of viruses and and uh viruses kill up to 40 of all of those bacteria every day. Jad Abumrad                   Really. Carl Zimmer                     Every day. Robert Krulwich            Wow. Carl Zimmer                     Yeah. And we know that they have defenses. Carl Zimmer                     What Eugene Koonin said was Okay I am going to be that these bacteria are somehow grabbing pieces of DNA from viruses and then they are storing it and now they have a way of recognizing those viruses if they come in later. Jad Abumrad                   Oh. Robert Krulwich            Like little Polaroid shots of the enemy. Carl Zimmer                     Right. Robert Krulwich            Know thy enemy. Carl Zimmer                     Yeah like a most wanted poster. Eugene Koonin               What you call the mugshot? Jad Abumrad                   This is Eugene Koonin. Eugene Koonin               Leader of the Evolutionary Genomics Group at the National Center for Biotechnology Information. Jad Abumrad                   He is the guy that Carl referenced to that thunk up the whole idea that maybe these bits of virus DNA inside the bacteria is the bacteria trying to defend itself. Eugene Koonin               What what really if I if I if I could credit myself with anything here it was not so much guessing this because you know when you see these identical signals it gets pretty obvious. It is uh um figuring out how the mechanism of light to dark. Jad Abumrad                   So can you walk us through how the mechanism is likely to work? Eugene Koonin               All right. What happens is- Carl Zimmer                     You know when a virus comes into a cell they just kind of  explodes and kind of releases naked genes basically. Jad Abumrad                   If you are this bacteria these things might take over your cells so you have got to respond. Eugene Koonin               Most of the time you have multiple weapons of defense. Jad Abumrad                   If you have never seen this virus before usually the first thing you do say's Eugene is you send out these enzymes  to attack the viruses. They are sort of like the ground troops and they fight really hard. Eugene Koonin               But much of the time  they fail and then no one will hure hear about you again. Jad Abumrad                   They are not terribly sophisticated fighters so very often the virus takes over the bacteria dies. Eugene Koonin               But but there is some non-zero probability  that you actually survive the attack. Jad Abumrad                   If you do then what the bacteria will do is send in some enzymes to basically clean up. To go out and find any stray viruses. Eugene Koonin               And then cut the enemy DNA into  small pieces. Jad Abumrad                   And here he says is where you get to the storage part. Those enzymes will then take those little bits virus and shove them into the bacteria's own DNA right in those little spaces between the repeats. Eugene Koonin               Right there and nowhere else. Robert Krulwich            So I use those spaces in my own DNA as a storage facility? Eugene Koonin               Yes if you will. As a as a as a you use it as a memory device. Jad Abumrad                   'ecause here what happens. Next time that virus shows up it spreads its genes everywhere now you are prepared and this where the CRISPR story really gets going. Jad Abumrad                   Because instead of sending out the grounds troops who are probably going to get their asses beat now you can actually send out the big guns.  Jad Abumrad                   And in fact what the cell does is it will manufacturer the special molecular assassins. And will give those assassins a copy of that little bit of virus DNA it has in storage basically saying here take this mug shot if you see anything that matches this pattern. Kill it. Robert Krulwich            Ewe. And these attackers do we know what they what what one of them looks like. Jennifer Doudna           Yep so we know what the protein looks like it it um it actually looks I would describe it um a little bit like a clam shell. Jad Abumrad                   Sort of imagine PAC Man but kind of misshapen and rough. In each one of these guys... Carl Zimmer                     What it has is a copy of that virus DNA. Jad Abumrad                   It is got the mugshot. Carl Zimmer                     That it is kind of waving around. What then happens is that- Jad Abumrad                   Whenever the PAC Man bumps into some virus DNA... Carl Zimmer                     It is pulls apart the DNA unzips it. Jad Abumrad                   Reads it. If it is not the right one it goes on.  Jad Abumrad                   Nope.  Jad Abumrad                   Mm-mm-  Carl Zimmer                     And if that RNA has the same sequence then click-click it just locks in. Jennifer Doudna           And if that happens then the DNA is trapped and molecular blades come out- Carl Zimmer                     And chop. Eugene Koonin               Cutting its head with a mighty blow. Robert Krulwich            Wow. Jad Abumrad                   Oh. Robert Krulwich            So this is smart scissors. Jad Abumrad                   So it is like are you like the thing I got are you like the thing I got. You are like the thing I got. Snip snip. Carl Zimmer                     All right now we are going to kill. Jad Abumrad                   Oh I see. I see. Carl Zimmer                     Yeah and it has to be exact it has to be an exact match. Jad Abumrad                   When scientist first discovered this whole system they were fascinated. Carl Zimmer                     They were like they were working it out. They were like Oh okay then this happens and this happens and this happens cool. Jad Abumrad                   But then in walks... Jennifer Doudna           The dude. Jad Abumrad                   Jennifer Doudna... With a crazy idea. I do not know if it is crazy but radical. Jennifer Doudna           This could be an amazing uh technology. Carl Zimmer                     This is a tool. Jad Abumrad                   This is a tool. Carl Zimmer                     Yeah. Jennifer Doudna           Right. Carl Zimmer                     This is a tool that we can use to cut DNA where we want to cut DNA. Jad Abumrad                   The basic thought was why do not we turn this defense into offense because these things they seem to be really good at cutting and yet they only seem to cut the thing that are on their mugshots. So maybe I could just replace what is one their mugshots So instead of them going after viruses maybe they could go after a gene that causes Huntington Disease or Hemophilia. Jad Abumrad                   For example and this is actually something that is been done. Say you had mouse with something like Hemophilia. Robert Krulwich            Okay. Jad Abumrad                   This is a disease that caused by one bad gene. So what you do is you take these little surgeons you give them the mugshot for the bad gene then you stick the surgeon with the new mugshot in a mouse. Carl Zimmer                     Then you set it loose. Jad Abumrad                   And just like it is programmed to it will find that gene... Carl Zimmer                     And click-click. Chop. The scissors will end up cutting exactly the gene you want it to cut. Jad Abumrad                   So the bad gene is gone now the question is how do you put in the good gene. Right. Robert Krulwich            Right. Jad Abumrad                   It turns out actually according to Jennifer Doudna that that is actually not as hard as you would think. Robert Krulwich            Really? Jad Abumrad                   Yeah apparently what you do is just throw this new good gene kind of in the neighborhood of where the old gene used to be. Just in the general vicinity. Jennifer Doudna           You do not have to get super precise. I mean it turns out that um you know there are repair enzymes that are probably continually surveying and checking for breaks. Jad Abumrad                   She says what will it happen is that inside the cell these repair crews will come along they will see the break. They will see the good gene just sitting there next to the break. They will be like all right I will just stick it in. Robert Krulwich            Put the pretty guy in this space. Jad Abumrad                   Exactly. Jennifer Doudna           So so we take advantage of a natural repair pathway that cells have. Jad Abumrad                   They trick both the cutters and the fixers. Carl Zimmer                     Yeah now we are not assassinating anymore now we are actually engineering.  Carl Zimmer                     We have gone from killing to refashioning.  Robert Krulwich            Although have not we been designing genes doing genetic a form of genetic engineering for I do not know like 30 years. Jad Abumrad                   Yes but... Not like this.  Beth Shapiro                    Genome editing technologies have been around for a long time but none of them have been as powerful as CRISPR is. Jad Abumrad                   That is Beth Shapiro from UC Santa Cruz. She was actually one of the biologist that I drunkingly talked to at that thing. Beth Shapiro                    Was it like a modern art museum. I cannot even really remember. Jad Abumrad                   I do not remember either. Robert Krulwich            It must have been quite an evening. Beth Shapiro                     Robert Krulwich            To have the setting be so vague. Jad Abumrad                   Anyhow. Here's how she put it to us. Um back in the day this was just like two years ago. You would have these gene editor things you would take one put it in a cell... Beth Shapiro                    And what happened before was you would give it some instructions about where to go and it might go there but it might go to somewhere that is kind of related to where that was. Robert Krulwich             Jad Abumrad                   So it is like take a right at Staten Island but it takes a left. Beth Shapiro                    And not only will it take a left at Staten Island and not find there but it would have cost you a fortune and taken up six months of your time to get that thing. Robert Krulwich             Beth Shapiro                    And now you know it is really easy. Jad Abumrad                   You just give it that mugshot... Beth Shapiro                    And it goes I am going to find that guy exactly. Jad Abumrad                   So it seems to be pretty precise and it is cheap. Like the old tools would you set you back about five grand just to use them once CRISPR about 75 bucks. Jad Abumrad                   And here's the kicker says Carl. It seems at the moment that you can take these things out of bacteria stick them into almost any other creature and it still works. Carl Zimmer                     You can use the same CRISPR system on anything. Robert Krulwich            Can you like do it if corn is vulnerable- Carl Zimmer                     Do it in corn. Robert Krulwich            To a certain pest you can do it in corn. Carl Zimmer                     Do it corn do it in anything. I have not I am waiting for someone to say CRISPR does not work in species X and I have not heard of that. Jad Abumrad                   So basically what you have for the first time in science is this gene editing technology that is cheap precise and possibly universal. And Jennifer Doudna says the moment the full impact of that landed on her. Jennifer Doudna           I really I literally had you know the hairs on my back of neck were standing up.  Jennifer Doudna           Just processing the fact that this thing exists you know. And that you can actually program it to cut DNA and just like this molecular scissors. And I can just program it and it cuts DNA wherever I want.  Robert Krulwich            It is amazing unless you think about it further which we will do in just a moment. Robert Krulwich            I feel a cloud coming in over the horizon over there. Jad Abumrad                    Do you see? Robert Krulwich            I see it is getting sort of dark. Jad Abumrad                   Those clouds in the horizon. Robert Krulwich            Over there but we will be right back. Laurne                                 Hi this is Lauren from Atalanta Georgia. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.Sloan.org. Jad Abumrad                   This is Radiolab. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich            I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad                   Okay so uh clearly the possibilities are there to use CRISPR to treat disease. Robert Krulwich            Right. Jad Abumrad                   Right. Robert Krulwich            Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad                   But what if you could get a little more fanciful right. Like what if you could actually go back in time and resurrect long lost creatures. I mean this is something that Beth Shapiro has talked about a lot. Beth Shapiro                    We could reconstruct using a computer what the genome sequence of the ancestor of all birds was and that would have been a kind of dinosaur and then we could use CRISPR to turn a chicken into that thing. Jad Abumrad                   Or what if you could take an elephant and snip snip snip gradually turn it into it is long lost relative the Woolly mammoth. Robert Krulwich            No. Jad Abumrad                   Because they are related but if there the- Robert Krulwich            But the but the Jad Abumrad                   Genes are simple. Robert Krulwich            Woolly mammoth is over. Jad Abumrad                   Well right but if you know the Woolly mammoth genome which they do because they apparently got it off some bone or some hair. Robert Krulwich            Yeah. Jad Abumrad                   Then you could compare the number of difference use CRISPR to CRISPR out the different parts of the elephant and put in Woolly mammoth instead. Robert Krulwich            If you can in effect go backwards in time and make changes and obviously I think you can go the other way too. Right I mean... Jad Abumrad                   Mm-hmm . Robert Krulwich            Humans are good at design we are designing animals. So if it it does not seem to me to be a crazy notion to imagine parents all over the world wanting I do not know taller children. So silencing the short genes and favoring the taller genes. Getting rid of weak muscles and going for stronger ones and on and on and on. And I do not know where the designing stops. Jad Abumrad                   We sort of got into all of this with uh Carl Zimmer science writer. Robert Krulwich            If if you can be very very gene specific and you learn more and more about genes over time. Why could not you invent a creature why could not you make a pig with wings. You you might one day get sophisticated enough to do that. Carl Zimmer                     Well there is no winged pig lab. You know the best you can hope for right now is a Woolly mammoth lab and that is down the hall from where the where the the the real action is is at. Robert Krulwich            But now there is hall. Carl Zimmer                     Yes. Robert Krulwich            And at the end of the hall is a winged piglet. It has not been built yet. Carl Zimmer                     No I I.  Robert Krulwich            It maybe 20 years from now but that is what you are looking at. I you- Carl Zimmer                     Well I think but the thing is that then you are no- Robert Krulwich            But what is wrong with this though? Like why should not anyone realize that is what really talking about here. Carl Zimmer                     Well because you cannot make wing winged pigs just because of evolutionary barriers okay. Robert Krulwich            Well there is no  in for pigs to fly. Jad Abumrad                   No gentlemen. Robert Krulwich            Except for the joke but- Jad Abumrad                   Calm down calm down. Robert Krulwich            I am I am just stoking it. Carl Zimmer                     No i mean okay I do not think that we need a federal department of Homeland pig with wings security. Robert Krulwich             Carl Zimmer                     I think we are okay there. All right. What we do need is like uh we do need to like figure out what are we going to do about CRISPR in humans. Carl Zimmer                     I mean they are going to be using CRISPR for cancer okay. They are going to take people's immune cells out of their body and they are going to use CRISPR to uh basically allow them to make proteins. They are going to be able to grab on to cancer cells- Robert Krulwich            Really. Wow. Carl Zimmer                     And attack their own cancer. Yeah that is- Robert Krulwich            Well you have to be for that. I mean you have to be. Jad Abumrad                   Well I do not know I mean are you for it? That is that is Carl Zimmer                     Well your your you are tink you are tinkering with someone's own body. You are altering their own cells you know. Jad Abumrad                   Dude. Robert Krulwich            Where do I? It is just I tell you the the this is me I do not know if it is a religious thought or just the thought of conservative person. But I mean I have I grew up in the in the test tube baby era. I now know many wonderful adult formerly test tube babies and I I remember being astonished that... No so I cannot I do not know where the sacred begins and ends anymore on that particular turf. Robert Krulwich            I guess what I am instead on is I am on on um a Hobbesian of human beings. That there is something about human beings- Carl Zimmer                     Mm-hmm . Robert Krulwich            Including scientist human beings all human beings. That there is a darkness and a light they are they are there is angelic side to being human and there is a very very difficult side of them. Robert Krulwich            As the human beings get more and more power to create and design and essentially create a future. That future will include the imagination's both light and dark of humans and that will be new in the world. Carl Zimmer                     I do not think it is new because if you go back to the start of the scientific revolution. Someone like Frances Bacon would say explicitly like Science is going to be both about learning about how the world works and using that knowledge to control it. You know this has been discovered this has been published. Everybody knows it exists. Robert Krulwich            Mm-hmm . Carl Zimmer                     Um if you if you can say like okay now we are going all we are going to outlaw this. Robert Krulwich            I am not suggesting that? Carl Zimmer                     But what are you suggesting then? Robert Krulwich            I think we should cringe a little as suppose to just have a big party. Carl Zimmer                     Okay all right. Let us all cringe. Ready. Jad Abumrad                    Carl Zimmer                     One two three. Robert Krulwich            Do not make fun of it. You- Jad Abumrad                   Ooh. Carl Zimmer                     Ooh. Robert Krulwich            No no that is fair. Carl Zimmer                     Now what? What if we have cringed in that way? What do we do now? Robert Krulwich            Well then we I do not know. Carl Zimmer                     But we all cringed if that is if that is what you are arguing for. Robert Krulwich            No you cringed. Carl Zimmer                     We cringed too. Robert Krulwich            You cringed you cringed meanly and and and you cringed you cringed with attitude. Carl Zimmer                     No but- Robert Krulwich            I am cringing with with- Carl Zimmer                     Because you are- Jad Abumrad                   I would like to know- Carl Zimmer                     Afraid of like dragons. Robert Krulwich             Carl Zimmer                      Carl Zimmer                     You are saying you are saying oh my God. Robert Krulwich            Yes I am afraid of dragons. Jad Abumrad                   Okay so that conversation with Carl was four months ago and uh a lot has happened in the in that time. Because to the question that you asked like where does this sacred begin and end. Well one of lines that had been drawn but Jennifer Doudna and others was that we should not use this technology on humans who have not been born yet. Meaning not on sperm cells or egg cells because if you CRISPR say an embryo... Jennifer Doudna           That is that is a permanent change. Right. That is a change to the DNA that will be passed on to their children. Jad Abumrad                   And their children's children and their children's children's children. Jennifer Doudna           And um you cannot ask the uh person if that is okay because you are doing it before they are born. Jad Abumrad                   Consent becomes a real issue. And if you imagine making these changes and they cascade through generation after generation. Jennifer Doudna           You could affect the evolution of organisms. And it is I do not want to say trivial but it is you know it is fairly easy to do it. Jad Abumrad                   Wow. Jennifer Doudna           It is kind of profound. I feel it is really profound. Jad Abumrad                   Profound but it was just an idea. That is until... reporter                              For the first time in history researchers in China have successfully edited the human genom in an embryo. Jad Abumrad                   Just two months ago it was announced that a Chinese team... reporter                              From Sun Yat-sen University used a technique called CRISPR... reporter                              To edit DNA in human embryos.                         It is a way of hacking evolution itself. reporter                              While this is hugely controversial. Jad Abumrad                   Now these embryos that the Chinese team had edited they were created through IVF and they were not viable. reporter                              These are embryos that are are not going to actually develop into a person so they are they are going to be discarded anyway. Jad Abumrad                   But still if they can figure it out with those embryos what is to stop any of us from going further. reporter                              Biologist and bioethicist are sounding an alarm. reporter                              The scientist face accusations that they crossed an ethical line.                         That this sort thing could be sort of a slippery slope towards- reporter                              Towards designer babies.                         Essentially genetically engineering the human race.                         We are going to use the little chips to kind of test your lymph nodes.                         Okay. Jad Abumrad                   Now that the cringe party had spread and Robert did not seem like such a loon. We called up Carl again. Robert Krulwich            Well we we have to revisit we have to revisit because in our Armageddon conversation in which I believe I was extremely alarmist and you were extremely down putting. Carl Zimmer                     Mm-hmm . Robert Krulwich            I feel that I should do a small little parade of the- Jad Abumrad                    Robert Krulwich            . If I can remember the Alamo. It is like remember remember China. And you have to so you should begin anytime you want. Like getting on your knees and saying how sorry you are. Why do not you start from there? Jad Abumrad                    Carl Zimmer                     Um I am sorry so are we actually surrounded by a a an army of clones with super powers. Jad Abumrad                    Robert Krulwich            Not yet. Not yet but I think the dike has been opened. I believe I am going to quote somebody who said uh maybe uh a few weeks ago. I think you were maybe it was last week even writing for National Geographic. I think it was. Maybe it was somebody named Carl who said that uh The news from China and that news probably the beginning of an entire new era. Carl Zimmer                     I think I actually it was an historical moment. Robert Krulwich            That is right yes. That is right. Carl Zimmer                     Yes. And I and I still stand by that. Jad Abumrad                   Do you feel differently now than the first time we talked? Robert Krulwich            Yeah that is really the question. Carl Zimmer                     I I do not feel different actually because um there is not really no scientific surprise here. Jad Abumrad                   He says people have been doing all these CRISPR experiments on all these different mammals. Carl Zimmer                     We are mammals. Jad Abumrad                   This was bound to happen and in fact it may be happening more than we think. Uh one account in the Journal of Naturist said that four other Chinese labs are doing this kind of work as we speak. Jad Abumrad                   But Carl also told us which he said was unsurprising too but I actually find it kind of surprising. That the CRISPR work that this Chinese team did did not work very well. Carl Zimmer                     It worked kind of.  I mean in only a few of the cases did they really get exactly what they wanted. Um- Jad Abumrad                   They tried using CRISPR on about 86 embryos and they only got it to work right in maybe 28. And in a lot of them CRISPR made the wrong cuts and screwed up the cells. Jennifer Doudna           And that led them to conclude that this is a technology that is not ready right now for application in the human genome line. And um I I agree. Robert Krulwich            Oh. Carl Zimmer                     We sort of we still are are in this kind of of fortunate position where we can say Oh well it is dangerous so we should not use it on human embryos. Carl Zimmer                     I I just do not think that we are going to be able to sort of uh find refuge there in like 10 or 20 years. In 10 or 20 years you know CRISPR will be so sophisticated that people will be able to say I can get you the change you want and I can do it safely. I guarantee you that you will have human embryos that have the alteration in a particular gene you want. so then what? Jad Abumrad                   In fact Jennifer Doudna told us that this experiment or similar experiments had repeated in mice with more advanced CRISPR systems because apparently there are many different kinds and there it was done with almost no errors. Carl Zimmer                     Sometimes I feel like we are sort of displacing all our ethical concerns onto something that has not happened yet. If we really are concerned about what we are doing to the human gene pool you know it is already here. Jad Abumrad                   Take as an example in vitro fertilization. About 60000 kids are born a year through IVF and it is probable that some of those parents chose whether they wanted a boy or a girl. Carl Zimmer                     And and when people started doing IVF there was a huge controversy. People said this was dangerous this was unnatural. I do not see people who are unable to sleep at night because of the existence of IVF. Jad Abumrad                   Yeah. Carl Zimmer                     You know now I am going to sound like I am on Robert's side of this. I mean okay so so- Robert Krulwich            It will not hurt it will not it will not hurt. Carl Zimmer                     Okay all right. Here we go. So okay so. Robert Krulwich            Deep breath. Carl Zimmer                      So you guys know about uh all the stuff going on in Iceland where they are looking at people's DNA and you know they are looking for disease genes and so on. And when they are looking at these Icelandic people they found that some people had uh a gene that uh protects them against Alzheimer. It reduces their odds of getting Alzheimer. Carl Zimmer                     Let us imagine you doctor said Now if you would like for an extra 1000 dollars we will take this IVF embryos and we will use CRISPR to give them the Alzheimer protecting variant. Would you like that? Robert Krulwich            Hmm. Carl Zimmer                     Do you want to add that to your to your procedure? Jad Abumrad                   Sure yeah. Carl Zimmer                     Or would you like your child to to face a a a future of of Alzheimer. Your choice. Jad Abumrad                   See here's my here's my thing. Here's my thing with this whole with this whole thing. Carl Zimmer                     Yeah. Jad Abumrad                   I am I am a little bit haunted by the thing you said which is that when it is not dangerous anymore what will we do and I am afraid we have already answered that question. That it is not it is not a question that is open anymore. Because if we are already doing this kind of stuff and who is going to say no to that. Who is going to say no to that. Carl Zimmer                     You got it. Robert Krulwich            That is what he just was demonstrating. Carl Zimmer                     Yeah. Jad Abumrad                   We have already answered the question. Carl Zimmer                     Yeah. We may have.  Jad Abumrad                   Many thanks to science writer Carl Zimmer who has written many books. You can check him out at carlzimmer.com. We are at radiolab.org. This piece was produced by Molly Webster. We had original music this hour by Eric Kowalski otherwise known as Casino Versus Japan. Robert Krulwich            Special thanks to Anna Ruswick plus... Jad Abumrad                   Lee Mcquire. Robert Krulwich            Dr. Blake Weedenhalf. Jad Abumrad                   Dr. Luciano Marfini. Robert Krulwich            Dr. Sean Burgess. Jad Abumrad                   And Dr. Jin Wey Shi. Jad Abumrad                   I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich            I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad                   Thanks for listening.  Ans. Machine                  To hear the message again press two to delete it... Start of message. Carl Zimmer                     Hello this is Carl Zimmer. Beth Shapiro                    Hi this Beth Shapiro. Jennifer Doudna           Hello this is Jennifer Doudna. Beth Shapiro                    Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad. Carl Zimmer                     Our staff includes Brenda Ferrel Ellen Horn Dylan Keith. Jennifer Doudna           Matt Kielty Ben Levy. Carl Zimmer                      Beth Shapiro                    Latif Nassar Malissa O'Donnell Kelsey Pagick. Jennifer Doudna           Arianne Wack Molly Webster. Carl Zimmer                     Soren Wheeler and Jamie York. I think I said Webster let me try it again. Jennifer Doudna           With help from Danny Luis Kelly Prime and Domiono Marquete. Beth Shapiro                    Our fact checkers are Eva Dasher and Michelle Harris. Awesome. Thank you much. Carl Zimmer                     See you later. Ans. Machine                  End of message.