Josh likes to go birdwatching at this park in Chicago right by the lake. And generally he is the youngest person there-- like by far. He is in his 20s. Usually it is older couples. One of the first times that I went there I spent the majority of the morning with a couple of old ladies trying to find a warbler. That afternoon he walked around with two old men. And when Josh knelt down to get a better look at a bird one of the men remarked I remember when I could do that. You know kneel down? So that is your scene. Those are your people. Absolutely. So it was a refreshing change one day last fall when Josh got to the park and a college kid came up to him-- like 18 19 years old. And they started talking about birds what Josh had seen that day. And he starts saying things that he had seen which were really impressive. Basically his whole list was new to me at that park at least. He had seen a northern shrike earlier some longspurs that were flying over snow buntings which I had not seen ever actually. And this kid is also super knowledgeable not in a show-offy way. He just knew tons about birds. So it was fun to talk to him. And they decided to walk around the park together. And they head down this path into the trees. So it is like dense with trees around them on both sides. And the path itself is really narrow just like two or three feet wide. At a certain point he spots a sparrow. And we get our binoculars on it. And he says oh a fox sparrow. And I said I do not know if that is a fox sparrow. It looks-- the coloration looks right. It is really deep red. But it looks a little too small for me. It looks more like a song sparrow in size. And he said I think I have those. I think I have those? He said I think I have those. And then the kid sets down his backpack on the ground. And he opens the front flap. And Josh assumes he is going to take out some photos or something to compare to this bird. But the kid pulls out two little white bags-- or maybe they are envelopes-- reaches inside them-- And just delicately shuffles out two birds on the ground. And sure enough it is a song sparrow and a fox sparrow. Wait wait wait. He opens two bags. And there are two of the exact birds you are talking about in the two bags? Right. That is correct. Like just dead birds? Just dead birds. Just the dead birds that we were talking about. The kid apologizes for the smell. Says he found them dead on the ground the day before. They were not taxidermied or anything and they were starting to deteriorate. And after placing them on the ground the college kid looks at the sizes of the two birds and says to Josh oh you are right. Like a fox sparrow is bigger than a song sparrow. And then he carefully puts the two birds back into their white envelopes and into the knapsack. And Josh acts like this is the most normal thing in the world when in fact he told me this is totally weird. This is not something birders ever do. He has found out since it is actually illegal to have any migratory birds dead or alive. And then they spend four or five hours together that day. And Josh says nothing about it-- asks nothing never brings it up. I could not envision a scenario in which saying something would lead to a good conclusion. For instance maybe the kid would think it was intrusive or rude for him to ask. Or maybe the kid was doing something shady. Might have been not the best thing to ask isolated behind this hedge. You know? Oh right. You are like alone in some thicket. Yes. Did you get the feeling like anything could happen? Like do you feel like if you had asked the wrong question he would have reached into the bag and pulled out like a human ear?   That was what prevented me from asking yeah. I did talk to the college student. He told me at the time he did not know that keeping birds was illegal. But now that he does he is gotten rid of all of his dead birds. And he asked me not to use his name here on the radio. He says in all he picked up maybe 15 or 20 birds. At some point he realized he could just find them near certain buildings with big windows. They would fly into the windows and die. And he did not see the harm. He had no idea that Josh still wonders about this today. Yeah he should have asked me more about it if he wanted to know. Well he was a little scared to ask you about it. Mhm. He was scared of what the answer might be.   Yeah I guess that really freaked him out. I guess it is kind of gross to be carrying dead birds around in your backpack. And if he would asked like well what are you going to do with them? What would you have said? Nothing really. I just kind of keep them around. See that is creepy.   It is interesting to have them to look at closely so you can see things you would not see on birds that are out in the wild. So all pretty innocent. But Josh did not know that. In fact Josh still thinks that he did the right thing not to bring it up with him. Like if-- let us say he had his entire bag full of birds and his car full of birds and I started asking questions and he knew what he was doing was illegal. Then it probably would not have been the best idea for me to do that. You mean like he is got a gun in that bag too? I do not know. And then the next person he sees on the trail he reaches into the bag and he pulls out like your head. My ear? Yeah.  This is what happens to people who ask questions. And maybe sometimes too many questions is one. You know? From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. A little information can change everything make something that seems totally menacing totally benign. And the problem is it is not always clear when to disclose that information. In fact it might not even occur to you to disclose it. If you are in the other side you might not feel like it is your right to ask-- like Josh with this kid. He felt like he did not know him well enough to pry. Well today we have stories where people's lives change in amazing dramatic ways because they decided to disclose or not to disclose certain facts about themselves. Stay with us. Act One Full Disclosure. You know most of us we basically just keep stuff to ourselves. Right? We withhold information. We do not say everything. You run into an acquaintance on the street and they ask you how are you? You generally do not tell them how you are really. Adult life means we provide information on a need-to-know basis. Your mom asks you on the phone about something you think that the two of you are just going to fight about. Sometimes you dodge right? You do not talk about things that you do not want to talk about. But what would it be like to not live like that? Well Michael Leviton knows. I just have a very unusual family. They valued honesty to an extreme extent. Michael's in his 30s and he was raised by parents who encouraged him and his siblings to tell everything the whole truth all the time believing that it hurts relationships when we avoid awkward truths that we all should just man up and talk things through. We should work things out. And being honest also means being true to who you are right? Which obviously anybody wants for their kids. But hearing how far his family went with this it makes you really understand how incredibly strange your daily life would be if you were to never withhold the truth. Like for a long time Michael believed that if somebody asked him a question-- I mean like any question at all-- he had to answer it honestly. This is funny because in job interviews people would ask me what my biggest flaw was. And I would go into a long rant about all my flaws and all the negative things anyone's ever said about me. And people would look at me-- I got used to this expression of horror. And sometimes it was kind of comic. People would laugh. Like wow you thought you had to actually answer that? You are clearly supposed-- That is amazing. That is really amazing. Yeah you are the only person in the history of job interviews to have ever done that. Not the only person. That is true. His brother Josh does the same thing. More on that later. Let us stay with Michael for now. OK. One time I went on a date when I was in college. And I went on this date. And I spent the whole date explaining why she should want to be with me-- you know what was great about me-- and also why other people did not want to be with me. I am saying all the bad things that ever happened to me why I was rejected by the world. Now that was just being honest. I was just telling her all the information necessary in my mind to decide whether to be with me. I thought it was my responsibility as a person on a date to explain everything they were dealing with from the first moment of the date so that they could make an informed decision about how to move forward. That is what I love about this story is that you thought you were doing a good job. You thought you were acing the date. Oh yes. For a long time if Michael decided that he did not want to hang out with somebody anymore he would just you know come out and say it-- let us not be friends. When he would go and hear musician buddies of his perform they would ask him afterwards how did you like the show? He would do the thing that nobody ever does. He would actually tell them you know the arrangements could have been better. You should not play with this band. That first number should be in double time. If somebody told Michael about a TV show that they liked or really if they expressed any opinion at all on any subject-- like they told him they loved chocolate-- he could not help himself from offering his own opinion forcefully. He hates chocolate. And they would see it as why would this person say this thing? Why would this person trash something I love so immediately? They must just be doing it as an act of aggression. But really it was more a gut instinct from my childhood that conversation was expressing whatever was going on. In other words you expressed your honest feelings about chocolate. Now it is my turn to express my honest feelings about chocolate. Yeah. But would you do things like you would perceive in a conversation with somebody you just met oh this person's kind of bossy. And then would you say like you know I think you are very bossy? A lot of the time things like that would happen. Yeah. A lot of time I would feel like it was my job to observe things and to tell people how they were and go like oh it is funny. You know you do this thing. And I would not notice that it was triggering to people to say something like that to go oh you notice you are very controlling? Have you noticed that? Like why are you like that? And I would ask these questions that would lead in horrible directions all the time. See I think all of us have met people who will say well I just tell it how it is. And people do not like to hear the truth. And I think most of us just feel like well that person is just an asshole or just has something wrong with them that they do not give a damn about other people's feelings. And what you are saying is somehow you learned this as a kind of like strategy for dealing with the world from the start. Yeah. And to me it was kind of like an exciting conversational thing to do to be like let us talk about ourselves. Everyone's having these small-talk conversations. They are so pointless and boring. Really we should get to the real stuff immediately. This is so interesting. I am learning about you. And it will be much more real and interesting. You know which in a way is so idealistic. Think about for a second all the people pleasers who will say anything in a conversation just to kind of get by all the folks who spend years in therapy getting the courage to tell people what they really think. Speaking for myself I feel like I do not even know what I think half the time or what I believe. And I have lots of conversations where I know what I believe and I do not say it because I do not want to have conflict. I want to avoid conflict. And I think that lots of us are like that. Not Michael. His parents taught him be stronger than that. I do not know what Michael talked to you about. This is Michael's dad Mark. Everybody says that he was brutally honest when his kids were growing up. He made his living in the music business. And all of his life he has also worked appropriately enough as a professional critic. Michael's mom is a therapist who will tell you straight out-- I just cannot lie. But Michael's dad told me he looks back on his kids' childhoods with a lot of regret for just how harshly he would tell everybody the truth all the time as he saw it and especially for how frank he was about things with his own kids. From my point of view some of my part was not very age appropriate let us say. We kind of revealed to the children information about our marriage that most parents I do not think would reveal. And more or less left the kids to deal with it. Michael had told me about this. There were a few stories of parental over-sharing. But the one that I think captured just how disturbingly far this could go sometimes happened while his parents were splitting up. His parents divorced when he and his siblings were teenagers. And every year back then the family would go to a place I was really surprised to hear exists at all-- family therapy camp where counseling sessions were done in public throughout the day in front of other people. And so they are at this camp and their parents are having troubles. And in front of other families and therapists and also in front of their own children-- aged 13 16 and 19-- Michael's parents hashed out their issues. So for instance I remember one therapy session that my mother did that was all about how she felt being married to my dad. About feeling invisible about these kinds of-- talking about very intense personal-- like her despair and the things that she dealt with in that marriage. And also I got to see the man my mother was leaving my father for. They would all be there and talk about their feelings towards each other talk about what had happened talk about the grievances they had with each other fights. They would yell at each other and accuse each other of things and kind of air dirt about what the other had done. And it was all in front of us. But did the parents understand like oh that was a problem? I do not think so. I think that they at the time were very much like we are speaking our truth. The kids should know what happened. And these are our feelings. And they can just imagine it but it would be better if they actually knew what was going on and they knew how we felt. Just to be clear at the time Michael agreed with this. I was like oh this is great. This is how it should be. This is the honest way to deal with it. Everyone else would just hide their divorces the cowards. They would deal with their divorce in private. And it would be very safe for everyone. But it was actually a lie. The kids would not really know what was going on with their parents. So you felt actually superior to others. That was a big part of it I think that other people are cowards. And they are very weak. And they cannot handle the truth. And they are afraid to express who they really are. They are inauthentic out of fear. And we are actually bravely being authentic expressing how we really feel and not hiding things. So these three children grow up like this. And they head out into the world as adults. And they had to confront the fact that these are not the rules that the rest of us are playing under. And the dad says that he knows that he trained them to live in a world that does not exist a world where people are way more frank with each other than we really are. Look how do you create the world that should exist except by acting as if? Acting the way you want to to make the world through your own actions? Three siblings are now in their 20s and 30s. And being honest has meant different things to each of them. For Michael's sister Miriam it is been the easiest. She said she knows that she is not somebody that anybody would ever tell a secret to. And there are times she cannot help herself from saying the truth. Sometimes like in work meetings I will disagree with something. And then I think why did I say that? But it is manageable she says. No bad consequences. Michael's brother Josh is also still a believer which is remarkable considering the one big life-changing way that this level of honesty has affected him. He trained for seven years to work in law enforcement to be one of those experts who analyzes crime scenes and figures out what kind of gun was used and the bullet trajectories and all that stuff. He has a master's degree in forensic ballistics. But he does not have a job doing this because when he is asked about his drug use in job interviews he always admits that in 1997 when he was 14 years old he tried mushrooms one time. People always just ask me well why did you tell them about that? Is there a record of it? And no there is not a record of anything. But I feel like I have to tell the truth. I just never thought about lying even. I did not even consider it. And it seems like everybody's saying that it is OK to lie in certain circumstances because everybody else does. I kind of look at it like in sports. It is kind of saying these athletes that take steroids they have to do it because everybody takes steroids in order to compete. And I kind of want to succeed without taking steroids even in a world that takes steroids if that makes sense. Michael meanwhile seems to have had a much harder time than either of his siblings when it comes to honesty. By the time he was in his late 20s Michael had noticed that acting exactly the way that he thought a principled person should be acting he was constantly getting in all these awful clashes with people-- like all the time. And it was confusing. And he did not like it. And the part of his life where it was especially vexing was dating. Over and over he would meet somebody he really liked go out on a date and then they would never want to see him again. And he had no idea what he did. Well that is the hard thing about dating. It is hard to learn when you are dating because people do not tell you what you did wrong. You do not know why you were rejected. You have to figure it out yourself. And that is why a lot of dating is a very hard thing to improve. It is really hard to improve your dating because-- like this is the thing that is famous. If you are a bad kisser does anyone say by the way you are a bad kisser. Here's how to kiss better? They just never kiss you again. It is not their responsibility. They never kiss you again. Right. And you do not know why you were rejected. It could have been anything. You just have to have your paranoid fantasy of all the millions of things that you think you did wrong. But it could have been anything. Dating's chaos in that way. Even when he had dates that for a while seemed to be going OK he would blurt out something honest out of habit and ruin them. If anything beautiful or cool happens I would stop everything and go was not that an amazing moment? Let us just stop and like talk about how amazing that was. That barely ever happens. And a lot of the time the moment would be ruined by my commenting on it. Like what kind of moment are you talking about? Well OK. For instance one time I was walking with this woman. And I was having this date that was going well. And she put a cigarette in her mouth to smoke it. And I grabbed the cigarette out of her mouth and kissed her. And it was great. And then she stepped away. And we finished this kiss. And I said wow. That is not something I usually do. That was really amazing. I was actually very inspired there. Usually I am just so awkward. And actually that was much-- and I just ruined the whole thing. There was no reason for me to comment on how cool I had just been. Well I think the key word there was usually. I think usually kind of kills that moment. Oh yeah. Well that is actually another thing here. It was my tendency to talk about my general dating experience and to talk about those things just because they were on my mind. When I was on a date I was naturally thinking about other dates and other things that had happened. So I would say oh yeah. I have done a couple other amazing things on dates like that. I would just start saying these things and it would ruin everything. I feel like when you tell some of these stories you are like somebody from another planet or something who got dropped into our world. That is what it felt like. I was in the wrong world. And I did not understand the concept of politeness. When I read-- I actually at one point around the same time read a politeness book. I actually read an etiquette book trying to figure it out. And it was just one advice-- every time it was just lie lie lie. It was just oh here's a situation-- you do not know someone's name? Lie. Here's a situation-- someone's gone through something horrible? Just lie. Here's another situation. It was just-- Right. It did not say on the page lie. No it did not say to lie. But every piece of advice looked like-- That is what it came down to. And it was all about other people's feelings. And at some point it occurred to Michael that honesty was coming in the way of noticing other people's feelings. And maybe he needed to change that. And so finally at 29-- that is five years ago-- he decided he would had enough and he started experimenting on his dates with how he acted. Now these were not complicated experiments by any means. He would simply have something honest that would occur to him that he wanted to say and he would not say it. I saw in a very visceral way how I could change my behavior and it would go over better. And I could actually have a great time if I just shut up about certain things. I actually made a list of things not to talk about. You made a list of things not to talk about? An actual written list of things not to talk about. Do you still have that list? I actually do. Yeah. I add to it sometimes still because it is hard for me to remember. I have to concentrate very hard to not follow my gut instinct to tell the whole truth about things. On that list-- you do not have to give an opinion. You do not have to say things out loud. Just because they are true is not helpful. You can choose not to answer a question. Do not fully explain. Make it quick. Say you will tell them later. End the conversation first. Do not try to impress. One actually really good one was to stop explicitly describing myself in any way positive or negative. That I did not have to say oh I am this kind of person. I do this. Why would that come up at all in a conversation? It would be like I am the sort of person who-- why would you be saying that? Because I believed that is what conversation was. And they could not see those things. I did not understand that they could see those things in your behavior that they would read behind what you said and learn things. You had to say it explicitly. Otherwise you were misleading them. OK. Next one? At one point I resolved that if I did not recognize someone or I did not remember their name to just pretend I did which is something-- I used to always go oh I do not recognize you. Or oh we have met before? I do not remember. Or I do not remember your name. I realized that I could pretend to know someone's name while I figured out what their name was. And that changed so much. One year his New Year's resolutions typed out were quote tell no one about my problems. Listen to how others feel instead of telling them how I feel. Pretend more and people please. Remember to make others feel like I find them smart and cool. Act like I agree. On the same page-- quote my list of things that I am not allowed to talk about-- ideological commentary unnecessary brutal truths triggering questions and unwanted inquiries. Avoid asking people what they mean when they use certain words. Or there is this one-- OK. So I wrote here Take nothing at face value. Do not investigate things people say. Remember their minds are chaos. Wait what do you mean by that? I know. It is a strange strange thing to say. What I meant was that people-- I was of the mindset that other people were saying what they meant. And I would sometimes get into ideological battles with people who had not even really been thinking very hard about what they would said. Because I would say well do you really mean that? I mean what do you mean when you say that? And I would investigate it further. And it would become this attack when really they did not mean-- They did not mean anything. They did not mean anything by it. They were just saying things they thought were socially acceptable kind of conversations that I would agree with. But then it would devolve into this horrible discussion. And a lot of time I would get kind of angry. And sometimes they would say you know it is like I do not really mean anything by it. Like they would start to backtrack because they had not ever meant it in the first place. Remember their minds are chaos? Yeah meaning that there is lots of stuff going on that leads to why people say what they say and that I cannot know what those things are. That their minds are chaos of feelings that they are human beings. What was kind of inspiring talking to Michael is that although he seemed like somebody who'd dropped into our world without a clue about how the rest of us behave he then made a study of why he was failing. And he came to conclusions on his own. And he made up this to-do list. And then like a scientist in a science fiction film who brews up a miracle elixir in the lab and then decides that he should be one to try it first Michael has put his theories into action. And it is working. He is had girlfriends. Last November he married one of those girlfriends. And so these days when he is being like super-honest in some inappropriate situation his wife will say to him wow. That was an interesting way to handle that. Or wow we are doing that now? He says he still has a way to go with all this stuff. But what he is concluded after this lifelong experiment in honesty is that honesty is not enough. You have to read people for signs that they do not need or do not want to hear the entire truth. And in fact the whole idea of a world where everybody is honest all the time? It was almost a world where people did not have feelings. The idea that someone would be upset-- that they were not supposed to get upset. They were supposed to just hear what I said and go oh wow. OK. That is cool. You were honest. I value that. In the real world Michael says people have all kinds of feelings swirling around in their heads and insecurities and struggles. What they say may or may not be what they believe. And he says that is great. That is normal. It is chaos. Coming up-- lying your way through college. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different stories on that theme. Today's program-- Need to Know Basis stories of people withholding information in a way that has life-changing consequences. We have arrived at act two of our program. Act Two Total Eclipse of the Son. That is son S-O-N. Stay with me. That is going to make sense later. So the United States has a surprisingly high college dropout rate particularly at community colleges where only a third of all first-time students have their two-year degree by the end of three years. Community colleges by the way are a huge number of students. Almost half of all American college students are in community college. We have done a bunch of stories about college dropouts on our show most recently a couple weeks ago. Apparently the first year is the key make-or-break time for whether or not somebody's going to drop out. Zoe Chace spent last fall on the campus of a community college in the South Bronx Hostos Community College reporting on what kids need to not drop out. I was looking for that one student in the one and three the kid who succeeds. As soon as I saw Demetrius at the freshman orientation I thought oh there he is-- the success. Front row always raising his hand volunteering for the skits. And when I talked to him he assured me. I had found the right person. If there is it valedictorian spot available that is what I am trying to get. That is your spot. Yeah. And if someone somehow beats me out and becomes valedictorian then I should at least be salutatorian. If someone somehow pulls that off hats off to them. Truly they are moving on to do great things. I thought if I spent time with him I could see what he is doing right. He looks like the one in three. Because Demetrius has two things that are really hard to come by-- extremely high expectations for himself and complete confidence that he will meet or surpass those expectations. Throughout my whole life I try at something not only do I get it I usually like sweep it. Like I am vastly superior to most if I try at something. I feel like I could have been a great wrestler. I am-- damn I could have been one of the best wrestlers anybody's ever seen. Does not matter what it is. Demetrius is always about to be a star. From the back Demetrius is a grown man-- tall and broad-shouldered in a leather coat. From the front he is still a teenager-- round freckly baby face 18 years old. His plan is to get his associates transfer to a four-year school major in video game design and then become one of the best video game designers the world has ever seen. Demetrius tells me he has not always done the work to match his high expectations. In high school he says he did not always do his work. But this year he is serious. I have not let like more than three hours pass yet of me getting an assignment and finishing it. If it is possible for me to finish the assignment within the three hours of me receiving that assignment then I am going to finish it. I simply cannot allow myself to get behind. I got to be active. I got to make sure I get this done. And truth be told I fully expect that I am going to have one of the highest GPAs in this school. So I started following Demetrius around talking with him. I went to his classes the computer lab met his girlfriend. He is in love. One day after months of this at the end of the semester we went to a meeting at the school with someone called a success coach. All right. So let us just go over each class and just-- Regardless of your GPA every incoming freshman at Hostos is assigned a success coach someone to keep them on target. It is different from an adviser in that the success coach is more of a full-time catcher in the rye someone who tracks their progress through the school year and if they are falling behind to figure out why and try to fix it someone to help them pick their classes each semester so they graduate on time which is why we are here right now. I am here to see if my advisor can help me get into an honors English class because I have gotten all A's all semester. So-- Straight A's all semester as promised. So we sit down with Ray Cartagena Demetrius's coach. He is in Navy Reserves huge arms tattoos. He makes Demetrius look little. How you doing? Straight A's. What do I need to fulfill my requirements? They lean over the computer together and look at his schedule. Oh no. That does not work. That does not work? 1230? Then something happens I totally did not expect. In the middle of registering Demetrius for his college courses we call his dad. Hello sir? Yep. How are you? My name is Ray Cartagena. I am Demetrius's success coach here. And we are trying to build his schedule for him now. We wanted to reach out to you and get your approval on it. So-- Some of the classes-- Demetrius's dad seems to take an usual amount of interest in the minutiae of his son's schedule. No three classes on one day one class on another day because then you have too much time on your hands. I mean I have a history with him. And too much time-- I have a history with him. And too much time on your hands he says can lead to issues. --on your hands could lead to issues. So I am like-- This is weird. Demetrius is acing his classes. His professors really like him. He spends a lot of time in the computer lab. And he wants to join student government. Why is his dad all over him? He is in college. If they cannot find a better schedule for him his dad promises this semester around I will find a way to occupy his time. This semester around I will figure out a way to occupy his time. Demetrius seems a little embarrassed when we walk out. H