 OK so I was maybe 15 years old scrunched into a metal folding chair for a Saturday morning youth church service. I do not want to be there. I do not want to be there I do not want to be there but there I sit - waiting. Then youth pastor prowls the front of the room pacing back and forth pacing. Then the second the clock hits 10 he starts in. You kids are running 'round in the most dangerous place in all of modern history. Grand Rapids Michigan - the most dangerous place in modern history? He glares at some of the young ladies. These girls out there these young girls with their tight tight skirts on and their harlot's makeup and they are shaking their cakes at you when you walk by. They shake their cakes at you. I see them. Shaking their cakes? What are cakes? Who is shaking them? Please let me know where these cakes are being shaken. And that is why the churches' own Apostle Herbert W. Armstrong wrote this book just for you. Like a magician he tears a sheet off the table and there they are brand-new stacks of this dark angry looking book which he then proceeds to hand out to us one by one. Only then do I see the title The Missing Dimension In Sex. No no no no no no no - Missing Dimension In Sex? - I already know the missing dimension. The missing dimension is me that is the problem. And I expect everyone to have read this book by next Saturday. One week. Understand I do try to keep up on church teaching I really do. But I cannot conflate two things that do not belong together. I cannot think about sex and God's chosen old cabbage-head red-eyed Apostle at the same time. I cannot do it I cannot. I take the book home I place it on the shelf and the next week when the youth pastor asked me about it I say it is a fantastic read. It really inspired me to do like he said to do and do that a lot. What was the question again? When I move out of my parents' house they sneak the book into the trunk of my car. When I move abroad some joker hides it in my luggage. Once I leave it at my brother's apartment behind his couch but when I get home and open my refrigerator there it waits next to the orange juice mocking me - a book I had never cracked. And finally today as a grown man I can safely say on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR that I never will. My name is Glynn Washington and today we proudly present Contents Unknown amazing stories from real people deciding whether or not to find out what is inside. Get ready because this is a SNAP JUDGMENT. 