Jad Hey everybody. This is Jad. As you may or may not know we just started our first ever Radiolab spinoff called More Perfect. Which uh you know the idea th- is to tell stories about the Supreme Court or like cases that are in front of the Supreme Court and to hear those dramatic stories and then sort of think about them really hard. Kinda taking the Radiolab vibe and putting it into this new space. It is done really well. We are so excited and we want the entire Radiolab posse to know about it. So if you have not subscribed yet go to iTunes or wherever you get your podcasts check it out. We hope you will subscribe. Jad Um and I wanted to play actually one more episode for you guys. This one is an episode we have been working on and researching and reporting for months and months and months. Really hope you enjoy it.  More Perfect. Jad Hey I am Jad Abumrad. This is More Perfect. Today two stories from reporter Katherine Wells. The first has some adult content in it so be warned if you are listening with kids you might wanna skip this one. Here's Katherine. Katherine So maybe we can just start with the the night... Jad Yeah. Katherine That it started.  Jad Yeah so when uh... Katherine We can start with the start? Jad Yeah so the the give me the who what when where. Joseph Quinn Uh the best way to describe being a patrol officer on the street is you have a uh front row seat to the greatest show on Earth. Katherine September 17th 1998. On the outskirts of Houston there is a deputy sheriff named Joseph Quinn. Joseph Quinn Had not been on duty very long at all. Katherine He is driving around and...  . Katherine He hears this call go out on the radio. Joseph Quinn Priority call and uh... Katherine Somebody's called in and said there is a man going crazy with a gun in an apartment. He happens to be driving right by the apartment complex. Joseph Quinn Pretty familiar with the complex. I knew where the building was. Katherine So he is like Hey I have got this. I am right here. I am going in. Joseph Quinn So I parked and I tried to be as tactical as I could listen and see if I hear any kind of sounds of disturbance. Joseph Quinn Walked into the breezeway on high alert. Senses heightened adrenaline's pumping. And out in the middle of the courtyard there was a gentleman standing out there and soon as he saw me he started yelling Over here over here. I could tell you know he was upset he was crying you know. He said He is up there he is up there. I said Up where? Katherine And he points up to this apartment on the second floor. Joseph Quinn I said The man with the gun is up there. Is that what you are saying? That apartment right there? He said Yeah. Katherine So a couple other officers arrive and they get in formation. Joseph Quinn We took our time control your breathing get that you know the adrenaline rush and the blood pressure down to where you are you do not get tunnel vision. Went up the stairs four of us. Katherine When they get up to the... Joseph Quinn Um... Katherine S- top of the stairs... Joseph Quinn Got to the apartment door and their door was ajar. It was open. I listened for a second. I gave them gave them the hand sign that uh there I could not detect anything in the apartment. So we got ready and I pushed the door open all the way open. I announced our presence. Sheriff's department. Anyone in the apartment come out where we can see you. Keep your hands in plain sight. I did this two or three times very loudly. Still no response. Katherine There is a bedroom in the back of the apartment. Joseph Quinn There was a door to a back bedroom that was closed. Katherine And these two officers start walking towards it. Joseph Quinn The deputy that was in front of me he opened the door pushed it open and as soon as he did he lurched back like he was startled. Katherine So he goes into the bedroom. Joseph Quinn Finger's on the trigger pressure's pulled if I see a gun and it is pointed at me I am gonna take him out. Katherine But then... Joseph Quinn I was like You have got to be kidding me. Really? Jad What was it? What was it? Katherine It was two guys having sex. Jad Oh. Joseph Quinn Something I will never forget. I mean it is like uh I just uh I w- I was just flabbergasted. Katherine Okay so here's the story. The two guys that were in the apartment were John Lawrence and Tyron Garner. John was an older white guy he was in his 50s and Tyron was a younger black guy in his 30s. Joseph Quinn Come to find out basically the gentleman downstairs... Katherine This is the guy who called 9-11. Joseph Quinn Was former lover or on again off again lover uh of one and he was upset that the other that that they were engaged in some kinda activity with . Katherine Okay so the guy in the parking lot was the boyfriend of Tyron and we do not really know why he called 9-11 but the thought is that maybe he was jealous of whatever was going on in the apartment and he decided he wanted to get them in trouble. Joseph Quinn You know it was a lovers' triangle kinda thing. . Katherine So you know the cops come in and John and Tyron have no idea what is going on. They did not know that uh the boyfriend had gone and called 9-11. So they are shocked and Quinn says they start yelling at him. Joseph Quinn Just I mean combative. Belligerent. Uh refusing to comply with anything. We hated gays we were homophobes we were jackbooted Nazi thugs. Katherine So at a certain point Quinn just decides... Joseph Quinn You know if we leave them here and the way they are acting and they are intoxicated we are gonna have further calls here. You know it is not the end if we leave them here. Katherine So he decides to arrest them. Jad Really? What what is on what charge? I mean they are just in their house. Katherine Right. So that is the question. Joseph Quinn Well I I have been a patrolman for 15 years and and you know I am blessed with the ability to have somewhat of what you would call a photographic memory. Katherine Meaning he knew the penal code really well. So he starts thinking he starts going through all the possible laws that could apply to this and he lands on this one. Joseph Quinn I know it pretty well. 2106. Katherine Statute 2106. Joseph Quinn It says that members of the same sex cannot engage in sexual conduct. Katherine It is a law banning sodomy. Joseph Quinn Deviant sexual intercourse. John Lawrence We were not even treated like civilized citizens. Katherine This is John Lawrence from an interview he did with Lambda Legal in 2008. It is one of the few bits of tape that we have of him. John Lawrence It is just all of a sudden We are taking you downtown. I was not allowed to put clothes on. I was handcuffed and dragged down the stairs. Katherine Officer Joe Quinn has a different version of that story. Joseph Quinn Took them in custody. I afforded them the opportunity to you know get dressed. They refused so we forced them to put some underwear on. You know we actually held them down and put underwear on them and escorted them out of the apartment like that. 'ecause we I mean it was it was a struggle just to get them to put underwear on. Jad Okay just jump in for a second. Whatever happened in that room which Katherine will go into more in a second this moment of two guys supposedly having sex and then being charged with sodomy... Dale Carpenter It was like a strike of lightning. Jad It would begin a process that would profoundly reshape America and what is interesting and this is one of the first things that you bump into if you are an idiot about the law which I am and then you try and make a podcast about the law which I am trying to do is that there is often this disconnect. Like laws are these things that sort of float above us all these beautiful abstractions and yet if you want to challenge the law you have gotta find a person down here in the mud whose experience perfectly somehow captures what you feel is wrong with the law. You have gotta find a perfect plaintiff. But how do you find that person? And what happens if they are not so perfect? Jad These two stories that you are gonna hear are about a particular tactic that is sometimes called test case litigation that I was not too aware of before Katherine's reporting. The second story actually touches on a very current case that was just decided a few days ago. This is the case on affirmative action. We will meet the guy who brought that case who critics say is basically destroying some of the most iconic civil rights law from the '60s. But first we get back to Katherine Wells with the story of a case called Lawrence v. Texas. Mitchell Katine Okay. So come on in. Mitchell Katine I brought out my Lawrence v. Texas box of stuff and uh ... Katherine So I went to Houston and I visited a guy named Mitchell Katine. He is a lawyer there. And he showed me the arrest papers he had the arrest papers for these two guys. Mitchell Katine  Let us see. J. Lawrence criminal. Officers observed the defendant engaged in deviant sexual conduct. Charged with homosexual conduct. It is right there in writing. Katherine Yeah I g- I mean it is it really is strange to see those words on a piece of paper. It seems like such an anachronism but it was not actu- Mitchell Katine No it is not and this is dated um September 17th 1998. Katherine Now in 1998... Mitchell Katine I have a few other things here uh... Katherine Texas was not the only state that had this kinda law on the books. A- at least 13 other states also had an anti-sodomy law. Mitchell Katine And it is important to note that you know this law was not used very much. People were not arrested for this law... Dale Carpenter Because when would police be present in your home to observe you having sex? Katherine This is Dale Carpenter. Dale Carpenter I teach constitutional law SMU Law School. Dale Carpenter I mean sodomy laws were not really about stopping any f- body from having sex. They were really about ensuring that we could label people criminal. Mitchell Katine It was a label that people could point to. Katherine So the people who disapproved of homosexuality could say Look...  The defining act of homosexuality c- a crime! Uh... Katherine So if it is a crime...  Used to be in all the states... Katherine And you commit the crime...  In many of the states... Mitchell Katine Well you are a criminal. It is a criminal statute.  . Katherine People can say you are a criminal.  ...enforce them. . Katherine Which then gives the state a legal basis to justify all sorts of housing discrimination employment discrimination... Dale Carpenter Uh the military. In every context it had an effect. Katherine And many people argued that these laws they also sent a strong cultural message.  Well it is being called gay bashing but the most recent example here in Houston is better described as a vicious killing. Katherine And this was at a time when hate crimes in Houston were surprisingly common.  Paul Broussard 27 years old died after being beaten with a nail-studded two by four.  The second senseless killing in the Montrose area in less than three months.  There is a lot of blood and it was real apparent that he would been shot. Katherine So to make a long story short... Dale Carpenter The gay rights movement was very eager to repeal that sodomy law. Katherine Okay. So John and Tyron were arrested on a Thursday night. The next day... Dale Carpenter It so happened that because of the location of John Lawrence's apartment the case landed in a Justice of the Peace court. . Katherine Meaning after Quinn made the arrest the report was sent to that court for processing. Now this court is mostly deals with traffic. It is mostly a traffic court. Um but there happens to be this clerk in the court... Dale Carpenter Who was gay and he could not believe that there that somebody had actually been arrested for homosexual conduct in their home. . Katherine So that night this clerk and his partner go to a bar... Dale Carpenter And they start talking to the bartender. Lane Lewis I believe it was a Friday night.  Katherine This is Lane Lewis. He was the bartender. Lane Lewis It is what I was doing. I was a bartender in 1998. Katherine So these two guys come in and they tell Lane You are not gonna believe what happened. Lane Lewis He said A couple of guys were arrested and charged with uh sodomy. Katherine And Lane was like... Lane Lewis Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah. Dale Carpenter He just cannot believe that such a thing happened. It is such an unusual occurrence. Katherine But they were like No no it really happened. Lane Lewis And... Katherine Lane said Send me the report. Lane Lewis Monday morning bright and early I could hear my fax machine go off. Went in there and I pulled it off.  Officers observed the defendant engaged in deviant sexual conduct. . Lane Lewis And uh...  Oral sex with another man. Lane Lewis And that is when it hit me. It is Oh! I mean it was so clear night and day to me. I immediately knew what I had in my hand. Jad Why why does he care so much about this? Katherine Well so when he was not being a bartender Lane was a community organizer. Lane Lewis Particularly around LGBT issues. I was president of the Gay and Lesbian Political Caucus. Katherine That is one of the oldest LGBT civil rights groups in the south. Lane Lewis . Uh mostly . Katherine He would been waiting for this moment. Katherine H- how long had you been looking for a case? Lane Lewis Seven eight years? Seven or eight years. Katherine 'ecause just to b- lay it out explicitly what why did you need...? Lane Lewis 'ecause I needed a test case. You cannot change a law like that if you do not have a case. Katherine People in the Texas legislature had been trying to remove this law from the books for years according to Dale Carpenter. Dale Carpenter But every time someone would introduce a proposal to repeal the law it would get snickers and catcalls in the state legislature. Katherine It just was not really going anywhere so activists had decided the only way to get this done is to bypass the legislature and go straight to the courts. Lane Lewis So I needed a case. I had to have a uh someone guilty. Katherine So Lane starts trying to track them down. At this point the two guys had been released from jail and he eventually gets John on the phone. Lane Lewis Conversation basically went like this Hi my name is Lane Lewis. I am a gay activist here in town. You do not know me. Uh that is not important but I understand you have been arrested. I am begging you not to plead out. Katherine Meaning Do not just say you did it and pay the fine. Lane Lewis I knew I could not have him plead out. Katherine 'ecause then there would be nothing Lane could do. Lane Lewis I said I will find you lawyers. I will raise the money. I will pay for everything. Just do not do anything until you and I have an opportunity to meet. Katherine A few weeks later they all meet at Mitchell Katine's office and it immediately becomes clear that these guys are sort of an odd couple. Dale Carpenter John Lawrence at that time was um about I think he was 55 years old. Katherine Tall white kind of a big guy. Dale Carpenter He worked as a lab technician. Lane Lewis It is for a hospital. Katherine Tyron Garner was a young skinny black guy 24 years younger than John. Dale Carpenter No steady job. Katherine He bounced around between friends' apartments. Dale Carpenter Just kind of went from place to place and job to job. Lane Lewis No idea what their connection was. They were not lovers. Both heavy drinkers. Um very heavy. Katherine Both had criminal records. Lane Lewis Yes. Katherine Tyron had been convicted of assault and drug possession and John had been convicted in the '60s of murder by automobile. Lane Lewis Yeah they were not the perfect plaint- they were not the poster boys. These were not pretty twinks. Katherine And they were not political. Lane Lewis Oh no not at all. Not at all. Katherine In fact when Lane told John Lawrence... Lane Lewis I am a gay activist here in town. Dale Carpenter John Lawrence did not even know what that was. I do not know what a gay activist is. Katherine Basically neither of them had any interest. Like no interest in being a public figure. Lane Lewis So I gave them the whole... John F. Kennedy Ask not what your country can do for you ... Lane Lewis Ask not what you can do  for your country speech. I mean literally. I reminded them of who Harry Hay was. Harry Hay I just simply thought Well now it is time for me to organize my people. . Lane Lewis Harry Hay was arguably the founder of the original LGBT movement. Harry Hay ...scapegoats . Lane Lewis Your listeners may not remember but at one time it was illegal for certain number of gay males and the LGBT community to get together in one location. It was illegal. Could not do it. Harry Hay I dreamt even then of the idea that there would be networks of sanctuaries of places where we could come and out of which we would be able to move and organize and change things across the country. I did not think . Lane Lewis So I told him a little bit about that history and and uh how far we would come and how far we had to go and that um they had an opportunity to change that. Lane Lewis So I told them I said um I will be able to protect you for maybe the first year or two but there is gonna come a time where it will no longer be about you. Um it will be about something much much bigger. Lane Lewis So um they agreed. Tyron's attitude was Okay you know um What do you need me to do? John was uh much more indignant. John Lawrence I was pissed. They picked the wrong person to pull this on. It was a ridiculous law but uh Texas loves to keep some antiquated things around. Lane Lewis He was mad he was angry he . Katherine And here's where the story gets complicated. Lane Lewis Um and . Katherine Because at one point according to Lane Lewis they were having this conversation and John was ranting you know about how he would been treated and he said You know what the worst part is? Lane Lewis We were not even f- having fucking sex yet you know We were not even dah dah dah dah. He said that they were not having sex. Jad Wait what? Lane Lewis That they were not having sex that they were sitting in their underwear on the couch watching the late night news. Katherine They say they were sitting there doing nothing and the cops just burst in and started pushing them around and that they were never even having sex. Jad Wait but is not this whole case about them having sex? Katherine Yep. Jad So you are saying the thing that this case is supposed to be about might not be true? Katherine Right. Dale Carpenter Well so I interviewed three of the four police officers um ... Katherine Dale Carpenter says when he talked to the police officers he did find that their stories were sort of all over the place. One guy said it was anal sex he saw one guy later said he thought it might have been oral. Dale Carpenter The other two officers said they never saw anything. Katherine So Dale says he believes John's story. Dale Carpenter There probably was actually no sex. . Katherine He thinks what might have happened is that the cops walked in and saw some gay art on the wall and some gay magazines lying around... Dale Carpenter I have a feeling that really set off the officers and they said Well we know they are homosexuals. They probably engaged in homosexual conduct at some point and that is illegal in Texas. Joseph Quinn No no I n- I d- there there was no no no doubt about it. I mean I have no no reason to lie and . Lane Lewis Quinn to this day still insists that he walked in on them copulating. Katherine He says he saw what he saw and he just did his job. Joseph Quinn If you wanna be homosexual and that is the way you wanna live your lifestyle that is fine. I do not agree with your lifestyle but that is my opinion. That is what it is. It is an opinion. Katherine So there is no way to know what actually happened obviously but in a way it does not matter. Because when John said that to Lane that they were not even having sex... Lane Lewis I said John do not ever say that again. Do not ever say that to anybody again. Because we could not have people know that. We could not have people find that out. Jad Wait they are gonna go forward with this? Katherine Yep. Lane Lewis We were scared that you know the case would get screwed up at that point and potentially the DA dropping the charges... Katherine So basically you had to preserve... If if Joe Quinn was lying on that police report you had to preserve the lie. Mitchell Katine Correct. Lane Lewis Correct. Jad D- dumb question you can just do that? You can just preserve a lie to keep a case going? You do that that is okay? Lane Lewis Well keep in mind that it was not our job to prove or disprove the lie. Katherine You know to Lane the thing that mattered was not what did or did not happen that night. The thing that mattered was what the arrest report said. Jad But if what the arrest report said potentially did not happen should not that matter? Dale Carpenter Well no. No one... Our legal system is not designed to bring out the truth. This is a misconception. It does not bring out the truth. Katherine That is Dale Carpenter again. Dale Carpenter It is people who play their roles in pursuing whatever they think their best interests are and that is exactly what happened. Lane Lewis So for the first few years my job was to keep the boys out of the n- out of the news. Katherine And why was that? Lane Lewis Well they had a tendency to drink and get rowdy and fight and uh they liked to go to seedy hotels and rent rooms and get really really high drunk whatever and inevitably they would start fighting with each other. And so what I did um  what I would do is I would... I knew the different places they stayed. Katherine He says he would go to these seedy hotels and talk to the clerks. Lane Lewis Give them a business card tell them If these boys come and check in they cause problems call me first. And on more than one occasion it happened. I would get a call at 00 in the morning Your your guys are here. They are causing trouble. I am gonna have to call the cops. I would jump out of bed put on my clothes... 'ecause we could not have them you know they are already on the front page of the Houston Chronicle. We could not have our defendants doing a perp walk for drugs and alcohol. Lane Lewis So um I would drive down there and I would figure out which one was causing the most problems put him in my car and I would drive him somewhere else. I would separate them out. Uh that happened more than once. More than once. Katherine So Lane said he had this fear that John and Tyron would s- would start talking to the media and let something slip about their version of the story so he gave them these little cards. Lane Lewis Kept it in their wallet a small little sentence that basically said Thank you for contacting me. Please refer to Lane Lewis and had my phone number and my email. And I said So anytime the media contacts you do not think about what you say right? 'ecause that is where you get screwed up when you start thinking about what you wanna say to the media. Pull this out of your wallet read it and hang up. Katherine Even so there were these close calls as the case wound its way through the court system. Mitchell Katine told me about this one time there was this press conference. Mitchell Katine  And we came outside to the normal media group that was out there wanting quotes and to talk to us and they did not wanna hear from the lawyers they wanted to hear from the clients. Katherine So he was like All right just this once. Mitchell Katine Tyron got up to the mic and s- I think a reporter asked him you know How do you feel about this? And he said We did not do anything wrong! He just kinda yelled that out in a angry way We did not do anything wrong. Katherine Mitchell pulled him back and was like... Mitchell Katine Uh oh that is enough. That is enough. So he... Katherine Next day... Mitchell Katine We did not do anything wrong! That was the quote on the headlines of the morning's paper the next day and certainly I knew what he meant. Katherine That they were not having sex. Mitchell Katine But you know could also be interpreted as uh homosexual conduct is nothing wrong. Katherine He says luckily that is how people took it. Mitchell Katine  It was very nerve wracking. Katherine 'ecause this went on for years. This was years. Mitchell Katine Yeah couple of years. Katherine Here's kind of how it went down. They started at this Justice of the Peace court. They were sentenced to a fine of 125. They appealed. Then the case gets kicked up one level to the Harris County Criminal Court. They are fined again they appeal it again. Dale Carpenter Then it went to uh another level. Katherine To the 14th Court of Appeals. Dale Carpenter And... Katherine One more level. Dale Carpenter Ultimately the Texas Criminal Court of Appeals which is the highest court in Texas for criminal appeals. Refused even to hear the case. So the only next step is the Supreme Court.  We will hear argument next in number 02102 John Geddes Lawrence and Tyron Garner versus Texas. Katherine March 26 2003. Almost five years after the arrest the case lands at the Supreme Court and by the time it gets up there...  Mr. Smith. Mr. Smith Mr. Chief Justice and may it please the court the State of Texas in this case claims the right . Katherine The story is not dwelled upon at all. They did not say These guys were not in a relationship. They did not say If these guys were having sex one of them was cheating on his partner. Seems like they might have not been having sex anyway. Jad  Katherine They did not say any of those things. They said... Mr. Smith There are gay families that family relationships are established that there are hundreds of thousands of people registered . Katherine That this is about families and relationships how people in loving relationships have the right to express themselves in whatever they want. It is none of the state's business. Mr. Smith The opportunity to engage in sexual expression as they will in the privacy of their own homes m- performs much the same function as it does in the marital context . Katherine You know basically people in relationships have the right to have sex with each other regardless of their gender. Mr. Smith You should protect it for everyone that this is a a fundamental matter of American values. So those are three reasons . Jad Wow. It is like watching something float up from the sort of mucky like realm of of human... Katherine Real life. Jad Of real life and then it just gets kind of prettier as it floats upwards. Katherine Yeah. It was such a pretty story that people were suspicious of it. Like people were asking How did this arrest even happen? Mitchell Katine This was a setup. You all set this up. That was their big battle cry. Katherine So Mitchell Katine says he heard this over and over again. Mitchell Katine Was not a setup but I always wanted to say So so what if it was? Does that make it any less of a case? Who cares? Mr. Smith Unless the court has further questions uh thank you very much.  Thank you Mr. Smith. The case is submitted.  The honorable court is now adjourned until Monday next at 00. Katherine Three months later...  The opinion of the court in number 02102 Lawrence against Texas will be announced by Justice Kennedy. Mitchell Katine Justice Kennedy begins reading a summary of his opinion. Justice Kennedy The question before the court is the validity of a Texas statute making it a crime for two persons of the same sex to engage in certain intimate sexual conduct. Mitchell Katine Everybody's waiting for the outcome. Justice Kennedy In Houston Texas police officers . Katherine So for context it was not totally clear how this case was gonna come out because 17 years earlier there would been a case called...  Bowers against uh Hardwick... Katherine Bowers v. Hardwick and then they had ruled that sodomy laws were fine.  And I would suggest to the court that there is no constitutional warrant to conclude that there should be a fundamental right to engage in homosexual sodomy. Katherine And the Supreme Court almost never overrules things that are that recent. Justice Kennedy Bowers v. Hardwick had some factual similarities to this case. . Katherine So Justice Kennedy starts talking about all the similarities between the cases. Justice Kennedy Police officers were dispatched to a private residence. Mitchell Katine The tension starts building. Justice Kennedy The officers observe Lawrence and another man Tyron Garner engaging in a sexual act. Mitchell Katine And then finally he got to the moment where he said... Justice Kennedy Bowers was not correct when it was decided and it is not correct today. Mitchell Katine And at the point Justice Kennedy said that there were people sobbing in the Supreme Court. Justice Kennedy Bowers v. Hardwick should be and now is overruled.  At rallies across the nation gay rights advocates celebrated their legal victory a ruling so broad it surprised even many of them. The court ruled in favor of two Texas men who challenged a state law that made homosexual conduct a crime.  ...homosexual sex a crime. The ruling overturns a Texas law that allowed police to arrest gays for having sex. 12 other states have similar laws including Oklahoma. . Katherine That morning John Lawrence was at home in his apartment in Houston watching the news. John Lawrence So I am laying in bed trying to go back get my 40 winks and all of a sudden it says has ruled the law unconstitutional. . I came out of bed quite happy.  Katherine Obviously not everybody was happy about it. Justice Scalia Let me be clear that I have nothing against homosexuals or any other group promoting their agenda through mor- through through normal democratic means. Social perceptions of sexual and other . Katherine Justice Scalia said basically If if you want this to happen that is fine but you are going about it the wrong way. The court is not the place where this decision should be made. You need to go talk to your fellow citizens and convince them that this law needs to change. Coming to us and asking us to bypass what your fellow citizens seem to want that is not how democracy should work. Justice Scalia Persuading one's fellow citizens is one thing and imposing one's views in absence of democratic majority will is something else. . Katherine He he sees this as a small minority imposing their views on everybody else. And then he said he was worried about something else. Justice Scalia Today's opinion dismantles the structure of constitutional law that has permitted a distinction to be made between heterosexual and homosexual unions. If tomorrow ... Katherine That this decision would open the floodgates and that it would only be a matter of time before the court was being asked to decide on gay marriage. Justice Kennedy The second relevant principle is that marriage affords  Katherine And he was right. When Kennedy read the marriage decision in 2015... Justice Kennedy In Lawrence v. Texas... Katherine He talked about Lawrence. Justice Kennedy The court held that private intimacy of same sex couples cannot be declared a crime yet it does not follow that freedom stops there. Outlaw to outcast may be a step forward but it does not achieve the full promise of liberty. Katherine So what happened to Garner and Lawrence? Mitchell Katine Well um . Katherine John Lawrence and Tyron Garner did not live to see this. Tyron died in 2006 from meningitis... Mitchell Katine No job had no money... Katherine He was 39. Mitchell Katine Um and his family was very poor and they did not have the money to bury him. They did not even have the money to reclaim his body from the county morgue. Katherine As for John Lawrence he died in 2011 at 68 from heart problems. Mitchell Katine We did not even find out about it until a month after he was dead. This hero of the gay rights movement was unknown and unmourned at his passing. Katherine W- what was that say about sort of the practice of bringing things to the supreme court uh that the two people whose story this case revolves around could sort of fade into the background afterwards? Mitchell Katine Well one is tempted I think to be very cynical in some ways because it means that these people were useful as long as they were useful and after that they w- could be forgotten. Jad I have to say I actually had that reaction a little bit. I mean this is a story of social progress but there is something a little funny at the center of it for me and as we were playing this for our legal editor Elie Mystal... Elie Um I think that... Jad We talked about this a bit. Elie In a lot of ways our l- our legal system devolves into an ends j- uh justifies the means kind of justice. Um we s- we care we we we care about the process so much um and and and look the process is not is extremely important. Jad But Elie is not this just weird to you? Like this is a dumb law. Like a dumb dumb dumb dumb law. Why not just uh should not there be an avenue to say This is a dumb law. Let us take it away. Why do you have to find some people who did not have sex they say pretend that they have sex then march them up all the way through the court system and then forget about them? I mean it just seems weird to me. It seems like a empty theater. Why do we have to do it that way? Elie Because if you wanted to put a ballot initiative up in 2003 in Texas saying Is gay sex okay? It would fail. It would fail in 2003 in Texas. It would probably fail in 2016 in Texas. It will probably fail in 2032 in Texas. That is why. That is why. Jad I see. Elie The majority is not always right. Jad Hm. Elie So you you you you take th- you basically take the democratic hit. And this is this is a again this goes back right to the founding of our country. Like when are you gonna let popular will run wild and when are you going to constrain it? Not just restrain it constrain it. You know? When are you gonna just stop it? Um and and Lawrence v. Texas is a is an example of a of a We are just gonna stop it. And it was the right call. Katherine So after this uh Supreme Court decision did Texas immediately go and repeal the law? Dale Carpenter No actually the law is still on the books in Texas. No the Texas legislature like other legislatures around the country refuses to repeal the law. It stays there a sort of remnant of a kind of a dark almost forgotten past. Jad Keep in mind they cannot enforce the law now that it is unconstitutional but they refuse to take it off. Jad Coming up a very deep dive into the guy behind one of the most controversial cases this term the case that just got decided late last week. This is More Perfect.  The honorable the Chief Justice and the Associate Justices of the Supreme Court of the United States. Oyez oyez oyez. All persons having business before the honorable the Supreme Court of the United States are admonished to draw near and give their attention. Oyez oyez. The court is now in session. Oyez. God save the United States and this honorable court. Peter Fink Hi. My name's Peter Fink and I am calling from Ritsona Refugee Camp in Evia Greece. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Jad This is More Perfect. I am Jad Abumrad. If Supreme Court cases can sometimes feel like plays where the activists and lawyers are sort of like the directors pulling the strings and the people in the center of the case the plaintiffs are just like these imperfect actors who have been cast and the script's already been written for them well that dynamic was definitely in effect this term. In fact just last week.  We have had a decision just handed down in what was billed as the landmark affirmative action case of this term.   this is a decision that will impact college admissions nationwide. Jad The case Fisher v. University of Texas centered around the following question  Should universities be able to use racial preferences in college admissions? . Jad Now the University of Texas has this policy where the top 10 of every high school class automatically get in but for everybody else they will consider factors like race. And the question was is that okay? Couple days ago the court decided barely that yes it is okay.  The Supreme Court has upheld the affirmative action program at the University of Texas. .  Affirmative action in higher education is constitutional. Jad Now the case was brought by a young white woman named...  Abigail Fisher. Jad Abigail Fisher.  Abigail Fisher believed her race may have hurt her chances to attend the University of Texas. Abigail Fisher There were people in my class with lower grades who were not in all the activities I was in who were being accepted into UT and the only other difference between us was the color of our skin. Jad She was arguing that affirmative action discriminates against her as a white person. Now what you saw in the wake of that decision and even before especially online was this just torrent of hate directed squarely at her.  See I do not even know what  yet. So I am trying to hold my tongue but I am about to tell Abby to have a seat. Okay?  I cannot get into a good college. A lot of people have it better.  Bitch if you do not take your little ass on somewhere... .  Maybe if your grades did not suck you dumbass maybe you would have gotten into a good college. .  Becky with the bad grades really happy you and your racist lawyer got shot down. Jad It is all been pointed right at Abby Fisher which you could argue honestly is not fair because this case may have very little to do with Abby Fisher. I mean if you look at the press conferences... Abigail Fisher Like most Americans I do not believe that students should be treated differently based on their race. . Jad Abby Fisher is the one at the podium but behind her far in the background you will see this guy. He is there in every single press conference sort of back uh in the e- at the edge of the frame. Not too many people know about him. His name's Edward Blum and he is the one who actually brought the case. When it comes to this case and so many others he is...  The architect. Jad He is brought dozens of lawsuits not just this one and uh he seems to be a maestro of getting cases to the Supreme Court that challenge civil rights law. Critics sort of paint him as this like one-man wrecking crew for civil rights like h- he is almost single handedly rolling back decades of civil rights law. And then it comes to affirmative action he says he is not done. Just to make a long story short we wanted to meet him figure out how he does it. Katherine Yeah so I went to Tallahassee. Jad Reporter Katherine Wells takes it from here. Katherine That is where he lives or he winters in Tallahassee. Katherine Oh man. Lark Blum Golden retriever . Katherine Hi Molly. Hi! Jad You walk in. What initially struck you? Katherine His golden retriever... Lark Blum . Katherine Is what initially struck me. Literally physically. Edward Blum Katherine. Jad  Katherine Nice to meet you. Edward Blum Nice meeting you. Katherine Thank you for having me. Edward Blum Sure. Lark Blum Of course. . Katherine And I do not know what I was expecting but when you hear about these cases you know they are I mean critics are really people are mad about these cases.  It is deeply disturbing.  Cruelly outrageous.  It is a betrayal of the American people. Katherine So I go to meet him and... Edward Blum Your flight from Austin to Dallas to Tallahassee uneventful and on time and good? Yeah? Katherine Easy yeah. Edward Blum Good. Katherine He is like a totally nice guy. Katherine  too short ... Katherine A regular guy. Jad What does he look like? Katherine Like a dad. Edward Blum There is something in me that just loves tradition and custom. Katherine He loves listening to the great American songbook. Edward Blum Uh Frank Sinatra and um Ella Fitzgerald. I love art and museums uh independent films golf... Jad What is his uh what is his story? What is his backstory? Katherine Well he is 64. Edward Blum I was born in a small town in Michigan. My dad owned a shoe store there. My mom worked with him in the shoe store. Katherine What had been your kinda political leanings up to this point or f- Edward Blum Well I am the first republican my mother ever met. Hate to use the word typical but it it really was a typical liberal Jewish household. My mother and father were Franklin Roosevelt Harry Truman democrats. Always for the democrat. Katherine And he said he was that way too all the way through college. Edward Blum The University of Texas. Katherine Grad school. Edward Blum State University of New York where I spent a year studying of all things African literature. Katherine But he says somewhere along the way his political leanings sort of started to shift. Edward Blum I spent a summer in Israel living on a kibbutz. Katherine And he says he came out of that experience a little less liberal than he was before. And he got married and then in the early '80s he is living in Houston working as a stockbroker... Edward Blum And we met our n- our neighbors. Katherine This particular couple. Edward Blum They were New Yorkers who had moved to Houston. Both grew up as liberals and... Katherine The guy... Edward Blum He sort of opened my eyes to the world of the neocons. Katherine The guy introduced him to these magazines. Edward Blum Weekly Standard National Review Commentary Magazine. Katherine Like conservative magazines and this was around the time that the neocon movement was really hitting its stride. You had all these New York liberals defecting uh is what he says. Edward Blum Thousands of individuals who grew up in the 1960s that started to question the wisdom of these liberal policies. Katherine And he says slowly... Edward Blum Slowly... Katherine Over time... Edward Blum Very gradually... Katherine He became one of those people. In any case fast forward a little bit. He is living in Houston. Edward Blum Kind of the garden variety existence in Houston . Katherine And something happens that sends him on this entirely new path. Basically he and his wife move to a new neighborhood. They move from the suburbs into the downtown area. More urban. Edward Blum And in 1990 when w- we went to vote for the first time in our new neighborhood I realized that the Republican Party had not fielded a candidate to oppose the Democrat incumbent running for Congress. This is a district that has almost 600000 people and you do not have a choice? You have only got one person running? Katherine Blum decided to run himself. Edward Blum I lost I do not that was no great surprise to anyone. Katherine He actually lost by 32 points. Edward Blum But... Katherine Along the way... Edward Blum Uh something really unusual happened. Um ... Katherine During that campaign he and his wife  you know they decided they were gonna go meet voters in their district. They got a giant printout of all of the addresses in the 18th Congressional District. Edward Blum W- what was then called a walking list. Katherine And they just started going door to door. Edward Blum Meeting people handing out literature. Katherine And they would walk down say Oak Street... Edward Blum I would take the even side of Oak Street and my wife would take the odd numbered side of Oak Street and we would start to walk and... Katherine And he says very quickly they realized that the district's shape was funny. Some houses on one side of the street would be in the district and then houses on the other side would not and sometimes the district would snake down a highway catch an apartment complex come back. Lark Blum It it just did not make sense. Katherine Uh this is Lark Blum. Lark Blum Wife of Edward Blum. It was peculiar because we had uh maps that we had to follow and it was very odd the way some streets were in the districts and some were not. Took a while for it all to really sink in as to how this could happen. Edward Blum After I guess about a week of this we realized that n- n- neighbors w- had been separated h- h- almost house by house because of their race. Katherine He comes to believe that the reason this was done was for the explicit purpose to create a majority African American district. Katherine This is not untrue. Lyndon Johnson This act flows from a clear and simple wrong. Katherine Part of the reason this was done was the Voting Rights Act of 1965. Lyndon Johnson Millions of Americans are denied the right to vote because of their color. . Katherine This act was a giant step forward in civil rights. You know one of the primary things it did is eliminate barriers to voting like poll taxes and literacy tests all these w- you know strategies that had been used to keep minorities from voting. And then this other thing it did um sort of in a roundabout way through a series of interpretations is it encouraged the creation of districts where the majority of voters were minorities and that is because you know one of the strategies that had been used previously to um sort of dilute the minority vote was to take minority communities and they called it cracking they they sort of split them apart into many different districts so that they were never uh in the majority enough to elect a representative. Jad Right. Right. Katherine So the Voting Rights Act tried to correct that. The 18th Congressional District was one of these majority minority districts. Edward Blum The district was drawn by the Texas legislature uh to have a slight African American majority. I think about 51 percent African American. . Katherine But this was the problem according to Blum. The way they got to that African American majority was by creating this district that zigzagged all over the city and cut through neighborhoods. Edward Blum I c- I could not understand. People live close together. They sent their kids to the s- neighborhood schools. They shopped in the neighborhood shopping centers. They were worried about neighborhood issues. To break these neighborhoods apart by race seemed so wrong to me. Katherine In his mind this law was actually not limiting discrimination but actually perpetuating it. Edward Blum Well yeah. Uh . Katherine And I do not know what an av- the average person upon realizing this would have done... Edward Blum But I decided to file a lawsuit. Katherine He decided to sue the state of Texas. Edward Blum Called a few friends who lived in the 18th District. Katherine And a few other districts in Texas. Edward Blum An African American a Hispanic and an Asian. Kept looking and looking and looking until I found a lawyer that I could afford. Katherine 7000 a month. Edward Blum We filed a lawsuit challenging the constitutionality of Texas' redistricting plan. Katherine The basic charge was yes the Voting Rights Act was good in its day but now it was being used as this excuse to segregate people into racially polarized districts. Edward Blum It worked its way through the lower courts and to my shock and surprise in 1995...  We will hear argument now on number 94805 George W. Bush v. Al Vera... . Edward Blum Uh the Supreme Court took it up. Katherine And you went to oral arguments? Edward Blum Yeah we all did.  Mr. Chief Justice and may it please the court ... Edward Blum So there we all are. Our opponents step to the lectern and...  At issue in this direct appeal is the constitutionality of three congressional districts... Edward Blum They make their arguments...  That the court below erroneously ruled were racially gerrymandered. . Katherine Texas basically said You all we have to put people together by race.  The Texas legislature has the obligation to satisfy federal requirements and the Voting Rights Act is a federal requirement. . Katherine Like remember the Voting Rights Act? We are trying to make sure that there are enough minorities in this district so that they have a chance to elect a representative. Edward Blum Then our advocate...  Uh Mr.  we will hear from you. Edward Blum Made his arguments. Mr. Troy With regard to the point that that was just being made as ... Katherine Blum's lawyer basically said But look at the map. The map is bizarre and the only reason it could have gotten this way is because you are only thinking about race. Only race. Think about it. That seems messed up. Is not that messed up? Mr. Troy It does not matter what your ultimate goal is. You cannot use certain forbidden tools. Race is forbidden by the 14th Amendment to be used as a tool .  But in his example the people of St. Mary  Edward Blum You know it is a very tense situation.  . Mr. Troy  do you know any other situation in the law in which we allow race to be used as a surrogate for anything? Mr. Troy ...be unconstitutional but to use it as .   racism how is this done? I thought that is how you said this was done.   did you concede that or did you say it would require strict scrutiny?  You did say that did not you? Let let me explain.  .  But would you say that or not? Mr. Troy .   let let me . Did you say that or not? Katherine So in the end the Supreme Court gives out this very  s- uh hair-splitty decision that I think gets at this deeper question that in our society and in our discourse we just have not figured out how to talk about in a way. And it basically said this You know look if you are defining race just as the color of someone's skin the government cannot use that in any way. That is against the constitution. On the other hand if you take this wider view and you look at race in the context of history social context then how can the government address discrimination without taking race into account? You they have to. So it is this difficult balance. You cannot look at race but you have to look at race. Katherine And the Supreme Court says to Texas Look all you are doing in this case is sorting people based on how they are labeled on a census. You are not looking at that wider context. You are not looking at if these communities live next to each other if they share common interests. You are just sorting them based on race alone and that is not good enough. You cannot do that. Edward Blum When the opinion came down the Supreme Court ruled in our favor five to four. That was quite a day the day that we won that lawsuit. I was hooked forever. Katherine After that Edward Blum decided that this would be his thing. Edward Blum It became a passion. Katherine He would use the courts to try to strike down every race-based policy he could. Edward Blum The legal team was taken on the road. I recruited plaintiffs in New York Virginia South Carolina to challenge congressional district plans and we won in each of those states. Katherine He helped sue school districts in Florida and Texas... Edward Blum To end the use of racial quotas in K through 12 magnet schools. Katherine He went after affirmative action in Houston city contracting.  Today Houston could become the first city to kill affirmative action. . Katherine That one was actually a ballot initiative and it failed. Edward Blum But I have been the architect of uh over two dozen lawsuits. Katherine Six of which... Edward Blum Six. Katherine Made it to the Supreme Court including in 2013...  In a five to four vote...  Five to four very divided court .  The Supreme Court today struck down a key part of the Voting Rights Act of 1965.  The Supreme Court today struck down a very important part of the Voting Rights Act.  That key 1965 landmark law no one .  It is considered one of the most important pieces of civil rights legislation ever passed. Katherine Shelby County v. Holder. This decision gutted the Voting Rights Act. Specifically there was this part of it that said states and counties with a history of discrimination have to check with the federal government first before they go about changing their voting laws. Basically the federal government was saying Look you have been up to all this stuff. We are now we are watching you. The Supreme Court said You know times have changed. That list was made a long time ago and it is outdated. Edward Blum This decision restores an important constitutional order to our system of government. . Katherine This was Blum's biggest victory. Edward Blum When Shelby County came down I burst into tears. Jad I think a lot of people burst into tears when that came down. Edward Blum Y- you know it it yeah I uh and I understand it.  It is deeply disturbing.  I am deeply disappointed deeply disappointed with the court's decision in this matter.  This decision is a betrayal of the American people.  It is a game changer. Sheila J. Lee During the civil rights movement people died for the precious right to vote. Katherine This is Congresswoman Sheila Jackson Lee of Houston Texas. Sheila J. Lee I would like to have the Supreme Court Justices go back in time go back in time and march with those who marched after Bloody Sunday uh from Selma to Montgomery. Ed Blum has a right to his opinion. It does not mean that it has to be the opinion of the United States. Edward Blum I I understand that people were you know gravely upset. I also know that there were people who were gravely relieved and gravely gratified. Jad Yeah but I think what gets a lot of people is that you look at these civil rights videos and you see tens th- of thousands 40000 people in the streets marching and you hold that and if you make a split screen in your mind you hold that. Thousands tens of thousands of people on one side. On the other side you. One guy. It does make you ask basic questions about democracy. Edward Blum Th- that is a false paradigm. Uh it it it it is th- that may be your split screen but that is r- r- really not the reality of all of this. Look in 1964 and 1965 uh America was held hostage by the legacies of slavery and the choke hold of Jim Crow. Fast forward to 2006. The reauthorization of the Voting Rights Act. The choke hold had gone away. African Americans in the deep south registered to vote in numbers that often exceeded whites participated in elections in numbers that exceeded whites. In terms of electoral opportunities we have come 180 degrees from 1965 . Jad Wait but we turned  those degrees because of the law which you helped to overturn. And and and s- and we do not know to what degree that is the psychology of America changing or the fact that we had a law that kept people in line. And now that law's gone and now we see voter ID laws coming back into play which I think any like sane person would admit is a is a is an attempt a blatant attempt to disenfranchise people. So it feels a little bit strange to to... I mean I completely agree with you. Things have gotten better. At the same time I think well that was because of the law that is now gone. Edward Blum Um look. Laws change. Laws evolve and and at some point uh they need to come to an end. Katherine Okay. So just to jump back in... Jad Yes please. Katherine Something we have not actually talked about yet is our original question. How how does this actually happen? How does it work? How is one person able to be so effective? Edward Blum To do this work you need a computer a printer a cell phone um... That is really about it. Jad Wait who pays for the lawyer fees? Katherine And wh- w- who do you go to? Edward Blum Well um there are individuals uh that know of my work. There are foundations . Katherine Okay so he is a 5013 like the mbda Legal that funded the Lawrence v. Texas case. Jad Okay. Katherine And if you are a 5013 public charity as he is you do not have to reveal your donors to the public. We do know a couple of his donors though and they are wealthy very conservative foundations. So in the end what he does is just sort of a more maybe a more strategic or sophisticated version of what Lane Lewis did in the first story. Like in this case that he just lost last week. He knew he wanted to challenge affirmative action so the first thing he did was sort of do a casting call.  He set out to find the perfect white student. Katherine He set up a website.  Called utnotfair.org. Katherine He made a recruiting video. Edward Blum It is time for UT to stop using race as a factor in the admissions policy. . Katherine Pretty budget. It is just him looking at the camera in front of a poster that says UT Not Fair. Edward Blum I encourage all high school students who have been rejected from UT to visit at utnotfair.org. Tell us your story. Contact . Katherine And then he started talking to the people who responded. Edward Blum I think I ended up with about 175 responses. Of those about 100 were viable. Jad Were the 75 you threw out just like... Edward Blum Oh kooky... Jad Flat... Edward Blum Just... Jad Flat out racist? Edward Blum Yeah well just did not think they would be sympathetic. Katherine So he whittled the hundred down to seven that he thought would be sympathetic. Edward Blum Of those seven there were one or two that you know did not really wanna go forward. Jad Like I do not want the attention or...? Edward Blum They were fearful. Katherine Of you know the backlash. Anyway to make a long story short he ended up finding Abby Fisher because a friend of his called and said Hey my daughter just got rejected from UT. I heard you were looking. Abigail Fisher I think I am a very like uh a very like introverted person and so I feel uh like sometimes this is a lot of pressure. But I think it in the end it is totally worth it and and to be able to to have a voice in this and to know that w- my voice is making a difference is really rewarding. Katherine She seemed like the perfect plaintiff. Strawberry blond hair. She is petite she is kinda shy in front of the camera in a good way. But last week they lost. So we talked to him before all this happened so we were not able to get a reaction from him but he did tell an Austin newspaper that the night after the decision came down he had three glasses of wine he took an ambien and he thought about these particular lyrics in a Billy Joel song. Katherine The song's called Keeping the Faith. Edward Blum I am a long distance runner. Uh if there is something just emblematic about my personality I run long distances. Katherine He says he is definitely not done. He is actually already has two more cases against affirmative action in the works. Edward Blum Uh I have retained counsel to litigate Harvard's admissions policies and University of North Carolina's admissions policies. . Jad I am I am sorry c- just does not strike anyone... I mean forget the politics whether you are on on Blum's side or not. This just the tactic does not strike anyone as like fishy? Elie I resist giving Ed Blum that much credit. Jad That is Elie Mystal again our legal editor. Elie Um I would say l- that fundamentally he is just implementing uh a strategy that was perfected by the people he now ironically seeks to disenfranchise right? Um this is civil rights movement 101. He is got laws that he does not like that he knows he cannot overturn through an election. Remember this Blum's a failed congressional candidate. He had that lust for for political power. He could not get it through the electoral system. But he found this other way um to do it. This is exactly what the civil rights movement did. Katherine Okay so to me this is one of the most fascinating things about this story. Um if we go back do you remember this case there is a famous case called Plessy v. Ferguson? Jad Sorta know it not really. Susan Carle Plessy v. Ferguson I think I think is a good example. Katherine This is Susan Carle. Susan Carle Law professor at American University Washington College of Law. Katherine Okay. Plessy v. Ferguson 1892. Susan Carle So that was a case where the state of Louisiana had adopted a new separate cars law which said that people of color and white people could not ride in the same train cars. Katherine And if you have heard the story this is how it goes. Susan Carle Somebody named Homer Plessy... Katherine A black man sits down in a white car. Susan Carle He is arrested and um... Katherine He decides to sue and his case goes all the way to the Supreme Court. Now the thing about that case is that it was a total setup. Jad What do you mean? Katherine So if we go back when Louisiana passed that law requiring separate cars early civil rights groups were obviously horrified by this but the railroad companies were actually mad about this too. Susan Carle Because they thought it would be much more expensive to run the trains if they had to have add additional trains so they would have white cars and cars of color and so... Katherine Civil rights activists... Susan Carle And the railroad companies they recruited somebody named Homer Plessy who was seven eighths white... Katherine One eighth African American. And they sent him to go sit in a white car on a train. Susan Carle He got into a w- a first class white people's car and they sent somebody to go ar- arrest him. Katherine Like they got a off-duty police officer... Susan Carle Yes. Katherine Or something? Susan Carle They well they actually hired a detective. You could do that at the time that you could hire a private detective to make a an arrest. And so they hi-  they they hired that person too. Katherine So Plessy gets onto the train. The conductor comes by and Plessy's like Just thought I should let you know I am actually an eighth black. And the conductor says Well in that case you are gonna need to be on the other car in this train. But Homer Plessy says I am good actually. I I am gonna be staying right here. And the conductor says No really you have to move and Homer Plessy says No really not gonna... Jad  Katherine And things get heated and eventually this detective that they have hired comes in and arrests him. Susan Carle And they brought a lawsuit. Jad That is amazing. The whole thing is cooked. Susan Carle Starting with the arrest to challenge the separate cars law and they were able to get it up to the US Supreme Court and they were hoping that they would be able to establish that the idea of separating the races was unconstitutional but unfortunately they miscalculated... Katherine And the court ruled that the law was constitutional. Susan Carle And what they got instead was separate but equal. Katherine Totally backfired. But it was this early example of this other way. You know if you can find a plaintiff or create a plaintiff you might be able to bypass the legislature and go to the Supreme Court instead. The NAACP later picked up on this. Susan Carle They were the true geniuses. They perfected it and they perfected it under circumstances where victories were highly unlikely. Katherine For example in the early 1900s they would do things like send a black guy and a white guy all over New York City to segregated theaters... Susan Carle And see if one of them was prevented from being seated. Katherine And if they were... Susan Carle They would sue those theaters and win victories that way. Katherine Then there was this other law in Louisville Kentucky that said... Susan Carle Nobody could buy a house or live on a block in which white people lived if they were African American. Katherine So they recruited a white guy to sell a house to a black guy and then they had the black guy refuse to take the house so the white guy could say... Susan Carle You said you would buy the house but now you are reneging on it. And the African American said I am not buying the house because I cannot live there. Katherine White guy sues the black guy... Susan Carle Y- again it was a manufactured case and it was one of the NAACP's first victories and that is the case where Justice Holmes said in a dissent that he ended up not publishing Hey wait a minute this is not even a real case. At the time anything that involved manufacturing a case or fomenting litigation all of those things were um illegal. Katherine So not just unethical but actually illegal. Susan Carle Yes. Criminally illegal. Katherine It was seen as something like how we see ambulance chasing today. Susan Carle The lawyers for the NAACP were very aware of the statutes and in fact . Katherine And this came to a head in the 1950s. The NAACP wanted to get the court to end segregated schools. Basically they wanted to overturn Plessy v. Ferguson. And the way they were doing this they y- you know they needed a plaintiff so the way they were looking for plaintiffs is going to meetings with parents and sort of quietly you know subtly trying to ask parents if they wanted to be the face of these cases. Now Virginia knew that they were doing this and they tightened up these regulations that said you know You cannot drum up litigation to try to stop them from doing this. So the NAACP sued and they took this issue all the way to the Supreme Court.   test litigation is essential because no matter how illegal it is public officials are free from interference ... Katherine And in that case the Supreme Court said Actually manufacturing litigation is is a form of political expression. Jad Really? Katherine And it is totally okay. Jad Like free speech basically? Katherine Yeah like it is a way of expressing your political viewpoint. And test case litigation exploded after this. Susan Carle And in the '60s and '70s a lot of other movements the women's movement poor people's movement s- saw the success the civil rights movement was having with these strategies and they adopted them as well. Jad And now I guess that includes Ed Blum. Katherine Yeah. Edward Blum The founding principles of the civil rights movement have been embraced by the vast majority of Americans in this country and those founding principles those founding principles guide these lawsuits. That basic fundamental p- guiding principle of the civil rights movement and how it needs to be applied today . Elie I am that is... Uh I cannot say what I think of that on family on family radio.  Jad  Elie That that is that is not that is not accurate. Ed Blum  is not um carrying the standard forward for civil rights in America. That is not what he is doing. Jad But Elie says he is actually doing something that is deeply important to our political system. Elie You look at the current election cy- cycle and I see a lot of people who who agree with Ed Blum. They are they agree with him in a way... Jad Yeah that is true. Elie That could not be expressed in the polls. Um they are out there. Um this is one way for that... I mean and m- and and that happens I think again that is uh y- another call back to the civil rights movement. When you have minority population who believes in something um th- they just get trampled in popular elections. Okay. But do they still have a voice? Should they still have a voice? Should they still have a way um to enact change on their behalf over the will of the majority? Um again that seems to me text book what courts are supposed to be able to do to look out for the rights of the minorities political minorities uh more than kind of ethic or racial or religious and see that they are not being trampled by uh majoritarian uh tyranny. Ed Blum is helping... Jad I... Elie A minority of people who believe what he believes. Jad Y- I am so not prepared for you saying any of this. Elie  Jad This  is really surprising to me. Jad Thank you to Katherine Wells such sincere thanks to her for reporting these two segments and Elie Mystal our legal editor. More Perfect is produced by me Jad Abumrad with  Kelsey Padgett and Suzie Lechtenberg who will take it from here.  Oyez oyez. Suzie L. With Soren Wheeler Elie Mystal David Herman Alex Overington Karen Duffin Sean Rameswaram Katherine Wells Bari Finkel Andy Mills Dylan Keefe and Michelle Harris. Special thanks to Dale Carpenter. His book Flagrant Conduct is all about Lawrence v. Texas. Thanks also to Lambda Legal     and . Supreme Court audio is Oyez a free law project in collaboration with the Legal Information Institute at Cornell. More Perfect is funded in part by the William and Flora Hewlett Foundation the Charles Evans Hughes Memorial Foundation and the Joyce Foundation.