I agreed not to say this guy's name on the radio or the name of the small town that he is from though he gave me a driving tour. OK now we are entering the great city of blank. So will you do like snazzy editing to make sure that I do not reveal? Because I may accidentally just as I am talking. Yes. OK. Yeah. Now we are sitting here in your car. How scared are you that somebody's going to see us together? I am not very scared about that. One thing I am driving in my mom's car so it is not the car that they would expect to see me in. It is a Southern town fewer than 2000 people-- single-story homes trucking companies lots of cows lots of churches. This guy does not want me to reveal who he is because he is a Democrat and it is a secret in this overwhelmingly Republican town-- a very Christian Fox-news-watching Rush-Limbaugh-listening evolution-disbelieving kind of town the sort of town he says where most people think that if America does not change its course with all of its abortions and gay marriages-- --either God will destroy America or He will have to reanimate Sodom and Gomorrah and apologize to them. If I had a dollar for every time that I have heard that we would be going around in a convertible right now. Wait. I have never heard that. God would reanimate Sodom and Gomorrah and apologize? Yeah because He destroyed them for their sin and iniquity. And we are just as bad as Sodom and Gomorrah as far as they are concerned. He grew up in this town believing all these things but he does not believe them anymore-- the politics or the religion. And we are in a period in this country that lots of places-- in red states and in blue states-- people hear your politics hear that they are different than theirs and they do not think well we just disagree-- they think you want to destroy this country and everything I believe in. In 2008 a close friend of his a guy he sees in church several times a week got a whiff a hint of his political feelings. And he was just kind of taken aback and looked at me with wide eyes. And he said you are voting for Obama are not you? And just the way he said that it seemed like a scary question to answer. And so I did not really answer but that was answer enough. And we did not talk for maybe three months after that. That kind of frightened me just that reaction. It frightened him into not wanting it to happen again. The guy in church agreed to keep his secret. And while this Democrat is somebody who everybody in town knows and most everybody likes-- he is this chatty friendly guy-- most people have no idea. He does not tell them because first he has a business and he does not want to lose customers. And second-- and here's how far this goes. I know how crazy this is going to sound-- he is an elected official a city councilman. This town is so small that you do not have to declare a party when you run. And it is all budgets and basic services so partisanship does not come up. So his constituents do not know. I do find myself lying sometimes. But I honestly do try and not lie. I try and just let them assume. And that has a great-- which is I know in its way-- lie. But the most I can do that I try. And people assume-- especially if somebody likes you or they think that you are smart-- they assume that you agree with what they think. That is a natural human thing right? Like I assume that you are an agnostic liberal. Thanks a lot. Yeah you are welcome. He says with the election coming he finds himself biting his tongue a lot more. It is harder on him as a secret blue sympathizer. And we talked about this for a long time. Was not he just being a coward not being more honest with people? Was not he kind of giving up on people believing that they were going to drop him if they knew his politics. I mean it is funny because this is what is supposed to be so great about this country is that we can believe real different things and get along fine-- do community activities together do stuff together be friends-- I mean that is what is supposed to be so great about America. And do you believe that is true? I mean I know that is the theory but do you think that is true? As we here at This American Life talked about next week's election and what we wanted to cover here on the air about it we found ourselves thinking about and distressed over these past few months-- it was the incredible gap between the two sides right now between red and blue. It is not just that they have different solutions to the country's problems. They do not even agree on what the problems are. Entire scandals are covered for weeks in the right-wing media that people on the left barely even know about. Crises that are a given on the left like climate change are not even acknowledged as real by so many on the right-- with lots of people on each side seeing the other side as stupid ill-formed a menace-- it is frightening. That is how far it has gone. So today we are spending this hour looking at these two different versions of the world-- red America and blue America-- trying to understand what it is doing to people to be living this way now. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stick around huh? Act One I Know You Are But What Am I? So the idea for this show began really with a question-- the divisiveness in our country the fact that things are so polarized to what degree is it pushing people apart in their personal lives messing with friendships straining family relations? To answer that in addition to all the normal reporterly things that a person does with the help of American Public Media's Public Insight Network we sent out a questionnaire. Over 500 people responded from every part of the political spectrum. Lisa Pollak explains what we learned. Before we get to the discouraging parts of the story-- the estranged friends the embittered relatives the casual comparison of the other guy's party to the Nazis-- I want to pause for a moment and pay tribute to a group of people who do not get a lot of press these days. I am talking about the people who wrote us to say that their red-blue relationships have not only survived this election season but are as amicable and harmonious as ever. No one seemed happier than the self-described Democrat bordering on Socialist married to a Libertarian-minded Republican who wrote quote Our discussions are rarely heated or unpleasant and our ability to have a conversation where we have differing points of view has actually strengthened the relationship. Kudos to them and to all of you who have managed to do what our lawmakers have not. But this story is not about you nor is it about the people who told us they avoid the subject of politics entirely the do not ask do not tell method of keeping the peace. This story is about the people who did ask and did tell and suffered the consequences people like Frank Mills a Democrat and Ron Sexton a Republican. Frank and Ron met at work decades ago and their families became friends too. They live in different cities now but a couple times a year after their wives caught up on the phone the guys would get on the line and talk politics. We talked about policy we talked about the issues and we would talk for hours. The phone would go dead. I would have to get another phone. The battery ran down. They did not talk about the day-to-day stuff of elections and candidates Frank said as much as political philosophies and big ideas. It was never settled. You have your opinion I have my opinion and this is the way it is and I will call you next time. So it was good? It was a good relationship? Oh it was really great. I loved it. But then a few years ago they were talking on the phone. And Ron urged Frank to support a Republican candidate for Congress. Frank balked. Did not Ron know he supported Democrats? And he said who did you vote for for president? And I said I voted for Obama. Apparently this had not come up before. And then he said you must be a Socialist. He said this seriously or jokingly? No seriously. You must be a Socialist. And I said how can you make that assumption? He says well you voted for Obama. He is a socialist and therefore you are. And then I took it as if he had called me a dirty name. And we got into an argument. And then after a while he said well I am writing you off my list Frank. Do not ever talk to me again. You are no longer a friend of mine is how that conversation ended. Weeks passed and to Frank things did not feel right. So he decided to try again. I called him and I said can we restart all these conversations we have had over the years? I do not want to lose you as a friend. If I offended you I am sorry. He would not accept that at all. At that point I retaliated. I said OK if you have written me off I am writing you off. You will not hear from me again. He is funny he is got a good intellect but he cannot look me in the eye and have any credibility with me describing Obama the way he does. It probably will not surprise you to hear that Ron and Frank do not remember all the details of this story the same way. Ron says he does not recall telling Frank never to call again. But when I brought up the S word Ron did not hesitate. Frank recalls you calling him a Socialist. Absolutely. And I did and I still believe it. When Frank takes umbrage at the fact that I called him a Socialist what he does not understand or does not accept is that he is in love with a Socialist. This man that is in the White House is the most brilliant president we have ever had for Frank Mills and others like some of his friends. And Lisa it offends me to hear that while we are going down the tubes. He says his feelings were hurt. Why not just agree to disagree and put those differences aside? Why is that hard? I would lay it on this-- the stakes are too high to consider it simply as agree to disagree. I do not agree to disagree. Frank needs to change his opinion because his view on the conduct of this society will kill it. For a friendship to end this is all you need-- one person who feels like the stakes are too high to ignore or that your friend's vote will personally harm you. A few months ago a man named Navi Singh was so distraught that he did a Google search on three words-- friendship ruined in politics. And given the mood these days it did not take long for him to find a blog where people were discussing the subject. And in the comments he told strangers his story. That is where I found him. Navi has a blood disease that requires monthly transfusions. And recently he tried to buy insurance and was turned down everywhere because of his pre-existing condition. After that Navi began to see next week's election as a matter of life and death. He considers Obamacare his lifeline and he does not trust Mitt Romney. Navi has a Republican friend and in past years he never cared who his friend voted for. But this year he wanted his friend to take a side vote Obama. But when he tried to explain this he got nowhere. I mean no matter what kind of evidence I showed him and all of the rejection letters I showed him and then he is like OK I see that. I see that. But in the end you obviously know I am still voting for Romney. I am still voting for Romney. And it hurt. It really hurt. I know he probably did not mean to but in a way the only way you can take it as a friend is this person does not value your life. He sees it and he kind of nods his head yeah that is a shame. But in the end he will still vote that way. I said I cannot do this anymore. He called me one time and was like let us go out and hang out. I was like you know what? I do not even enjoy myself with you anymore. This election is so personal and I have down everything. If you are valuing me as a friend you would understand this. And you know then I was like oh forget it. I mean he did not want the friendship to end. I am the one who ended it. I am the enemy. I am what is wrong with this world. This is Erik Shetney from Minneapolis. As a red in a blue city he says he is used to liberal colleagues reducing him to a cliche. I am opposed to the middle class. I am completely supportive of the concept of a robber baron almost from the Gilded Age in the 1890s that I am all about making rich people richer. And I think it is acceptable to do this at the expense of poor people who consume government services. A lot of Democrats just assume I do not understand the issues and if only I was better educated on them I would believe like they do. That is a woman I will call Anne. Last year she heard about an opening in a friend's hiking group and asked to join only to be told by her friend in front of a group of other friends that she would not be welcome because she was a Republican. It was one of those horrible awkward moments where just the room went quiet. In their minds or her mind Republicans are all that is wrong with the world. The most creative rejection of a friend's politics I heard was this-- a man named Drew wrote to say that he got an ultimatum from his friend Ryan. The two guys are married to sisters and hang out together all the time. But if Drew votes for Obama Ryan has put him on notice. There will be consequences. Drew explains. If you vote for Obama you are cut off. You can still come over to our house and eat but when I cook ribs you can bring your own chicken breast and use the grill after I am done. And at first I thought he was just kidding around but he is made it clear that he is absolutely serious. And I appealed to his wife and she said well I got to stand with my husband. Wait. He was totally serious that you could not eat his barbecue if you voted for Obama? Absolutely serious. Yep he is got to cook his own meat for the next four years. This is Ryan. I know he loves my barbecue so much. And I was thinking one day. You know I have tried to explain to Drew why he should not vote Democratic but I cannot get through to him. So now I am going to do a little negative reinforcement. And if he votes for him I am just not going to let him eat here. And my wife makes salad or garlic bread or beans-- he can have that. He just cannot eat my meat-- my tri-tip my ribs my pulled pork my brisket I make a wonderful prime rib sandwich-- he cannot have any of that. For two sides that sometimes seem to be living in completely different realities it is amazing how many of the reds and blues I talked to express the exact same feelings about each other in the exact same words. In fact I could tell the relationship was probably on the rocks when the interview included at least one of the following elements. One total incomprehension about the other person's beliefs. I could not believe somebody could actually really think that. Like I do not even know who you are anymore. He cannot truly feel the way he feels. There is absolutely no way. Two a declaration of one's superior powers of open-mindedness. Liberals in general are more open to another person's point of view than conservatives are. The Democrats I know tend to be much more lockstep-- this is the right way. Three communication problems. I do not even think she is even tried to look at my beliefs. And I cannot say that I have tried that hard to look at hers. You do not feel like he listens to you? No. No not at all. And in his defense I mean a lot of times I kinda tune him out too. And finally four yes inevitably references to the Nazis. I do not care how long Ayers teaches at the University of Chicago. To deny Ayers' violence toward the United States of America is to deny that Eichmann had anything to do with the mass murders of Jews. It was like a Jewish person voting for Hitler. If the Nazi party were in power are we going to compromise with them just because they are half of the country? I know that I have just made an analogy between the Republican Party and the Nazis. I understand that. Of all the situations I heard about this next one stumped me most because both people wanted things to be different between them. But it was hard to fathom how they possibly could be. Janet a conservative from Kentucky wrote us about her sister. She and I have been close and I have been able to talk to her and stuff. I do not talk to her much anymore. I do not call her because I am afraid something will come up and we will get mad at each other. And so we just kind of avoid talking to each other. Probably within the last month I thought well I will just call Suzie and talk to her. And then I am like nah I would best not. About nothing important just to call and say I tried a new recipe. You want to hear how it went? Just any of that kind of stuff. Janet's active in the Republican Party though she considers herself more of a Libertarian. She attended the 912 taxpayers' march on Washington a few years back. Her sister Susan is a Democrat. Last spring they went on a trip together and Obamacare came up. I mean it just turned into a yelling match. And it did not take but half a second. It was more like somebody's got to do something. And it is well OK do something but this is not the thing to do. Well you do not care. You want all these people to die. And it just devolved so quickly. She and Susan always had different politics but after Obama got elected it was hard to talk about that stuff without fighting. If I say anything oh you are a bigot. You just do not like him because he is black. And those kind of things are hurtful. And so I just get mad that she cannot see what he is doing to this country. And I guess she gets mad at me that she thinks everybody ought to have a handout. I do not know when it is gotten this bad. When I called Susan she sounded just as frustrated as her sister. I am probably the worst one of the problem we have. It is probably mostly me because her dogmatic ideology just drives me insane. I am not trying to hurt her feelings. I do not want to hurt her feelings. I just cannot believe what comes out of her mouth. Susan told me she wished she and Janet could talk-- really talk and try to understand each other. But she could not see how that was going to happen and I did not either. And then I heard this. Coming up after the news a conservative a liberal and a search for common ground. Today's guests do not agree on many things but at least they develop the ability to talk to each other and even disagree while still being pleasant. Phil Neisser the liberal and Jacob Hess the conservative even wrote a book together based on their method for dialogue. It is called You are Not as Crazy as I Thought But You are Still Wrong. If you are feeling a bit skeptical about this lead-in let me assure you I was too. But the book is not a gimmick and its authors are not the hand-holding political moderates you might expect. Jacob's a devout Mormon pro-life very conservative on most issues. Phil's a die-hard liberal an atheist pro-choice. The kind of dialogue that Phil and Jacob are encouraging is not about compromise. It is not touchy-feely but it is also not like debate. In fact for it to work they say you have to back off of the main goal most people have in political conversations-- persuading the other person to think like you do. Instead you focus on trying to understand what the person believes and why he or she believes it. The other person does the same for you. Phil and Jacob say that for them this led to difficult uncomfortable conversations but they ended up viewing each other more generously. I wanted to see this in action so I arranged for the two sisters Janet and Susan to get on a conference call with Phil and Jacob and try out some of their techniques. They agreed to let me listen in and record the conversation. But the night before this was supposed to happen Janet the conservative sister got cold feet. She left a message that she was backing out that she feared she would say something she could not take back. So I convinced her to get on the phone without Susan and hear what the dialogue guys had to say. Right off the bat Janet admitted that her goal with her sister was exactly the opposite of Phil and Jacob's. I was looking for the conversation to fix her and make her understand what is wrong with her thinking. Aha There is the rub. That is probably half the goal. The three of them talked for an hour. She tried to explain why it was so hard for her to accept her sister's views. Here she is with Phil the liberal. I guess I see most liberals as being selfish and she is not selfish. And so that is what makes me so aggravated is that these liberals can be so selfish and she is not one. And I am just like you are not that heartless. You cannot be there. Where do you get the idea that liberals are selfish? I am curious. Because they do not want to do anything to take care of people. They just want somebody else to. They want the government to. And she does not. She is just so giving and loving and she will give anybody the shirt off her back and the shoes off her feet. I want to tell you a little bit about how it is I approach Jacob. The vision was I will bet you he is not selfish. I will bet you he is not greedy. I think most people in the whole world are not selfish they are not greedy. Many of them believe the wrong things. That is my view right? They believe the wrong things. They believe I believe the wrong things. But if you have this story in your head that liberals are selfish why would you talk to any of them? You know what I mean? So maybe liberals in general and conservatives we disagree with each other. And one of us is right and one of us is wrong but none of us are selfish. What about that idea? Yeah well that is-- Food for thought. I do not know if this will change things for Janet and Susan but I can tell you that by the end of the conversation Janet-- to my surprise-- sounded hopeful. I am already thinking about things I can write her in an email and say we need to get together and we need to sit down and talk and what can we do? I am very hopeful. What is the thing they said that made you feel that way? Well it reminded me I guess that I am not going to change her. I mean I cannot make her see but maybe before we start a conversation let us have a hug and kiss and remember if yelling starts we have got to do something to stop it. To Phil and Jacob the problem is not that people disagree it is the way they do it. I saw this in so many people's stories. There was the woman whose parents said she could stay rent free with them during grad school as long as she signed a contract vowing to vote for Mitt Romney and the Obama voter who felt so betrayed by his son's support of Romney that he told him not to come by the house until the election is over. One man wrote us hours after he would been defriended by his mother on Facebook. Why did she defriend him? Because when she posted that her support for Romney was purely about the economy he wrote quote To all the Jews gypsies Communists and homosexuals my vote for the Nazi party has nothing to do with you. I just wanted the trains to run on time. He wrote us that his biggest regret was mixing the two historical references. But my favorite story was about a campaign sign. Last month on a street in a town in the battleground state of Ohio a woman and her husband decided to put out a Mitt Romney sign. The woman knowing that her neighbors were Obama supporters worried what they would think of her. She considered them friends and she did not want things to get awkward or uncomfortable. So after she put out the sign she wrote her neighbors an email explaining just that telling them how much she valued their friendship and that she did not want politics to come between them. And at a time when so many people are either fighting or staying quiet feeling weird about their differences this small act struck me as incredibly honest and disarming. And her neighbors wrote her back to say of course the sign was fine. Lisa Pollak's one of the producers of our show. If you would like to be part of APM's Public Insight Network which helped Lisa find some of her interviewees and which invites everyone to share their stories confidentially with journalists go to publicinsightnetwork.org. Coming up how two little words could upset an entire state legislature and the words are not even in English. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program in the lead up to Tuesday's election we have stories about the divide between red America and blue America. We have arrived at act two of our program. Act Two Nothing in Moderation. So the polarization of our country has spread far and wide. People in the middle are being squeezed out starting in the US Congress where Democrats who lean to the right-- the Blue Dog Democrats-- are nearly extinct. And the few remaining Republicans who are willing to compromise with the left-- like Olympia Snow of Maine-- are stepping down or being targeted for defeat by their own party and right-leaning special interest groups. And this is happening at the state level too even in some places that were deeply famously moderate places you would not expect moderates to get pushed out like New Hampshire. Sarah Koenig explains. I learned about New Hampshire's turmoil from my friend Annmarie Timmins. She is a reporter at the Concord Monitor newspaper in New Hampshire. I used to work there too. That is how we met. She grew up in New Hampshire. Her parents grew up in New Hampshire. I kind of think of Annmarie as New Hampshire. She is moderate in all things-- an early to bed early to rise treat others with respect sort of person. By her own admission she is a little old-fashioned a bit of a Miss Manners like New Hampshire. For instance each town in the state holds an annual meeting where the residents vote directly on the local budget. Here's Annmarie. I mean I have been to town meetings where there is a little swear jar. If you swear or are rude you have to put a quarter in. And so if someone says something or cuts someone off or is rude they walk up with their quarter and they put it in. And it is sort of funny but they also take it seriously. And they speak nicely to one another. And the same was more or less true at the state House which is remarkable for its size. It is got a little Senate of 24 people but then an enormous House with 400 members. And this in one of the smallest states in the country-- so that in some places you could get elected with a grand total of say 650 votes and a campaign investment of maybe 200 or maybe nothing. Literally you could spend nothing and get elected to the New Hampshire House. A truly representative democracy reflecting the New Hampshire state tradition. You do not pry into each other's affairs you do not ask people how much money they make and you may not like what they are doing in the bedroom but it is understood to be none of your business. This Libertarian sort of I will live my life you live your life we will not have a sales or income tax and that is the New Hampshire way. And you could hash things out and be friends at the end. And it is just not that anymore.  Exhibit A. For the past couple of years Annmarie has watched her state the swear jar state descend into a kind of knee-bashing you are either with us or against us politics that used to exist someplace else-- on TV maybe or in Washington DC. This is footage of a rally against the Speaker of the New Hampshire House Bill O'Brien when he went to Portsmouth to deliver a speech to a Republican women's group. Thank you for calling me a pig. I did not call you a pig. No you did. You did. You called him a pig. If you call him one you call me one. You liar. In case you cannot hear it that dialogue-- it is the speaker and another state rep and a former state senator-- it went like this. Thank you for calling me a pig. I did not call you a pig. You did. You did. You called him a pig. You call him one you call me one. You liar. Can I just say as someone who used to cover the New Hampshire state House for the Concord Monitor this scene is shocking-- the very fact that the rally is aimed at the House Speaker. When I was covering the legislature most people could not have told you the House Speaker even was. I will tell you who it was. It was Donna Sytek a no-nonsense Republican who felt so strongly about political etiquette that she wrote a book about it with chapters such as Decorum at the Event and Say Thank You. Now there is less and less decorum at the event. New Hampshire is such a small place and the change here happens so quickly and thoroughly. You can see very clearly how hard it is for people in the middle to hang on. What happens when the middle disappears? So what happened? Well New Hampshire is in the grip of a sudden ideological whiplash. Just like in Washington the Democrats had a recent moment on top. In 2006 they won majorities in both houses of the New Hampshire legislature the first time since the mid-1800s. And they did what Democrats do-- increased spending for their priorities and they legalized gay marriage. Then four years later in the 2010 election when Democrats took a shellacking nationwide the same thing happened in New Hampshire. Republicans swept in. They won not just majorities but super majorities in both houses. Republicans dominated Democrats three to one. The GOP leaders vowed to undo what they called the quote four-year assault the Democrats had launched on the state. They were going to rethink what government should even be doing. The voters had elected about 160 new Republican members a huge band of newcomers. And they were a fired-up population-- Tea Partiers and hardcore Libertarians and Christian conservatives and Free Staters. Free Staters are a movement unto themselves-- people from elsewhere who'd picked up and moved to New Hampshire in the past decade with the express intention of getting elected and transforming government into the tiniest institution possible. Many of these Republican freshmen did not want to sit back and learn. Like the Republicans who swept into DC in 2010 they wanted action now. They bucked tradition they bucked leadership they were defiant. And I think that caused a great deal of frustration. Meet George Lambert one of these newcomers. Because they are like well you do not know how things work. And my response to that and the response of a lot of people like me is you are absolutely right. We got elected because people did not like the way that things were working. Lambert's 44 a computer guy. He is not a big fan of government in general. In the past two years Lambert sponsored or cosponsored bills to prohibit vaccinations in public schools allow nonviolent felons access to firearms get rid of sobriety checkpoints and outlaw speed limits. By the time O'Brien took over as speaker the alchemy of the House had changed so much there was no telling what could pass. It seemed like everything was on the table even stuff that had been long settled in the state-- public schools several bills to limit abortions bills to get rid of all sorts of gun licensing also the repeal of gay marriage. On day one of the 2011 legislative session a day for symbolism and legislative good cheer there was this. We shall be allowed to protect ourselves on the House floor by having the ability to have a concealed weapon on the floor in the anteroom in the gallery. Yep. On day one they voted to allow guns in the state House. And remember there are 400 of these people. This new rule has led to some really weird moments like when a rep named Kyle Tasker dropped his gun in the middle of a criminal justice and public safety committee hearing. Annmarie was there. He was situating himself in his seat and he kind of scooted forward. And there was this clang. And people were like was that his gun? I had to check. I said did that really just happen? He did drop his gun right? That is what it was? Because there was no discussion about it no break in the meeting did not clear the room-- nothing. Nothing. I had just given blood and I might not have latched it quite properly. Representative Kyle Tasker. All I could think was yeah that was bound to happen one of these days. I come here too often for that not to have happened. Yep that was bound to happen. I spoke to another rep whose entire holster with gun fell off right outside the state House. He never brought his gun again after that though he did not want me to tell anyone since he would like people to think he carries all the time keep them on their toes. During the first year of this new regime the Republicans managed something extraordinary. They would vowed to slash gover