  Before we start I just want to let you know there is a moment or two of strong language in this story.     Hey I am Jad Abumrad. This is Radiolab. This week we want to share a story that really caught our attention. It is a story told by this guy.   My name is Brandon Ogbunu. I am an assistant professor in the Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology at Brown University.   It is a story he told on stage for the podcast Story Collider which is a live storytelling show. Huge thanks to them for letting us borrow this. It is a story that you know touches on all the things that we are all thinking about right now. Takes it into some new territory. Brandon started the story when he told it on stage with an incident that happened to him in college when he was living in DC.     Rule number one When you see the lights at your back or in your eyes and they are unmistakable stop moving. Raise your hands slowly from their side five fingers extended so that they know that there is nothing in your hands. Stop. Wait for instructions. You see you have to think about the police report. You do not want it to say that he lunged or he reached for something that looked like a weapon or the mysterious He made a menacing gesture. No officer. I am not carrying any weapons. That is rule number two Use Officer early and often. Why? You have to let them know that you know the power dynamic. After all they got the badge and the gun. You? You were just born with the wrong set of physical traits.   Officer number one stood with the gun loaded pointed towards me ready to go ready to be a hero. Officer number two approached. Are you carrying any drugs sir? Sir? I guess I respect that. No officer. After a thorough search -- and I mean thorough -- the interest turns to the contents of my backpack a black JanSport that had some bad graffiti on the small pocket. I was a senior at Howard University a chemistry and mathematics major at the time and like most people at that stage my backpack told a lot about me. There was some moldy potato chips in a bag some sketch pads and some notepads copy of Source Magazine and a couple mixtapes. I mean real mixtapes not the stuff that you guys talk about.     And much much more. Officer number two had to sift through the contents and I heard all the ruffling. Eventually officer two emerged with an object of interest and slammed it on the hood of the car and under the flashlight it went. Lehninger Nelson and Cox Principles of Biochemistry Second Edition. Officer two was persistent however and raised the book and shook it out trying to find the contraband. And officer two was successful. Down went several notecards that were placed in the chapter on MichaelisMenten kinetics. Officer number two was persistent still and ruffled through the contents of the bag and emerged with another -- another item little bit smaller. Slammed it on the hood of the car. A draft of my senior thesis highly annotated with the title The Liberation of RNA. Now in this thesis I argue ...   The story that you tell begins with the sort of oh-so-familiar pulled over by cops.   Right.   When was that by the way?   Late fall of 2001.   Huh.   Producer Soren Wheeler and I ended up calling up Brandon asking him a few questions about the story.   I mean just to add a little bit of context this is around the time of the Amadou Diallo case.   Oh wow.   In New York. It is like a couple years after that probably. Interaction with law enforcement has been a part of my life since really you know right after early adolescence.   So the Liberation of RNA this thesis that they find in your bag what -- what kind of work were you doing at that point?   So I was a chemistry major in math. I studied math a lot. So I was math and chemistry and I had joined Susan Gottesman's lab    More on her in a second.    in college. She had made this discovery of these RNA molecules that kind of regulated genes and my work was focused on one of those small RNA molecules these autonomously functioning RNA molecules that were responsible for switching genes on and off. And that was a pretty new discovery. RNA we thought RNA was just this informational intermediate between DNA and protein but I think in the '90s we learned that RNA actually does things in a cell. It can actually function like an enzyme. It is doing things in the cell. And now this is kind of common knowledge but back then that was a pretty new discovery. This stuff is really active and is an important part of the way life functions across the biosphere.   So when you say liberate RNA you mean let us give RNA its due.   That is right.   That it is not -- that it needs to be elevated.   Yes. Yes.   We had historically put RNA in a box but RNA was bigger than that.   And so you describe in your story that RNA was in a box. I wonder did you see RNA as a kind of -- what is the -- what is the not dumb way to ask this? As a like analogue to your own life?   Oh totally. Oh totally.   Really?   Well I mean I think -- I think I absolutely used my science as -- you know I do my science biographically. I -- I -- in all of my science even now I think I find a personal connection to the essence of the question which is why I was writing a thesis called The Liberation of RNA. And as -- when I wrote about the liberation of RNA there was nothing explicitly political in that. It was about RNA.   Right.   It was totally a biochemistry thesis. But nonetheless I definitely saw that thread that you know Susan Gottesman kind of and colleagues had discovered this set of molecules that were -- that were kind of -- that kind of had expanded our appreciation of what was possible. And I kind of felt that was a little bit of a metaphor for my whole life at that point.   And did you feel like I mean because you identified with RNA and you know the orthodoxy is DNA is everything you are your genes did you then have a adversarial relationship to DNA? Or is that ...?   No. I did not have an adver -- I did not have an adversarial relationship with DNA. I still love DNA and I think DNA's you know one of the most -- one of the most -- I got no beef with DNA. DNA -- but I think ...   It is a great molecule.   Yeah it is a great molecule. A lot of my best friends are DNA. But -- but I do -- from early and at that point I was politically aware and scientifically aware. I was aware of things like for example like scientific racism. That was definitely something I was aware of. And I was definitely aware of the ways that DNA was weaponized in scientific racism. Even at that stage.   Yeah. Yeah. All right. So maybe we should circle back to Susan Gottesman whose lab you are working in at that point.   I conducted this research in the laboratory of Susan Gottesman at the National Institutes of Health to this day one of my truest scientific heroes. Both maybe the nicest and the smartest person I have ever had the pleasure of meeting let alone working with. She might have stood 5'3 but she towered over the field. Her work used bacterial genetics to understand kind of basic questions in bacterial physiology. And recently she had discovered several small RNAs in bacterial and in E. coli and I focused a lot of my work in my lab on that. I owed a lot to Dr. Gottesman. She saw talent in me before I did. She believed in me and gave me an opportunity and a lot of the greatness of Dr. Gottesman came out in my failures. I was coming from chemistry where like yeah you might have an explosion but there was no contamination you know? Right? And so I -- I had fairly fairly heavy hands in the laboratory and she would say things like You being smart is not going to make a correct bacterial growth curve Brandon. Or even better Yeah I think you will be a good theoretician one day.     But I owed everything to Dr. Gottesman. I was young and naive at the time but I understood that I was working for somebody very special and I was honored to be connected to her. 15 or so years later    So you jump forward 15 years. Can you before we get to that next scene connect the dots? Who -- who were you in the interim?   So after leaving Susan's lab I actually did a Fulbright in Kenya where I studied malaria.   Oh.   Wow.   You know I come back I enter medical school at Yale.   Wow.   Then I switched into a PhD program where I did my PhD in virus evolution at Yale and I have not looked back. So I am a -- at this point I am a professor.   I am sitting on a sectional couch in front of a 60-inch HDTV 4K. That I own. It is January 2019. I got olive tapenade hummus cauliflower chips and a local root beer. And I am tuned in to watch a movie PBS American Masters Decoding Watson. This documentary was about James Watson. Now James Watson's been an asshole for decades right? Hold on. Hold on.     We should probably say that James Watson is part of the duo that discovered the double helix structure of DNA. He has made racist comments at several points during his career and gotten in trouble for it.   And presumably I was tuning in because you know this is a good series The Decoding -- the Masters American Masters have been good. And you can learn there is always something interesting to learn about people. But really I confess that I was tuning in kind of like most people tune in when they are watching boxing. You can say Well I want to see a match of styles but you want to see a knockout right? You -- you want to see something kind of dramatic happen. And James Watson delivered.   We will pick up the story right here after the break.  Jad. Radiolab. Back to Brandon and the story he told on stage and also talked to Soren and I about afterwards. Where we left off with the story it was 2019 Brandon was a professor at Brown sitting on his couch watching a documentary about James Watson the guy who is sometimes given credit as co-discovering the double-helix structure of DNA one of the biggest discoveries in the history of science. As he was watching Brandon was expecting James Watson as he is wont to do to say some outrageous things.   And James Watson delivered. Doubling down on his 2007 comments where he said Though I hoped people are equal people who have to deal with Black employees do not believe this to be true. He had further things to say about Black people and white people differences he attributed to genetics. My visible demeanor oscillated between kind of horrified shuddering and kind of uncomfortable laughter. But inside I was hurting.   So I had been keeping up with James Watson through the years just because I had read all the stuff I had read his biography. I knew a lot about him. I think what was jarring about that experience for me was everything else I had read that he said. So I had actually never seen him say any of these troubling things before. I was -- it really made my skin crawl.   Hmm.   And it be -- and it became personal in an odd way when I heard him say it.   Interestingly enough however those comments were not the most notable part of that documentary film. What I noticed was several notable female women scientists were in the film and had passed through his lab at various points and were talking. Famous people. And I was like Wow this is very interesting given Watson's similarly problematic past when it comes to gender. So I said That does not quite fit my narrative of him. That is pretty interesting. And to his credit none of the women scientists said that working for him that the environment was particularly toxic. They kind of had interesting things to say about his personality but I found that to be very very interesting. So then the question emerged in my head. I wonder how many other famous women scientists worked for James Watson? I took my inquiry to Google.   James Watson academic family tree. Now you know there are -- right there are websites dedicated to being able to track genealogy academically the same way you do with your family. And there is a site AcademicFamilyTree.org I believe. I click on it. At the top of the page one of those classical James Watson photos with the insufferable smile and the bad hairline right? My eyes went down the page and it said Children. And the first name in the children's section Susan Gottesman research assistant. Now my response was in my mother tongue a highly technical language. Get the fuck out of here! Wait. Cannot be true all right? But it was true. There was no section that read Grandchildren because if there was -- and there was no section because his grandchildren likely number in the thousands at this point. But if there was one of them would have been an evolutionary systems biologist at Brown University who likes long walks in the park and open world video games whose mother experienced the Jim Crow South and whose great-grandmother was born a slave.   When you -- when you saw that you were only one person away from him what did you -- how did that compute?   Well a couple things. He -- he said these racist things. I bet he did not think you know kids from public housing were gonna end up being his -- you know being in his pedigree.   Yes. Yes.   And who have the views that I have and who promote the things that I promote in science and who say the things that I say and hold my views. Here I am eating my olive tapenade hummus on my comfortable couch watching my nice television and I am James Watson's grandson and he cannot do nothing about it.      And I got my whole -- and I got a whole career in front of me where I am gonna make a -- I am gonna embarrass those kind of ideas. And so it -- it caused a lot of reflection.   But what are academic connections anyway really? Like I do not know him I hope I never know him. The connection is kind of nebulous and tenuous in these types of ways that kind of do not matter right? But the connection between me and James Watson is about more than the profession. And the connection between all of us and James Watson is about more than science. James Watson was officers number one and number two. James Watson is why you feel unwelcome in your job. James Watson makes you feel like an impostor. And more broadly James Watson tells people they are illegal. James Watson separates families. James Watson puts children in cages. James Watson my academic grandfather.   The contents of my backpack was spread all over the police car at this point the hood of the police car at this point. All of a sudden number one and number two looked at each other. What it looked like What the hell do we do now? Eventually officer number one said You can get your things and go. Now this was supposed to be humiliating. Here I am minding my business and I have to stop and put all my things back into the bag. But sometimes resistance is best dealt quietly. And so I figured out a way to make this work for me. I took my sweet ass time putting my materials back into that bag. One by one. And with it I was saying two things. A Them hands you all got on them guns could help me put these things back in this bag and B The things I am putting in this bag the ideas they contain some mine some from others are valuable. I have people in the world who love me. I have dreams of one day being a great professor. And I had to be at work in the morning in the Gottesman lab. As I was completing the process of putting the things in my bag I looked at the last item that thesis The Liberation of RNA and I put it in the bag and zipped it. I did not miss the opportunity for one last slam dunk. I turned my head to the officers said Have a good night. I slung the JanSport around my shoulders. I eased into a deep New York strut on the road to a career in science a very rugged fitness landscape full of peaks and valleys successes and failures friends and enemies Susan Gottesmans and James Watsons. Thank you.     Have you ever talked to Susan Gottesman about this and said Hey I saw on this website and what was that -- like had you ever break -- broached it with her?   So unfortunately I have not. But I think -- I think you might be interested to hear why.   Sure.   In some ways. In some ways that would be making an assumption that he is like significant to her.   Mm.   Right?   Mm-hmm.   Like she is built this life and career that I mean I do not know him personally but I have read a lot of his work. I mean she is smarter than he is right? I mean no -- I think that -- I am confident saying that. You know in terms of obviously the size of his discoveries are gigantic and enormous but you know what I am saying? But the you know the work the cleverness and the way she is understand -- understands nature in which she is done in all these multiple ways I think is more impressive. In some ways I am kind of like ...   As if like maybe the fact that ...   ... it is condescending in some ways.   Yeah like if -- almost like the fact that she worked for or with him.   I mean it matters in some way.   Right. That was like the most -- like an impressive thing about her.   Important thing of her career. It is just not -- it is just not at all. And that is why she did not -- part of me was like Oh I wonder why she did not mention it? She did not mention it because it did not matter to her.   I am tempted to make a connection between that decision not to talk to her about him and you slowly putting the papers back in your bag.   Mm-hmm.   Do you see a connection there?   I mean I think -- I think -- I think you know it is not -- that is not a connection that I actively made at the time but I think it -- it is a theme with how resistance works. And when you are dealing with something uncomfortable with life and this is -- this transcends the Black experience this -- when you are dealing with something uncomfortable in life that you cannot do anything about and you cannot do anything about who your family is academic or other and in this situation I cannot do anything about the fact that I would been -- right -- I would been stopped and I am dealing with this racial profiling incident you look for little ways and I think you are right. I think in not having a coffee conversation about him in a weird way like I honored her more. Sometimes the most revolutionary thing or the most subversive thing you can do is just focus on the right things in life.   Yeah.   That is sometimes really really it. And I think this goes back to something that Toni Morr -- Toni Morrison one of her many myriad of incredible quotes talked about the function of racism is to distract right? That is really what it does. I mean it just -- it just kind of like it takes your eye off of -- it makes you do things that you should not be you know doing. You -- you want to prove people wrong. You want to prove you have a language you want to prove that you are smart and you do -- and -- right -- it is so -- it is such -- it is so chillingly you know true that sometimes the most powerful thing you can just do is be like you know be aware of what the situation is but not give it that power over you and the things that matter most.   Huge huge thanks to Brandon Ogbunu for sharing his story with us and with Story Collider. His story was recorded last June as part of a Story Collider show at the 2019 Evolution Meeting in Providence Rhode Island. Story Collider is a non-profit group that puts on live storytelling events and also puts out a podcast. Thank you to Story Collider's Erin Barker and Liz Neeley for letting us play Brandon's story. You can find out more about Story Collider at storycollider.org and you can subscribe to their podcast through Apple or wherever you get your podcasts from.   In this moment we are thinking a lot about who we are listening to and we are very proud to have some shows made my our colleagues at WNYC studios that are having the kind of conversations we all need right now. So we would encourage you to check out shows like Come Through with Rebecca Carroll and United States of Anxiety. You can find out more about those shows on our website Radiolab.org or wnycstudios.org or of course you can just download them from Apple or Google Play or wherever you get your podcasts from. I am Jad Abumrad. Thanks for listening.    Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.  -30- 