   Maybe all of us can sit on the couch.   I can pull that chair over.   So we are gonna to start off with a story from our producer Pat Walters about a couple.   Oh my word!   Okay so I mentioned a couple episodes ago -- by the way this is Jad. Radiolab. That we will be bringing back some episodes back into the flow from time to time episodes that we have not stopped thinking about that feel truer to us now than before maybe the opposite. You know episodes that we still end up getting into fights with people about. And a couple years ago we ran a story about a guy named Kevin and a little bit more recently ...   Hello Robert. Are you there?   Yes.   Great. Jad'ill be here in just a sec.   Robert Sapolsky a neuroscientist at Stanford who Robert Krulwich and I have had on the show many times he recently wrote a book in which he makes an argument that really tries to kind of just explode that story in a way that we found sort of interesting.   It was just my hunch that it plays near a lot of your buttons.   Sure does.   So what we did was we sent him that piece had him listen to it. And actually what we will do now is replay that piece and then at the end we will come back and we will have a little bit of a fight about it. So we are gonna start with a story from our producer Pat Walters about a couple.   Oh my word!   That is the lady.   I am Janet.   This is the guy.   So I do not need you to introduce yourself. That is usually the thing we do but we are not telling people who you are.   We are gonna call him Kevin.   Kevin. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That is -- yeah that is my name. Not suspicious at all.   It is not his real name. It will make sense why we are not using his real name in a second.   Okay you know ...   So this one starts a few summers ago. It was July 2006. Jan and Kevin were at home.   And some people you do not know show up and maybe I will start with you.   When they show up at the door? So we were -- it was -- we were getting ready to go down the shore. It was a Friday. So we -- so we are in the kitchen and they come to the back door.   I thought that -- I thought that they were fundraising. I thought they might have been fireman just by you know the blue -- the blue shirt and then realized that they were -- they were law enforcement.   Two women and I think two men.   More came up from around the -- you know the side of the house.   And they show us their badges.   Were they cops? Or ...   They were Homeland Security.   They took me outside.   And they kept me and they asked me to stay in the kitchen. And they had a woman with me. I did not know what was going on. Nobody said anything to me.   What are they saying to you on the porch meanwhile?   When they -- when they showed up I got to the door. They said You know why we are here. I said Yeah I do. I was expecting you. And I showed them where everything was.   This story about Kevin and his wife Janet inspired us to do the entire hour.   Mm-hmm. Because one of the most basic things that we do as people is we judge. We judge one another.   We judge what is right.   We judge what is wrong.   But this story and the two that follow ...   They will make you judge how you judge. Or at least they had that effect on us.   And we are calling our show Blame.   I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich. And we will go back to Pat.   Before we do you should know that this show contains some graphic difficult descriptions in a few spots. If you are not in the mood or if you have kids around you might want to sit this one out.   Okay. So what happened in that first scene and what happens next only makes sense if we go back a little first. About 15 years. It is just an ordinary day. Kevin's going home from work.   And I was driving home going about 65-70 in the fast lane when suddenly there was a thump in my chest. Then heat. Just a heat burning.   After that he said suddenly he had this thickness ...   In my tongue in my throat.   Then a foul taste in his mouth.   Then my hearing faded out.   And he thought  it is back.   When I finally did come to ...   He sees his car has smashed into the side of an apartment building.   I do recall the officers telling me You have been in an accident. You have been in ...   And he remembers one of them ...   Insisted that he smelled alcohol and I was talking through clenched teeth because I had bit my tongue and my cheeks. I was saying over and over again I had a seizure. I had a seizure.   Kevin's got epilepsy. He is had it since he was a teenager. But two years before this all happened he would had surgery to remove the part of his brain that was causing the seizures and it seemed to have worked. He was doing great. Essentially was not having seizures anymore. Until suddenly ...   You ...   He was.   Lost your license?   I lost my license for a year.   Things had kind of taken a nosedive. Like here he is he is 35 years old.   I am living with my brother. I am divorced. And I have to call my daddy and ask him now to drive me to and from work.   And you think I need to do something. This is not sustainable.   No. No do not -- do not need that. So I walked into the office.   Asked the HR person where he works for a list of all the employees.   Give me a list of everybody and where they are from. So she pulled it up. I go down the list and I get to Janet Woodruff Bloomfield. Only one that is really close to me. Five minutes away. So I walk to her cube knocked on the -- on the wall and introduced myself.   Like Hey my name is Kevin. I also work here. I have got this thing though. It is kind of awkward. I cannot drive and I was wondering if you would give me a ride.   And she said yes.   I really pass by his street I mean on the way to work. So it was ...   Like right on his street.   Pretty much. But I made it clear you know I will do it when I can.   And as they drove together they ...   Started talking. Finding out little bit more about each other.   Noticed pretty quickly.   We liked the same music.   And that was unique because I sort of liked music that was probably more in his era.   Kevin was seven years older than Jan.   What kind of music were you listening to?   Jackson Browne mostly. A lot of Jackson Browne. James Taylor. Bonnie Raitt. You know Elton John.   They found themselves singing along to the lyrics.   You cannot sing with somebody day in and day out and not have something happen.   We wound up as the spring came you know it is getting nice out. So now it is like well let us not go home. Let us go out for a beer after work.   We are becoming good friends.   We liked each other.   But for Kevin it was a little more serious than that.   I am thinking about her and I am starting to wake up at night.   And one day in May as Janet is dropping him off Kevin turned to her and he says ...   Hey I really appreciate what you have done for me. Let me take you to dinner just as friends. Just as friends.   Janet says sure.   So ...   May 30th 1992.   Highlawn Pavilion.   Nicest restaurant in town.   So your friend takes you to a four-star restaurant you are thinking right away ...   He thinks this is a date.   We are going on a date. Come on!   So now I am panic-stricken.   We have our dinner we leave.   We had a wonderful time.   She drops me off and I handed her the poem.   What did the poem say? You still have it?   Yeah I do. Okay. This is A Little Slower. Each time we sing on the way home I pray that traffic backs up so we can sing together just a little longer and the harmony can go on forever. And each time we reach my door I feel robbed because we are always in mid-song or mid-thought. If only I ...   He gets out and goes inside and probably thinks Awesome. I gave her that poem she is gonna be so smitten with me. And you go home and what?   Want to throw up. I just thought Oh God. I -- you know ...   Next day.   I just looked at him and said listen We got to clarify. This is clearly just gonna be a friendship. He was seven years older than me. He had these brain -- you know surgery he has epilepsy. He is divorced he has two children.   Are you catching the compassion here? Are you catching the compassion here?   I am trying.   And he is just like I am not asking you to marry me. I am asking you to go out on a few dates.   Exactly. If you go out with me like four times in the next six months I am ahead of the game.   He just handled it. And I do not think it was long at all. I cannot even remember but it was not long at all before we were like a couple.   And Kevin?   I am dopey. Dopey in love.   Oh yeah yeah yeah.   He is doing romantic things for her all the time.   Flowers poems and ...   Paintings.   An illustration of the Jackson Browne cover.   And within a year ...   We were engaged.   But all the while Kevin is having seizures.   Yeah.   Since the car accident more and more.   There was a point where we were obviously dating.   She is helping him make his bed.   And ...   He says she pulled off the pillowcase ...   It is covered with bloodstains. One two three four five six seven. You can count the number of seizures that I had and bit through my tongue and bled.   I knew nothing about epilepsy. I had never seen anybody have a seizure. In my past those would have been big red flags that I would have just walked away. But I just went with it.   And they both went with it for a few years until finally Kevin and Janet decide this is enough.   I wanted to be done with it. I just needed to be done with it.   So they schedule a brain surgery. Which sounds like a big deal and obviously it is but they had every reason to think that this would not change him.   I honestly thought that he was gonna come out of it fine better.   Because that is what happened the first time. Kevin had actually gone through a brain surgery much like this one once before and he would come out pretty much the same guy.   He was still himself.   In fact he made sure of it.   I had a -- I was awake for the surgery. And ...   That is crazy.   Yeah it was. I had to be awake.   It had to do with music. Kevin is a musician and the doctors told him ...   They said that if I lost anything I was gonna lose my appreciation for music. That it would be like music would be white noise. I said you know No for me music was -- no is part of my personality. It was how I coped with my darkest moments in dealing with epilepsy and seizures. At 18 years old I would have a seizure. I would take my harmonica and I would find a place with decent reverb somewhere and be right where I needed to be. I did not want to lose that part of me.   So as the doctors were doing the brain surgery they had his head open. They asked him to sing.   Do you remember what you sang?   End of the Innocence some James Taylor.   And while he is sang they would tickle different parts of his brain. And if they ever touched a part that made him stop singing they would say Okay. That is a part we cannot take out.   Wow!   Yeah. And in the end ...   I think they ended up taking out like four and a half centimeters. Like a -- you know a little bigger -- bigger than a golf ball.   Whoa.   But afterwards as he was recovering ...   I had my keyboard in the room and I tried playing right away. Da da da da da da da da. And it worked.   The part of him that he really cared about was still there.   Exactly.   Yeah. He was the man I fell in love with after the first surgery. So I thought well you know ...   Now that they have got to do a second surgery ...   He is already been down this road. We are fine.   And after that second surgery he did seem fine.   Janet did not have her brother sneak my keyboard up to the room again.   He was very very adamant that he wanted that keyboard.   I played a little. Just noodled a couple of notes played a couple of things and it was like Okay. I am there.   Still me.   I was ready to go.   So you go home and like it seems to have worked?   Yeah. As far as seizures go we thought Okay this is it. We are home free. And I was just happy to have some normalcy.   But then in the winter ...   By beginning the middle of January ...   Kevin noticed he wanted to eat ...   My physical appetite ...   ... a lot more than usual.   ... got like insane.   This is a guy who did not eat breakfast he had minimal lunch and he would have a sensible dinner maybe a snack. That was it.   But now?   I could eat the couch.   It just was odd. It was not him normally but you know you are like Okay.   She thought maybe it is just a side effect from the medications. But then ...   The piano. He would play the piano for hours.   The same songs they used to sing in the car together.   If he was stuck on a piece he would play it for hours.   Like how many hours?   Eight. Eight nine.   And then there was sex.   You know we were a happy healthy couple.   Kevin's nodding.   Yeah. Yeah it was fine. But what was abnormal was it was -- it was anywhere. Clearly it was not like Oh we are in the supermarket. Let us have sex here. I mean it was not like that. But I mean it was like I could just walk in the kitchen from being out of work and he would be like Oh you -- let us go here.   Which struck her as weird. But then again ...   We were thinking you know let us try to have a family.   So the timing made things confusing. And more than that it was not like any of this stuff was out of character exactly. In fact it was all stuff that she liked about him.   Yeah.   Except now it was all turned up to 11.   All the things that were wonderful became chores.   And that is pretty much where things were at when those federal agents showed up in July of 2006.   I was just completely blindsided.   They said You know why we are here. I said Yeah I do. I was expecting you.   Kevin took the agents upstairs.   I took them right into here where my computer was.   And they arrested him for what was on that computer.   I gave it up to them right away.   Warning this next passage contains some graphic imagery.   I mean I had not -- I do not know if I had fully like -- I think I had just like let child porn be this kind of vague thing that meant someone younger than 18. But then I read some of the court documents and they were like toddlers. There were pic -- videos of two three and four year olds.   There -- there -- these sites had the most despicable disgusting things you can -- you can imagine. Infants on through. You know preteen and you know pre-adolescent and adolescents.   And you bought these things and put them on your computer.   I -- yeah. Yeah it bothers me. It bothers me. Like I said initially it was -- you know it was just your base -- your basic you know hetero -- heterosexual Playboy-like Penthouse-like sites. And then windows would just start to open up.   And pretty soon he says he was going everywhere.   There was gay sex. They were -- I mean there was -- there was bondage there was defecation sex. There was animal sex xeno sex. I went everywhere that a button came up to push. I -- I still do not understand it. I still -- I still do not understand it.   You say it disturbed you and you feel terrible but I just like wonder like how do you -- do you tell yourself like that was not me? Like how do you explain it to yourself to -- so that you can kind of I do not know not feel like you are as bad as the person who goes there without a brain injury is you know? Like ...   I -- say that again? Ask that question.   I guess I am just wondering I do not know like knowing that that is a thing that you did and it sounds like obviously you know that that was bad it was a wrong thing and it was a terrible thing. But it was -- it was you who did it or was it not? I do not know. You know what I mean?   No. It was -- it was me who did it but it was me with a complete lack of neurological control. I mean I know -- I know who I am. I did idiotic things that I could not stop myself from doing. I did not want to do it. There would be nights where it would be four five six hours of going to the same site and -- and downloading one or two files and then deleting them. Going back a minute later downloading the same files deleting them. I would download those files a dozen times and delete them a dozen times because I did not want to be there knew I should not be there and could not help myself from going back. I am not an idiot. I mean I am a smart guy. I am not an idiot. But I know I had no control.   And that is what he would argue in court. Kevin would plead guilty but at the sentencing hearing he asked the judge to be lenient arguing essentially that the person who did all those things in some sense was not him. It was some other part of his brain that he could not control. At the hearing he called one witness.   Orrin Devinsky. I am a neurologist and epilepsy specialist at NYU Medical Center.   He is been treating Kevin for decades.   20 -- 20 some odd years.   And he says as soon as he found out what Kevin had been doing ...   Had a terrible sense of responsibility.   This is because of the brain surgery. The surgery Orrin recommended he have. And he argued in court that this was not Kevin's fault.   I remember looking at those agents right in their face and saying to them and to the judge This could be anybody. This could be those agents judge. This could be you. This could be me. This could be anybody and we would have no control over what we did.   And he explained to the court ...   What the biology was.   That the way the brain is organized is that there are parts of our brain that are way deep down that control like base desires.   Like hunger sex.   Keeps us alive. But it is teeming with the nastiest thoughts.   We all have these crazy thoughts in our head.   Now in most of us those thoughts are kept in check because there are other parts of our brain that sit on top and act like a lid. But in Kevin's case the brain surgeon who did that surgery removed part of that filter and suddenly ...   The cork was off. I mean there was just no lid on his sexual desires.   He says scientists have known about this condition for a long time. They first saw it in monkeys.   In rhesus monkeys.   When the monkeys would lose roughly the same part of the brain that Kevin lost ...   They became very hyper-sexual. Males that would only previously be sexually involved with females now were ten times more sexually active with both males and females.   But it feels to me -- feels to me like there is a -- there would be a brighter line before kids you know?   I think there is a line for quote unquote normal individuals but in a brain disorder case those lines get blurred.   And he told the court that is what happened here.   It was black and white.   Kevin was sick and his behavior was out of his control.   Well that is not what the facts showed in this case.   This is Lee Vartan who was the prosecutor.   We saw no evidence of impulsivity.   He says if you are claiming that he had no control that his brain made him do it then how come he had all this child porn on his home computer ...   I believe it was 52 videos and 125 images.   And yet on his work computer?   There were zero images zero videos of child pornography on his work computer.   And he worked a lot.   He held down a job. He was working every day. If he truly lacked impulse control I would think you would see child pornography on both computers.   And so what he argued back was what was the lid on at work and off at home?   Seems to me to be an easy out.   So the answer is that this is common with neurologic disease. They tend not to be 247.   He says take something like Tourette's. Some people ...   When they are engaged in playing sports they tend not to have tics.   Whereas when they are sitting around bored or stressed they do tend to have tics.   So you could say Well Tourette's clearly is not a neurological disorder but no Tourette's is a neurologic disorder. We understand some of the brain things that go on in Tourette's.   The prosecution did not buy it.   They just thought it was hogwash.   What was hogwash was his level of certainty.   The prosecution asked that Kevin be sent to prison for five years because in paying for child porn he was supporting an industry that does terrible things to kids. Kevin hoped he would avoid jail time altogether and instead be placed on house arrest. Now as for Janet right after the arrest ...   I have to imagine that you were in shock a little. Like ...   Yeah.   She would gone to see a lawyer.   And one of the questions he asked was is this marriage gonna survive this? And I said I do not know. And at that point understand I did not even know the level of pictures.   But she says the moment she heard Orrin say that this was a brain disorder with a name it is called KlverBucy syndrome.   Once I was able to get that for me it clicked. Like ...   She could not blame him.   We have these experts saying that it was a disease and I kept thinking they will understand.   Not to mention that after Kevin was arrested and got out on bail Orrin gave him some medication. And Janet says it was like flipping a switch.   That is exactly what it was. It was like I got him back.   I was able to sit and watch a movie with her.   You know normal.   Janet actually says in a lot of ways those few months between the arrest and the sentencing hearing they would been the best months in their marriage.   He now was just so much easier calmer. You could just talk.   The hearing took about three hours and when it was over the judge took a recess went into her chambers. When she came back she delivered her decision.   And we will hear that decision when we come back after a quick break.       Hey I am Jad Abumrad. This is Radiolab. We are revisiting Pat Walter's story about Kevin and when we left the judge was just about to render her decision.   She actually would not talk to me for this story but I have the transcript from the hearing. And if you remember the prosecutor Lee Vartan was asking for five years.   63 months.   Orrin Kevin Janet were hoping for ...   House arrest.   Meaning no jail time.   There is no way they are gonna put him in jail. This is clear-cut.   And here's what the judge does. She says I do agree with Orrin.   It is a neurological disorder.   No question. So he cannot be held fully responsible for his behavior.   She was getting it.   On the other hand she said the prosecution did have a point.   That he was very much in control of his impulses.   At least some of the time. And so the question for the judge was how does the legal system assign blame when a person is sometimes themselves and in control and sometimes not. Well this was a crime she said. A crime which ultimately leads to children being harmed. And considering that you did have moments where you were in control then in those moments you had a responsibility. You could have done something. You could have asked for help. You could have told the people around you what you were doing. So even if you could not have stopped yourself they could have stopped you.   She made it very clear that we had to do something here.   His sentence?   26 months at a federal prison and ...   25 months ...   ... of house arrest. And I believe -- I believe that she was fair and I believe she was compassionate.   And about a week before Christmas in 2008 Janet drove him to prison.   How long was he in jail for?   About two years.   And she was -- even though the judge said you know he is responsible did that change her attitude toward him at all?   No they totally stuck together. She visited him pretty much every weekend the whole time.   I knew the route and I had my own little routine down.   In between visits she would send him notes.   And I will never forget he could send me mail. And they had a store where he could get some cards.   Super Hallmark-y.   And he would like alter them. And I remember the very first card I got it was this very you know beautiful -- supposedly supposed to be beautiful but it was like you know If you need anything you know anything at all. Just let me know. And then he writes Of course if it is pressing you might want to ask someone else because -- unless you can wait 24 months. And I remember getting that and just laughing. And then that became our thing. Like listen this is a horrible situation but we are gonna make the best of it.   Tell me a little bit about like where things are at now.   I think things are -- are almost normal.   You know I am still on probation.   But he is home. He is working. Life is going on. We have our normal routines.   Kevin still takes those medicines that keep the other part of him in check.   I -- I have no libido at all. But I know who I am. I know what I am. I am disturbed by that portion of my life but I am -- I am trying -- I am trying to move on.   Producer Pat Walters. So ...   I know nothing about what your reaction to that will be. It was just my hunch ...   Back to neuroscientistauthor Robert Sapolsky.   That it sort of -- it plays near a lot of your buttons.   Sure does yeah.   And while we had always felt like at the end of the story the sentence that Kevin gets from the judge it was this kind of interesting and nuanced balance between you know the idea that he had -- he just had a brain disease and the idea that there was some -- still some sort of personal responsibility involved. Well right out of the gate Sapolsky had a different reaction.   I am appalled by that judicial decision and the underlying worldview.   Really?   Yeah completely.   And for him it all centered around that sort of key argument that swayed the judge.   That some of the time he can control these urges and some of the time he cannot. The example in there was that never once at work did he do anything like that and yet he obsessively spent hours each night at home. And the fact that he could control it in other circumstances does that mean there is a separate me inside there that is able to get to the control panel some of the time but not others and thus that is punishable?   Yeah. It is like he is in a kind of pitched battle with some inner urge that he has maybe it is a biological urge. But sometimes he wins maybe in the morning when he is had some cups of coffee and he is like nicely sugared up. But then at night we all know this when we get to night we are tired our brains are tired and we -- the id comes out a tiny little bit.   Well let us -- let us translate what you just said into sort of nuts and bolts biology. Your frontal cortex which is making you do the harder things when it is the right thing to do is one of the most expensive parts of the brain to operate. And when you are starting to get hungry or you are starting to get tired your frontal cortex does not work as well. And that is simply why we have less regulation of our behavior at night than in the morning. And the perfect neurological example where nobody would invoke free will in this one is you look at somebody with Alzheimer's disease. If they have early-stage Alzheimer's disease they show a -- a sundowner syndrome. Which is in the morning they can tell you what their name is and by night they cannot tell you. And the next morning they can tell you again. Whoa. Are we seeing here sort of a choice? Okay so they know their name and if they are not telling you at night -- they know their name they can tell you their name in the morning and if they are not telling it to you at night they are choosing not to. No. What happens at night is blood sugar levels drop and the brain is tired and the frontal cortex which has to do the like What was my name again? with three and a half remaining neurons cannot do it as well. Nobody looks at that and says There is volition. Ooh they can do it part of the day they should be expected to be able to do it ...   But that is -- that is because it is a different issue. I mean this is not -- you are talking about memory.   Okay. So let me -- let me go through a sequence here that I -- I obviously prepared for the occasion. In the -- in the Kevin segment they made mention of a syndrome that he has which is called the KlverBucy syndrome.   Right.   And this was first shown in the 1940s. You would go into monkeys and you would take out the same part of the frontal cortex as they did with Kevin and you get monkeys that eat themselves into obesity now. They cannot stop eating. They are hyper-sexual males trying to mount everyone and everything on Earth. Okay right off the bat we see some broad similarities. Ah-ha you will say though but Kevin has a moral system. Kevin has meta-control. Kevin as we saw could control it in some circumstances but not in others. We have left the world of blameless monkeys far behind.   Yes yes yes and yes.   Goodbye!   But ...   Hello blame!   We have not. You have got a monkey there who is got frontal damage and now is hyper sexual. He is attempting to mount infants. He is attempting to mount water bottles in his cage. Completely out of control. But nonetheless he does not try to mount the alpha male.   Huh. Interesting.   Obviously what we have here is a monkey who has free will because in some circumstances he could not do this bad inappropriate thing because he is got free will or some other -- no that is ridiculous. Okay let us ...   Sapolsky explained to us that it is not that he could control his behavior some of the time. It is that in this instance he was under the influence of something else that he could not control.   Fear. Fear of the alpha male. Activation of fear circuits override the feeble attempts of those four and a half remaining frontal neurons.   Interesting.   Regulation in one circumstance but not in others not because there is free will or rotten choices or bad values. This biologically broken system manifests its brokenness under some circumstances but not others. And there is a logical biological explanation for why you get those exceptions.   Okay but you are talking about monkeys in one situation.   Okay.   We are not yet talking about ...   So let us take it closer to home now. Okay so you sit down somebody with damage to the ventromedial prefrontal cortex and you put the frontally-damaged patient now in a circumstance where they are in a situation where there is a smarter more disciplined better payoff thing to do. And they can do it just fine. But then you get them emotionally aroused over something or you get them tired. They are horrible terrible compared to regular folks. In other words we have just progressed from okay the monkey if it is scared of the alpha male okay fear can override the neurons that it has remaining in there and they are swamped. Now we have seen in a human more in general strong emotions can override.   But so far what you have told me though is sometimes I have the resources to choose and sometimes I do not. But it is about the resources. But the choice does not not exist it is just sometimes I have ...   No there is no choose in there. Next step. Next step closer in. So for my money ...   You really came prepared for this.  How many rounds are we gonna do here?   I even have a clipboard here. I have got a clipboard sitting in front of me. That is how much I prepared for this.   Okay.   Okay here's an example. You take a judge and like this classic important study and you look at the single biggest predictor of whether or not this parole board judge -- and this was of the whole panel of judges -- whether they will vote for somebody being paroled or not. The single best predictor was how many hours it had been since the judge has eaten.   What?   You mean that a hungry judge will not give parole to someone but a full and happy-tummied in the judge will make the judge more gentle?   You look at this study and right after a meal convicts had about a 90 percent chance of being paroled and right before a meal they were down to about a 10 percent chance. And it was a virtually straight line going down.   That is messed up.   And you know the single biggest predictor...   We actually looked the study up and it turns out if the judge was making the decision right after lunch when they were full the parolees had about a 60 percent chance of getting parole. So okay not as bad as he said but if the judges were making the decision right before the next meal like when they were hungry the parolees had close to a zero percent chance of getting parole.   What is interesting about that? Number one the biology makes perfect sense. What are you doing there when you are a judge trying to judge somebody from a completely different world from you to reach a point of deciding. There is mitigating fact. You are trying to take their perspective. You are trying to think about the indirect ways that let -- you are using your frontal cortex. And when you are hungry and your frontal cortex is not working as well it is easier to make a snap emotional judgment this person's rotten. The second amazing thing which exactly addresses this issue is you get that judge two seconds after they made that decision you sit him down at that point and say Hey so why did you make that decision? And they are gonna quote I do not know Immanuel Kant or Alan Dershowitz at you. They are going to post-hoc come up with an explanation that has all the pseudo-trappings of free will and volition and in reality it is just rationalization. It is totally biological.   No no. That is where you lose me. You lose me on the word totally. Okay so it is muchly biological mostly biological? I might -- I might meet you halfway there but totally? No. Why does it have to be entirely? Why do we have to go like all the way?   Because if you are not going to go all the way here's the things that you are asserting ...   I am just going to jump in here because this part of the conversation got a little dense and a little long but Sapolsky's basic point was that you just have to look at this sort of arc of scientific discoveries.   500 years ago we would have said the epileptic seizure was like bad demonic possession. Nah nah nah. We learned that is biological. Up to the mid-1950s if your like adolescent child suddenly started having hallucinations and hearing voices and thought disordered and you would say -- you the mother of this child would say Where did this disease come from? And the best of science at the time had an answer. They would say You. It is your fault. It was called schizophrenogenic mothering. A mothering style that generated schizophrenia. You caused your child schizophrenia. And then in the mid-'50s the first anti-psychotic drugs were developed and it emptied out the psychiatric wards all over the country. And everybody in the field said Oh my God! It is a biochemical disorder!   And he says same thing happened with dyslexia. We used to think it was just kids who were lazy.   Oh that is biological also.   And his contention is that this is just gonna keep happening. Like as science progresses one by one all of the things that we think are under our control that we should control and that if we do not can be blamed for one by one all of those things are gonna get chalked up to screw-ups in our biology. Screw-ups that we could not have controlled even if we had wanted to.   So what you are gonna have to do at that point is either say Starting tonight at midnight there will never be a new scientific finding pertinent to this area. We have learned everything there is or you are going to say free will is just the biology that we have not learned yet.   When -- do you in your heart deep in the -- deep in the center of your like in the -- do you really believe this? Do you really think ...   Not for a second. Not for a second. And that is the whole thing. This is like my like huge conundrum. I have like zero belief in free will at this point yet at the same time I cannot for a second imagine what the world is supposed to look like with people believing there is no free will. I do not know how to imagine it. And I am constantly this hypocrite I am this terrible hypocrite because like I will put on like my blue t-shirt instead of my gray t-shirt one morning and later in the day someone will say Oh whoa. Nice t-shirt. And I will say Thanks. Oh my God the hypocrisy of it! Here I am taking credit for it. In that circumstance I am not able to stop and say Well actually I have photoreceptors that you know because of this gene variant and that gene variant and my rhodopsin genes so that I am particularly good at noticing color sort of combinations and thus I can get them matching. And Oh I picked the fresh fruit here because my olfactory receptors allow me to like be able to smell the pineapples that are fresh and the luck of my socio-economic status has me in like some like organic market and gives me that like ability to do that while listening to like fake Peruvian muzak playing in the background and -- No. You say -- when they say Oh wow! You really know how to pick good pineapples and I say Thanks! Or when ...       Does not this throw a little bit of shade on your intellectual side? I mean if you believe that every behavior -- not just of Kevin's because what you are really saying is that the deep lesson of the Kevin story is that everyone is a Kevin. All of us are Kevins all the time. And that anything we ...   For our worst and our best behaviors.   Yes. That everything we choose to do is in some sense chosen for us. That if you knew enough stuff about anyone you know what they are about to do next.   Yeah. Yeah.   No. No.   But I readily admit ...   I will just plant my flag and say no. I do not get on board with this -- this ...   At least we have done it in a few realms. So we are able to do it.   When you look -- I do not want you to be a futurist here but when you look 500 years ahead let us say that things keep progressing in the way that you imagine where we just keep etching like sort of chipping away at this idea of volition and will free will. What do we do in that point? Do we not hold anyone accountable for anything but we simply prescribe treatments? And I mean what does that world look like to you?   Treatments and or constraints. You fix the things you fix and the ones that cannot be fixed you constrain things so the damage cannot be done but it is done in a -- in a way a car with broken brakes is incredibly dangerous and it cannot be on the streets. And if you cannot fix the brakes you put the car in a garage and you know you have intervened. But you do not invoke a concept of punishment of the car in there. And if at that point you say Oh my God that is so dehumanizing to be that mechanistic that is a hell of a lot better than sermonizing people into having free will over stuff that they have no control over. And we have done it. People with treatment-resistant epilepsy they are not allowed to drive. But you do not sit there and say they deserve not to be able to drive. You do not get like mobs of goitrous yahoo peasants cheering as the drivers' licenses are burned. No. It is not their fault that they have this thing called a seizure. Nonetheless if it is uncontrollable they should not be driving cars and we have a therapeutic intervention here that is completely outside the realm of blame justice deserved anything like that.   Well let us go back to Kevin. At the end of the story Pat asks Kevin what -- what sense he makes of his punishment. I assume A that you would not have punished him. Is that right?   Correct.   Okay. But you notice what Kevin says. Kevin says Well I thought the judge was -- was a good judge and was ...   Fair.   Fair. He called her fair. So is not it troubling to you that this person somehow was able to somehow feel blameworthy I guess. But what this justice system is doing is it is sort of saying You were bad. Maybe I was. I feel sorry. I have got remorse. That is okay. And now we give you your freedom back. Like there is been a -- there is been a conversation here about your morality your inner morality which you do not apparently want to have. I am wondering whether that is a healthy thing.   Healthy? Mental healthy-healthy? Or societally-healthy?   Well you feel bad by saying thank you to your -- to your shirt choice. So there is some human need here. I do not know whether you might call it biological or not but there is something that the justice system is addressing that you seem to be -- you seem to be taking out of the system. I ...   Yeah. Punishment is pleasurable. It feels good to do the righteous thing. And it feels good to do that in a punishing blaming way if you are brought up culturally as most of us are to have this notion of like agency.   But I think what Robert might -- this Robert Krulwich Robert might be -- I think Robert let me know if you are -- correct me if I am wrong is that it does not just feel good personally it is good for society on some level. Like do we want to live in a society where the concept of justice has been tossed out and we are in a mechanistic place?   Well how about taking it further? Do not we need to have belief in a moralizing and punishing God? Because why else would people be nice to each other?   I do not need to take it all the way there but ...   I could go there.   But we have laws. Laws are sort of in their way God-like in that they rule over us. So why not just say laws instead of God?   You are right. They work better. As soon as you introduce the possibility of punishment into economic games you evolve cooperation. You do cross-cultural studies and the more there is a belief in a punishing hell in a culture the more generous people are in economic games. Yes that stuff works. Yet over and over we have learned at least one domain where we have stepped outside of all of that the epilepsy example where nobody thinks of it in terms of it being like justice is being meted out when the driver's license is being taken away. Yet 500 years ago somebody who would have been just as smart and just as introspective and just as reflective and maybe even had like a nice bleeding-heart liberal NPR tote bag would have said I am sad about this. But ...   Have you forgotten what program you are on? Never mind.   Oh my God I thought we were on Fox!   Okay.   And that person nonetheless would have said This is tragic and I feel so sorry for their family and all of that but who told them to go sleep with Satan?   Well wait. Let me try it this way. Is there anything in the Kevin-Pat Walters story is there any -- anyone in there who is being harmed or hurt by what you heard now?   Well he is paying a price. His wife paid a price. Shame imprisonment you know?   Mm-hmm.   A terrible price here for what was simply a biological problem.   And so ...   It is still very hard to imagine a world in which you do not get pissed off at people who do like crummy things and where you do not feel vaguely pleased when somebody says Whoa nice t-shirt?   So what you said is that the -- the feelings that you have about the story the loss to her of her husband's time the shame of being put away for a while you think that later on when the deeply biological explanation for this gets fully revealed in a hundred years say people will be -- listen to the story we just heard and think If they only knew.   Absolutely.   Big thanks to Robert Sapolsky for chatting with us. His latest book is called Behave The Biology of Humans at Our Best and Worst which has an extended argument about how there is no such thing as free will. Definitely worth reading. It is called Behave. Thanks also to Pat Walters for reporting that story and for Kevin for allowing us to air it again. And thanks to you guys for listening. I am Jad Abumrad. For Robert Krulwich and I we will see you next time.   Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.