As long as he could remember going back to when he was a child Sam was scared of spiders. But not scared in the normal way where lots of us do not feel great when we see a big spider or a snake or a big bug or whatever. It invaded all aspects of my life at all points in the year. I was thinking about spiders all the time. Any room I walked into I looked in the corners. I looked under the table crouched down. Every night before I went to bed I fully unmade my bed.  Walking down the street I would not walk under anything that-- I would try to avoid right angles to the best I could because that is where a spider is going to make its web. But you were scared that one would fall on you? Or just because that is where they are? Whether or not it would fall on me was really irrelevant. Just seeing a spider not moving moving large small it just created a feeling in my body that was just-- I would shake. I would throw up. I would faint. And of course if you are constantly going through your life looking for spiders you will find one. As a kid he did not do sleepovers did not do summer camp. Other kids made fun of him. People did not understand. People pitied him. And when he grew up it did not go away. His fear ruined dates. He once found a spider the size of your thumbnail in his car and sold the car that day. I had went to psychiatrists for exposure therapy. I had went to psychiatrists to talk about it. I could not watch an image of a spider on a TV screen. Let me ask you does this name mean anything to you? Hmm? Peter Parker. No. Oh oh Spider Man. Yeah could you watch those films? No absolutely not. I do not even know if Spider Man has anything to do with spiders to be honest. And then he was seeing a hypnotherapist and it was going nowhere when he read in The New York Times about this new treatment for phobias that can get full results in just one day. And he reached out to the doctor behind it a psychologist Dr. Merel Kindt in Amsterdam. And she invited him to be part of a study and get the treatment. He figured he had nothing to lose and flew to The Netherlands. A film crew captured what happened during his treatment for a documentary series called A Cure for Fear. You are doing fine. I am so nervous. Yeah it is OK. Sam and Dr. Kindt stand outside the door of her room. She opens it. He looks in. There is an aquarium with a brown furry tarantula maybe 4 or 5 inches in size. Yes there is a spider in the tank. But let us not wait too long. So it would be very good if you can already walk in the room and then I close the door. Very good great. We are doing very well. I think you can hear that I was breathing hard and I am feeling that there is adrenaline. I crouch down my arms crossed. Dr. Kindt then opens the door of the tank. Oh whoa god. No no no you are not going to make me look in there are you? Yes I am going to ask you.  So please come with me. So step in here and then close it. Very good. And then can you also-- Oh god! Very good very good. Yeah come. And-- No! Do not make me go in there! Then to get the spider to move around this tank she sprays it with water. And every time she plays it with water the spider waves its legs or moves around a little. Yeah. OK. How high is your distress right now?  It is like 100. OK but it is very important not to move away. OK I am not moving away. All right spray it a bit so that-- SCREAMING Oh god no!  Yeah that is very good. OK.  I gotta go! Sam I am wondering like when you scream like this I am wondering what goes through your head. That I feel like I can feel it on me that I am going to be attacked by it. None of this is rational right? Mm-hmm. I know it is not-- I know that the thing is not going to jump out of the tank and move like 4 feet in the air and jump on me. I get that. But it does not matter because I feel that the absolute worst things that can happen are going to happen and are in fact happening. The reason Dr. Kent wants him to max out on anxiety like this is that she wants to trigger the memories and feelings of fear of spiders that are stored in his brain. And then when his brain goes to store this big new terrible experience with the old ones it has to re-save the old memories. And she gives him a drug a beta blocker called propranolol that disrupts that process. And I know this sounds so simple. How can this be real? But by disrupting the way that the brain re-saves those memories she neutralizes them. The very next day Sam returns to the same room. He walks right in. His breathing is normal. There is fear in that-- well I do not know that there is fear. I do not understand my feeling because I have never been like this before. Nothing physically internally was happening that used to happen to. You did not feel the fear? I did not feel the fear. And when she said-- No adrenaline? No adrenaline at all. I felt I guess excitement that this was new. You think you are able to touch it? And she says do you want to pet it? Let us make a deal. And I said look if you hold my hand I will pet the spider. And I did. And I petted it and the thing started to move. And then she is like do you want to pet it again? And I said yes. You touched the tarantula! That was over three years ago and Sam says the effect of the treatment has only deepened as he is had more calm interactions with spiders. He does not look around for spiders anymore everywhere he goes. And remember he once sold a car when he found a spider in it? He told me that the day before I interviewed him he was driving in the SUV that he owns today flipped down the mirror a spider dropped into his lap. He was going 60. He said if that had happened back in the day before the treatment he really might have crashed his car. But now he rolled down the window picked up the spider threw it outside. Can you talk about just like how extreme the treatment was? I thought at one point I was going to have a heart attack and die in that room.  Yeah. Does it seem right somehow that you would have to go through something so extreme to get over something so extreme? It is what had to be done fighting fire with fire.  Radiation therapy it is your last resort option that you have to deal with a problem that cannot be solved in any other way. This is the nuclear option. Well today our program the nuclear option. We have stories where there is a problem somebody decides to throw the book at it go big do everything they can think of. And we see what happens as a result to the people that the flying book is aimed at but also the people it is not aimed at who get hit with it anyway. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am your friendly neighborhood radio host Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1 Catching Deer When You Wanted Lions. So we begin with an example of the United States Congress seeing a problem and then using all its powers doing everything it can moving decisively to eliminate the problem forever. The problem they were solving in this case? Well prostitution is illegal in America but there were millions of ads for it online some of them advertising women and children who were held by sex traffickers. Congress wanted to stop the sex traffickers' ads. So that is a goal I think most people would agree with. A law passes with overwhelming majorities House and Senate. One of our producers Lina Misitzis has been looking into how things played out from that point-- with the people that the law is supposed to help victims of sex trafficking but also with other people who are not the official target of the law. We are going to hear the story of one woman who was trafficked and then you are going to hear the story of the law and then after that the story of how the law actually affected her. Warning to listeners-- there is no explicit content in this story at all but it does talk about sex and sex trafficking. Here's Lina. When people hear the phrase sex trafficking I think a lot of the time a kind of cartoonish version of it pops up in their heads. Let me tell you what it meant in Kara's case. We will start in 2006 when she was 17 a runaway in Orlando working at a pizza place. She decided to try becoming a stripper figuring it would be better money but she really did not know anything about it. She had no idea what she was doing. To prepare for her first shift she went dress shopping found a prom dress she liked. Yeah it was a purple dress. I got it from Macy's. Was it like floor length? Yeah it was floor length and it came right over my knees. It was a halter top. And I am just looking and I see all these girls and they are in fishnets and clear heels. And this was about the time there was a song. It is called Apple-Bottom Jeans  the boots with the fur. So I kind of just did what I could and jumped on a pole and I slid down. But it was not like a sexy stripper slide. It was like holding on for dear life and kind of bouncing down.  Kara found her footing soon enough. Actually she really liked the job. The tips were good she made more money than she would ever made and she liked the attention she got doing it. A few months later another stripper at the club told her about a job in New York that paid even better. All she had to do was go out on dates with men. Kara understood the job was something called escorting. She did not understand that escorting meant having sex. In any case she got on a plane-- her very first-- and flew to White Plains New York. A guy I will call Larry paid for her ticket. The next morning he took her on a drive down to Brooklyn. We went to Junior's Cheesecake. I will never forget it. He was trying to explain what escorting was and I was so I call it green like oblivious naive to the fact of what it was that I remember like well how do we get our nails done? You know how much tips do we get to keep or like how much money do we get to keep? And he just laughed.  Because you are asking the kinds of questions that were relevant like at like the strip club but not necessarily in this. Yeah like a tip-out like what is the tip-out? And he just laughed. He knew no matter what you know I was gonna do it. I was 18. Next Larry took Kara back to a La Quinta Inn. He had her pose in her underwear took pictures he would later post online in an escorting ad and then Larry said it was time for her first date. What was he telling you the work would actually be? That basically I would just be hanging out with people like I said. He told me that I was going to have a date. This is I am 18 years old. I am going to have a date. So I do not know what it is. I had just smoked some weed and he left the room. A guy knocks on the door and I let him in. And when I let him in he pretty much coaches me through this whole-- like this whole day. And so the money was exchanged. He basically told me where to put the money. They had sex. Later Kara told me that once it was happening the first feeling she had was oh of course escorting means sex. And she felt shame like what had she gotten herself into? When Kara was a kid she was sexually abused by a family member and had the courage to come forward about it. She was in middle school. Here at the La Quinta Inn six years later she did not even know who she would report this to or how to describe what was happening so she detached. The one thing she remembers clearly is a piece of advice the client gave her that night which Kara says she would recite in her head whenever seeing any client from then on. He was getting ready to leave. And I told him all right I will see you later. And when I said that he was like no. You never just let somebody walk out on their own. You always walk them to the door and you shut the door behind them. You never just let somebody just walk out because anybody could come in after them. You know they could be holding a door for somebody whatever. So I walked him to the door and I shut the door. And when I shut the door I broke down. Later on I had found out that he was actually one of his homeboys. He was one of his friends. One of Larry's friends. And he had basically sent his friend in to have sex with me and to teach me what to do. In the next few weeks she says she realized Larry was part of a gang. When I asked her how did you figure that out she laughed explained it is not like some big cinematic reveal. Just after that night the camera started to zoom out. She met lots of Karas assigned to lots of Larrys. She was just one piece of the assembly line. I wanted to go home but I had-- at that point I could not call my family. I could not call anybody. I was stuck and it was basically all right you have got to do what you have to do to eventually make it back home. I was not tied up to a bed. I was not drugged. I was just shamed and I was scared and I was terrified. And when I found out what I had actually been introduced to into a whole gang like the intimidation-- if you go home then we are going to do this and that-- it just it stuck me there. And that was the beginning of just a whirlwind in my life. From then on Larry was in charge of what Kara ate who she had sex with and where she went. She and Larry traveled around the country strategically targeting places that attract a crowd. Were you making pennies on a dollar? Like were you making any percentage? Like you were not getting to pocket any of this money? No no. And if you get caught stashing money oh my gosh you are getting your ass beat. I do not care if it is 20 no. So if you needed something-- He would let you go to the store and he would get it for you or whatever. But what did you really need other than own food or condoms? You know you get clothes. You know they take you-- you all go as a group get your nails done get your hair done. Did you have friends? Yeah you have friends but they are called your wife-in-laws. They are other girls that are working. You do not have normal friends. You completely withdraw and isolate from anything and everybody that you knew. So break it down in layman's terms. You are being raped all day and you are not getting nothing out of it but some nails or your hair done or whatever it is to look good for the nice John client trick whatever you want to call him. I asked Kara a lot of what-if questions naively about a lot of different scenarios. What if you try just getting up and leaving taking a day off getting a boyfriend? Then what? And her answer was always the same-- you would get beat up. She would never heard the term sex trafficking. At that time a lot of people had not but that is what this was. Kara was being sex trafficked. She would be for another seven years. Sex trafficking is any time someone is forced or coerced into a sex act where money is exchanged. They could be brought across state lines or international borders but that does not have to be a part of it. While she was being trafficked Kara had a quota an amount of money she was supposed to bring in for the gang. I had a 1000 a day quota. You had to make 1000 each day before you could go to sleep. She could bring in 1000 by saying three clients in a day each for an hour or six a day each for half an hour. The traffickers found clients for Kara by advertising online on Craigslist and later on a website called Backpage. Whenever arriving anywhere new they would post a local ad for Kara. It would include photos of her and a short description. Guys would see the ads and book appointments. If the online ads did not attract enough business her trafficker would take her to truck stops or bars and have her try picking up clients there. Do not get it twisted. If you make 1000 and it is only 1200 PM you are not off for the day. You are going to continuously be forced to make more money. But the 1000 was just like OK you have to have this every day. I do not care if it is slow on the lines go get it. Go find it. Kara said she was traded between gangs three times which while she was explaining that she actually gestured at a tattoo on her chest. That is the brand on my chest. What is it? The brand on my chest. This is-- you see the blood dripping and it is for the Blood gang. It is Sex Money Murder. It is a red heart with a spike through it and the tip of the heart is bleeding. In the center of the heart there is a person's name. That was his actual government name. I do not want to say that on record. On either side of those dots? Snake eyes. Snake eyes. The name written across the heart belongs to the guy I have been calling Larry and just below the heart there is a date. December 23 2007 is when I was brought to him. Why have not you gotten that removed? I actually-- it is hard for me to answer that question. It is a part of me that when I look at it it reminds me at the end of the day this past that I am speaking of will always be a part of me. So I do not know if it is due to my lack of healing or it is like a part that I have not let go yet. I have not moved on from it. It is not like because I like looking at it because I miss it or-- I guess it is a reminder that it was real. But if you look in the tattoos I have razor marks. I would try and cut them out of my own skin. Right there? Yeah. I tried to take a razor and cut his name off of me.  The whole time Kara was being trafficked by these gangs she kept getting into trouble with the police. She says no cop ever asked her if she needed help. They did not see her as a victim. They saw her as a criminal. She says nowadays the police might ask her if she was being trafficked but nobody asked her that back then. Kara says they would just charge her with solicitation and tell her that is what you got for being a prostitute. She would get a ticket have to pay a fine. Sometimes she went to jail. The first time she got in trouble was in 2008 just six months after her 18th birthday. And then again in 2010 and again and so on. Altogether she was charged at least eight times in three different states-- Virginia North Carolina and Florida. In 2014 she and her trafficker at the time-- I will call him Adam-- were on a long drive headed to North Dakota for an oil boom. By then they would spent enough time together that he trusted her let her have a phone. He would actually rely on her for help planning their destinations. He would be driving. She would be in the front seat scanning the news for parts of the country with sudden influxes of people. I mean that is how you would figure out what city is going to hit because-- Wait so the trafficker or what have you basically like project manage the trafficking?  So I am--  I am very versatile. Yeah. There was plenty of time to fill. While she was with Adam she read the Divergent series on her phone and The Hunger Games. She watched Law and Order and she read the news. It was on this particular drive that Kara read an article about a woman who had been sex trafficked. Her name was Windie Lazenko. This was the first time Kara had ever seen that term sex trafficking anywhere. And suddenly the last seven years of her life they were not different but her framework for them was. By the time Kara and Adam got to the North Dakota boomtown they would posted ads on Backpage. It was a Tuesday night There was a pile of snow outside and their ads were not getting any bites. But she still had to make quota so Adam sent Kara downstairs to the hotel bar so she could try picking up men the old-fashioned way. But something had changed and she just did not. She could not shake the article she would read so she sat at the bar drinking. I just wanted to go. I did not care if you know what happened. I just knew that I had to find a way to get him away from me because I could not get away from him. Kara came up with a plan. There at the bar she called a friend in Florida said she needed help. She was about to go upstairs back to her room to tell Adam that she had not made quota. She would leave her phone on with her friend in Florida still listening in. And not if but when things turned violent Kara's friend was to call the local police pretend to be in the room next door call in a noise complaint. Kara's entire forecast was spot on. She went upstairs told Adam there was no money. He made her strip down naked to prove she was not hiding bills anywhere. He got violent. He was yelling and hitting her. And all of a sudden there is a knock at the door. And I just looked at him. I said it sounds like the cops. Let me open the door and tell him I just got out of the shower. Because they were not going to stop knocking and he knew that. Kara opened the door. Adam was arrested on the spot and the cops booked him for domestic abuse. For once a run-in with the cops did not result in a ticket or a fine for Kara. And whatever that felt like for her-- overwhelming relieving confusing-- was immediately wiped away by another cop telling Kara that because she was staying in a room that was under Adam's name she had to leave on a very cold night in North Dakota with nowhere to go. Then I remembered her. I remembered Windie Lazenko. Windie was the trafficking victim that Kara had read about in the car. She lived in North Dakota the same state that Kara was in. And I got on the computer in the lobby and I asked use the hotel phone and I called her. After that everything changed starting with basics. Windie found Kara a bed to sleep in clothes to wear food to eat and a job bartending so she could make a bit of cash. Adam pled guilty to domestic abuse spent a short time in jail. Later they charged him with promoting prostitution. Then Kara says she could have testified against him in court but she feared for her safety and so she did not. The case was eventually dismissed. No one from his gang ever bothered her again. And as soon as she saved up enough money Kara drove back home to Florida. It was 2015.  So this is the part of the story where I explain the law that Congress enacted what they wanted it to do and what in fact it ended up doing especially to Kara. Most people call this law SESTA-FOSTA. SESTA is short for Stop Enabling Sex Trafficking Act and its goal was to stop sex trafficking by focusing on something really specific. The law would go after sex ads on the internet like the kinds of ads Kara's traffickers posted. The lawmakers figured get rid of all the ads and you will cut off a whole part of this market. Victims of trafficking had already tried to go after Backpage and sites like it for facilitating sex trafficking and prostitution even while Kara was still being trafficked but most of those efforts failed because of something called Section 230. Section 230 basically says online platforms like Facebook Twitter Reddit Craigslist anywhere users post or leave comments the companies that operate those platforms they are generally not responsible for what users say. So if someone posts something defamatory or something that results in harm-- like if an exchange on a dating app leads to harassment in real life-- the social media platforms cannot be sued. Congress established this back in the early days of the web in the mid-'90s. It is a provision of the Communications Decency Act. But by 2018 celebrities like Amy Schumer and Seth Meyers were doing anti-trafficking PSAs calling for a change to Section 230. Attorneys general from nearly every state signed a letter to Congress. And finally Congress took action. This bill is completely bipartisan from beginning to end. This is Senator Richard Blumenthal Democrat from Connecticut the day of the SESTA-FOSTA vote. This bill essentially would clarify Section 230 of the Communications Decency Act that was never intended to give website a free pass to aid and abet sex trafficking. Lots of the outrage in the floor debate and several years of hearings that led to it was about children being trafficked. There are thousands of children out there who are waiting for our help. Children are being forced into sex slavery. We cannot allow our children to be lured into this kind of hell. Just a word about that. Roughly 12 the federal prosecutions for sex trafficking in the US are for people younger than 18. The year of this vote it was nearly 750 teens and children. And there have been cases of minors being advertised on websites like Backpage. 97 senators voted yes on the bill-- almost unanimous Republicans and Democrats on the same page which never happens. But SESTA-FOSTA did not just ban ads for minors being trafficked or sex trafficking in general. It banned ads for all paid sex whether or not trafficking was involved just to make sure that every possible case that could be prevented would be.  And websites would now be responsible not just for ads but for any content anyone posted that enabled sex trafficking. That mandate was so broad that websites radically changed their rules to eliminate any possible posts that they could be sued for. Entire swaths of social media platforms subreddits Craigslist message boards Instagram hashtags and Twitter communities were suddenly gone. Tumblr long known as the place for DIY alt porn banned sexual content across their site. Five days before SESTA-FOSTA was signed into law Backpage was seized by the FBI. The site had long been the focus of a federal criminal investigation and what SESTA-FOSTA did as soon as it was enacted was prevent a new hub from popping up in its place. By then 2018 Kara had been out of being trafficked for three years. But it made me wonder-- Had SESTA-FOSTA passed in 2008 instead of in 2018 do you think it would have gotten you out of being trafficked? Absolutely not. Tell me why. Because there is other ways to be trafficked. Not everybody's trafficked on the internet. People act like that is the only way that there is to get money and it is not just the internet. I would have still been trafficked. It probably would have been worse. Worse because she knew very well what it was like to do the job without customers from ads. On days when Craigslist or Backpage did not work Kara had to go find customers herself. You would go to casino bars truck stops anywhere-- walk the streets. So yeah I firmly believe if that bill would have been passed it would have been worse. It is not going to help you out of being trafficked. I tried figuring out if Kara's take is right if the law really did not have much of an effect on the trafficking business. Lawmakers definitely hoped it would reduce the number of people being trafficked. So did it? The best answer I could find is nobody knows. We do not know how to accurately count the number of people being sex trafficked much less whether it is rising or falling. But we do know one effect of the law-- it is made policing sex trafficking harder.  Since Backpage was seized sex ads have scattered to lots of different sites where gathering evidence is more difficult. I spoke with a senior analyst at Uncharted-- that is a software company that helps law enforcement track sex ads on the internet-- and she said at least half of the sex ads that had been on websites in the US are now hosted by websites offshore meaning the servers are in other countries so whoever owns those servers is not obligated to comply with law enforcement or respond to subpoenas. Federal prosecutions of traffickers have actually fallen since SESTA-FOSTA passed. I called one of the legislators who spent years going after Backpage and online sex ads former Senator Claire McCaskill. She helped run a Senate investigation into the site and she was one of SESTA-FOSTA's original co-sponsors. I wanted to talk to her about the law's intentions and how it is actually panned out. If the aim is to curb trafficking so far as I can tell there is no evidence that trafficking has decreased as a result of the law. Well you cannot prove a negative. And this is one of the oldest problems in crime prevention. When you are successful at crime prevention it is very hard to prove how you were successful. So there is no evidence to say that this bill did not do its job. And so we do not know and it is irritating to me that there seems to be this narrative that the sex workers are putting out there well it did not do any good. Well they do not-- I believe that it does have an impact when people cannot easily sell children online. I believe it in my bones as somebody who prosecuted sex crimes for many years that the ease of advertising children for sex that going away is a positive in this country. That is not a negative. When I asked her about SESTA-FOSTA making it harder to actually find and prosecute sex traffickers she said law enforcement should quote up their game. After SESTA-FOSTA passed sex on the internet-- this will not come as a shock there is a ton of it-- it all seemed suddenly radioactive. Not just advertisements for sex it was true of all kinds of sex work including people whose jobs are perfectly legal like porn performers camgirls strippers. After SESTA-FOSTA tons of them said that they were getting kicked off of Instagram and Facebook. Many of these were not explicit accounts no nudity. Like one porn performer who posted a picture of herself on Instagram on Valentine's Day. She was wearing a tank top and mid-length red skirt sitting on her bed which she would covered in rose petals. The photo was captioned Happy Valentine's Day. By the next morning her account had been removed by Instagram. The president of an adult performers' union told me she is documented more than 3600 banned accounts. I reached out to Facebook which also owns Instagram and a company spokesperson responded quote We understand that people sometimes disagree with what we do and do not allow on Instagram. We will continue listening and responding to the concerns of our community. Even though Kara was not being trafficked anymore SESTA-FOSTA had an effect on her life-- a huge effect. I will pick up her story in 2015 when she first returned to Florida. She would been away for seven years so she had no idea what to do who to call where to live. She tried finding a job applied to lots and lots of them but no one would hire her. She thinks it is because she had so many prostitution charges on her record. Not even the Family Dollar would give me a job. Like nobody would give me a job. You are saying if you would apply for a job they would run a background check on you. And even though it is not a felony the minute prostitution enters the picture they are like no. Yeah even Wawa.  Those are the two jobs I was mad at the most-- Wawa Walmart. Nobody would give me a job because of these charges. And it was mind-blowing to me because I am like literally it is a ticket in places. You do not even to go to jail and you would not-- but because it was so frowned upon because it was looked at as the nastiest just immoral thing these people would not give me a job. I am trying to do everything that I can to just live a normal life just be normal and it was not working. So my next option was to do what I knew how to do. That is why I jumped into the industry I knew how to survive on. So in 2015 a couple of years before the law passed Kara went back to trading sex for money except this time for the first time ever she got to keep the money. There is an important distinction I want to make. At this point in her life what Kara was doing was sex work which means performing any sex act in exchange for money. Lots of things make it different from being trafficked but the biggest one is Kara chose to do it. She was not being forced or coerced. For the second half of her 20s Kara's life totally changed. Not in some Disney rags-to-riches way-- though she was in Orlando-- but overall she was happy. She knew it was illegal and that she was risking more criminal charges but no one would hire her anyway and by doing sex work she was able to get her own car her own house. Kara was putting herself through school. She got her GED start going to classes. She wanted to be a medical technician. She was working towards certification. After that she would stop doing sex work. She had a plan. Nobody was in control of my life but me. I was empowered man. That is the biggest word. I had the money to do and provide for myself. The way she made her money the way she found her clients it was all on Backpage. And you can probably see where this is going. When Backpage shut down all of a sudden everything that was working for her disappeared. Kara kept doing sex work only it was more dangerous she says. Backpage and sites like it made it possible for sex workers to share information about clients before agreeing to meet them in person. They could warn one another about predatory clients who for instance will not wear condoms or refuse to pay or try making sex workers include some service that they did not originally agree to. It was a lifeline. Now to get by Kara