This past Monday a guy named Dan Curry got into his car to drive across the country from the East Coast to California alone. And to pass the time he brought along 16 hours of Spanish language lessons on CD. I reached him in his car on Wednesday. So I have some questions for you. OK. Donde esta usted? Donde esta-- oh god. I know what that means. What is it mean? Donde esta. You. It means where are you? When I reached Dan the answer was Odessa Texas. He was just outside Odessa Texas. It was actually kind of a big moment for him. After 14 hours of listening and practicing Spanish out loud with his CDs he had just tried out his Spanish for the very first time with a person an actual person a Spanish speaking person. He was ordering lunch. I pulled up to a place. It is a little stand. They had a little drive-in drive through area. So I went and ordered two pollas pollo tacos and un-- I did it all en espanol-- and un carne asada. And it should have been about 4 or 5. But the girl she was bilingual kind of rolled her eyes when I was talking. She said something to me in Spanish. And I said Oh si si si. And I ended up buying 26 worth of stuff. Instead of getting two chicken tacos I got eight. The carne asada what I got was a big vat of it. It was about 19 and all these shells. I was too embarrassed so I bought them. I said Quiero caliente-- And I did not know the word for sauce. I have not learned the word sauce yet. So I said sauce. And she switched to English at that point for me. Wait the word for sauce is salsa. Have not you heard the word salsa? Salsa is sau-- Oh salsa means sauce? I thought salsa meant salsa. I am scared. I got you. Put your feet on the pedal. I got you. Do not let go. Sunday in suburban New Jersey eight-year-old Ruby Melman went out with her mom and dad to try-- this was her second attempt-- to learn to ride a bike. Her dad ran along beside her holding the handle bars. Keep going. Pedal pedal. Oh Ruby you have got to pedal. Why are you stopping? Because it is scaring me. It took about a half an hour for her to get it. Good. You have got to pedal OK? Let go. You are not pedaling enough. And keep your eyes up Ruby. Look forward. Look ahead. Good good. There you go. Good job! Pedal pedal. You got it! Keep going keep going. Did you do it? Yes! That was really good Ruby. OK let us try it again. So I am going to ride around the corner. So this is the first time you are getting on a bike since when? This is the first time in almost four years three and a half four years. Let us see if I can-- Saturday on the north side of Chicago my friend Beau O'Reilly age 56 is getting on a bike again for the first time since he had both his knees replaced. All right. Here we go. Here we go. All right both legs are going. Yes and it is moving. It feels OK. How is your knees? They hurt. Yeah. What? I have to say we are kind of a sight. Beau with his huge shock of grey hair. Me trotting along beside him with the microphone. And then behind us Beau's girlfriend Judith chasing after us down the sidewalk with his cane. But that feels OK. A little winded. A little breathing. Feeling it but feels all right. At Ground Zero this week on Thursday President Obama laid a wreath. A woman named Theodosha Alexander was out on the sidewalk. She would worked as a temp in the Twin Towers all through the '80s and '90s knew tons of people who'd worked there. Since 911 she is generally avoided Lower Manhattan because of that. But she came down on Thursday hoping it would feel different now that Osama bin Laden was dead. It is like a relief that he is finally gone. You know it is gone. No more. Maybe it is over. Maybe I will not have dreams about it. Well I feel better right now. I feel great. I feel like they got him. They got him. They got him. That same day Thursday at the hospital that US forces set up at Bagram Air Base to deal with US casualties in Afghanistan there was no question that we are of course a nation that is still at war. Dr. Wade Gordon one of three orthopedic surgeons there says that it is been pretty steady the last six months including this week with Osama bin Laden gone. This week has been pretty busy. We have been averaging probably between 8 and 12 new trauma patients each day. And so what kinds of injuries are those? Well sadly a large percentage of them are amputations from blast injuries from explosions. There is a fair number of gunshot wounds as well. I saw a quote from a soldier I think it was in the New York Times who was in Afghanistan and said OK. Can I go home now? And I am wondering if you are hearing any of that. Yeah I think there is a lot of tongue-in-cheek joking about that. Yes it is nice after 10 years but I guess I am not certain really how much that is going to impact the reality of what we are doing over here of day to day putting guys back together again here. So much has happened this week. What else? In the Grand Canyon on Wednesday high school freshmen were on a class trip. This is Lauren. We are walking down a trail to go to the Grand Canyon right now. No. I know you would not push anybody over the edge. But just do not even pretend to do it. OK? It is something we want to avoid. OK? Sunday in a bar in New York City patrons raised their glasses in remembrance of the bartender who ran the joint and lived upstairs till he was 90 Jack Loftus. Hear hear. To Jack. Cheers. This is a neighborhood where guys drank a lot and got into fights. Jack was this six-foot-three fatherly figure who kept things calm. This guy Tommy Pryor said his own dad was a big drinker who Jack knew how to keep in line. I loved Jack because I saw him love my father respect him take care of him when my father was not on his best behavior. And I felt I could trust Jack to help me control my father. I am Ira Glass. Every week in our show of course we choose a theme and bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today we are trying something we have never tried before. The theme this week is This Week. Everything you are going to hear this hour has happened in the last seven days. We wanted big things and small things the most important things happening in the country and the most important things happening to people far from Washington DC far from the network news cameras. A portrait of seven days in the life of our country. From WBEZ Chicago it is a special edition of This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. Seven days in 60 minutes. Stay with us. We were all worried planning this week's show coming into the week with no tape gathered at all. We worried like OK what if there is no news? What if nothing interesting happens? And then Sunday night there was a small bit of news. Tonight I can report to the American people and to the world that the United States has conducted an operation that killed Osama bin Laden the leader of al-Qaeda. That is President Obama of course Sunday night. One of our producers Sarah Koenig was in a college town State College Pennsylvania where she heard the noise of students shouting and blowing horns and what sounded like fire crackers on Sunday night. And since she was not watching TV she had no idea what this was about. She thought maybe they had won a big game or something. She actually called the cops who also at that point had no idea what it was about. And all week she kept thinking about the hugeness of the students' reaction. When I heard Monday morning about Osama bin Laden my reaction was Oh wow at about that decibel. The difference between that and this -- This is what was happening about three blocks away when I called the cops on Sunday. Thousands maybe 5000 or 6000 Penn State students massed on Beaver Avenue. You have probably seen the pictures or read the accounts by now young people letting loose all over the country. Here there was all kinds of patriotic singing. Someone lit a small fire and kids were jumping over it. A guy dressed like Captain America was body surfing the crowd.  And by the end of the week there would been a bunch of stories in the papers about these September 11 kids the so-called millenials young loyal Americans for whom Osama bin Laden was the boogie man their Voldemort. But I still did not quite get it-- the taking to the streets all the revelry. And I know I am not 20 years old and I like to go to bed around 1130 instead of putting on my superhero outfit. But still the difference between their reaction and that of everyone I know over 30-- that difference is a gulf. So I asked some of the kids who were there that night. Where did this outpouring of feeling come from? Why did they take this news so personally? I am just going to play you the tape from the interview that finally helped me understand it. The girl speaking is Lexi Belculfine. She is a junior. She is 20 years old editor of the school's daily newspaper. She is got a poster of Dave Matthews above her bed. And what she explained to me is that her fear after September 11 was not some abstraction. It was real and lasting. I distinctly remember being very afraid for a very long time. Yeah I definitely was. I guess it was just a realization of how quickly everything could be ripped out from under you that these huge catastrophic things can happen. That was really frightening. After September 11 I would not even look at a plane basically. I live 10 minutes from the Pittsburgh International Airport. So we watch the planes go right into the airport. And it just gave me this incredibly uneasy fear of planes of flying. And you know it is silly but I was 11 and did not understand it. And I needed something to be afraid of so I chose flying. I think that you could probably even say that that feeling that being 11 and not understanding and being scared and confused and frightened is why everyone was so excited Sunday night. Because we all kind of carried that fear with us. We definitely must have. Because if not then I do not think Sunday night would have happened. And so I think that this moment was not necessarily an end point but was the closest thing that we had felt. It was this big indicator that there could be an end. Oh right. Because if you are you and most of your cognizant life has been different versions of the same situation which is that we are at war with this sort of shadowy network I could totally see how it feels like it is never going to end. And that is exactly how it feels. It is kind of neat for me. My little sister-- my mom was pregnant with her on September 11. She was seven months pregnant I think. And now she is in third grade. I do not know. I really the past couple of days have been thinking about her a lot. And I am almost really excited for her because she does not know about any of this. She does not understand any of this. And for me at least it was this moment that I realized that maybe Chloe will not have to have the same confusing years as a 12 13 14 15 year old. Did you feel like well maybe she never has to know now? Exactly. And that was a really cool feeling for me. Did you even know before Sunday night that you were waiting for an end point? Do you know what I am saying? Like before the feeling came did you even know Oh this is the feeling I have wanted to have all this time? It is really interesting because I do not think that I had. I do not know that I necessarily felt the way that I did until I am watching 6000 of my peers in the streets celebrating. But I had no idea. When I would asked another student why he and his friends cared so much about what happened Sunday since they were just little kids when September 11 happened-- it did not happen to them-- he shot back No. It did not happen to you guys. It happened to us. Sarah Koenig in State College Pennsylvania. In Egypt on Monday the day after President Obama announced Osama bin Laden was killed out on the street it was kind of a non-event. No demonstrations. Yes the Muslim Brotherhood issued a statement. Yes obviously people talked about the news. But that was it. It was a normal work day. Crazy traffic. Lot of smoking. Everybody glued to their cellphones. And for all of us wondering what does the death of Osama bin Laden mean for the Mideast this was the reaction in the most influential most populous Arab country in the world. A fourth of all Arabs live in Egypt. Our producer Nancy Updike went by Tahrir Square in the afternoon. If anyone in Egypt wanted to mark Osama bin Laden's death publicly or spark a national conversation about it Tahrir Square would be the place. But the only activity I saw there on the day of the announcement was a man taking a nap on the grass. In Cairo the conversation is not about bin Laden. It is about something completely different. From the moment I got here I was hearing the same thing over and over I would love to talk but I am on my way to a meeting. Or I am in a meeting. Can I call you back? These were not work meetings. They are the meetings of 82 million people deciding what their country will be. If Egypt had a national sound right now it would be the sound of chairs scraping into a circle or maybe the sound right after that.  Arguing. This man is saying Why why why why? He is one of about 15 people in a room forming a new political party. They are figuring out what the party stands for and how it should present itself right now in front of me. They have got a name for the party the Egyptian Social Democratic Party. But what does that mean exactly? The man shouting Why is responding to someone else who is saying We are not liberals. We are not calling ourselves liberals. What is wrong with liberalism? the why man wants to know. Liberalism has a taint now the other guy says. Some people are equating liberal parties with infidels. I have nothing against liberalism he adds. I am a liberal. And wait how are we different from other free market parties? someone else asks. A man sitting behind the one desk in the room clarifies. We are somewhere between socialism and liberalism. Free market but more like France or Germany than America. I spent the week going to meetings. They are happening everywhere. This one is 25 men sitting on plastic chairs in a circle out on the sidewalk lecturing each other about politics. I went to another meeting on the AstroTurf deck of a boat on the Nile-- two judges three religious men and a DJ who I think qualifies for the title of Mr. Meeting.  This is  a charming six-foot-tall DJ music producer and party boy who was apolitical and he cheerfully admits rather debauched under Mubarak's rule. He told an interpreter and me about sleeping until 500 PM going to parties all night. But then he saw friends die in front of him on Tahrir Square. And now he is quit being a DJ. He is living off his savings and he goes to meetings all day. He starts ticking off his previous 24 hours. Noon prayer followed by a neighborhood meeting about how to deal with crime. Then on to a seminar about the pros and cons of a parliamentary republic versus a presidential republic. 800 PM dinner meeting with friends working on political issues. An 1100 PM meeting with other activists to nail down the agenda for a meeting the following day. Then at 200 AM a final meeting back in his neighborhood. Four hours sleep. Woke up. Picked up a friend. Drove here. My interpreter and I left Mr. Meeting got off the elevator at the sixth floor of an office building and headed into a conference room for one last meeting that ended up being pretty mind blowing. At first it looked like a classic corporate gab fest-- fluorescent lit room about 30 people sitting around a huge oval conference table with croissants and bread sticks in front of them. But this was an assembly of two very different groups longtime enemies in fact sitting face to face to see whether in the new Egypt they will still be enemies. On one side was writers journalists editors left-wing Egyptians actively working to keep Egypt secular. On the other side current and former members of the   an Egyptian Islamist organization that spent years murdering both foreign tourists and Egyptians. They went after policemen and politicians including the president of Egypt. They were part of the plot that killed Anwar Sadat. The men sitting here have served decades in Egypt's prisons. The Gama'ah Is-lamiyah also targeted Egyptian intellectuals exactly the sort of people they are now sitting across from. The Gama'ah Is-lamiyah started off the meeting the way they had to by reiterating the fact that they publicly renounced violence 14 years ago. And they still renounce it today. No one is forcing us to say this said Nageh Ibrahim a thin man with a long white beard the Gama'ah Is-lamiyah leader who spoke most often. He said Mubarak is gone. We can say what we want. And we are saying the same thing today we have been saying for years-- no violence. After 15 minutes of back and forth about that one of the journalists suddenly shifted the conversation with a quiet question. What is your position on art? For years Islamic extremists have preached a sort of cultural anorexia no poetry music dance. And in this meeting once art came up it took over the conversation. The secularists wanted to know What art is OK in your view? Does painting have a place in Egypt sculpture? How about theatre movies? Do you believe in such a thing as Islamic art and non-Islamic art? Would you ban any art if you could? The conversation went from chilly and polite to blunt. One of the secularists a famous novelist   said We are not here so you can reassure us. We are here to find out what you really believe. For the next hour the secularists and the men from the Gama'ah Is-lamiyah have a surreal conversation the kind that happens when people with profound differences do manage to speak civilly and honestly with each other. The two groups argued quoted poetry brought up specific Arab pop stars and their videos and talked about the evolution of Islamic scholarship on the subject of whether it is OK to paint or sculpt a person. The short version according to the head of Gama'ah Is-lamiyah first no. Then yes. And now it is probably OK. Photography? Fine. Ballet? Not OK. No there is not Islamic literature and non-Islamic literature. Literature is literature. We like music-- well some music. It cannot be sexy. We used to sing ourselves and put on little plays when we were in prison to entertain ourselves. And we read. One of the Gama'ah Is-lamiyah men said I really like the writing of Naghib Mahfouz. Since reading him I do not read any other novels. I read all his books when I was in prison and I related to them. This was an olive branch of sorts. Mahfouz is Egypt's most celebrated writer proudly secular who was stabbed in an assassination attempt by an Islamist militant after Gama'ah Is-lamiyah put him on a hit list. Later in the meeting one of the Gama'ah leaders Nageh Ibrahim said Look we may differ with you about art. But Gama'ah Is-lamiyah will not burn art will not destroy will not ban. I could disagree with you about literature art or politics. That does not mean I would be violent against you or attack you. No. We fight thought with thought. Maybe promising not to stab someone seems a little too basic to be a bragging point but in this conversation it was part of a bigger statement by the Gama'ah Is-lamiyah. We want to be part of the real Egypt not a fantasy that we try to create by killing people. The Gama'ah Is-lamiyah is in this meeting because it was the first violent Islamist group to not only renounce violence but also publicly apologize and say what they did was wrong. Their leadership then spent years writing a detailed mutil-volume refutation of their former beliefs including a direct challenge to al-Qaeda's argument that America is a nation of infidels who deserve to be killed. Gama'ah Is-lamiyah said No that is not true. And they quoted the First Amendment of the US Constitution guaranteeing freedom of religion in their rebuttal. All of which brings me to Osama bin Laden. Egyptian thinkers provided the inspiration for al-Qaeda. Al-Qaeda's modern ideological underpinnings are mostly from Egyptian Islamist writers especially Sayyid Qutb. Bin Laden's second in command Ayman al-Zawahiri is Egyptian and he started reading Qutb as a teenager. One of bin Laden's professors at university was Qutb's brother. The modern phenomenon of violent political Islam has its roots in Egypt. And in terms of ideology and some key members so does al-Qaeda. But what does that mean for Egypt today? I had a guess and I ran it by the leader of Gama'ah Is-lamiyah Sheikh Karam Zuhdi the day after the meeting at his home. It seems to me that Ayman Zawahiri and bin Laden and al-Qaeda they are following ideas that came from Egypt 50 years ago. And Egypt itself has moved on.  I think you are absolutely right. These are the ideas of the '50s and the '60s and the '70s. Egypt has overcome that has gone through other phases. Like I said the youth on Tahrir they brought down A whole regime just with the strength of the word and maybe a stone. Do you ever worry that it could come back in Egypt-- violence in the name of Islam?  I feel it will not come back God willing. Egyptians right now are in love with Egypt. Egypt is what they want to talk about not bin Laden. And that includes groups like Gama'ah Is-lamiyah that used to have a similar ideology. The Gama'ah Is-lamiyah leaders are doing the same thing other Egyptians are doing sitting down at tables with croissants and bread sticks and talking about the future of their country. Nancy Updike in Cairo. Here in United States this week despite the President calling for a moment of unity democracy still seems to meet people at each other's throats. Take this incident in Arizona. This was not big news at all. The Tucson Unified School District is considering something that you would not think from the outside would be something that people could get quite this mad about. The issue was whether the Mexican-American studies program in high school will be turned from a core credit to an elective. That is it. People who oppose that change say that if it is going to be an elective then the many at-risk kids who do well in that course whose GPAs are helped by that course who basically are the target population for that course they will never take the course. So the course will miss its target population. So Monday this week school board's going to discuss this. And this middle school teacher named Sarah Bromer from this charter school goes to the school board meeting with a tape recorder. And she sits in the second row next to a seat that has this piece of paper on it that says Reserved. So the meeting is packed over a hundred people in the room. And from the beginning of this meeting there is heckling. Somebody calls the school board president bandito. There is chanting. The school board decides to hear 30 minutes of testimony from the public on this issue. And then the school board wants to cut it off. But people keep standing to speak. So somebody stands up they try to speak they are escorted out by police. Then an older woman a teacher at Pima Community College named Lupe Castillo she gets up. And I will read to you the Letter from Birmingham Jail by Martin Luther King. This is what you need to hear. You need to understand and respect. The police move in to arrest her. And then things go kind of crazy. The crowd starts chanting. People start standing on their chairs. Leave Lupe alone! At this point the teacher who was recording this thing you are hearing right now Sarah Bromer says there are all these students in the room. Suddenly they show up-- 10 of them with white T-shirts and duct tape over their mouths. The police then move like a wave across the room flushing out Lupe and lots of the protesters and most of the media actually. Sarah who is recording this ducks between the chairs and then she sees down there between the chairs the woman who had moved into that seat next to her that reserved seat who turns out to be a petite woman in conservative professional clothes. Sarah works her way back over to her seat next to the woman. Why are you here tonight? Oh I just came to observe democracy a little bit. But I am feeling kind of weird. It is a little too loud to me. Where are you from? I am from Iran. From Iran? Yes. I am not a citizen yet. A permanent resident of the United States. I just wanted to see how they talk to each other. This is just so crazy man. After 12 years in the United States I do not think I still exactly get it. Because mostly when I watch things on TV things are more calm. But now it is a little too rowdy and scary and both sides yell at each other a little bit. I saw you at one point crawling along the floor right when it got really crazy. I saw you kind of crawling along. Were you frightened? I am not the most brave person on the face of planet and I sort of avoid conflict usually. Somehow I did not have this opinion about the United States. I did not think this happens in the United States. I thought it happens elsewhere. Well it has not gotten violent yet. No no. Hopefully it will not. I got a headache though. I think I am nervous. At one point the Iranian woman asked Sarah OK if this is a democracy and if you can actually vote out these people if you do not like them why is everybody being so rude? Why are they yelling so much? It is a good question. Well coming up when everything in your life depends on a political event that the political world ignores. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme. This week the theme is This Week. We are spending the hour hearing about large things and very small things that happened these past seven days. Is this a good time to talk? Yeah if you do not mind me packing. Sunday in Oakland California Shirley Everett-Dicko was closing up Charcoal Park which was a very hard-to-describe combination store African American history museum community center where kids hung out and came for movies and pizza Friday nights. Shirley has had the place for two years. She is been waiting for a miracle that has not come yet to help pay the rent. And she said on Sunday that lots of people driving by saw the moving trucks and people carrying stuff out and chose that moment to stop in. Now that they feel this activity they think they are coming to shop right? And I am like I am leaving now. No I have been meaning to come here. I said Well that is part of the problem. I hear everybody keep saying you were going to come here. You never did. This looked like such a nice store. I kept meaning to stop in. Yeah we have been meaning to. I drive by it all the time. Now you come over the day I am packing up to leave. We have had a lot of that. Does that closet creep you out? Yeah actually it really does and the other one does not look like it. Yeah it looks like someone hung themselves in there. I know. On the other side of the country on Saturday it was moving day for Gabe and Kevin boyfriends moving in together. Neither of them had ever done this-- had a boyfriend and moved in with him ever. Yeah I feel like I have always seen friends do this. Yeah. And it was always like oh I do not know if it will ever happen for me or if I will ever have that experience or anything. So now that I am I am like oh. Well today is Wednesday and later this evening there is an Elton John concert in La Crosse Wisconsin that my girlfriend Roz and I will be attending with my parents my brother and sister and possibly my pastor. Eric and Roz are 21 and 23 in Stevens Point Wisconsin. And it is at this concert where we intend to tell my parents that we plan on moving in together. And what do you think the reaction is going to be? I am not really optimistic about it I guess. They are a very Christian couple of people whom I love I really love. But-- Previously he is made mention to them this could be a possibility in the future. And what his mother's reaction was was that-- I believe the words were God is not the only one judging you. Is that correct Eric? So they have been prepping. Eric made a list of talking points-- what he figured his parents would say how he would respond. And Thursday the day after the concert I checked in with them again to see how it went. Roz said that it was hard to enjoy Elton John she was so stressed out about this conversation they were going to have which unfortunately they did not start until midnight-- that was not the original plan-- until midnight in his parents house before hitting the road to return to Stevens Point. We were standing in the kitchen. And his mom and dad were just thanking me for coming. And they were so happy that I was able to experience the show with their family. And I am just like my stomach is in knots. And his mother is such a gracious woman. Here she is like Oh do you guys need anything for the trip? Some food? She is packing up tons of food for us and she is like Let me make you a sandwich. And I am thinking You are going to want to retract those statements once I tell you I am going to be living with your son. So they finally broke the news. They want to move in together. They each gave a little talk about why and waited. Eric's mom just said OK. And she just kind of paused and her response was Well you are both adults. And we see. She did not really say We understand or We accept that. But she is like We see. So Eric it seems like this went very very differently than you thought it would. It seems like your mom was lovely. Yeah she really was. My dad was all right too. But during our interview Eric's mom left him a long voicemail that he discovered when he got out of the studio. It is not over. His mom thinks they are rushing into it. It could ruin their relationship. June 1 moving day is coming up very very soon. I will get that there buddy. On Monday of this week in South Portland Maine the two grave diggers at the Mount Pleasant Cemetery Eugene Rand and Bill True-- they are also best friends by the way-- held a work stoppage and then ended the work stoppage. That is what you are hearing right now. The work stoppage was to protest the fact that the 137-year-old cemetery was finally going to modernize. They were going to finally buy a machine to dig graves a backhoe to replace one of the two guys. And on Monday the cemetery's president met with two guys and told them that he had decided to keep them both until the end of June and then he would decide about the backhoe. Satisfied they went back to digging. Bill says that the whole problem is this new manager that the cemetery has brought in. I enjoy working here. I like doing this. That dude over there he is got to go. He just needs to change his attitude a little bit. Show a little respect to the guys that do actually do the work here. And I guess not treat us like a couple peons that do not know anything. Yeah I really hope things work out. It could take all day to dig a grave by hand. They hit rocks. It is hard to keep the sides straight and square. It is hard work. And here's something that the reporter who talked to these guys Clay Bolton learned that I had no idea about. That whole cliche about six feet under? Never. Even in the old days I guess maybe they went six feet under. No. So if it is not six feet under how deep do you guys get? Four feet. Just below the frost line average four feet. No one has ever been buried six feet. That is an old cliche. It really is. It is just an old saying really. The first foot is real easy Eugene says. The second foot gets tough. Your third foot is killing. The fourth foot you are ready to quit. And squaring off the bottom that can be half a day by itself he says. You really did not see it in the headlines but all this week people across the South were still dealing with the aftermath of last week's tornadoes. That is not over not even close. Official estimates are that there were at least 300 tornadoes. At least 329 people have died across seven states according to the Associated Press. And a week in you would think that there would be this agreed-on set of facts. Not so. David Kestenbaum learned this down in Tuscaloosa Alabama. It is understandable that after a monster tornado churns through your town picking up cars and chewing up houses even a week later there is going to be some new piece of unsettling news. We started getting some calls that a lake-- actually kind of a pond in a development older neighborhood that had been largely destroyed-- that they had drained it and found five bodies in the bottom of the lake. This is Doug Ray editor