Hey there America. Can we just get this election over with already? We have had enough excitement right? More than enough plot twists. The president getting coronavirus Ruth Bader Ginsburg dying that whole first debate the alleged contents of Hunter Biden's hard drive-- which are either totally unconvincing or deeply urgently important depending on your point of view. We finally got to see the president's tax records after all these years. That barely seemed to make a dent in anything. Militia plotted to kidnap the governor of Michigan. And then after that the president's followers chanted Lock her up. The president joking not joking told his supporters in North Carolina to go out and try to vote twice. And then after that the attorney general declared on CNN to Wolf Blitzer that voting twice might actually be legal. I do not know what the law in that particular state says. You cannot vote twice. Well I do not know what the law in that particular state says. And when that vote becomes final-- Is there any state that says you could vote twice? Well there is some maybe that you can change your vote up to a particular time. I do not know what the law is so I am not going to offer. Attorney General William Barr looks amazingly relaxed as he says all this. Calm like nothing's out of the ordinary. Nothing to see here officer. Watching him it is hard not to think is this really happening? I got that same feeling looking at photos of the president's rallies where even now he is packing people in. Tons of people with no masks not following CDC guidelines. He is doing this even after he his wife his son his press secretary his campaign manager the chair of the Republican National Committee White House housekeeping and military staff members of the vice president's staff Stephen Miller Kellyanne Conway and Hope Hicks all got coronavirus. Even though cases are at an all-time high and on the rise. Looking at the not socially distanced crowds it is like is this really happening? And now coming up this coming Tuesday we are either going to have an election with a clear winner or apparently the vote will be contested. A contested election seems so possible because the president keeps saying over and over that he is way ahead in the polls and those polls that we are always seeing on the news saying that he is way behind those are fake. And so if he loses he says there is only one possible explanation. The only way we can lose in my opinion is massive fraud. And that is what is happening because all over the country you are seeing it thousands and thousands of ballots. That was Monday in Allentown. Here he is in Oshkosh Wisconsin. Because the only way we are going to lose this election is if the election is rigged. Remember that. It is the only way we are going to lose this election. And we cannot let that happen. There is no evidence for any massive fraud like he is talking about. When he talks about mail-in ballots being a problem-- which he does nearly everywhere-- there is no evidence for that either. Lots more Democrats than Republicans are voting with mail-in ballots this year. Here's the president on Sunday in New Hampshire calling those ballots into question. The other way they said millions of ballots. We do not know who is sending them. We do not know where they are going. We do not know who is bringing them back. We do not know who is signed them. And it should not be allowed. And the Democrats know it is a hoax. And we should not let it happen. So this Tuesday he may fight those ballots. And we might find ourselves in a big no-holds-barred season finale contested election constitutional national meltdown with both sides arguing over whether to count mail-in ballots and ballots that arrive after November 3. And if that happens people on both sides will probably take to the streets to protest and who knows where that might lead? And then of course there are the scenarios where the whole thing gets thrown to Congress or the Supreme Court to decide. So many different ways this could play out where whichever side loses red or blue they will probably never be able to see the final decision as fair and legitimate. So one half of the country will not accept who the other half puts into office. Or maybe that will not happen. Maybe somebody is going to win decisively. That is where we are. Our world is either about to slip into utter chaos or the election will go just fine and things will be fine. That is the unreality of now. There are so many things right now that make it feel like the ground underneath us is thin as a cracker with molten lava underneath. So many things it is hard to understand. This is real. This is really happening. And today on our program we have people trying to get their minds around that. I have to say that is so much of the mood as we head into the Simpsons Halloween Special of an election day. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Would You Like to Come Up to First Class? So the journalist E. Jean Carroll has been in the news this week when a federal judge ruled that the president can be sued by Caroll. Caroll says that back in the 1990s Donald Trump raped her in a dressing room in the department store at Bergdorf Goodman. He says she is lying. She is suing him for defamation. She is one of dozens of women who have accused the president of sexual assault and harassment. The president denies all of their allegations. These stories have been so widely covered and everybody is so used to them. But to Caroll it felt like at this point they were just being ignored which seemed kind of incredible to her. Our program today is about people feeling like is this is really happening? And she definitely felt that about this. It killed her that these stories just somehow did not seem to matter. And this summer she decided to try to do something about it. She had a bunch of conversations with other women who have accused the president and published them in a series of stories in The Atlantic. And her idea was most people only have a vague sense of these stories and do not have much of a sense of what these women say actually happened. And by diving into the details of these stories she would restore them to human size in full color. She is adapted one of the articles that she wrote for us. It is with one of the president's accusers named Jessica Leeds. A warning about content before we start-- this is a frank conversation about sexual assault. Here's E. Jean Caroll. Let me set the scene-- midsummer twilight and Jessica Leeds and I are letting down what is left of our hair. Jessica's in her elegant crib in the Blue Ridge mountains. I am in my little shack just off the Appalachian Trail. And we are Zooming like two old screech owls discovering how much we had in common which includes our love for Mr. Paul Newman our age and our height. How tall are you now? Well I am 5' 7 now. I was 5' 9 at the-- I have lost two inches. Me too. I have lost two inches. I do not know where they have gone but I have lost them. I love being tall. When I was working I was always so thankful-- Yeah me too. --that I was tall. About 40 years ago when Jessica was working as a salesperson for a company that sold newsprint to publications like the Washington Post she sat down next to Donald Trump on an airplane. Let me just say that if you have never Zoomed with a silver-haired soign 78-year-old woman who describes what it is like being strapped in a seat on a Braniff Airlines flight with a future president of the United States trying to fasten his lips on her like a 6' 2 suckfish-- well in my opinion you have not lived let alone Zoomed at all. But before we board that flight a refresher. Jessica was one of the first women to publicly accuse Trump of sexual assault in 2016. It was on the front page of The New York Times. I knew if the story did get any attention that the first thing Trump would say is that I was not pretty enough. Right. I knew instinctively that that is what he was going to say. How did Jessica know? Because Jessica is an old bat. Old bats are the best even better than screech owls. I am an old bat myself. We old bats do not kid ourselves. And in fact one day after The New York Times published the story about what happened to Jessica on that plane in 1980 Trump yammered about her accusations at a rally. Oh I was with Donald Trump in 1980. I was sitting with him on an airplane. And he went after me on the plane. Yeah I am going to go after-- believe me she would not be my first choice that I can tell you. You do not know. That would not be my first choice. I told Jessica the same thing happened to me. I knew it was coming too. I knew it of course. And then he said it about me. She is not my type. Because they are running pictures of me when I am 75 years old. And it is not fair. If they had run pictures of me as I looked-- you and I caught tons of shit because we are older women. For the honor of Jessica Leeds and old bats everywhere Jessica is a beauty now and she was a beauty 40 years ago when she got on that flight to New York. And as she remembers it it was a Braniff flight. Braniff was the chic airline. Her seat would have been full grain leather. Her flight attendant would have been clad in Halston. And her plane it would have been painted in Perseus Green Mercury Blue or Sparkling Burgundy. And so what were you wearing? Do you remember when you got on that plane? Yep. I had my best suit was a brown tweed. Oh I love that suit. And it was jacket and a skirt. It was a fabulous outfit. It really was. I never wore it again after that day though. I hung on to it for quite a while but I never wore it again. I know exactly what she means. It was the same for me with the dress I had on at Bergdorf's. I did not want to throw it away because it was a beautiful Donna Karan. I would never throw it away. But I could not put it on because bad things happened in that dress. Yeah exactly. OK so is not that interesting? We have so much in common. So all right. So you were-- now tell me what happened. You get on the plane. I get on the plane and I was sitting in the back. And I remember watching the stewardess come walking down the aisle. And she saw me and she said would you like to come up to first class? We have space. Never occurred to me not to say yes. And I gathered my purse and I went up to first class. That had happened before. Yeah it is happened to me too. Yeah I kind of accepted the fact that it was entertainment for the big honchos up in first class. Now I do not understand if people understand what we are talking about but that is what they did. They chose the best looking best dressed people and put them up in first. That is right. What we are talking about is how things used to be-- buying a ticket putting on our best clothes hopping on a cocktail party heading for New York or Chicago or Miami or any jazzy city USA. And this party lacked zip unless somebody very rich or very pretty was present. Men in first class would size up the female passengers before boarding and hold a brief conference with the check-in crew. Or alternatively a helpful flight attendant would simply stand in the aisle waving people away and rearranging the seating chart so that an extremely tall chap for instance with black hair like greased felt could have the spot by me which is what I told Jessica had happened on a jumbo jet to LA. After the plane took off following the meal the chap shows me a photo of his private plane. Then he shows me a photo of his Rolls Royce. Then he shows me his erection. It would never have occurred to me to call anybody and say anything! We grew up expecting men to make a pass at-- I was not surprised. I expected it from men. Jessica you and I were born during the Second World War. We did not report. We expected it and we laughed. But we were wrong. We were wrong. We should have spoken up like they are doing now. Well we were so thankful though to have-- Oh I know to have the fucking job. Yep. Oh absolutely. Oh my lord. The flight attendant escorts Jessica to the front of the plane. She sits down in the aisle seat beside Donald Trump. As I recall he introduced himself. The name meant nothing to me. It would not have. This was 1979 1980. Jessica was not a native New Yorker. And she was not yet aware of all the levels the ranks the spheres of New York society that Trump a young rat out of Queens was chewing his way through. He was very good looking in 1980 do you agree? Well-- I found him very attractive in 1996. He was very pretty. Yeah I guess. I-- He was not ugly. I can remember-- I do not remember my reaction. He was perfectly reasonable when I first sat down. I mean he was blonde tall good-sized man that sort of stuff. But I do not remember being overwhelmed by his looks or-- Did he ask you about yourself? What did we talk about? We talked about him. I remember we took off and they served this wonderful meal. And then they came and they picked up everything. And within a short amount of time all of a sudden he is on me like a wet blanket. Did he try to kiss you first? Yes. Yes. She glances away from the screen with a revolted wince. It was such a shock. It was like all of a sudden he is on me. Jessica is ladylike. Therefore allow me-- for I have experience with Trump-- to say in plain English what I believe Trump is about to do. I believe he will go straight for the crotch just like he brags on the Access Hollywood tape. This man who today claims that he has never kissed or groped a woman without consent. It is like he is got four extra hands because he is grabbing my breasts he is trying to kiss me. I am trying to get his hands off of me. And this kind of struggle went on for a little while. And then it is when he started to put his hand up my skirt that I got a jolt of strength and managed to wiggle myself out of the seat. Jessica grabs her purse and storms to the back of the plane. Now wait-- so did he make it all the way to your panties or not? No. No. Because you had by that time started to stand up right? Right. Was there anybody else? Yeah there was the guy across the aisle whose eyes were about the size of a saucer. And I kept thinking-- Ah! --why do not you say something? Or where is the stewardess on this whole thing? Why does not somebody come and rescue me? And that is when I realized there was only me that was going to rescue me. So that is when I-- Well I am glad you thought of-- see some women freeze in this situation. Yes. Yes I know. You did not freeze. No. No. But I certainly did not say anything. I did not say anything either! I did not scream! I did not do shit. I laughed. Did you laugh? Yeah. No I do not recall laughing. No. I took it seriously. I mean this was a real physical attack. And-- Oh I know it is an attack an assault. Yeah. Although we talk about Trump groping women most people do not understand how brazen Trump really is because no one knows what groping means. It is one of the reasons I wanted to talk to the Trump accusers. Who knows what the heck Trump is actually doing or on what part of the female body he is doing it? One of Trump's accusers described for me Trump putting his hand up her skirt and onto her vulva. And she used the plain English. It was like a squish she said. A squeeze. And she made a motion with her hand like squeezing a rubber duck. That is groping. So why does Trump do it? Jessica and I ponder. Let us try to figure this out. The main question is he knows he is not going to be able to have intercourse with you on the plane. He knows this. Why does he do this? What did he think he was going to gain? Was it sexual? Were you turning him on to such an extent that he could not stand it? What was it? Well personally I cannot-- I thought he was bored. Oh. Nothing happening so let us grab a little pussy here you know. This is such an insight to me! This is such an insight. Got it. But it goes along with his Hollywood tape. And he has no attention span. No no. Was he reading at all beforehand? No. Did not he have a book? No. Newspaper? Nope. Who'd get on a plane in 1980 without a ton of magazines newspapers or The Wall Street Journal? Exactly. And he had nothing to read? Nope. You said he was bored. That is an insight that I think-- it really sends it home. Because some people have claimed he does it for power. I do not think it has anything to do with power. Well it could be. But I really kind of just chalked it off to him being bored. So Trump grabs one woman. Then he grabs the next woman and the next woman. And pretty soon we start thinking Trump grabbing women is normal. Then Trump grabbing women becomes so normal it is boring. It is old news and there is so much that he is done. But Jessica it is not old news. We are the most current thing. We tried to warn people. We tried to warn America this is who he was. And so now we seem to have been forgotten. We have been pushed-- well we have been ignored. And this drives me crazy. This is why we are doing this. We are doing it between now and the election. That is our duty to once again tell America what this man is like. Well some people may have forgotten us but you know who has not forgotten us? The men who are voting for Trump because he grabbed us because he is macho because Trump proved he can paw any woman he wants. And you know who else has not forgotten? Women like Jessica and I. We will never forget. How often did you think about this between then and 2015 when he came to the fore again you know? I probably would not have had it so emblazoned in my mind if it had not been for the gala at Saks Fifth Avenue. The gala at Saks Fifth Avenue. This is a year or two after the flight and it is a benefit for the Humane Society of New York and a few other charities. Jessica is the assistant to the president of the Humane Society and is handing out table assignments. I had this fabulous dress. Oh what was it? Let me hear. Mary McFadden-- Oh I love Mary McFadden. --pleated all these little pleats in a taxicab yellow. And I show up at Saks and I have got this great dress on. And I am doing my thing. And I am meeting Geoffrey Beene. I am meeting Bill Blass. I am meeting all of these designers for this party. And in fact Mary McFadden came up and looked at me and said that is my dress. And I said yes it is. So it was really a fabulous evening. And then Trump with his wife Ivana came up. She was pregnant very pregnant. And he looked at me when I handed him his table assignment. And I am looking at him thinking you are the asshole from the airplane. I remember you. The future president of the United States remembers Jessica too. And he looked at me and he said I remember you. You are the cunt from the airplane. E. Jean Carroll she is a journalist and the author of the memoir What Do We Need Men For her series of conversations with women who accuse Donald Trump of sexual assault. It is available at theatlantic.com.   Coming up seeing people fight over corn dogs in a grocery store leads one woman to do something that she has avoided for years. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program The Unreality of Now. As we approach this historic and momentous election day we have stories of people trying to get their heads around and adapt to this strange time we are living through. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two The Gun Reality of Now. One sign of how shaken up people are in our country right now-- gun sales. They are going nuts. A record year according to the FBI. The FBI is doing twice the number of background checks they did last year. A survey of gun store owners by an industry trade group estimates that something like 40 of their sales are to first-time gun buyers-- 40 to people who have never owned a gun. Lilly Sullivan talked to some of them and it was like a tour of different fears that people have about this country right now. The thing I wanted to know was why now? What is the thing that made you want a gun? Brian told me he was around guns some when he was growing up. He would sometimes do target practice or go shooting. When he was 16 he was hunting with his family and he killed a deer. It made him really sad. So he never bought a gun. Now he is 52 and lives in Steamboat Springs Colorado. It is in the mountains kind of a ski town in the winter. He just bought a gun the day I talked to him a Glock 9 millimeter. The thing that made him want one? The first presidential debate the one where there was so much yelling. After watching that debate I laughed out loud multiple times but at the same time I was horrified. What was it about the debate? Oh I think it was just the non-civility. It was not civil. I mean Biden was trying to be civil. But the leader of our country was not trying to be civil. I mean whoever thought our country would come to this to where it almost seems like it-- I mean I do not know if it is leading towards a civil war but it is not-- it does not seem civil. Everybody on my side we are mad. Everybody on that side they are mad. I mean it is-- I do not know after the election if-- if the Republicans are going to take this very well if they lose. Trump's already saying that-- he has not said he is going to accept any kind of-- I mean it is going to be challenged. And then you get-- I think there is going to be-- I mean there is going to be people protesting. Protesting the election you mean? Yeah the results. And I mean it is just-- and you know what? And those people that are going to be protesting the results-- I mean I hope they do not become violent. But they are all Second Amendment gun-toting Americans you know? And I do not know. And I think I am fine in my small little town that I live in. But I mean you just never know. I actually went and looked at guns at one gun shop on the Thursday after the debate. And they were out. They were out of guns. They were out of ammo. I get online and I looked at stores in Denver and stuff like that even. Sold out sold out sold out sold out sold out sold out. Unbelievable. And so then I found another place. It is like an hour from home. And they had guns. It is a weird thing because I feel like I go to the gun counter. And first off there is the whole mask non-masked libtard thing. So yeah it felt weird because you are talking to a bunch of gun-toting Republicans trying to buy a gun off of them. So then I am there in cut-off sweatpants and a hoodie wearing a mask. And so yeah it is a little bit-- You said libtard? Oh I have heard that so much. And I went into my local gun shop where masks should be required according to the ordinances. And I was in there talking to the kid. He had a pistol on his side. It looked like he was definitely not voting for the same person I am voting for. And he did not have a mask on. And his dad who owned the shop did not have a mask on. Then the kid's-- after I am in there for a couple minutes he is like you do not have to wear your mask. And I am like uh yeah I will go ahead and just keep my mask on if you do not mind. And he kind of paused and he got choked up on like he was going to say some stuff. And I was finally like no we do not need to discuss it. I just have some questions about these guns. And he kind of was not as nice to me after that. Oh really? You think you maybe irritated him a little or something. Yeah like because I was a libtard in his store looking at guns. So I guess now I am a gun-toting libtard. For DeJonae the moment she decided to buy a gun happened in March. She is a nurse in San Bernardino County outside of LA. DeJonae has an aunt who wanted her to get a gun for years. Her aunt owns a gun store. It is actually the only Black-owned gun store on the West Coast where she trains women to shoot. DeJonae is pretty her aunt told me. She worries about her niece dating and living alone. DeJonae had even had a stalker once. But the thing that flipped DeJonae was not the stalker. She was in the grocery store after work one day. The pandemic had just arrived. I have never seen the grocery store look the way that it looked-- lines wrapped around the building people beating people up for their groceries or for their baskets because there were none. Everywhere. And it was just like complete pandemonium. Did you say beating people up? Like fighting? Yeah people were getting into fights-- physical fights. So wait what were people fighting about? The last sanitizer. I mean but there is not-- it was not just one. There were a couple of them. People were fighting over the last pack of tissue literally the last pack of frozen corn dogs. Everyone was buying everything that they could put their hands on. And I just remember looking at all these people and it just made me scared. I said wow I am scared. So I called my aunt and I said hey I need to buy a gun. And she started laughing. And I said what do you have? And then I sent her the money right there. And-- Like online? Yeah I Zelled it to her. I Zelled her the money. And I am like I already paid for it. This is mine. Put it aside. A lot of first-time gun owners I talked to explain their reason this way. They had started to feel something weird in the air a kind of amorphous anxiety. Shane is 49. He has a house in the hills in Northern California. So in addition to all the coronavirus strangeness they have also had wildfires and rolling blackouts. One day a few months ago the power went out. And it did not come back for 14 days which meant no internet. And then the cell towers stopped working. So things started getting weird. That is the best way that we can put it is things started getting weird. People would drive right up to the grocery store. Not park just literally drive right up and nose first right in front of the doors for the grocery store and get out and just leave their car there. You mean those sliding doors? Yeah. So there was like fraying. There was just a feeling. There was just a feeling in the air that was not a good feeling. You could pick up that things were getting kind of weird and were going to get weirder if the power did not come on soon. I asked Shane and everyone else when you think about needing a gun what do you picture? Is there a scene that plays in your mind? Nearly everyone said it is night. They are sleeping and someone dangerous shows up. Shane's version is people wandering to his house in a disaster finding it in the woods through the smoke and trying to take his family's supplies their food their generator the things they need to survive. There is something pre-apocalyptic about it. He is on his own protecting his home from marauders. This is stuff he does not think will happen. But at the same time for months they have been surrounded by fires smoke so thick that it can look like dusk in the middle of the day. So somehow it does seem possible to him. All kinds of things do. I wonder if there are people who-- in our community who resent us because we are successful or for whatever reason because we are Jews or because we are gay and-- you know. We do have a growing neo-Nazi threat in this country. It is our biggest internal security danger is the growth of neo-Nazis. And those people know how to use firearms. So but my feeling is if you are on the left or even a moderate you should be doing the same thing to protect yourself. My husband's been a little out of control with the ammunition. He is purchased like 1600 rounds. And I said Glenn after a gun battle involving 1600 rounds your gun A would melt because the barrel would get so hot you would have to stop firing after a certain point. And I said our house would probably collapse. It would look like Swiss cheese. The walls would collapse inward on themselves. But he is like it is just hard to find ammunition for this gun. And I am like I am fine with about 75 rounds. I do not feel like I need 1600 rounds of ammunition. And I actually asked him to please stop buying ammunition but-- Oh my gosh. --he did really stock up.  OK I am trying to picture 1600 rounds. Is that like a shoe box full of bullets? We actually did buy some Gucci flats. And that box was filled up with bullets. It is kind of an incongruous look the Gucci shoe box with the 22 bullets. That is a gay male way of doing it. Nancy bought her pistol around Mother's Day. She send me a photo of herself on Mother's Day dressed in a Lilly Pulitzer blouse and pale blue cardigan holding a Smith and Wesson 380 EZ. She is 53. She owns a small business making luggage tags. She is also worked as a nurse a lot in hospice. She lives with her family just outside of Appleton Wisconsin. She described her town to me as your typical do not-have-to-lock-your-door suburb. Before this year she would never even held a gun. It was actually kind of hard for her to explain why it felt so urgent. It is kind of like a nameless faceless feeling that I have almost like the earthquake that the world had where everything shifted. And the normal that we knew is no longer there. It is like the axis. The world fell off its axis. Since the pandemic she says her world has suddenly shrunken to just her family and her home. That was all you had. And so if someone was going to come into your house and take that away as everything else had been taken away that was not OK. Nancy lives two hours north of Kenosha Wisconsin where there were big protests after the shooting of Jacob Blake by police officers. Some demonstrators set cars and buildings on fire. The National Guard was called in. A teenager a Trump supporter who came to the protests in support of Blue Lives Matter shot three people killing two of them. There have been protests in Appleton near where Nancy lives. It is this small town. Nothing happens. Nothing goes on. We do not have any murderers but we had rioters here in Appleton. So we have got kind of a small town taste of people being upset and being-- the tension. The police in Appleton do not use the word riot to describe what happened there. One man was assaulted but there were no fires no vandalism. And when Nancy and I talked about it more she agreed that riot was not the right word. Nancy already owned her gun by the time this happened but a lot of gun store owners have said that customers point to the protests as one of the reasons they felt so worried. I do not want to sound like a privileged white woman that I am living in this la-la land which is really mostly white people here. I mean this is almost Utah white. It is white white here. But there has been more racial tension and more people coming in. And I do not know. I think it is the underlying fear. And I do not know who I am afraid of. That is also kind of upsetting too is I do not really know who am I afraid of. Who am I worried about? Tell me more about that. What do you mean? I do not know. Is there somebody that is going to be coming for revenge because I am Caucasian? Is there somebody that is coming for my property? Is there someone coming just because they feel like it? So when you are thinking about just the unrest are you picturing Black people? Because I also know that in Kenosha it was a white teenager who killed two people. So I am just kind of curious. Is it Black people? Is it white people? Honestly if I had to say what I was worried about is-- and this is going to sound truly awful but I do not think it is so much a matter of a color of a skin but more of a socioeconomic level of someone that is so desperate that-- things are so bad and people losing their job and people are unable to make their rent. And I think that is what makes me more nervous than particular Black Lives Matter or African-Americans or anything like that. I think it is more just the desperation of people. So the protests and stuff like that does not scare me. I think it is more just the world in general that scares me and the unrest and the uneasy feeling than anything else. One more person. Elsa lives in a small town in North Carolina. Growing up no one around her had guns. She grew up in Kenya moved to the US over 30 years ago. That nightmare scenario that nearly everyone talked about of being woken up in the night by intruders asleep and helpless it actually happened to Elsa a couple of years ago. The intruders fled before hurting anyone but it was terrifying. She thought about getting a gun. But she did not until this year when COVID hit and when police violence set off protests around the country. I worry not about the Black Lives Matter. I worry about the crazies that are out there that are against the Black Lives Matter movement that could target someone like me just because of the color