When Aaryn was nine her family moved from China to Canada. And there was this pool in their apartment complex. And one day her dad was like let us try out the pool. And Aaryn's super excited and her dad is meanwhile thinking she does not know how to swim. Time to fix that. And as soon as they get to the pool he picks her up throws her in the deep end. And I start screaming. And I still did not really know what was going on. And I was screaming and struggling in the water. And every few seconds I can kind of see above water my dad standing there like looking at me. And I am screaming and he is not really reacting. And then I see like the other kids and their parents. And they were looking really disapproving. Did you feel like at the moment that he threw you in did you feel betrayed by him? I felt angry. I felt angry that I was embarrassed because of something he did. Did you feel angry that you might drown? I mean are not you leaving out that? I like that the embarrassment is a bigger thing in your head at that moment than like oh I might actually just die right now. I really did not think I would. Like that did not even crossed my mind. Like what I was thinking the most was oh my god. All these white kids and their parents are watching me. Like I was trying to will myself into learning how to swim so I would not have to keep embarrassing myself. It is literally only now only once she started talking about this for our radio show that the thought occurred to her that maybe all those people were not looking disapprovingly at her but at her dad. Back when she was nine she just blamed herself for failing. I remember thinking like how could you not know how to swim? You just have to swim and be OK. Look at all these people staring at you. And look at the look on your dad's face. Just swim. And then I feel myself sinking and I can only see water around me. And then a few seconds later I do not know how long I feel someone grab me. And then I see that it is my dad. And we slowly get out of the pool. And he did not really talk to me for the rest of the night. She did overhear him telling her mom I do not know what is wrong it should have been easy. She should have been able to do it. In the years since she has never talked to him about it. But this whole idea of sink or swim I mean the actual sink or swim-- you know throw a kid into the deep end of the pool-- it seems so contrary to all of the other nicey nicey ways that we try to teach kids about everything else. And it is way more common than you think. It happened to two of our producers here on the show Emmanuel and Matt. It happened to my wife. They were just tossed in over their heads no warning totally caught off guard. Aaryn says it did not traumatize her. In fact it motivated her to try to teach herself to swim a month later so there would be no further embarrassment. You know what is the weird part of this strategy is the element of surprise. Yeah. Like it seems like if you are going to do this with your kid you could say here's what we are going to do. I am going to throw you in the pool and you are going to swim your way out. Like the thought that he would surprise you it just seems like a completely unnecessary extra bonus piece of trauma to throw on the whole thing. Yeah I do not know why he chose to do that. I should ask him some time. Can we call him?    Mama.   This of course is the universal sound of one parent getting the other parent on the phone. Once her dad was on the line Aaryn explained why we were calling.  Deep end. And I have to say this must have been a very strange call for Aaryn's dad to get at 1000 at night in China. His daughter lives in Europe these days plus some man from a radio show in America he is never heard of asking about a totally random incident that happened in Canada 16 years ago. I cannot exactly remember that. That is really a long time ago. I cannot remember it. The phone line is bad. He is saying I cannot exactly remember that. That is really a long time ago. I cannot remember it. Aaryn's dad said that being thrown into the deep end of the pool was not like some traditional way they taught swimming back home in the village he came from. He did not learn that way. And yet when I asked him would he teach a child today to swim that way would he throw her into the deep end of the pool? He said yeah maybe. Maybe. I think maybe. Maybe. So you do not think it is a bad idea? No I do not think so. No. Aaryn was unsurprised. When he got off the phone she told me even when she was nine and flailing around in the water for him to throw her in like that it was not like she was seeing some insane side of him she would never seen before some unheard of behavior. No that is not insane for my dad. Like it seemed really on character for him to do that. Like if it had been anything else driving a car. Like with roller blades he just dropped me off at a grocery store parking lot made me put them on myself and then gave me a shopping cart and said hold on to this and you will learn. And then he drove away and said come home when you are tired. It is just how he thinks I will learn best I guess. This is a whole coherent strategy for life. It is tough out there. Stuff's gotta get done. Coddling ourselves coddling others that is not going to do anybody any good. Today on our program we have two very different stories in which people are thrown into the deep end of the pool asked to do things they were totally inexperienced at and unprepared for in situations with very high stakes. In one story a man faces 20 years in prison. And in the other the United States faces an implacable foe on a quest for global domination. I am not kidding global domination. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One If You Cannot Afford an Attorney Some Random Dude Will Be Appointed to You. So one of the many many things that we all know from watching television is that when you get arrested someone is supposed to read you your Miranda rights. And those rights include the right to an attorney. And if you cannot afford an attorney one will be given to you for free. Well those free attorneys public defenders they have never been adequately funded in lots of states. And in recent years the problem has reached crisis levels. Lots of public defenders offices around the country simply do not have the money and staff to provide a lawyer to everyone who needs one. And in some states Florida Tennessee Missouri Montana Louisiana the court just picks random lawyers and makes them take the cases. A few weeks ago you might have seen this in the news the public defender's office in Missouri tried to assign a case like this it was an assault case to the governor of Missouri Jay Nixon who is a member of the bar. The head of the public defender's office said it was appropriate to give the case to him because quote he was the one attorney in the state who not only created this problem but is in a unique position to address it by giving them more funding. The governor apparently is not going to take that case. But other lawyers have to. And there is an interesting problem when they assign these random lawyers to these cases. Often these attorneys have no experience at all in the kind of law they are going to have to use in the cases. So for example if you are picked up for marijuana possession your fate might be in the hands of a lawyer who specializes in real estate. Reporter David Zax has a story of a case like that in Louisiana Shreveport which is in Caddo Parish. The case went to a guy who is not prepared for it. Quick warning to listeners there is no explicit or graphic content in this story at all but there is some colorful cursing. That is actually true for both acts of today's program. And if you prefer a show that has been beeped maybe you listen with kids in the car you can get that at our website thisamericanlife.org. OK here's David. This case is about a burglary. One night a few years ago a woman woke up to a flashlight shining in her face. This was in Shreveport Louisiana in the northwest corner of the state. The woman screamed and the burglars fled. They made off with two TVs a computer an iPhone. But they would also left some evidence behind a cigarette butt a crowbar and a hat a black baseball cap. The police bagged the hat and they sent it to the crime lab for DNA testing. It turned out that some DNA in the hat matched a man named Trastavien Hardy. A warrant was issued for his arrest and he turned himself in. Shreveport was one of those places assigning private attorneys to cases like this because they do not have enough public defenders. So the judge he looked at this list he had of private attorneys in the area. It was alphabetical and he just picked the next name. Jack Bailey one of those accident and injury guys whose ads you see all over the place. I hope you work every day without being hurt on the job drive without someone running a stop sign go through life without ever being hurt because of someone else's stupidity. This one is beautifully lit and shot. Jack is sitting at a big desk. He is in shirt sleeves and suspenders looking quietly tough. But bad things happen to good people. And if it should happen to you you are going to want someone like me by your side. And around here there is only one someone like me. Jack Bailey is 64. And for over 30 years he is made his money on workplace accidents car crashes medical malpractice that kind of thing. Jack likes to call himself a podunk shirtsleeve lawyer. But he is been really successful. He wears monogrammed shirts under those suspenders. He is got a huge stately office with bayonets and a Do not Tread on Me flag on the wall. He is got a showy dog too a bull terrier that hangs out with him all day. Oh yeah he is friendly. Hey Tater somebody wants to meet you. Tater wake up. Jack's always liked doing this kind of work. He gets to pick his clients make his own schedule. He finds out he is been assigned Trastavien's case in April 2015 when a fax comes in a single-page court order. Jack picks it up looks at it. And he is very unhappy and his face was kind of red. This is Tammy Burdine. She is been Jack's paralegal for over a decade. Jack took the fax to his office made a racket. He was yelling to himself. He was in his office for a little while and he came out and he made the comment to me well it looks like we are representing a damn criminal. The court order was a form letter. Jack's name was scribbled into a blank. He still has it. Therefore it is ordered that Attorney Jack Bailey be appointed to represent the defendant in this matter. By the way it does not say this but for free at my cost. Because it cost hundreds of dollars an hour to operate my office. So I am actually paying to represent somebody. This is not free. Tammy was doing her best not to panic over how she and Jack were going to handle the case they would been assigned. Because Jack does not do criminal cases. He does not deal with people facing prison time. But Tammy knew that Jack had at least dabbled in criminal cases for a few months early in his career. Maybe they would be OK. Surely law school taught him stuff about criminals. Surely somebody taught them something about criminal. I had not read the Louisiana Code of Criminal Procedure in over 30 years when I got this appointment. I guess I just thought well Mr. Bailey has practiced long enough. He is a lawyer. He knows what to do. I am upset. I am worried about whether I am going to be able to do a good job or not. I am worried about how much time I am gonna have to invest in it. There is nothing good to say about it. So Jack came up with a plan. He thought the appointment had to be illegal. So he told Tammy get me out of this. She started drafting letters of complaint to send off to the judge and to the public defenders. But because she was worried they might get stuck with the case on her own she started doing something else. She started working it. Tammy is super organized. Wire-rimmed glasses late 40s a smoker. And because Jack has not told her to do this work she has to hide her tracks. When she wants to call the clerk of court to ask a question she makes sure she is out of earshot of Jack's office. Her desk is right outside his door. He would come out of his office and I am minimizing WordPerfect. And I am on Caddo's website. And I hear you can hear his chair go creak. And I am like oh crap. Here he comes. He is up he is up. And I am closing things. And I am trying my best. I do not want to poke-- we laugh about it here but the rule is you do not poke the bear. And I am worried about him seeing things on my computer poking the bear. But I have to but I was told he did not want us to. And I am so confused on this whole case on every level. She started where any of us would Google. First she looks at the basics of criminal procedure in Louisiana and also the basics of her own case. The state had given them almost nothing. On the court order there was not even a charge listed just a docket number and the guy's name Trastavien Hardy. In her googling Tammy finds a mug shot and a rap sheet. Trastavien is 25 and his record goes back years. There is a marijuana possession a car break in and he is a registered sex offender. But that is all she can find. So she just waits. She assumes that the DA's office or the court is going to send more information. I mean you know if you watch the TV shows the Law  Order the Criminal Minds they have evidence. We have evidence in the civil matters. So I assumed the rest of it was coming maybe in a box or a big envelope. And it never came. It just did not. A month passed. Then on May 13-- The phone rings and the receptionist answers it and he transfers the call and says Mr. Bailey the court is on the phone. So he picks it up this is Jack Bailey. And I can hear Mr. Bailey from where I sit. And he is telling them nobody told us about this date. And nobody said and I was not aware. And you know we would missed the date. They would missed a court date on Trastavien's case. Tammy took a closer look at the faxed court order. There it was. It actually is just handwritten at the bottom of the order and it looks like 5.13. And I know it says court date but it is bad handwriting. Of course there was one person who managed to show up in court that day. He was brought there directly from jail. At that time I really was just lost. Jack's client Trastavien Hardy. He would come to the courtroom in shackles hoping to finally meet his lawyer. But a bailiff in the courtroom told Trastavien that he had not seen Jack at all. Lots of these appointed attorneys were not showing up. You know I asked him like where my lawyer at who my lawyer is. And he like you probably never going to get to see him. He will never really come to court. That is all he just said. Like you will never get to see him in court. I am like dang. Trastavien was eager to see an attorney because he says he had not done the burglary. It is true he used to be mixed up in some bad stuff. He would pled guilty to those things Tammy had read about though they were not all as bad as she would imagined. That registered sex offense for example it was consensual. Trastavien was 17 his girlfriend was 14 which at the time was a felony in Louisiana. He served time for it. Trastavien is slight and soft spoken. Says yes sir a lot. You have to lean in a bit to hear him sometimes. And he says that since he got out of prison in 2011 he would been keeping his nose clean. He was 25. He was a full-time student at a local college. He had just started dating someone a nurse. He would been sitting in jail since April terrified upset confused. He wanted to get back to his school to his girlfriend. At his first court date he found out that the Caddo public defender's office could not offer him a lawyer so he went back to his cell waited for a month. Then on May 13 he went to court and his new lawyer some guy named Jack Bailey did not even bother to show. Back in his cell Trastavien sat down and wrote a letter to Alan Golden the chief public defender in Caddo. Dear Mr. Alan Golden I was told you were the person to contact as far as reassigning me another public defender. Trastavien noted that Jack Bailey had ditched his court date never tried to contact him never visited him in jail. So I would like to fire him and be appointed someone who is going to fight for me. Thanks for your time and I hope this letter do not go unnoticed. Sincerely Trastavien Hardy. There is one word here it looks like you went over it several times with the pen. It is pretty thick there. What is the word there? Fire. Fire. Trastavien could not fire Jack of course. There was not a backup lawyer to assign to him. Meanwhile Jack had been sending off his own letters trying to get removed from the case. And by June he and Tammy realized it was not going to work. Jack was stuck with Trastavien just like Trastavien was stuck with him. First step now that Jack was on board he needed to visit Trastavien. But in order to get into the jail the warden said that he need a bar card some kind of photo ID that the Louisiana State Bar Association issues. Jack had never needed a bar card in his civil practice. He was fuming. Yeah listen I am sort of-- do not take this wrong way but I am kind of a big fish in a small pond. I have been here 40 years. I am in the phone book. I was on the spine of the book. I periodically run TV advertisements. I mean everybody knows me. The sheriff lives down the street from my mama on Moss Point Road. The sheriff has known me for 30 years. And they are telling me I gotta get a bar code to come in as an appointed lawyer to see some poor bastard that is locked up in the jail? I mean really theater of the absurd. They wasted two weeks to get the whole bar card thing sorted out. And then finally almost two months after getting his appointment Jack was going to meet his client. So Jack is sitting in the visiting room waiting for Trastavien. He comes in I introduce myself. He does not know who I am. I have to explain to him who I am what I am doing there. So then he starts telling me I need to get out of jail. I need to get out of jail. I have lost my job. I have had to drop out of school. Well the first thing I am telling him is whoa slow up man. You know tell me about what happened. Are you guilty of this or not? Trastavien said he was not guilty. He said he did not know anything about the burglary. But Jack pointed to the warrant which said Trastavien's DNA had been collected from a hat. Trastavien explained that he would had lots of hats over the years. He would collected hats. He would lost hats. He would traded hats. Even if his DNA was on a hat at the scene it was not proof he would been there. Jack believed him. You know look if you are a good trial lawyer you can detect the BS right? OK. I mean you get pretty good at it. I just walked out of there and my gut was telling me this kid was not guilty of what he was charged with. Also if he had done this burglary he would have had more information to give me. I do not find that clients are shy about sharing information with their lawyer OK. So it is not like the other conversations I had in my career with criminal defendants that were guilty. Because let me tell you they all know what is going on. And they all ask you well does the state know about this? What witnesses do they have? Did they find this? And Mr. Hardy knew precious little about this. Jack was suddenly invested in the case. Up till now he would assumed Trastavien was probably guilty. In his experience that is true of most people accused of crimes. Around the office Jack had been calling Trastavien our criminal. But now he was ready to fight for him go to trial. Which presented a problem. His client did not want to do that. Unlike Jack Trastavien did have some recent experience in the criminal justice system. He would stood in front of a lot of judges. He would spent three years in prison. And he knew most everybody takes a plea. Nobody goes to trial. He told Jack-- I will just plead guilty to anything within a year to go home. I am like I just want to go home. I could take a year of something two years of probation. So you were saying you were ready to plead guilty to just about anything if you could get out in a year. I mean you have kind of-- Misdemeanor that is what I was really trying to just get a misdemeanor. But Jack was not hearing that. He wanted a trial. Did Jack explain to you that he was not a criminal defense attorney? Oh yes sir. He had let me know that from the beginning. How did you react when you heard this was his first criminal case in like 30 years? I really was like after I just really sat down and talked to him I was like at peace. Like I know I am in here. I know somebody somebody came to see me. I know somebody that wants to help me. So now Jack had to prepare a case. Luckily Tammy had been doing all that secret work on the case behind Jack's back. Or not so secret it turns out. Turns out the bear knows what is going on in his woods. Well yeah I walk right by her desk all the time. I see what is up on her computer screen. By the time they got to trial Tammy worked up a master timeline a list of evidence a list of evidence and discovery not produced questions to use in cross-examination and 126 pages of details on other possible suspects. June 22 2015 on this date Jack and Trastavien had their first preliminary examination. Basically it was a pre-trial court date where the DA was supposed to outline their case against Trastavien and prove why he should still be held in jail. Now remember Jack and Trastavien were going to walk into court and plead not guilty. That was the plan. But in court that day Trastavien got cold feet. When he walks in and he comes up to the counsel table when they brought him down from the jail. First thing he said to me was-- I plead guilty right now. That is cop a plea take a deal no trial. I said no you are not doing that. And he goes but I want to. And I said shut up. Just trust me for a minute. His confidence it is how he talk with that baritone voice you cannot help but be like well yes sir. I am going to just sit back and let you do it then. I am sure that here I was this old rich fat ugly white guy telling this young black man the way of the world and the lay of the land. And I am sure he thought man what have I gotten stuck with? I have talked to a couple defense attorneys about Jack's strategy to go to trial. And they agreed it was risky. A public defender who was in the courtroom that day told me she thought it was reckless. Because first of all if your client is interested in a plea deal you are supposed to explore that see what the DA might be willing to offer. Jack refused to do that. And Trastavien was right he really could face a lot more time if he went to trial. This was after all Caddo Parish. Caddo Parish is unique for how harsh their system is and can be. This is Derwyn Bunton a public defender who spent the early part of his career working cases in Caddo. These days he is the chief public defender across the state in New Orleans. Caddo Parish has a reputation for tough long sentences. And up until recently led the state in capital convictions in death sentences for a number of years. Derwyn told me the story of one case he handled in Caddo. He was representing a 14-year-old who coincidentally was charged with the same crime as Trastavien simple burglary of an inhabited dwelling. And the allegation was he went into a neighbor's house without permission and took a Pepsi and a Hot Pocket. So he drank the Pepsi ate the Hot Pocket knew the neighbor. He got caught. And he got sentenced to seven years. He was going to stay in juvenile prison until he was 21. And I just thought that there was some sort of typo. No damage no one was hurt and he was 14. And they are going to leave him in jail till he is essentially a grown man. We were able to get him out early with some good work. But they gave him seven years without blinking and did not even go to trial. That is Caddo Parish. Attorneys told me if Trastavien took a plea he would probably get about the same as that teenager five to eight years. But if you push for trial in lost the minimum he would get given his priors would be 20 years. And he could get life. So through the summer Jack and Trastavien have this series of pre-trial court dates. The main reason they are noteworthy is because at every one Jack is being a giant pain in the ass demanding a speedy trial berating the young DA on this case insisting they free Trastavien without bail. Trastavien says people in the stands were oohing and ahhing at Jack's performance. One old woman said God is good. A trial date was set for November 30. And the judge released Trastavien to wait out the days till trial at home. At that point he would spent 105 days in jail. Here's the riskiest thing about Jack's demand for a speedy trial he demanded it without even knowing all the evidence the state had on Trastavien. Not till September did that big box of files Tammy was expecting finally come in from the DA's office. It was more of a packet 54 pages stuffed into a manila envelope. Tammy tore into it as soon as it came. And it turned out that the case against Trastavien was even weaker than they thought. Because the crime lab report the one that pointed out Trastavien's DNA had been found on a hat it said there was actually DNA from two people on the hat. Someone else besides Trastavien had worn that hat. So they had a good case after all. It is the Saturday after Thanksgiving two days before the trial that could send Trastavien away for decades. Jack and Tammy are supposed to be preparing but when Tammy gets to the office-- I have a note in my chair that says I am sick. The note of course was from Jack. He came into work just wanted to complain. I got some horrible Siberian death crud upper respiratory infection. And I am like what? Instead of being at home Thanksgiving with my family Tammy and I are up here getting prepared for trial. We are working on PowerPoints timelines. Preparing documents making sure I's are dotted and T's are crossed. Because I am freaking out. I am freaking out. Years ago I had gotten a series of videotapes VHS tapes from Gerry Spence about voir dire and opening statement. Gerry Spence is a famed trial lawyer a kind of legal guru. Voire dire is jury selection. And I pulled my old TV out in the back that you can still play VHS tapes in. And I am sitting in here you know drinking tea and eating ibuprofen and watching Gerry Spence tapes taking notes to remember how to do this the right way you know? Monday November 30 the day of the trial. Jack Tammy and Trastavien all enter the court house. Jack's eager. He is ready. He loves this part of the job. But before anything official begins the young DA on this case Scott Brady he pulls Jack aside and tells him something totally shocking. He is going to nolle pros the case. In other words I am dropping the charges. And at that point I said some things that I cannot tell you if you are going to play them on the radio. Why do not you tell us and then will determine if we-- That is my producer saying why do not you tell us and we will determine if we can play it. I said you god damn mother fucking son of a bitch you did not read your goddamn file until this weekend did you? In other words you just realized how weak your case was. If you would done that months ago you would have saved me and my client a lot of trouble. Scott Brady declined to comment for our story but a colleague claims that he was ready for trial that day. So Jack has this side conversation with the DA and knows the charges against Trastavien are going to be dropped. But nobody else does. Not the judge not Tammy and Trastavien who are there after all these months of preparation waiting for the trial to start. The gavel strikes. The court's in session. We are first. The assistant DA gets up and says your honor in the matter State vs. Trastavien Hardy and then he says your honor the state is dismissing the charges with nothing else. And that was it. As soon as I walked up there I am like oh yes. Thank you Jesus. That was the first thing I said really. I was like thank you Jesus. I really felt overwhelmed. I was like about time. But I am all of a sudden going what? What just happened? We are here. We are ready. They just stomped the show. The show is just-- but that is what I wanted. But then I will not know the outcome. But this is the outcome. But wait a minute they need to know that Mr Hardy did not do this. And then Mr Bailey he said your honor-- I refused to leave the courtroom without putting some things on the record. Several defense attorneys told me this was a pretty crazy thing Jack was doing. The DA was ready to dismiss the charges. Normally you would say thank you and move on. What if Jack said something that made the DA change his mind? Tammy was worried. And now I am going to pass out right here in this chair. What is he doing? What is happening? And Mr Hardy had been standing up there with him. And so he is really he turns around and looks at me like is this OK? Really just looked back like whoa what is going on now? And I am sure my look told him this is not OK on any level. This is not OK. You should panic. Come sit down. Get away from him. Stop. Because I do know Mr. Bailey. And he is going to say what he believes needs to be said. I said judge I have a statement I want to make for the record to protect Mr Hardy in the future if this arrest prosecution is ever held against him if you do not mind. I said judge this man is factually innocent. And I am sorry the court is not going to get to see me excoriate the police and the district attorney's office in this case. Jack's speech lasted about 10 minutes. He ranted about the scant evidence against his client about the DA about having to take this case at all. So you can put on the record judge I am angry and I am angry at the system. When Jack was done the judge then turned to Scott Brady and asked Mr. DA anything further? The DA Scott Brady answered the judge no sir. The matter has been dismissed. The judge turned to Trastavien you are free to go he said. Since Scott Brady will not do an interview we do not know why he dropped the case. There are a few factors here. The victim did not show up in court. And the crime in the scheme of things was not that serious. But both public defenders who were in the courtroom that day told me they thought Jack might have been the deciding factor. One of them Sarah Smith said Jack made it clear he was going to fight tooth and nail on every procedural matter. The motions that Jack was making the 10 minute speeches and not necessarily following the traditional order of this is how criminal court is supposed to work. Jack definitely was not making this an easy process. She says a normal public defender does not have time to fight like that for all their clients. And once Jack made things so difficult the DA might have decided he did not have time to deal with it either. Trastavien's been free for over a year now. He got a job as a fry cook at a Sonic Drive-In. He says he wants to start school again next year. And he is got a little girl Carla. He is spending a lot of time with her. Right as this story was taking place Caddo Parish elected a new top DA the first black DA in its history. One of his first actions was getting rid of nine assistant district attorneys in his office. Scott Brady who prosecuted the case against Trastavien was among them. Just this month the public defender's office in Caddo Parish stopped the practice of farming out cases to private attorneys. Some funding came through for now. Jack meanwhile has been pushing for more funding for public defenders. He went to the Louisiana State Legislature met with three state senators and the public defender lobbyist. He offered to testify. He said he would do anything to help. He does not want another case like this. David Zax. Coming up how a public park in the suburbs of Virginia helped beat the Nazis. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose some theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Deep End of the Pool. Stories of people thrown into serious situations they have no skills for where they have to figure out what to do on the fly. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Mein Camp. Sometimes an entire government has to dive in