OK so here's a weird thing to happen at your temp job. A chunk of the country decides that you personally are trying to steal the election from the president of the United States. This actually happened to a guy. He is in this video that is been circulating online retweeted by Eric Trump and Donald Trump Jr. viewed over 5 million times of him. He is this worker in the Georgia vote counting operation. In the video you see him at a desk in short sleeves people doing their jobs all around him. He picks up one piece of paper after another puts them in a stack. And then something happens. He flinches and he slams down a piece of paper kind of angrily-- or that is how it looks in the video. The sound on the video is somebody narrating who is not identified. This dude has a fit about something flips off a ballot and then crumples it up. That is more or less true. The guy gives a finger to something and then does crumple up some piece of paper and then drops it to the side. The narrator and so many commenters online for the video assume this is a Trump ballot. And this fits the mold of all the things the president has been saying about the election being stolen. If that is not voter fraud I do not know what is. Fortunately for us at our program this incident happened in Fulton County in Atlanta where WABE reporter Johnny Kauffman has been embedded in the elections operation for months. He was able to track down the guy in the video. His name is Lawrence Sloane. He is one of the dozens of people who were hired during the busy time around elections to help out. Has he done it before? No this is his first time working in the election. Yeah I mean as soon as they called me about the opportunity I was like oh sweet. I get paid. I get to help democracy. That is the most American thing. That is going to be awesome you know? Lawrence explained to me that the machine he is sitting at in the video it is an envelope opener. Or the election workers they call it a cutter. So Fulton County had about 150000 mail-in ballots come in so they were running nonstop. And Lawrence is one of the fastest people on the machines. He can tell just by the sound whether they are working correctly or not. I know when there is going to be an error. You hear . That is the letter landing in the dropping.  That is where it cuts along the side.  If you do not hear  it did not work. You did not hear  sink you got no cut on both sides all right? Lawrence told me that people put all kinds of stuff in the envelopes like weird stuff that they are not supposed to put in there. Like what? Oh like mean notes about Trump. Someone sent in a check. Oh is this like a mistake? They put it in the wrong envelope? Yeah just a mistake. Poems. People write poems and they put them in there. Prayers. What kind of poems? Just like I do not-- bro just not good ones. So did you watch the video with him? Oh yeah. He was very happy and excited to explain what actually happened in the video. OK so the machine-- yeah you see them working the workflow. That is me separating. Boom separate take that one up. Boom separate. Now it is running pretty good there. Oh bam! It tries to eat my hand. Wait what is happening there? Yeah so what is happening is the machine did not cut the envelope quite right. And so Lawrence reached in his hand to save the ballot. When it does not cut properly it starts tearing them-- it starts tearing the ballots out. So it starts tearing the envelope. And then if it stays in there it will tear the ballot apart. And we cannot have it eat your ballot. That is why you see me throw those things. So that is what the guy saw in the video. When Lawrence flinched it was not him being upset about a Trump vote. It was the machine tweaked him when he was trying to reach into it and save a ballot. So then he flipped off the machine. He is not flipping off the ballot. He is flipping off the machine-- Oh. --because it had been giving him problems for hours. Yeah I flip off the machine. I am like you used to be cool man. We used to do good work. Now I am tired too. Everybody in here is tired but you need to quit with this shit all right? You are the only person in here eating fingers.  So then the last thing in the video is Lawrence throwing aside this piece of paper. And Lawrence told me that that is not a ballot. It is one of these things that people put in the envelopes that is not supposed to be in the envelope. Oh. In this case it was the instructions actually for how to fill out the ballot. When Lawrence was talking about this he could not help himself from giving a little public service announcement. Stop putting the instructions in. I know it is too late now. For future reference do not include the instructions in your voting thing. It just makes more work for us. And It is weird. So just stop it. OK so the video was shot on Wednesday the day after the election. It took off online the next morning. That is when Lawrence learned that lots of his fellow Americans thought that he was rigging the election. Again here's Johnny Kaufman. Someone sent it to him on Instagram. And he looked at it and he is like oh this is going to be a problem. In the comments people were saying like he should be identified and arrested that he was mentally ill and homeless like nasty racist stuff. Lawrence we should say is Black. And was he at work when he learns this? Yeah he is in the middle of a 22-hour shift. So then he takes a break. He goes outside to get away from the TV cameras and reporters in the room. And at that point he sees Trump supporters protesting. I did not know when the protest was about. Even if it is not about me I am standing outside and they know what I look like. You know what I am saying? And if any of them had seen this every second that this goes by more people are going to see this. Me just being here is automatically just not the best. And how are you feeling in that moment? Scared. It was not like a-- I am shook. It is like oh. Because fear is a real emotion. You are like oh. And it is not always like heartbeat boom boom boom. It is like I am in danger. I should probably get the hell on. So at the end of day he just sneaks away past the protest? Yeah he actually ran away. He said he ran to get away from the protesters. And then he hit out with some friends. He cut his beard off and dyed his hair so people would not recognize him. Oh wow. That was not too big of a deal in the end because he said he really likes his new look. But he did not feel safe going home for three nights. There are so many of these stories of voter fraud on the internet right now. I talked to this woman who founded a company that tracks disinformation on the internet the Alethea Group. The woman's name is Lisa Kaplan. And she told me that Election Day was way calmer than they expected for disinformation. A limited number of false stories most of them about Pennsylvania. But starting the next day things sped up. And they really exploded once the president started spreading these stories in earnest. Disinformation is continuing to grow exponentially. And the way it is now it is much more diffuse. So it is not just on 8Kun or 4chan anymore. These are narratives that are being talked about on Facebook on Twitter on Instagram. How often are the stories true of voter fraud? We have not found any. None of the narratives that we are tracking are backed up by facts. Lots of people now believe these stories of voter fraud. A survey by Politico in the Morning Consult found that 70 of Republicans think this year's election was not free and fair. And over half of Republicans think there was widespread voter fraud with mail-in ballots. Driving through Aberdeen Maryland the weekend after the election I saw a few dozen Trump supporters gathering to do an impromptu car caravan supporting the president. Just the day before that news organizations had called the election for Joe Biden. When I talked to this chatty friendly woman named Kim Muhlenfeld and her friend and this kid they like most of this crowd did not buy it. It was obviously the vote was stolen. And we cannot let the media say who our president is going be. We just cannot. I mean-- Where did you hear-- --they talk about a free and fair election at this point not even so much Trump. But I have a video of CNN before the ribbon at the bottom catches up-- Kim pointed me to a bunch of videos she says proves there is fraud. From her perspective there are so many examples to choose from-- votes turning up unexplained in the middle of the night. 400 AM no votes for Trump at all just 132000 Biden votes that is it at 400 AM. Kim's slightly misremembering those numbers but what she is talking about is a story that the Alethea Group says is one of the most circulated bits of disinformation about this election widely shared on right-wing bulletin boards and websites and one of the many stories that the president has retweeted. It was on Fox News. It was a tweet with side by side maps of Michigan and vote counts showing that early in the morning after Election Day Michigan updated its election totals added 138000 votes to the vote count and all the new votes all of them went to Joe Biden none to Donald Trump which does sound very suspicious. But it is not what it seems. The person who made this happen was a Republican the Republican official responsible for running elections in a Republican county in Michigan-- this woman. Caroline Wilson Shiawasee County clerk. Feel free not to answer this question because I think it is a private thing but did you vote for the president? I did. Both times? Yes. I stand by the values that the Republican Party holds. And that is what I support. Here's what happened with those 138000 votes according to Caroline. Morning after the election 445 she and the elections clerk Abby Bowen were in her office just the two of them sending in election results to the state using the computer that is set up with all the security measures on it. With each race-- Abby reads the number to me. I type the number repeating the number. But Caroline says in filling out this form online before she would actually type anything into a box the number that was sitting there in the box as a place holder was zero. And usually she will put the cursor in the box and her new number would replace the zero. But as she was typing in Biden's number the cursor landed in the box but it did not nuke the zero that was there. I must have had the cursor to the left of the zero. I did not even see it. So I typed in 15 371. That is 15371 votes Joe Biden's total for the county. But because the zero was there at the end of the number it was not 15000 and change. The number was 150000 and change. We moved down to Donald Trump his number. I would read the number back. I would go to the next person. We hit Submit and we pretty much go home. It is been a long couple of days. It does not take long for somebody from the Bureau of Elections to notice this error. Caroline and Abby both get calls in 20 minutes. Caroline's already home. She lives seven minutes from her office. They get rid of 153000 that Caroline typed in replace it with 15300. The difference between those two numbers is the mysterious 138000 votes which-- this part is interesting-- did not actually appear for Biden in the vote count. They disappeared for Biden to make it look like they mysteriously appeared. Our best guess is somebody must have intentionally switched the before and after pictures of the map with the vote totals. But it was corrected very quickly. So we just moved on. And lo and behold our phone is blowing up and emails are blowing up. And even my family they did not know it was me but they were joking about all these votes in Shiawasee County. Yeah I might know a thing or two about that but it was clearly a typo. We do not even have that many people in our county. So after I talked to Caroline I found that woman that I met at the rally Kim who had been so convinced that 130-some thousand votes had appeared in middle of the night for Biden. I was curious to find out if she would believe Caroline's story. And I played her clips from my recording of Caroline explaining point by point how it happened. And then they fixed it and made it the right numbers. Right but this has happened all over the country. And the video I sent you yesterday you can see all the ways that this Dominion software as well as others can be-- what happens is in that-- Dominion is another one of those stories tweeted by the president and circulating on the internet. It is one of a bunch of stories about rigged software giving votes to Joe Biden. It has been dis-proven. Google Dominion if you are curious. But do you understand in this case it is not Dominion software or the other software. It is just her typing in the number wrong. Right sure. Yeah I mean that is plausible. But she said she must have so she does not know for sure for one. But if it was just an isolated case that would be one thing. But it is just too much. And maybe she really did not make an error. Maybe they just changed it and they caught the change like they caught the 6000 in another county. So you do not really know what is happening. And it is just-- And I just want to be sure. It is just terrible. I just want to be sure I am clear. Kim you are saying that she thinks that she did it as a typographical error but you think maybe this-- I think when they send off the results that is when the percentages are changed. Mm-hmm. But you are saying it might not even be true that she made a typographical error. Right I mean there is just so many anomalies. And there is no way that Joe Biden got more votes than Donald Trump. No way possible. Kim said a few times that Caroline seems like a credible and honest person but it is the sheer volume of other examples that is convincing to her that they really could be foul play. And even if this one example in this one Michigan county was caught it does not change anything for her because she feels like she is seen so many other examples. I asked Caroline Wilson the Shiawasee County clerk what she thinks of all the Republicans who do not believe the truth of what happened in her county. Shame on them. Shame on them. That attitude jeopardizes everything that we are supposed to stand for. I take an oath to uphold the Constitution of the United States this state and my county. And my job responsibilities are not partisan. Fact is there is no convincing people-- usually. Something I read this year that really shaped how I have seen this whole election is Ezra Klein's book Why We are Polarized. He has this big section where he runs through all these studies that demonstrate how when we encounter facts that do not fit into our worldview that contradict what we believe the normal thing the thing that we all do most of the time is that we disregard those facts or explain them away. Today on our program in this moment when the president is not backing down from his unproven claim that the election was stolen from him this moment when I know that when I call the president's tweets disinformation there are a lot of you out there like him who think that I am part of the problem and not looking at the truth we thought it might be nice to hear a few of the rare examples of people actually changing their minds. It does not happen often God knows. But let us enjoy a few cases where it does and look at why it does in those special cases. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One The Signs They Are A-Changing. So Lizzie Johnson's grandpa recently surprised everybody in his life by changing his mind about something. A month ago I woke up to my cell phone pinging with text alerts. My family group chat was blowing up over a picture-- a huge Biden-Harris sign staked in my grandpa's field. He is 91 and a lifelong Republican. And until this sign no one in my family knew he would switched allegiances. It was shocking. The man does not change his mind about anything. But this year he would sent in his mail-in ballot for Biden. And for the first time in his life he would also voted a straight Democratic ticket. What had made him change his mind after so long?   So I think we need to give grandpa just a couple more minutes. That is my mom Rose. I would sent over my list of questions to him to look at before we talked because he is hard of hearing. He wrote out all the answers and I think he is back there re-copying them right now. I am not ready. My grandpa's named Louis Rosman. He is pretty blustery and known for his quick temper. He lives by himself on his 500-acre corn and soybean farm in Harlan Iowa. It is the same farm he grew up on. The area is conservative and rural. Hi grandpa. Hi there. How are you doing? Not too good.  I cannot work under pressure.  So I heard that you had cut down all the overgrown grass all the weeds just so that everyone could see the sign better from the highway which seems like a little risky. Do your neighbors on either side do they have Trump signs on their fields? Oh yes big signs. I have probably got a neighbor on each side of me that would tear it down but I closed the gate up so they cannot get in to do it. He is really proud of this sign. He got it by calling up the leaders of the Democratic Party in his county. It turned out one of them is a distant relative. I told them they could not find a better display for their sign anywhere than down here on this highway. It is a busy highway. Remember you asked them to bring you the biggest sign? Yeah I wanted a big one. And they only had a single one. I wanted a second one so we could put it back to back you know so you could see it both ways on the highway. Highway 44 is a busy two-lane route that runs between Portsmouth and Harlan in western Iowa. There would been another Biden-Harris sign in town but a 92-year-old man defaced it. He spray painted it with a big red X. And then the sign disappeared. My grandpa Louis's neighbors are mostly farmers who voted for President Trump in 2016. His trade war with China ate into their profits but then he bailed them out with subsidies. He is still popular with farmers. Back in 2016 my grandfather voted for him too. Because everybody wanted a change and I just fell into place with them. I wanted something different. What was it that you wanted to change? I do not know. I have always voted Republican for the president and that is probably the biggest reason. I did not know any better. My grandpa was a Republican by upbringing. His parents were Republican. Like most people he absorbed his political beliefs by osmosis. Everyone belongs to the same Catholic church in town St. Michael's. It is right next to where that other sign was defaced. Church was the only place my grandpa used to talk with his neighbors before the pandemic hit. Now his social life is a lot quieter. The farms are spread so far apart that he does not really run into people. The only other person he sees is a friend named Paul who rents land from my grandpa. He is a Trump supporter. Has Paul said anything about your sign? No. He knows it is down here. But Paul naturally would not say anything. Because I can terminate his lease next year. Oh.  But do you guys talk about politics? We do not talk about politics. We talk about engines that do not start and stuff like that. But how did you find out that Paul was going to vote for Trump? He just mentioned it. He was working at the lawn mower at the time leaning over it. And he just said something about Sleepy Joe. He would not vote for Sleepy Joe. He wanted to say something back but told me he did not think it was worth ruining his relationship with Paul over Trump. There is a stereotypical thing that happens in the Midwest an aversion to direct conflict. People are so completely loud and aggressive with their signs. For example down the road from my grandpa's house there is a huge Trump fuck your feelings sign posted in a neighbor's yard. But to each other's faces everyone keeps it polite. They let their signs do the talking. I have a theory about why he is going through this very late in life political awakening. He is been able to vote in 18 presidential elections. But this is the first time he is actually been engaged. Part of it is that as he is gotten older he has not been able to do as much around the farm. He still rides around on his four-wheeler and fixes fences but he is also started spending more time in front of the TV. He watches The View in the morning and Stephen Colbert at night. He also just finished reading a couple books on the Trumps. Two of my grandpa's daughters my mom and my Aunt Margaret have probably influenced him the most. They are at his house a lot checking on him playing cards and dropping off meals. Over the years their politics have changed. They went from voting for both Bushes to Barack Obama and Hillary Clinton. And this year-- Biden. How long did it take you to figure out that Trump was not that change that you wanted? Well this virus has really convinced me because he totally disregarded it and still does. He acts as if it do not exist. And all these people are dying and he still thinks that is all you have to do is just ignore it. And then he said it will be over with by Easter. It will be over with by July. And it is always a bunch of damn lies. It scares the hell out of me. I as not ready to die yet. And then the deal the way they were handling those children down at the border herding them around like a prisoner of war camp. 500-some are separated from their parents and some of them are six months old. It sounds like thinking about those kids without their parents has really stuck with you. Well why would not it? With anybody anybody with feeling. Trump has no feeling. Absolutely none. That is why I like Joe Biden because he has a soft voice and he does not tell lies. I wanted someone who cares for someone or something besides himself. Would you have thought I was crazy if in 2016 I told you hey you would vote for a Democrat in 2020 straight down the ticket? If you would have told me what was going on now back then I would not have believed this could happen. Has been so vocal about supporting Biden hurt any of your relationships with family? Because I know that not everyone in our family is Democratic. Oh Kathy and Kirk in town. Kathy's my aunt and Kirk's her husband. They are Republican. She was bringing my groceries out so that I did not have to get out and expose myself. And somewhere along the line I asked her point blank. I said are you wearing a mask? And she said no. They are no good. They do not do you any good. You can get sick wearing them anyway. And I said well I will get my groceries myself after this. And she said we can still bring the groceries out in the refrigerator. And I said you will not come on the place-- on the farm without a mask. And she hung up and I have not heard from her since. My grandpa was ecstatic when he heard the news that Biden won. Some of his neighbors have already taken down their Trump signs. But he has no plans to take his Biden-Harris sign down anytime soon. He wants to make sure all of his neighbors know he was on the winning side. He can see it from his living room window. And he checks on it often to make sure nobody has vandalized it or stolen it. He told me is going to decorate it with flowers and horseshoes and then keep it up blaring there in his field until a new crop goes in next spring. Lizzie Johnson she is a reporter for The San Francisco Chronicle. Act Two Puppy Love Triangle. So next we have a story about somebody very young trying to make up her mind about something about as far from politics as we could think of-- a crush on a boy. The way she went about it though surprised her mom a lot. The story actually starts back when school was in session last year pre-virus in-person school-- remember that? The little girl was in the second grade. Her mom Emily Flake explains. To understand why it was so surprising for me to find my seven-year-old in a state of romantic equivocation I have to explain a bit of her relationship history first. Augustine-- we call her Tug for short-- fell in love for the first time at the age of four. She fell hard for a boy her age I will call R to protect his identity. R was absurdly tall for his age. He had long flaxen hair and looked like a tiny Norse god. Tug used to chase him around the basement of the church where we had a playgroup announcing R! You are going to marry me R! Right now! Now my husband and I were never the type to use words like boyfriend and girlfriend about little kids. The framing of children's friendships as romantic that I remember from when I was a child in the '80s feels creepy now. But we try to respect that those feelings are very real to her. Tug was all R all the time all through pre-K and kindergarten. Her pre-K teacher remarked often that she had to remind them to play with other kids instead of remaining in their tight little two-person club. But then in first grade completely out of the blue her ardor shifted. All of a sudden she was talking about some new boy. This boy who we will call B lived catty-corner from us. He was a sweet-faced first-grader who looked a bit like a Cabbage Patch doll. I was shocked by this fickle change of heart so I asked her what happened. She said evenly I am no longer interested in R. I would given Tug a journal to write her feelings in and B showed up in there. In fact she produced several reams of B content. She wrote a poem about him that included lines like I love your hair as brown as a bear. She stayed full steam ahead on the B train until this past Valentine's Day when something happens that surprised and confused us both. For the first time in her life my daughter did not know where her heart wanted to go. The chaos factor was this. This year a boy liked her first. This boy who we will call L made his feelings toward Tug known with a note. We talked about it sitting on the floor in her room one afternoon. So it was on Valentine's Day. And actually he left a note at my table but it was made out of a Post-It. So the first time I thought it was just garbage. But then I opened it. And in it was A plus L and I think with a heart. And then I was like Does that mean that you wanted to be my Valentine? And he is like Maybe. I am like Sure. And then he runs up to his friend and he is like She said yes! She said yes! Being the pursued instead of the pursuer seemed to throw Tug for a loop. When she talked about it she seemed fretful and confused and a little embarrassed. She told me at bedtime several nights in a row that she did not know what to do. Before L gave you the note what did you think of him? I mostly thought of him as like a friend that I have had since pre-K. But I did not think of him that much. So you knew him but you did not think of him liking you before? No not really. OK. When he wrote that note I started paying more attention to him kind of and started to-- thought about him more. So if L had never given you a Valentine note do you think you would have gotten a crush on him or liked him? Probably not because the note kind of made everything just happen. She hid her face in the blankets a lot as we talked. She said now that he brought it up she guessed she could like him? As the days went on when I checked on her journal I saw she would gone full scorched earth on her past. She would gone back to the pages about B in her diary and edited them mercilessly. Next to I love B so much she wrote Not anymore. Next to every heart she would drawn she wrote the word no. It was like she was trying to edit her emotions by editing the evidence of them. I tried to explain that she did not have to erase the past or all the things she wrote and drew to make room for this person in her emotional space. She disregarded my note and went right on striking through. Can you tell me why you felt like you wanted to do that? I do not really know exactly why. I just did it. So did you feel like you could not like B anymore because L liked you? I do not really know. And do you feel like you needed to like L back because he liked you? Again I still do not really know. Do I have to explain how love works? Of course my daughter cannot explain how love works and neither can I. I wanted to talk to her more about this to make sure that her burgeoning feelings for L and abandonment of feelings for B were coming from her own will. But when I wanted to talk to her about her emotions she kept deflecting to his. I do not really know what he felt. But I know that he probably felt excited. Well how did you feel? I do not really remember. And I felt really happy for him because he seemed like he was super excited. Hearing her express this sense of romantic obligation felt like somebody had copy-pasted my entire adolescence onto my second-grader. I knew that feeling very very well. I was an unlovely and unlikable child. By the time I was in sixth grade I had completely assimilated the idea that I was not allowed to turn down affection from anyone if it ever happened to come my way. I remembered being liked by a moody boy when I was 12 and going out on what passed for a double date with him and our respective best friends. We all went for ice cream at the decaying strip mall in town. My friend and I tried to make conversation while the boy who liked me glowered and muttered under his breath while the boy who liked my friend got chocolate ice cream all over his face. It was an awkward disaster but it was also my first official date. The boy's affections made me feel shame and an exciting threat of degradation. But what was I going to do turn him down? I knew I was looking down the barrel of a lifetime of making the best of things as far as dating was concerned. I thought I had avoided constructing a landscape that would encourage those kinds of feelings to grow in my daughter. Had I somehow already infected her with this idea that she would better find a way to accept anyone that would have her? As Tug sorted through her feelings she turned once more to writing crafting a note she planned to give to L at school. So can we talk about the note that you wrote him? What did it say? Dear L--  I was thrilled when you asked me to be your Valentine. I just want to say you are kind and-- you are so kind and sweet and nice. And you are a great person. I was going to put cute but I forgot. I could not tell if she was genuinely seeing L through new eyes or if she was bending her emotions to fit the situation. But I was interested to see where she was going with this. She held onto the note for a few days going back and forth and decided at last to seal the deal and deliver the note to him in school. But she never got the chance. This was last March. While she dithered the pandemic spread. And by the time she would made up her mind her school closed. Her decision was rendered moot. For a few weeks she talked about him at bedtime. But to a kid her age out of sight is out of mind. Now her obsession lies where she conducts most of her social life-- Roblox and other online platforms. In a world where there are fly-ride albino bats there does not seem to be a lot of room for crushes. Like so many other things in our lives now her heart will have to live in limbo. Emily Flake she is a writer and cartoonist for The New Yorker. Coming up can a macho TV talk show host on daytime TV in Argentina really really become a feminist? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Personal Recount. In this tense and exhausted post-election moment we thought it would be refreshing to have stories of that very rare thing that very hopeful thing-- human beings actually changing their minds. We have arrived at act three of our program. Act Three The All Too Real Housewives of Argentina. So this is a story about people changing their attitude about the world in a very significant way. And they are doing it in a setting where you really do not see that kind of thing very often-- daytime television. Jasmine Garsd grew up in Argentina and has this story about daytime TV there. We first broadcast this story a couple years ago. I watched a lot of television when I was a kid. My grandmother Iaia would pick me up at school and bring me back to her place. Her apartment was dark and humid. It smelled like French bread and the exhaust from the buses on the avenue down below. My grandfather was never around. Iaia would make tea and then we would go to her bedroom and turn the TV on. And suddenly colors soun