Benji had been living in China for just three weeks when he was first invited to be on a Chinese TV show. It is very easy as a foreigner to get on TV in some random way. Yeah. And it depends on what areas you are hanging out. Like if you are always hanging out at the malls where a lot of foreigners are where these scouts kind of hang out then it can happen a lot. Once a week or once every two weeks. Emailing with Americans in China in putting together this week's radio show we heard about this kind of thing from person after person people being approached to be on TV. And at some point we began to wonder have you guys all been on TV? It was such a common experience for Americans in China. TV producers spotted Chidalia on a website where American expatriates hung out in the city of Guangzhou a website called Guangzhou Stuff. A girl kind of just saw my photo and she asked me if I wanted to be on TV. And just of course me without even really asking what the program would be I just said yeah sure. And they said OK come to the casting audition and I went. The woman at the audition asked if she would ever heard of American Idol. The answer was yes. But this would be for sort of a Chinese version called Super Girl. And So I just asked her what exactly that would entail. Because I know American Idol is all singing and I am not a singer. Like not even a little. So I told her I cannot sing. And she said oh that is OK. That is no problem. And so I am thinking well how is it not a problem? If this is a singing competition the fact that I cannot sing should actually be a really big problem. But they just wanted a foreigner to be on the program.  That is Chidalia singing on the program. She was kept through the early rounds of the competition while she says much better singers were bounced. I have often felt like a performing monkey on stage. That is Benji again. The four different Americans I talked to used the phrase performing monkey to describe the experience of being on Chinese TV. Benji's been on singing competitions as a judge and as a contestant. He is been on dramas in some pretty big parts. He is been on talk shows which he describes this way. When foreigners go on TV shows the most common thing is they like to dress them up in old Chinese garb like the Tang Dynasty clothes and make them sing some old Chinese song and say some ridiculous phrase in Chinese. And then the host will come out and just kind of make fun of them or like talk back to them in a really bad Chinese accent kind of like we-- which in America if we were to speak to somebody back in their accent in English it would be considered kind of rude. Like I have heard that in Chinese TV the things that get the best ratings are children animals and foreigners which just kind of says it all. It is just that foreigners are considered cute and adorable. It is kind of like a baby who cannot take care of himself and needs to be loved. Oh so it is not ridicule. It is more like-- It is more like oh they are so cute. Yeah oh look at that cute foreigner. He is trying to speak Chinese. It is so adorable. This is the treatment that foreigners get even when the subject is completely dead serious. Leif Rogers says that he is been on Chinese TV over 100 times in his seven years in China mostly on talk shows discussing charity fundraising for various causes that he organizes in his job at a Chinese bank. I am sure you have talked to quite a few people regarding this. I mean right in the middle of a serious interview on a talk show about-- here we are talking about the victims of the earthquake in Sichuan and then they will say well can you sing a song now? And then I am like no of course I cannot. And they are like no no no you can sing a song. And they will name some John Denver tune or something that is popular over here. Yesterday Once More. And then they will get the audience cheering and everything. And you know no I am not going to sing a song here. Then they are clearly disappointed. Oh my. And are they doing that because you are a foreigner? Or they would just do that to anybody who is sitting there? The thing is is a Chinese person would sing the song right away no problem. So I think that it is more interesting when the foreigner does it. It is more interesting when the foreigner does it. In the remote areas of China lots of people have still never met or seen a foreigner. Though in the big cities it is different. There is so many foreigners these days that in day to day life in certain areas they are not a novelty at all. Americans living in China who have been living there for years and years no surprise see things about China and the incredible changes in China going on right now that we here in the United States have never heard of only have a hazy notion of or just have wrong. Evan Osnos arrived in China in 1996. And yes he was asked to take a bit part in a Chinese movie his second month in the country. These days he writes about China for The New Yorker. And he says he struggle sometimes to explain not just in his writing but to friends back home what it is like to live in China. For instance if you are living in America he says China just seems like this powerful possibly threatening world power ready right now to dominate the world. But actually once you start to spend time in China or start to understand a little bit about how the Chinese see their place in the world it becomes a lot harder to picture them thinking that they are ready to do that. And that is simply because the Chinese self-image is still in so many ways very very very very-- it is of a very weak country. They see themselves as being very weak. There was just a poll that came out in the United States that shows that most people in the world for the first time now think that China is the world's most important economic power. Most people think that in Europe. Most people think that in the United States. But in China people do not think that. Only something like less than a quarter of the people they talked to actually think that China's an economic power in the world. I mean even in the cities the biggest cities in China-- Beijing and Shanghai and so on-- one in every three people does not have their own kitchen or toilet. So it is not to say that China's meek and that it does not want to make an imprint on the planet. Of course it does. And it plans to. But its own self-image is that at the moment it remains a big poor country with a lot of very very poor people in it. And I think that is hard to picture from far away. Well today on our radio program Americans Living in China what it is like to be there and what do they see living there that we do not see. They interpret for us this hour. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One. Why'd You Have To Go and Make Things so Complicated? There are about 70000 Americans living in mainland China today according to the Chinese and American governments. A lot of the Americans in China only stay for a few years. But then there are others American expats who have lived in China for a decade or more with no foreseeable plans to come home. Who are they? And how Chinese do they become? Evan Osnos has this story which starts with an expat named Kaiser Kuo. Kaiser Kuo's parents were born in China. They lived through the Japanese bombing during World War II and then Revolution. They immigrated to the United States as teenagers and fell in love with each other and with the United States. They loved the Kennedys and the Apollo moon walk and Dr. Spock's child rearing books. Their wedding photo shows a young man in Buddy Holly glasses and slick hair in an all-white suit next to a beautiful young woman also all in white standing together in bright white California sunshine. They plucked Kaiser's first name out of an American book of baby names if you can believe it. Kaiser's father in particular was smitten with America. Here's Kaiser. My father told me once-- and really it broke my heart-- he said he never touched his father until his father's funeral when he finally touched his corpse. Really? Yeah. They never embraced. I mean I have this really affectionate family. I mean we hug. We kiss. My dad always kissed us goodnight. I mean I think this is part of their embrace of America. It is like we are going to do things this New World way. The New World way meant Kaiser and his three siblings grew up with kickball pool parties in the backyard camping trips a bad high school rock band. But all of that was constantly mixed in with stories about China. Their father kept a whiteboard next to the dinner table and sometimes wrote Chinese expressions on it during the meal. As much as they loved the United States both parents never stopped missing China. When the kids got out of college China had begun to open up. And after so many years of learning about the country three out of the four siblings moved to Beijing. They already spoke some Mandarin and each of them became missionaries of a certain kind for different parts of American culture. One brother Jay was active in the early gay scene in Beijing. Mimi opened one of the city's first US-style yoga studios. But only one of the siblings has stayed in China to this day-- Kaiser who brought rock and roll. It was his contribution-- part of it anyway-- to the two generation obsession in this family-- the US China and how to build a life that straddles both. Before Kaiser for thousands of years in China people had been listening to this.  Or maybe some of this.  Then along came Kaiser with long hair head banging and this.  Kaiser was the lead guitarist and co-founder of a heavy metal band called Tang Dynasty one of the first rock bands in China. A whole generation of Chinese kids the ones who were interested in loud Western-style music grew up with Tang Dynasty. By the mid-1990s with Kaiser on guitar and his best friend a Chinese guy named Ding Wu as lead singer the band was huge and getting bigger all the time. The number one song stadium crowds. Kaiser sometimes looked out from the stage on 30000 people singing back to them. People recognized him on the street. Things were great. Until May of 1999. One morning I wake up. And it is my brother my little brother on the phone telling me oh my god turn on the news. The US has just blown up the Chinese embassy in Belgrade. China says it is outraged after 4 people die and 20 are injured when NATO bombs hit the Chinese embassy in Belgrade. You may not remember this. But lots of Chinese people do. There is a Chinese monument to it in Belgrade. And the incident is taught in Chinese schools as an example of how superpowers like the United States-- and I am reading here from a junior high curriculum-- put their interests above world peace and development and use their military advantage to attack whomever they want. It was the NATO bombing campaign in Yugoslavia intended to protect ethnic Albanians. And an American B2 bomber flying over Belgrade dropped five bombs on the Chinese embassy. Three Chinese citizens were killed. In America people saw it as an accident. Not in China. My lead singer my then-girlfriend and I walked down to the embassy district to see what is happening around the US Embassy. And then everyone's there shouting at us saying hey Tang Dynasty's here in solidarity with the people who are protesting against American hegemony. Of course that was not my take on it at all. I was thinking-- I thought this through and said this could not have been done deliberately. This must have been some kind of an accident. How did your band members react? So initially they kind of saw things my way. I laid out what I thought was a pretty reasonable case. But it changed really quickly. That very evening we get a call from our manager who says look I am going to get you guys on a plane tomorrow. We are flying you down to Shenzhen. And you are going to take part in this peace concert.  So they set up a stage in front of the whole thing. And they bussed in all these people who were wearing color-coordinated t-shirts that say . Today China says no. And I realize that this is not a peace rally that this is an anti-American rally. It is kind of the opposite of a peace rally essentially. So my hackles are up. And this camera swings into my face. And it is live and I did not know this either at the time. And they ask me you are an American. Tell me about your reaction to what is happened. And I said I come here in the interest of peace. And I said by peace I do not mean just peace between the Kosovars and the Serbs not just peace between the Yugoslav Federation and NATO but also-- and most importantly-- peace between China and the United States after this tragic tragic accident. And at the word accident of course everyone's face just blanches. The camera swings away. People start yelling at me. And then I can see that-- I figured that my band mates who were nearby me were mad because they immediately distanced themselves from me. I mean we are on stage under this Styrofoam and wood mock-up of the burned-out embassy complex. And it is teetering. And when we finally get up there to play the lead singer sort of looks at me glowers at me and then starts saying today the Chinese people will no longer be bullied by Americans. And . And he shoots me a couple looks. Now this is like my best friend for 10 years. The tension in the band got a lot worse. And Kaiser left before he could be forced out. And the rage across China did not die down. It got worse. Police were allowing students to demonstrate. The government was even encouraging protests which are usually against the law in China. They grew into the most violent anti-American demonstrations in years. People set fire to the home of the American Consul General in the city of Chengdu and stoned the American Embassy in Beijing while the diplomats barricaded themselves inside. President Clinton apologized for the bombing said it was a tragic mistake the result of an outdated map. They would thought it was a military office. Chinese television quoted his apology but left out the part about it being a mistake. For more than 100 years China has seen itself as being bullied by foreign powers. And throughout the Cold War when the US led the international fight against communism the biggest bully was the United States. I have got a Chinese cartoon from the age of Chairman Mao that shows the following image-- an obese Uncle Sam sitting on a pile of money waving a cigar at Chinese workers in a cage. There were images like that everywhere in the '60s and '70s. But that anti-American image had gotten a lot harder to sell after China went for the free market. And after the Chinese public had spent the 1980s and '90s falling for one Western idea after another-- Sigmund Freud Ernest Hemingway blue jeans Hotel California-- the Communist party had been facing a kind of identity crisis. But then came the Belgrade bombing. And America the boogeyman came right back. I have yet to meet a single Chinese person to this day-- I mean like somebody who has not at least spent their life outside of China-- who does not believe that this was a conspiracy that this is a deliberate act. That the United States deliberately attacked the Chinese embassy in Belgrade? That is right. I did not get a sense for how enraged people were. And that was part of my mistake. I think that I was pretty cavalier about just how deep that stuff ran. The whole month of May of 1999 was actually the moment when I felt my American-ness. For the preceding three or four years I did not have a lot to do with expatriates here. I did not speak a lot of English. The women that I dated were Chinese. The life that I led was quintessentially Chinese. The vast majority of my friends were Chinese. That was a moment of incredible realization for me that there is still a chasm that I will probably never actually be able to cross. That chasm is something almost any long-term expat in China encounters at some point. I know a guy from Texas whose moment like this came when the Beijing government bulldozed his barbecue joint. For me it was year three after I would learned the language and moved into a Chinese neighborhood where I loved not having to run into foreigners all the time even though my job was to write about China for a foreign audience. And then one day this fax came into my office. It said in Chinese correct your misunderstandings or you and your family will wish you were dead. It turned out the fax was a response to articles some journalists had written about a recent uprising in Tibet. It was spam. Reporters got it whether they would written about Tibet or not. But there it was. That fax was so completely out of character with everything else in my life here. It made me embarrassed about all that effort to make myself as close as I could to China. It made me wonder if the enthusiasm was mutual. You get over these moments as an expat here. You go back to living with the knowledge that most of the time you will be welcomed treated with grace. But in the back of your mind you know there will be another day someday when you suddenly find yourself an outsider. Mi-mi-mi-mi-mi-mi-mi. I am going to get some water. Kaiser's warming up for this weekly podcast he does. It is called Sinica usually a lineup of expats in China hosted by Kaiser and his friend Jeremy Goldkorn. He is South African another long-term expat. It is just for fun. It is not their job. Today besides Kaiser and Jeremy it is three journalists including me because I am following Kaiser for this story. Jeremy you need to talk a little bit to make sure you are-- I need to talk a little bit? Hey Dave? Am I talking? Would you be able to grab me a beer? It is informal clearly. We are all sitting in yet another expat's third-floor walk up in the Dong Cheng neighborhood in Beijing. Everyone here has known each other for years. I used to be a reporter in the Middle East. But in China the expats are different. More of them speak the local languages and they do not expect to go to another posting every four or five years. They are usually here because they are interested in China specifically not because they were drawn by the drama of a war or the perks of a place that is cheaper than home. They want to be in China. Welcome to the Sinica podcast a weekly discussion of current affairs in China coming to you from the pop-up Chinese studios here in Beijing. I am your host Kaiser Kuo. Kaiser's 46 still has long hair And his podcast gets as many as 10000 listeners a week mostly expats who have encountered him over the years who have read things he is written. After he left the band Kaiser knew he could not continue trying to be Chinese. He was an American a foreign expatriate living in China. And he had to embrace that. And now after so many years he is a kind of uber-expat in Beijing a convener a traffic cop who stands at the intersection of China and the foreigners trying to make sense of it. It is almost impossible to be a foreigner in Beijing and not hear about Kaiser. Kaiser turns for an update to Gady Epstein who is been in China off and on for 10 years and now writes for The Economist which has just added a new part to the magazine a China section. Now I understand that this is the first time that your magazine has added a country-specific section since what? 1942? Since basically about a month after Pearl Harbor. 70 years ago to the month we started-- The Economist started-- its America survey where we did we were devoting special attention to the United States. And this is the first time they have added a country since then. So what are we expecting from the new China section besides the arch and condescending editorializing that we have come to know and love? Well we are going to expand on our ability to be arch and condescending. Ah well very good. We are also going to-- I mean coincidentally with that have more coverage of China. The conversation moves on to what name The Economist will give its new China blog. We do not have one yet. We solicited people to nominate their own suggestions for the China blog. Most of them were pretty appalling. Really? What have you heard so far Jeremy? Well they were kind of like dragon and silk and-- Well I said we should please have-- --bamboo curtain-- --please have dragon panda bicycles and inscrutable or some combination-- The Inscrutable Pearl of the Oriental Dragon panda. Sorry too late. I have already taken that. So I think The Inscrutable Panda is not a bad choice. How about the China Slant? You sent me a few of those offline Kaiser. And I was going to protect your reputation by not repeating them. As foreigners living in China especially ones who write about it for a living we are always trying to figure out how to explain China not just to our readers and listeners also to our friends and family and acquaintances. We know that looking at the country from far away for instance from the United States it can be difficult to make out the proportions here. Parts of it seem very American the friendliness the conspicuous consumption the drive pride in the sheer size of the country and belief in the country's exceptionalism and the arrogance that goes with that. Also the ambition and the anxiety among the ambitious about getting your kids into the right kindergarten. But then parts of it are straight out of the Cold War. We do not really have a good word for what China is now. Totalitarianism is not right. But of course it is not politically free in any sense of the word. When I sit down to write I am looking at facts that are sometimes in direct contradiction with each other and are also in motion. Do I lead with the fact that the income of the average citizen here doubled in 12 years a process that took 50 years in America? Or the fact that around 150 million Chinese people the equivalent of half the population of the United States still live on 1 a day? How does any expat answer the question so what is happening in China these days? So welcome everyone to Baidu. My name's Kaiser Kuo. I am director of international communications here. Kaiser's job now and for the last few years has been spokesman for Baidu which is a big deal. It is China's biggest search engine basically China's Google. He is their English language spokesman. And here he is talking to a group of American MBA students. He does this sort of thing a lot in his job. It is an hour-long presentation that is part speech part QA. --any questions you might have feel absolutely free to ask whatever's on your mind. We are very much on the record. So anything that you can say I will either try to weasel out of delicately or will try to give you the most blunt answer that I am able to muster. Kaiser has to be delicate. His job has put him deeper inside a Chinese company than most Americans ever get. He is the face of one of the most important companies in the country one that in order to stay in business works hand-in-glove with the Chinese government's strict censorship policies meaning much of the time now Kaiser's speaking from the Chinese side of the chasm. Kaiser starts with the basics explaining how big the Chinese internet is much bigger than most Americans realize. By last count a whopping 513 million people using the internet in China. That is more than the US Canada and Mexico combined. And since Americans often mistakenly think Baidu is a government-owned and run company-- it is not-- Kaiser talks about how Baidu is a private company. It is dominated not only every American search engine that is tried to muscle in but also recent attempts by the Chinese government to create a state-run competitor. On a big screen with help from his colleague Betty he does searches and shows some of Baidu's features. And then at some point he gets the question the one he always gets from foreigners. Yes? In the back. Oh wait you had a question. I did. So we are staying at the Crowne Plaza. And when you log on to the internet it says no Facebook no YouTube and I do not remember what else it said. Twitter. Probably Twitter. Sure. And correct me if I am wrong it is kind of-- what it appears to me that you guys have done is kind of integrate those into your search. So she was able to find a video on Coldplay which it was almost like a YouTube video. Do you guys really try to kind of push the limit against kind of what Big Brother tells you to do? How much power do you have to say-- Let me put it this way-- --no guys let us look at this. Like I told this gentlemen here we are a consumer-facing company so we do not labor on the illusion that they want to have as you say Big Brother telling them what they can and cannot see. So our interest is in providing the consumers with exactly what they want. Our interests are also with abiding by the law. So we have a line to walk. This gentleman over here had a question. Internet censorship in China comes in a bunch of different forms. Let us say you go to Google which you can still do in China even though they famously pulled out years ago. They just relocated most of their servers to Hong Kong which has different censorship laws. So if you are in Beijing and you go on Google and enter a sensitive search term for instance Tiananmen Square you will get a full set of search results. But if you try to click on any of the links that the government is blocking then your computer will get weirdly slow. And then finally you will get a message saying that page cannot be shown. But things are different on other search engines. If you try Baidu or Bing or any other company that has its servers located on mainland China lots of links come up no matter what you search for. And you can access all the links. But only government-approved sites will show up. You cannot tell what is missing. It is seamless. That is because the government distributes lists of forbidden subjects to all these companies and to China's version of Twitter which is called Weibo. And it is the company's job to self-censor or they risk being shut down. Then there are also as you have probably heard thousands of people patrolling the web in China every day some paid by the government others by the websites themselves. They block and remove photos and films and articles. Even more scrubbing is done by automated programs that look for anything forbidden or suspicious. Sometimes the government demands that a site hand over information about specific people and what they do online with severe consequences. A journalist named Shi Tao is serving a 10-year sentence on charges of leaking state secrets because Yahoo helped the government identify him through his email account. There are new cases all the time. More recently a woman was sentenced to a year in a re-education through labor camp for forwarding a joke. So when some Americans hear that internet companies like Baidu agree to all this in order to operate in China they get mad. They want to hear that the company's fighting back. OK. Here's the reality though. Yes Baidu is the biggest most powerful search engine in China. But the government is so vastly bigger and more powerful than Baidu or any other company or group of companies in the country. The government owns all the land all the banks all the TV stations all the major newspapers. And it controls the army and the police. It does what it wants. And it does not have to care what anyone thinks. Here's Kaiser. If you are not really profoundly conflicted by the things that you see here then you just do not have your eyes open right? I mean living here as an expatriate you are going to see things that will cause your blood to boil. But if you dwell in the house of indignation at all times I mean you are not going to hack it here. You hear versions of this all the time here not only from expats but from the Chinese themselves. To make it day-by-day in China most people try to keep a narrow focus on the world in front of them. Improve what they can without getting overwhelmed by the bigger picture. For an American epidemiologist I know it means helping Chinese doctors fight the spread of HIV even when the research draws on patients who have been rounded up by police. An American lawyer working to reform Chinese courts realized she could not start with the problem of torture in police custody. She had to start with an even more basic problem-- the fact that most people who go on trial never get a lawyer. But no matter how careful anyone here is the fact is that the lines are never clear when it comes to running afoul of the government. No matter how well someone understands China or how great their Chinese is any expat or Chinese person can suddenly find themselves in a situation where they realize oh no. I overestimated my own ability to deal with a Leninist state. This is Kaiser's friend Jeremy Goldkorn the expat from South Africa who co-hosts the podcast with Kaiser. Jeremy is as smart and knowledgeable about China as almost anyone. He is lived here for 17 years. And for a while he had a groundbreaking website that covered Chinese media and the internet. It became huge. Until one day after six years it was blocked in China just gone forever. An entire career plan shut down. It was Jeremy's Belgrade moment his version of Kaiser's band break-up after the Peace Concert. Except Jeremy to this day has no idea what he did to be shut down. Which post or posts pushed his website over that line. The full set of rules the censors use are known only to the government. And the rules change constantly without notice. There is no book you can keep on your shelf and consult to avoid getting into trouble. And as Jeremy says there is no hotline to call and ask comrade why did you censor my website? I mean I was always fairly cynical about China. But after that there was a certain part of me which is like so this is the way it is here. And I was kidding myself thinking that I could just be daring enough to be interesting but not daring enough to not really get into trouble. And it was do I stay or do I go. I think I was basically just quite numb for about a whole year just not really knowing what to do. So you have these two friends Jeremy and Kaiser both Western expats in China one of whom has found a way to coexist with the government censorship and the other who got hammered by it. So it is not surprising that Jeremy's take on China's censorship regime is different from Kaiser's. Kaiser like a lot of expats says that he sees the present for what it is. But he sees momentum toward better things. Here's Jeremy's take. I mean I broadly agree. But I think for the last two years I have been a lot more pissed off about the censorship in China than he has. The things that should be black and white sometimes become a lot more blurry and a lot greyer. And people are less aware of the fact that there is about certain things a distinct difference between the way things are done here and elsewhere. Yeah I mean this is where I think it gets really interesting. Because I feel the longer I am here that the more I am comfortable saying oh this is complicated. You got to understand the whole picture. And every once in while a friend will stop me and say wait a second. That is not complicated. It is just not OK to refer to internet censorship as internet regulations or internet management. And I do forget that. I mean I think I do. Yeah I know what you mean. I think once you get to know China you do yourself tweak. You make allowances. You think that certain compromises are OK. It is a big country. There are too many people too many poor people. It cannot be run obviously the same as Norway or Sweden or even the United States. I mean I think it is one of the fundamental problems facing Chinese society right now is the bar for everything is so low. Nobody's surprised that there is poison in the milk because there is. And this is China therefore that is the way it is. Therefore what are you going to do about it. And everybody's kind of fatalist. As an expat in China when you hear yourself using a government-issued phrase like internet management or chalking things up to China being complicated it can feel like a failure. Or at least not the kind of understanding you set out to acquire. You spend so many years studying and adapting and trying to cross that chasm to glimpse the world from the Chinese perspective to finally get inside China. And when you reach the destination you have to remember not to forget where you come from. What are you making? Pancakes. Kaiser's making breakfast for his two kids seven-year-old Guinevere and six-year-o