At one level my Grandma Frieda's college records are utterly ordinary-- do not tell much of a story. She is a good student and teachers say the nice things that they say about bright students. They talk about her sense of social responsibility. They talk about her quote excellent and well-trained mind. This is 1931 that they would say such a thing. Goucher College then an all girls' school in Baltimore. I got these records a few years back when I was invited to give a commencement address at Goucher. I asked if I could get a copy of her school records. And there is such a different picture of this person I knew. It is my grandma as a college kid. Grandma Frieda was training to be a teacher and her evaluations say that she has a lot of promise. Quote She did her practice teaching with great success making unusually varied interesting and well organized lesson plans presenting her material with force and vigor showing great accuracy in all details. I like that one. She has a forceful as well as a very pleasant personality which I can say is true. She is very smart always let you know what she thought. There is four of these evaluations. They list her traits. There is like a checklist with some energy reliability perseverance resourcefulness. She is 21 years old poised on the verge of a great future which is what is so hard about reading these things today. It is a future she never got to live. It is not a pleasurable thing to read. Well she had a lot of potential but I do not think it really got realized. Those are two kids my dad and my uncle Barry and Lenny now in their 80s. I asked them to read through this stuff and talk to me about it. And there were so many things that stopped her from realizing her potential. After she graduated Frieda taught junior high school for a year and then she married and very quickly like amazingly quickly her marriage fell apart. By her late 20s she was a single mom with two kids. This is back in the 1930s. This is during the depression. And to help support her whole extended family she apparently got drafted to work in the family business which was this little corner grocery store in downtown Baltimore where they lived. Yeah it was a drag. And it was dragging her down. Did she talk about wanting to teach during those years when she was running the store? Yes. Yeah. And when did you guys start to work in the store? Oh we always did from the time we were a little kids. Yeah we always did. Like you were like five or six years old and you are working in the store? Yep. Well seven or eight. What would you do? Stock the shelves open up-- Yeah stocking. Even wait on people I think as I remember. Frieda's parents and other relatives lived above and next door to the store. It was run by Frieda's dad Isidore. He was kind of a soft touch and would lose a lot of money by extending credit to customers who'd never pay it back. I am named for Isidore. I have his Hebrew name Yitzchak. They did not name me Isidore because they realized at some point that Isidore Glass is a parsable sentence in English is a door glass. Also I was told years ago by my mom that they wanted a name that was less Jew-y. The fact that with that mission they ended up at Ira just shows how little the whole family knew about the world of non-Jews at the time. Anyway Frieda's college file also includes all the alumni questionnaires that she sent into Goucher in the decades after she graduated. And in those in the formal language of somebody filling out a form she describes first helping in the store in the 1930s-- doing the books waiting on customers bringing her kids to help work-- and then finally taking the store over when her dad got sick in 1950 trying to keep the store afloat as it slowly went bankrupt. There was another thing that shaped her life in ways that nobody could foresee back when she was 21 getting those glowing evaluations from her teachers. Her health affliction was the dominating component of her life and determined a lot of what eventually happened to her. I do not know how much you know Ira about how she got cancer. Actually I know that story well. When she was a teenager Frieda got acne. And the doctor treated it-- this is the early 1920s-- with this new miracle treatment x-rays. He bombarded her face with x-rays. Nobody would do this today because we now understand that gives you cancer and that is exactly what it did to her. She got skin cancer when she was 32 which back then doctors had a hard time treating. Uncle Lenny I should say as a doctor who was also her kid remembers chapter and verse of all the operations and procedures and what went wrong and how it would recur. And it just it slowly took over most of her face and her nose. Well eventually that became something which is never seen today which is called a rodent ulcer. It got that name because it looked as though some rodent had eaten someone's face away. How many surgeries did she have on her face Lenny? Oh god I would say-- 25 or 30. Oh my god. Yeah. In the time I knew her Grandma Frieda's face was made of these pale white rectangular sheets of grafted flesh sewn together around an easy to imagine skull. Her nose was a misshapen bulb that was somewhere between human nose and pig nose. But of course you know the family that you are born into is the very definition of what seems normal. And my sisters and cousins and I-- like she made Jell-O for us you know? She played Scrabble. Like we loved her. We did not think anything of it. In the late '50s finally after her father died and the corner store went broke at last Frieda did get to teach again full time. It was a quarter century after she graduated from Goucher. She taught high school French. Apparently the first day of class she would always tell the students to take a good long stare at her face right now just get it out of their systems.   Grandma Frieda's years at Goucher college she would bring them up a lot. She wore her Phi Beta Kappa honor society key from Goucher and then she would explain to strangers what it was. At holiday dinners if one of us brought somebody new around she would work Goucher into the conversation. But also I swear I remember her bringing it up with cashiers at the grocery store on Green Spring Avenue and with nurses in the hospital which I know makes her sound like a crank or something though really she was not. Well she talked about it because that was the only positive thing-- That is all she had to talk about. That is-- thank you Barry. That is what I was trying to say. Do you think that was one of the happiest times or maybe the happiest time of her life when she was at Goucher? Yes I do. Oh I would say probably. There is a page in her Goucher file that I guess was filled out when she first entered the school typed on an old manual typewriter. It lists her name her childhood address her age-- which is 17. 17. I have stared at that number for a long while. Like OK when this was written down that number was accurate. She was 17. And honestly like I would never pictured her at 17 before this. A kid with pretty skin-- the acne treatment apparently worked like a charm-- looking forward to so many things. I knew her in her last 20 years. But her first 20 I do not know it was comforting to think that she got those too. That that was just as real a part of her life as the part that I knew. I think it is easy to decide that what is happening like right now right this second is the most important thing. But in fact the moments before are just as real as the moments right now. And it all looks so much more complicated if you take them into account. Well today on our show we have stories like the moment that is documented in my Grandma Frieda's college file the moment before things went to hell. We have two very different stories. In one politicians nearly solved something that today is so deeply unsolved that we have shut down our government over it. In the other post divorce time travels for 90 minutes into pre-divorce. WBEZ Chicago I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.   Act One Where Have You Gone Barbara Jordan? Our Nation Turns Its Lonely Eyes to You. OK so government gets shut down over a border wall. President says there is a national emergency. Democrats say there is not one. But there is a moment before all this before this whole conversation went into the divisive nobody is listening to anybody hell that it seems to be in today. There was a moment back in the '90s when Congress had a bunch of people with completely opposing points of view on this sit down hash it out and come up with a solution to the whole thing. And they came up with one a comprehensive one that would have fixed so many of the things that we are arguing about today. We would not even be talking about this today this way. All of this would have played out differently. And at the center of the whole thing was this one woman-- charismatic principled beloved by Democrats and Republicans and so different from anybody we can think of in politics today. Her whole mission and philosophy of politics was so different from anything you see today. One of our producers Miki Meek like me and a few others here on our staff has become kind of obsessed with immigration these last few years. She has the story. And we start with a little context. In the 90s when all this happens immigration had not become this nationally charged partisan issue. It was a topic that made most people's eyes glaze over. Most of the country did not even know that a historic migration from Mexico to the US was underway. That is unless you live in a state like Florida Texas or California where most of the undocumented immigrants were settling. In those states voters were getting angry. So the politics of immigration started to change. And the big bang that really launched everyone into this new world happened in California in 1994-- a ballot measure called Prop 187. They keep coming-- two million illegal immigrants in California. The federal government will not stop them at the border yet requires us to pay billions to take care of them. Prop 187 banned undocumented immigrants and their kids from getting public benefits or going to schools and made teachers and doctors turn over the names of anyone they knew or even suspected was undocumented. Huge parts of it were unconstitutional. The Californians voted for it by an overwhelming margin. For Democrats in the state this was a wake up call. And one of the things that is so interesting when you listen back to all this stuff now is that they do not sound like the Democrats today. For instance here's Senator Diane Feinstein from California. She was against the harsh restrictions of Prop 187 but at the same time she wanted to crack down on illegal immigration and she called for it on the Senate floor. There is simply no time to lose. Too many people are still able to illegally cross our borders and too few states most notably California carry the burden of having to support educate and often incarcerate the hundreds of thousands who enter this country illegally each year. This is her in the mid '90s and this next thing she says is eerily prophetic. Ladies and gentlemen let me say to you what I honest to God believe is the truth. If we cannot affect sound just and moderate controls the people of America will rise to stop all immigration. I am as sure as that as I am that I am standing here now. You can almost picture her putting her hands up at the border of California trying to prevent xenophobia from spreading. These were very different times and both sides moved quickly to figure out a solution. So Congress put together a team a blue ribbon commission to come up with proposals that Congress could turn into laws. I know how boring this sounds. Commissions are the joke of government the place politicians send issues to die-- bureaucratic ineffective. But I promise the story I am going to tell you is not that. For starters they packed this commission with people who are so different from each other that it is almost comical. On one side there was the guy who co-wrote Prop 187 and on the other side a Democrat who helped almost three million undocumented immigrants get amnesty here. I spoke with all the commission members who are still alive. There is five of them. I told my wife that this commission will not be able to agree on whether it is Monday or Tuesday. This is Michael Teitelbaum a demographer that Republicans appointed. I did not know all of the appointees but I knew some of them. And my conclusion was that there was such a wide range of opinion on this very contentious set of issues that there would be no way this commission could reach a consensus on anything. That is where this remarkable woman came in the hero of our story. Her name was Barbara Jordan and she was a civil rights icon a democratic representative from Texas who also incidentally was black and gay. She is been dead for more than 20 years now. And to understand the unique spot she held in American politics some background. She grew up in Houston went to segregated schools and then law school. Started running for office in her 20s and broke a bunch of barriers. In the '60s she became the first black woman elected to the Texas legislature. And then in 1972 the first to serve in the US Congress from the south. She became this breakout national star during the Watergate hearings in 1974. At the time she was just a 30 something newcomer on the House Judiciary Committee that was deciding whether or not they were really going to impeach the President of the United States. And it is pretty much what you would expect a bunch of older white men on live TV sounding like your typical politician giving their opening statements. Until it came time for Jordan who wore this big boxy orange suit bright camera lights glaring off her black rimmed glasses-- a freshman Congresswoman and at that point one of four black woman ever to serve in Congress. And when she opened her mouth she spoke in this style that was grand but also personal. Thank you Mr. Chairman. Mr. Chairman you are a strong man. And it has not been easy but we have tried as best we can to give you as much assistance as possible. Earlier today we heard the beginning of the preamble to the Constitution of the United States-- we the people. It is a very eloquent beginning. But when that document was completed on the 17th of September in 1787 I was not included in that we the people. I felt somehow for many years that George Washington and Alexander Hamilton just left me out by mistake. When I first heard this I put it on repeat. I love how she sounds. Even then her voice was considered unusual like JFK or Churchill with maybe a little Katherine Hepburn thrown in there which turns out is just how she spoke whether she was on a stage or not. And at that moment during Watergate millions of Americans heard her for the very first time and lots of them were like wow who is this woman talking this way? --but through the process of amendment interpretation and court decision I have finally been included in we the people. Today I am an inquisitor. And hyperbole would not be fictional and would not overstate the solemness that I feel right now. My faith in the Constitution is whole it is complete it is total. And I am not going to sit here and be an idle spectator to the diminution the subversion the destruction of the Constitution. A president is impeachable if he attempts to subvert the Constitution. She explained the president is not above the law. He is not above the Constitution. It was a galvanizing moment. People remarked how fair minded and serious she was. Dan Rather who covered the Watergate hearings said later that when Jordan finished there was no doubt in his mind that the president would be impeached or have to resign. He said she created this feeling of as hard as it seems we have to go on with this. We do not have a choice. Jordan's office was immediately swarming with camera crews and flooded with fan mail from all over the country. Her appeal cut across party lines. One man even put up 25 billboards that said Thank you Barbara Jordan for explaining our Constitution. She had suddenly been catapulted into this spot where people looked at her as a moral authority at a particularly cynical moment in politics. In Congress her colleagues like to joke that Jordan had the voice of God which is kind of true. Her mom and dad were Baptist. Dad did some preaching. Her mom gave a lot of speeches too. That is just how she grew up talking. Jordan was a champion debater in college. She says that is where she picked up the style of speech. Two years after Watergate Barbara got asked to give the big speech at the Democratic National Convention-- the keynote. The other keynote speaker that year was John Glenn senator and astronaut. The crowd barely paid attention to him. Then Barbara Jordan took the stage. This is by far the biggest ovation anyone has received here in this opening session of the Democratic Convention. This time the convention has really come alive. This video is totally electrifying to watch. The clapping went on for three minutes straight before Jordan could speak. Thank you. Thank you. There is something different about tonight. There is something special about tonight. What is different what is special? I Barbara Jordan am a keynote speaker. She was the first African-American to give the convention's keynote. Afterward there was a movement to make her Jimmy Carter's Vice President though she quickly swatted that down. She issued a press release saying he would never pick someone who is both black and a woman. Cut to 1992 16 years later. Jordan's retired leading a quiet life in Austin with her partner and teaching at a university but the government needs someone to head its bipartisan immigration team. Susan Martin a veteran of immigration policy fights on Capitol Hill leads the search. Jordan had never worked on the issue but she was Martin's first pick. I had never met her but I thought that she stood for integrity and balance and fairness. And she started off saying she was just too busy. She thought it was an important issue it was not that at all but she could not do it. At that time Jordan had multiple sclerosis sometimes needed a wheelchair and walker to get around. But Susan said she kept trying to convince her telling her anti-immigrant views were spreading. The rhetoric was getting more racist and starting to divide the country. Jordan was alarmed by all that. She did not want immigrants to become scapegoats. So she said yes. As someone who is been watching this immigration debate play out for the past few years it was incredible to hear what Barbara Jordan pulled off how she managed to get people who did not think they could agree to agree. She brought them to unanimous consensus on nearly everything. She forced them to stake out a middle ground on stuff that was controversial then and still is today. I asked all the commissioners how exactly she got this thing to work. They told me that Jordan first set up a bunch of ground rules for how they could make decisions together all nine of them. Again here's Michael Teitelbaum one of the Republican appointees to the commission. I remember her saying we are nine in number but we are not the Supreme Court. If we vote 5 to 4 on something that is a meaningless set of recommendations. So I do not think we should be seeking small majorities for opinion A or B but we should be seeking instead broad consensus. And everybody agreed on that. For Barbara this approach was bigger than just the commission. She did not see compromise as a sign of weakness. She saw it as a moral imperative. She taught this in her college ethics and political values classes. She believed it was actually immoral to not compromise if your job was to legislate. When she was still a politician she had a reputation as a pragmatist who despised ideologues and party purists. She liked drinking and playing guitar with conservatives after hours and she had no problems cutting deals or making friends with her polar opposites. In fact in the Texas Senate she thought it was the only way she could get any change to happen. She would take opportunities where she could find them which is how she later got West Virginian Senator Robert Byrd a former Ku Klux Klan member to help her get enough votes to expand the Voting Rights Act to Mexican Americans. On the commission Jordan also worked with everyone to come up with language that would establish tone which was just as important as the actual policies themselves. The tone would be respectful send a message that they were listening to both sides. So on one hand she was tough on illegal immigration. We have got to have the strength to say no to the people who are not supposed to get in. We need to make deportation a part of a credible immigration policy. But at the same time she was pro immigration. The commission believes that legal immigration has strengthened the country and it continue to do so. We strongly denounce-- denounce on our commission-- the hostility which seems to be developing around immigrants. That is not healthy when we seek to blame immigrants for all of our social ills. We cannot sustain ourselves as a nation if we condone divisiveness in this society of immigrants. To me one of the most impressive things I learned about this bipartisan commission is just how all out they went for five years. Early on they were constantly on the road because they wanted input from the rest of the country. In El Paso Chicago Seattle San Diego Nogales and a bunch of other places. They held public hearings that were basically open mic sessions that lasted for hours. They also did ride alongs with border patrol toured refugee camps in Kenya and met with government officials in Mexico. While they were there one of the commissioners told me this poignant detail. When they got to buildings that did not have ramps they just picked Jordan up in her wheelchair and carried her in. When you compare today to back then the single biggest difference is that it was possible for the two sides to just sit down and talk about how to cut down on illegal immigration mainly because politicians were still all over the map on the issue. Positions had not hardened along predictable party lines. Yes Republicans were generally more skeptical about immigration and Democrats were more in favor of it. But there were also lots of pro-business Republicans who wanted cheap labor and pro-union Democrats who did not. They wanted to protect American workers. So this was a moment when things were more malleable before immigration became such a loaded symbolic issue. It was a moment before so many families moved here. Most of the undocumented were young single men coming for jobs. And it was a moment when unlike today both sides Democrats and Republicans agreed that illegal immigration was an urgent problem. Here's Bill Clinton giving his State of the Union in 1995. At that point the undocumented population had grown to around five million less than half of what it is now. All Americans not only in the states most heavily affected but in every place in this country are rightly disturbed by the large numbers of illegal aliens entering our country. The jobs they hold might otherwise be held by citizens or legal immigrants. In case this is not clear at the time protecting the working class from an influx of cheap labor was still a central part of the Democratic Party's platform. And the way to protect American workers and stop people from entering the country seemed obvious to the commission-- make it impossible for undocumented workers to get jobs. This was the easiest point of agreement for the commission. They voted to hit businesses with big fines and even jail time if they were caught hiring undocumented workers and to create a mandatory electronic system that employers would use to check if job applicants were legal to work. This eventually became known as E-Verify. A thornier issue was birthright citizenship the thing that President Trump said he wanted to end just before the midterms. This is the law that says if you enter the country illegally and have a child here that child is a citizen. Jordan settled this really quickly. She flexed her moral authority because birthright citizenship is in the Constitution. Here's one of the commissioners Bruce Morrison. There were members I will not name a particular members but there were members who had the anchor baby line. And Barbara made clear where she stood on the 14th Amendment and that was one of the few examples where she just put her foot down and basically said you know over my dead body. The 14th Amendment reads all persons born or naturalized in the United States are citizens. The 14th Amendment overturned the Dred Scott decision which said black people born in America could never be citizens. I am not about to advocate changing the 14th Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. Those parents are not citizens but that child is a citizen. And as a citizen of this country that child is entitled to benefits and they are not to be taken away. The most explosive issue the commission faced the most difficult question Jordan guided them through had to do with immigrant families arriving in the US. Specifically should people be allowed to bring their whole extended families over-- parents and brothers and sisters and once they get green cards their spouses and kids? President Trump calls this chain migration. He thinks it is unfair and dangerous foreigners taking advantage of the system. But Jordan's commission came up with a totally different way to frame this issue. She talked about it in a way that is much more humane than how we hear it talked about today with no fear mongering. Though it took them a year to figure this out the commission said let us just be practical about the situation. They said look at how things are going now with family visas. It is a total backed up mess. At the time if you were a US citizen with a sibling in the Philippines the wait time to get into the US was 18 years. The commissioners felt the US was making promises it could not keep. Again here's former commissioner Bruce Morrison. This to me was the number one issue facing our immigration system that we were dividing families that we were making people choose whether they should break the rules by being here illegally to live with their spouse or whether they should be exiled. And that is a choice no family should make. They said let us prioritize. Most people can agree that the most important thing is for parents to be together with their kids as quickly as possible. So they said let us only give visas to parents and minor children and not admit anyone else. This would knock lots of people off the waiting list. Say for instance you are an adult citizen and your brother and two sisters had been waiting for a decade. Suddenly sorry there is no space for them. Also if your kids were adults they would be out of luck too. So it was a tough policy but it was generous too. Doing this would cut the long backlogs free up more visas. And they agreed to temporarily give out even more to bring in all the kids and spouses on the waiting list as quickly as possible. Then once that list was cleared they would make sure new applicants got reunited with their families in the US within a year. They also built in special exceptions to allow in adult kids with disabilities and kids who put in applications as children but aged out because of long wait times. Of course there was no getting around the fact that this approach would leave more than a million siblings and others out in the cold unable to move to the US. And not surprisingly this upset a lot of people including Republicans. Representative Dick Armey told The New York Times that the commission's proposal was a quote misguided attempt to make legal immigrants the scapegoats for America's problems. Protesters picketed the commission at public hearings. Here's a reporter pushing Barbara Jordan during a press conference in DC. Many of the critics of these recommendations have qualified them as anti family and inhumane. How do you respond to that? These recommendations are not anti family. Our recommendations make it easier for spouses and minor children to unite and not remain apart for such extended periods of time. And we had testimony from people immigrants who said I would love to have my wife with me or my young son or daughter. And how do you say to that person but we have got to get somebody else's brother or sister? It was a matter of reinforcing a priority in the nuclear family. In 1995 President Clinton came out strong backing the commission saying their recommendations were consistent with his own views which were quote pro family pro work pro naturalization. The commission's report waded into the most controversial issues and made big tough recommendations. They would eliminate the diversity visa lottery and shrink the number of visas for low wage unskilled workers. They called for harsh sanctions against businesses that hire undocumented workers. They would gradually moved from an immigration system that brings in mostly family members to one that brings in workers who have skills the US lacks. They said every few years Congress should review how many people should be admitted into the country based on what the economy needs. And for the short term they propose cutting overall legal immigration by a third. But at the same time there was another side to their recommendations. The commission wanted to keep refugees flowing into the country. They wanted protections and due process for people who get caught up in the immigration system and alternatives to detention for them. They insisted that legal immigrants were entitled to public benefits and welfare. They called for stricter enforcement of hate crime laws. They wanted to fund job training for American workers who were displaced by immigrants and to give money and advice to communities with new large immigrant populations hoping this would make the whole transition less fraught and resentful. By late 1995 it is clear that getting all this passed will not be easy but they have the president and the immigration subcommittees in the House and Senate on their side. And at that critical moment Barbara Jordan got sick because of complications from leukemia which she would had for a while but kept secret. She died within weeks. She was 59 years old. Again here's Susan Martin the woman who first hired Jordan for the commission. I found out because I got a call from her partner. And all of the commissioners and all of the staff were just you know they cannot believe it is happened. But it was also a very serious political loss because she had the stature and the voice to be able to make sure that the commission's recommendations were heard. That kind of authority that is what was missing when Congress finally took up the commission's recommendations in 1996 without Jordan there to guide the debate. An astonishing variety of people came out and rallied against them. Immigrant rights groups teamed up with agribusiness and manufacturing to water down the sanctions against employers who hire undocumented workers. High tech firms opposed the cuts to worker visas. Religious groups did not want any changes to family visas. And they won. Because she was not there to push them. It is that simple. She was not there. This is Senator Alan Simpson. He was the chair of the Senate immigration subcommittee and had a front row seat as the proposals fell apart. And when she disappeared then the interest groups came in and said boy she is gone now. We will just get in and chop this baby to bits which they did. Soon enough President Clinton backed away from his earlier endorsement of the commission and ended up signing some of the most punitive legislation against legal permanent residents. It restricted their access to food stamps and Medicaid and made it easier to deport them. Barbara Jordan's vision of a grand compromise was dead. The commissioners and Senator Simpson all told me if she would lived-- We would have something better than whatever they got now that is all I can tell you. I do not know what aspect it would be whether it would be enforcement or border enforcement or legalization or whatever whatever whatever. But it would be a hell of a lot better than whatever you have got now. Today when Barbara Jordan's name comes up in politics it is mainly from Republicans. That is one of the things that got me interested in her in the first place. T