It is been a week for looking at pictures of the bombings in Boston of course the aftermath the FBI suspects everything that is happened since. By Wednesday a few people in our office were going onto Reddit the online discussion board to read the conversation where amateurs were scouring through those crowd photos of hundreds of faces searching for anybody who might be a bomber. Zach Barnett was one of those amateurs. And he was a skeptic. He started Tuesday morning. When posters started chattering about a guy in the crowd that they nicknamed Music Man a guy who was wearing headphones a black jacket with a huge black backpack-- it was the huge backpack that made him suspicious-- Zach was the person who alerted everyone. There was an image after the bombing had taken place with tons of ambulances on the scene. And there was what seemed to be Music Man with his backpack. And so this seemed to suggest that he was not responsible. Because if he has the backpack after the blast obviously it is not his backpack that caused the blast. Right. Right. After this display of level headedness Zach who is a college student was asked to be one of the moderators of the discussion on Reddit. There is been some criticism of Reddit for going through Boston Marathon photos looking for suspects. The Atlantic called it vigilantism and made it seem like these were crazed nerds on a delusional CSI witch hunt. And you definitely can find quotes that make it seem that way. But if you read the full discussions you will see how careful people are trying to be very aware of the dangers of accusing an innocent person of being a bomber. It is a big part of the discussion. When somebody posts the Facebook page of one potential suspect people declared this has gone too far. The post is deleted. The poster's banned. And Zach was far from the only skeptic. Take for example the discussion of a pair of guys they called the Backpack Brothers because one of them had a big heavy looking black backpack. And he was wearing a white hat with some glasses on top of the hat. And then there was another man in blue track suit and running shoes which is not exactly out of place at a marathon. And he has a duffel bag right? Yeah. He had a duffel bag over his shoulder. There were a couple things about the Backpack Brothers photos that made Zach feel like of all the pictures these had the greatest likelihood to be real suspects. Somebody linked to this ingenious photo which superimposed the shot of the Backpack Brothers on the sidewalk before the explosion with a picture of the same stretch of sidewalk after the bombs went off with a big red circle drawn at the spot where the bombs supposedly had blown up. And damned if it was not exactly next to where those two guys had been standing. And even more damning were other photos taken still before the blast. Where one of them definitely did not have his bag. The person with the white hat did not have his bag with him. And the other one you could not really tell if he did or did not. And so the speculation is they had bags before the blast. And then later still before the blast they had left their bags somewhere. Exactly. And based on the time of when the images were taken which you could see the marathon clock in the photo it did line up with roughly when people thought that the bags had been dropped. And so this led people to really be suspicious of these two. But by Wednesday people at Reddit were discussing the details that would make you less suspicious of these two. Like for example the duffel bag was blue. Authorities never mentioned a bomb in a blue bag. Or most important except for the white cap these two guys did not match the description of the suspects that authorities started to circulate by Wednesday afternoon. So by the end of the day Wednesday most posters on Reddit including Zach seemed to be moving away from the Backpack Brothers as possible bombers. Of course this was not true everywhere. On Thursday morning the New York Post blasted a photo of the Backpack Brothers across its front page-- it is the entire front page-- with a screaming headline Bag Men. Feds seek these two pictured at Boston Marathon. Somehow the Post did not notice that these two men do not match the description of the suspects that was circulating by then. By Thursday afternoon authorities had publicly declared that these two men were not suspects. Photos of the real suspects were released. The Backpack Brothers turned out to be a high school sophomore who was very surprised at all this attention and his friend. And on Thursday when I talked to Zach about all the various photos he was super careful not to jump to any conclusions which of course is difficult. It just is so hard to look at these pictures without imposing a story on it. Yeah exactly. You just cannot help but read the photograph not just see it for what it is but to read a story on to it. Like here at our office this week it was hard for all of us to not feel like oh look look it is him. It must be him. This must be the guy. And were you having feelings like that too? Oh yeah. You cannot help it. When people are posting all these images and there is this person circled and there is an arrow drawn from this person to this person saying oh these two are working together. And the danger is not even just that people are going to speculate and jump to conclusions that are unwarranted but really what is going to happen when you jump to unwarranted conclusions. Who is going to be affected? A picture is what you think it means. It is not self-evident. And today on our radio show we have two stories where there are pictures. And in each of them whether you think the pictures are worrisome and troubling depends on what you believe about the story of how they were made. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Two mysteries will unfold. Stay with us. Act One Photo Op. It is no surprise that people disagree about how to interpret the photos and videos in this first story because the photos and videos were shot in a part of the world where people disagree about how to interpret so so many things. Nancy Updike tells the story. I saw a video a while back that caught my attention. It is short a shaky handheld video. And it shows an interaction between Israeli soldiers and a Palestinian family where there is no violence no yelling no confrontation. In the video five Israeli soldiers show up at the house of a Palestinian family in a village named Nabi Saleh. It is around 100 in the morning. The father answers the door and he starts to film what is happening. And the soldiers let him film. The soldier in charge asks the man in Hebrew if there are any children in the house and how many.    The man's got four children three of whom are here at the house now. The little girl is at her grandfather's. How many sons the soldier asks. Three.    The soldier asks to see the two oldest boys 15 years old and almost 12 years old. The man says they are asleep. And the soldier asks him to wake them up please.   The man goes into the next room and calls his kids' names a couple of times. Again it is around 100 in the morning. The kids lift up their heads blink in the light and slowly get out of bed. They stand next to each other in the doorway of their room looking at the soldiers who are in full gear helmets guns. The younger boy has dark blond hair and his face is a little puffy with sleep. When the soldier in command says hello he says his name Muhammad.  SUBJECT MUHAMMAD TAMIMI Muhammad. The soldiers write down the boys' names and ID numbers. And then they take a photo of each kid. They have already taken a photo of the father. During the whole process no one offers or asks for a warrant a charge an explanation. As the soldiers leave the one in command glances at another door in the building and says any more children? The father says no. The only question the father asks is can he go with the soldiers and keep filming while they go to the next house? They say no at first. And he says why not? So they let him. I watch the unedited video he made that night and I counted 12 more houses that the soldiers went to waking up kids and photographing them. The undrama of this video is mesmerizing the routineness like watching a series of traffic stops. I have been coming to the West Bank reporting on and off for 15 years. And I have been here when the routine was suicide bombings in Israel and in the West Bank tanks and daily shootings. But it has not been like that for a long time. And the army taking photos of kids at night is something I would never seen before. Watching the video I felt like it was a window into this moment in the West Bank this period of quasi-stability. Israel went into the West Bank 46 years ago. What does it take to control so many people so effectively for so long? And I know that lots of Americans feel like they have no right to ask questions about what Israel does because they are not there and they do not know what it is like to live with the dangers Israelis live with. But what Americans never seem to realize is how much Israelis ask questions including about this video of soldiers photographing kids. The video aired on Israel's Channel 10 and also made the rounds on Israeli Twitter feeds and Facebook pages. And plenty of people who saw the video said well the army's got to do what the army's got to do. But others were disturbed. They had questions. And why should not they? It is their sons and daughters who are in the West Bank or wherever else right after high school for years of mandatory military service. So I have got a question. What are these nighttime photos? The photos at night are not new. It is a tactic that comes and goes part of something the Israeli military calls mapping. This is mapping. In the middle of the night the guy is in his pajamas. Yehuda Shaul did his army service during the Second Intifada years ago. But he did a lot of mapping. And he is talked to a lot of other soldiers about it. He is showing me a snapshot taken by a soldier in 2008 in the West Bank city of Nablus. And the photo shows an older Palestinian man who seems to be in his pajamas sitting at a table in his house across from an Israeli soldier who is writing something down on a piece of paper. Yeah basically the ID numbers of the people who live the names drawing who works where cell phones all the kind of stuff that you collect in mapping. Mapping is actually a general term that can mean a lot of different things-- photographs diagrams of the layout of a house where the windows and balconies are what doors lead to which streets. Mapping's not violent and months can go by without any mapping. So it is not something that usually makes the news. It is just one more part of the overall routine in the West Bank these days. The mapping and nighttime photos started in Nabi Saleh the village from the video you heard a few months after the villagers began doing a weekly protest march according to residents. These protests are also part of the routine in the West Bank. They happen every Friday. They happen in lots of villages. They have been happening in different villages for years. And there is practically a script. In Nabi Saleh the day I was there there was a march chanting. The villagers faced off against some soldiers. And after an hour or so of this a lot of the adults left. But the bulk of what happens every Friday is what comes next kids throwing stones. It goes on for hours. It is become the Friday afternoon activity for a lot of kids and teenagers in Nabi Saleh. Teens sit with friends by the side of the road talking and rough housing and then occasionally picking up a stone throwing it or launching it with a slingshot. The soldiers on their side respond with tear gas rubber coated metal bullets.  Two men have died from injuries they received at protests in Nabi Saleh in the last year and a half. But today there is a lot of pretending to be fearless. One kid made a joke of acting like he would been hit. . At this point throwing stones is one of the most common charges against Palestinian kids who are arrested in the West Bank. There are Palestinians throwing stones just about every day not only at protests and not only at soldiers. A few weeks ago a Palestinian was convicted of throwing stones that killed an Israeli father and his baby when they were driving in the West Bank. A stone hit the father in the head and he lost control of the car. The army takes stone throwing seriously whether the stones are being thrown at armored jeeps or unarmed civilians. Soldiers videotape the weekly protests. And in Nabi Saleh the villagers told me the army does that so that it can take those images and compare them to the nighttime photos. That way the army can arrest people who throw stones and go to demonstrations. It is safer and easier for the army to arrest people at night rather than at the demonstration itself though arrests actually might not be the point of the nighttime photos. My officer tells me-- he told me before we left bring your camera. This is Nadav Bigelman. He was an Israeli soldier who took photos in mapping operations similar to ones in Nabi Saleh He is 24 years old and his army service ended in 2010. But his unit operated in villages that were also holding protests. Nadav said he would just started his army service and his commander told him to bring along his little Fujifilm camera one night to do some mapping. You know it was like my first few duty line after basic training and all that. I thought I would have like the most important intelligence material. Yes I thought someone would come and ask for these pictures. I think in my mind this is the most logical thing to do that someone I do not know intelligence will ask for these pictures. But no one ever did ask for the pictures. Not only that but Nadav says he later learned that all of the information they would gathered the ID numbers the drawings of the layouts of the houses. all of it had gone in the trash. Nadav was a young soldier-- 19 years old. He did not question why. He just deleted the photos. Another soldier in Nadav's unit Sagi Tal confirmed that this happened. And Sagi said that over the course of his three-year army service he saw the same thing happen again and again with mapping operations.  One of the ways that I came to understand that this was just an exercise in futility was that every time a new battalion would come in and be in charge of a certain area they would order this mapping procedure all over again. And so it became clear to me that these photos were not being used and did not go into some kind of database the way we were lead to understand they would be. In my unit we called that kind of operations Condoleezza Rice operations. This is another soldier also named Nadav Nadav Weiman. He was serving in 2008 when Condoleezza Rice was Secretary of State. Because every time Condoleezza Rice came to Israel we did that. You did a mapping operation? Yeah. I thought Nadav Weiman might have had a different experience with mapping than other soldiers because he was in a special forces unit and he was in charge of intelligence for his team a sniper team. And he did have a different experience. The army sent him to a photo course and gave him a camera a Nikon D200 with seven lenses. But when it came to mapping it was the same with him as with other soldiers. He got back with all the photos and the information and the diagrams went to his superior-- And I said OK. There is all the maps and the photos and everything. And he said Nadav erase the photos and just throw the papers to the trash can. And do not ever come to me again with all the papers because you do not need to do that. Were you surprised? Yeah I was very surprised because the first time we did that we did it really seriously. You know we asked and we drew really accurate and everything. And then we understood that it does not really matter. He says after the first time he did mapping he just threw everything away automatically. I heard this and I did not understand. Why get all that information and photos and then throw it away? And why keep doing that over and over? I went back to Yehuda Shaul the guy who first explained mapping to me and showed me the photo of the man in his pajamas. Again Yehuda did his army service years ago during the Second Intifada. But he is been in touch with hundreds of soldiers since then because after he finished his required army service he and some others started an organization called Breaking The Silence that interviews Israeli soldiers about their experiences. Besides doing mapping himself Yehuda's heard mapping stories from dozens of IDF soldiers-- Israel Defense Forces soldiers-- including ones who are serving now. And he was not surprised by what Sagi and Nadav and the other Nadav told me. He said it was the same for his unit in Hebron. They mapped the old city of Hebron twice then destroyed all the data on the orders of their commander without ever passing it on or doing anything with it. Look very quick you understand that mapping is just another form of making your presence felt right? Making your presence felt. That is a phrase. It is a-- Yeah. . Demonstrating your presence. The idea is very simple. Every Palestinian feels that the IDF is always right here you know? You are pointing right to the back of your head behind your left ear. Yeah yeah. We are breathing behind you. We are always there. We are always watching. You never know where we are going to be when we are going to show up how it is going to look like what we are going to do when it is going to start when it is going to end right? So what do you do to make them feel this way? You make your presence felt. But this is not a tactic. This is not a strategy that distinguishes between good guys and bad guys right? . I spent an afternoon talking to seven boys who were photographed in Nabi Saleh the village where I saw the weekly protest. Most had been photographed more than once. Some had later been arrested. Some had not. One of the kids I talked to was the younger boy from Bilal Tamimi's video his son Muhammad. Muhammad was almost 12 when the soldiers took his picture. He is just turned 14. But he seems young for his age. He did not act tough or indifferent when I asked him about soldiers taking his picture. . I was surprised that they were there. This is the first time that they entered our house. I had thought about it a lot before but never expected it to happen. Muhammad's mother told me that he and his older brother worried in the weeks afterward that soldiers would come back. His older brother started sleeping in jeans and keeping his shoes next to the bed in case he was arrested in the middle of the night. Muhammad did not like to sleep at all. . I started staying up late watching for the coming of the soldiers. His mother told me that for months she would wake up at 400 or 500 in the morning to the sound of the TV. And she would find Muhammad awake half watching TV and half watching out the window to see if anyone was coming. Muhammad never was arrested and neither was his older brother. But soldiers did come again to the house. Like before it was around 130 in the morning. And just like before his father Bilal videotaped it. Bilal's had video cameras since he was a teenager. But a few years ago he got a better one from an Israeli human rights organization called B'Tselem. Now he is got a video archive organized by date of the times the Israeli military has come into the village over the last couple of years. Sit please. . In this video everyone has been woken up and is sitting in the kitchen. And one soldier is walking around with Bilal doing a search asking him in English this time whether he has anything illegal or forbidden in the house. Do you have something who is unforbidden? Unforbidden? Like what? Yes. Like knives. Like weapons. I have a lot of knives and the spoons in the kitchen. The kitchen is OK-- In case you did not hear it Bilal is saying I have a lot of knives and spoons in the kitchen. The soldier says the kitchen is OK. I have got knives in my kitchen too. The soldier keeps walking around with Bilal questioning him. Do you carry a weapon? Weapon? This is my weapon. Bilal points to his camera as he says this. OK. It is a good weapon. Yes. Again no one in the house is under arrest. The soldiers are just looking around asking to see the older son's backpack looking in cabinets and on shelves asking more questions and finally leaving. For sure there are people in the West Bank who want to kill Israelis. Nadav Weiman the special forces guy showed me a photo he took after his team raided the house of a Palestinian man who had a workshop inside to build bombs. And we found a lot of ammunition and things inside his house and bombs and everything. Nadav says the raid on that house was based on intelligence. And Israel has an incredible amount of information about who and what are in the West Bank. They have got cameras informants listening devices drones undercover units. And Nadav says that over the course of his three-year army service the conclusion he came to based on his own experiences and conversations with other soldiers including his two older brothers who are also special forces was that some operations really were about gathering and using intel. He would go out and take reconnaissance photos and they would be used. But he says those operations even for his elite team were the exception. He believes that a lot of what they did including most mapping operations fell into a different category the demonstrating our presence category. And in that category was a whole range of things from mapping to something else he says his team did called mock arrests. Other soldiers also talked about this. And a mock arrest is exactly what it sounds like arresting someone who is not really under arrest. Even more than that Nadav said before his team went out to do a mock arrest they would call the Shabak Israel's internal intelligence agency. And we would say to them we want to go to do mock arrest in that house. And we give the number of the house because there is maps and all the houses are numbered. And they check. And they have information about all of the Palestinians in West Bank. And they give us the OK because if everybody in the house is innocent and not connected to terror they say OK you can go. Let me underscore what he is saying here. He said his team could only do a mock arrest after Israel's intelligence service told them that no one in the house is suspected of wrongdoing. And we would go in the middle of the night and we surround the house. And we shout come out with your hands in the air. And we throw stun grenades or we fire bullets at the walls of the house. Or we throw smoke grenades. And then somebody comes out and is afraid and he does not know what is happening. And we arrest him. And we shout a lot in Hebrew and Arabic. We arrest him. We put him inside a Jeep. And then we do like two or three rounds-- Driving around the village. Driving around the village. And then after like 20 minutes 30 minutes maybe the whole night we put him back inside his house and drove away from there. And the goal in that operation the goal is creating the feeling of being chased in the Palestinian population. To create the feeling of being chased in the Palestinian population was an explicit goal that Nadav says he saw many times typed out in the PowerPoint presentation his team would be shown before a mission right there along with all the other official information. Our team our names who is the officer and what is the goal of the operation and how we are going to do it it is all written. And it is written to create the feeling of being chased in the Palestinian population just like that. That is the mission that I was sent. And you see that a lot of things I do in the West Bank as a soldier I am not here to protect Israel. I am here to control Palestinians. I ran all this by Lieutenant Colonel Peter Lerner spokesman for the Israeli military the Israel Defense Forces. I quoted to him the objective Nadav Weiman said he saw typed out before some missions. To create the feeling of being chased in the Palestinian population. I would not consider that a military objective at all. And when we do carry out military operations a specific target would be to arrest an individual to gather intelligence for a specific mission. It would not be just to intimidate anybody. I would rule that out to begin with. Again if there was a low-level commander making such a statement or event putting it in writing it could be a mistake. I told Colonel Lerner about the mock arrests Nadav Weiman and other soldiers said they would done. I asked him what is the purpose of a mock arrest. I cannot even comprehend that type of term. When we carry out an arrest we carry it out. We take the person. We take them for questioning. It could be a short questioning. You ask them a few questions. You see if there is any basis for further investigation. And he could be released. It would not be a mock. I would say that that definitely not be how we operate. You have never heard that term? No. About mapping he said-- In the past we did military operations to map out populated areas to find out who is living where and who is doing what. I am not aware of throwing data out or throwing intelligence out. Never. You have never heard of that? No. I doubt that would be the situation. It would defeat the object. We do not just send troops out just to go out. We safeguard our own safety. We do not send people and put them at risk. And we would look at every mission in a professional manner. The years since the Second Intifada ended around 2006 have been the quietest in a long time for Israelis with some brutal exceptions. People do not worry about getting on buses the way they used to or try to find tables in cafes far away from the door in case a suicide bomber gets in. So you could argue that creating the feeling of being chased in the Palestinian population has worked that mapping is important to Israel's security. And it does not matter whether data is kept or not. But mapping and mock arrests are just a small part of things in the West Bank. For the last few years there is been this intense cooperation between Palestinian Authority security forces and Israeli security forces. And Israel's built a barrier a series of fences and walls in much of the West Bank. Those things probably have a lot more impact on Israeli security than sporadic mapping operations. But then what is hard to calculate is the downside of mapping or mock arrests. What does it do when anyone innocent or guilty can be woken up by soldiers in the middle of the night along with their kids? The soldiers who came to Bilal Tamimi's house and photographed his kids were notably polite. It is part of what makes the video compelling the disconnect between how they are speaking and what they are doing. All of the soldiers I spoke with talked about feeling aversion of that disconnect. And these are all people who entered the army wanting to protect their country. They joined combat units and did tough service. Nadav Weiman the special forces soldier wanted to be on the front lines. He went into Lebanon. He was two days away from his reserve duty when we talked. And yet he and the others I talked to feel that a lot of what they have done in the army is deliberate intimidation of civilians. They do not believe it made Israel safer in the long run. And yeah these are a select group. A lot of people inside the army and out do not see it this way. Nadav Bigelman the guy who had mapping photos on his camera told me about one night when his unit was given glow sticks like kids buy at concerts before they went out on their patrol. And their commander said to throw them into people's houses. Just toss them through open windows or balconies. And you can say OK it is not violent. It did not harm anyone. But the idea is again-- of course just random houses of course. The idea again is not the glow sticks but what the glow sticks make people think. I mean just imagine people wake up the next morning prepare for school to work university and they see a glow stick in the middle of their living room. And they understand the army was here. That is how 46 years go by sometimes with a heavy hand sometimes with a light touch. Nancy Updike is one of the producers of our program.  Coming up a kid's drawing in ballpoint pen on printer paper. What could that possibly be worth? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme and bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program we are calling Picture Show about pictures and how the story that we tell ourselves about a picture totally determines what we see when we look at it. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two A Picture is Worth 1000. Let us head now into the world of buying and selling pictures where every picture has a price the price is very very high. This is the fine art world with collectors and galleries and of course artists. Scott Pinkmountain has this story about whether it is possible to get away from all that once you are deep inside it. Schandra Singh is a painter a good one. Straight out of an MFA program she landed a gallery in New York. I was like minus 200 in my bank account. And I was driving to the city with some works on paper because my dealer's like well maybe-- because I make really big paintings. And he was like maybe if you have something small we can sell it you know? So I am driving there and I get a phone call from him from my dealer. And he goes Schandra. And I said yes? And he goes Saatchi just bought the Lazy River painting. And I just like dropped the phone and screamed. Saatchi would be Charles Saatchi co founder of the international advertising firm Saatchi  Saatchi and owner of the Saatchi Gallery in London. He is ranked among the wealthiest people in the UK and probably the most closely watched contemporary art collector on the planet. He ended up buying three more from the show. Oh and then when he buys it what he does is that he automatically puts you on his website. Which is a big deal in itself because the Saatchi gallery website is hugely popular among collectors. And then I do not know all these collectors come. And then I was offered a show right away with a really good gallery in Switzerland. My gallery in New York again automatically wanted to book my next show. Saatchi said he wanted to see everything that came out of my studio. Oh my god. Soon all the other paintings in her New York gallery shows sold out. Then collectors bought every single piece in her studio completely cleaned her out. This pace continued for five years. This is a whole side of the art world that most of us only have a vague awareness of where collectors buy and sell art like it is wheat futures or pork bellies. And Schandra's work was part of that. Schandra's gallery sold a couple paintings to this one guy who turned around and immediately tried to resell them for a big profit. It felt weird. And that is a lot of people do particularly with Saatchi. Like they buy what he buys. They do not even hang it in their apartment homes. They put it in a warehouse. And they watch the value go up or down. It is like stocks you know? And then if it goes up they hold onto it or they flip it. You know it is amazing to get all this success. But like painters really paint because there is sort of like this beautiful magic moment in it you know? And after you are constantly making stuff all the time and people are buying stuff and then they are flipping paintings and it is all about money it is like you just crave for that little magic moment again. It becomes corrupted if you let it. So it was in the midst of all this when something happened to Schandra. As she tells it she was laying in bed struggling to get up and go to the studio to work on this big solo show. I look on my cell phone and there is this email from this father in England. And he says that he is a really big fan of my work and he has a 13-year-old autistic son who really loves my work too. He is really moved by my work and that his son is an artist. And he is making work all the time and that he is currently doing a series called Fire From the Eyes. And that he wanted to know if he could buy Anthony his son one of