A quick warning there are curse words that are unbeeped in today's episode of this show. If you prefer a beeped version you can find that at our website thisamericanlife.org. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Emanuele Berry the show is executive editor. I am in for Ira Glass. This week's show is reported by a friend of mine Saidu Tejan-Thomas Jr. Last spring he gave me a call. He wanted to talk about a show idea. His big pitch-- a podcast series about activists. I was not into it. I had covered protests in Ferguson the year Michael Brown was shot. Spent late nights watching protesters standoff with police weekends at marches. I know how this goes. It is always the same story-- chanting impassioned activists talking about why they came out hopeful forward-looking statements. I watched as the story replicated in cities across the country with Black death after Black death. Saidu and I talked for an hour. I was not sold. He ignored me and made the show anyway. It is a podcast called Resistance. And I cannot bear how happy me saying the next few words will make Saidu but it is good. So he did not make the story you would get by going to protest after protest like I feared. Instead he told stories that unfold over time about people's lives being changed by the decision to protest what happens with their personal relationships home life taking a backseat exhaustion egos celebration and arguments. Saidu made the story that is always been there but no one ever tells. There is this perception of Black Lives Matter that it is this one thing. But of course the larger social movement of our time is really a loose collection of different groups with different personalities goals and methods. And Saidu made a series of stories about one of them a group called Warriors in the Garden. It was started by about a dozen activists mostly in their 20s Black and Brown-- a handful of women but mostly men. They are students marketing directors waiters and models. Derrick Ingram one of the founding members of the group says a thing that unifies them is that each one of them is the loudest person they know. Think about this. Like I saw 5000 people marching and I thought I can lead them. I need to get in front. How narcissistic do you have to be to jump in front of 5000 people and just start screaming at them? Like I mean-- but I did it. All the Warriors in the Garden did it. And they found each other because they were all at the front of the marches. And very quickly they became one of the best known groups in New York City organizing protests after the murder of George Floyd. The group is cool. They look cool. And they built a huge social media following. When people showed up to their protests they made sure they had a good time which meant a lot of chanting and dancing and music being played. They were explicitly a nonviolent organization because they did not want their events to feel like endless clashes with police. They wanted them to feel like celebrations. Our actual marches are like club promoting. Like we have digital campaigns. And a lot of groups do not roll like that. They make these half-assed flyers on Canva. They do not even know what their route's going to be. People are high out of their minds screaming tagging shit. That is not how Warriors roll. Yeah there is a level of professionalism joy. Not to bastardize or commercialize what we do but people have called us the Summer Jam or Coachella of protests.  I am just saying. They have! They have. They really-- I mean multiple people. It is because it is a vibe! That is Saidu laughing. And on today's show we are going to bring you some of what he found. He got very interested in three of the Warriors in particular three people Saidu really identified with-- men who entered the movement with similar ideas and motivations who changed over the course of 10 months and ended up in very different places with different conclusions. But the story is not just about them. It is also about Saidu. Here he is. When the Warriors in the Garden and people all around the world started going outside and protesting last summer I am kind of ashamed to say that I was on my couch playing video games. The most I raised my voice for anything was to talk trash to my friends over a headset. But it was during one of these games that my boy asked me yo did you hear about what happened to George Floyd? I had not yet but these days your homies do not ask if you have heard what happened to a Black man you have never heard of unless that man is already dead. And I really was not trying to hear that because I have been down that road before. Just six years ago in 2015 when I was in college I went to some of the first Black Lives Matter protests in my city. I remember shouting the names of Trayvon and Tamir and Sandra and Akai and countless others until I lost my voice to tears. But it did not stop this shit from continuing. The names still piled up. And there was nothing that told me that anything I could do would slow it down. My last act of resistance the last time I thought it was worth it to engage with the death of another Black man came three years later in 2018 the year the police killed my friend. His name was Marcus-David Peters the only man I ever met with two first names. We met while working together as RAs in college and the man was so strange in all the best ways. He carried a flip phone and did not have social media. He was the only person in the whole dorm who outfitted his windows with satin curtains deep red. He would burn expensive candles on his kitchen counter that he probably bought from Williams-Sonoma or something like that we worked out together at the school gym and our whole RA staff would just fry him about how much of an old man he was-- his two tight shirts his cheesy smile his bald head the way he always reminded you to carry cash for emergencies whenever you leave the house. A couple of years after we graduated Marcus stayed behind to become a high school teacher in Richmond Virginia. He was having a mental health episode one day when the cops showed up and murdered him just two miles away from where we would gone to school. His death felt like this huge weight that all of a sudden now belonged to everyone who knew him. And I did not want it. I started doing anything I could to get rid of it. So my last attempt at activism was trying to get the leadership of our university to acknowledge what Marcus meant to our community to make a commitment that they would prevent something like this from ever happening again. I called their office and told other people to flood the phone lines too. But then nothing from leadership-- no statement no acknowledgment. I could have kept at it kept pushing to make something out of this tragedy in order to feel a little lighter. I thought about flying back to Richmond and protesting or calling up his family to ask what they wanted me to do to help to get justice for him. But the longer I waited the more the whole thing felt so damn heavy. What am I supposed to do with this? When you become somebody who knows someone killed by police when police violence touches your life what do you do next? I have struggled with this question for three years ever since Marcus died. And it is that question that drew me to the Warriors the group of protesters that I followed for 10 months. It is that question that drew me to three men in particular who were trying to answer it. The first Warrior I met was a man named Chi Chi Osse. I called him up for the first time one evening in early June but he was busy. Hey Chi. Hey how is it going? You are on speakerphone. I am with my stylist Brandon. Hi. You said you are with who? My stylist. Chi says he is with his stylist. I had done a little digging on social media so I knew that he was really into fashion. I also knew that he was young 22 years old. He has somewhat of a baby face but takes really good candid photos that make him look much older and hella confident. Last May was the first time Chi had ever protested. And like so many people that watched the video of George Floyd's murder it wrecked him and he decided he could not just sit at home anymore. On his Instagram you can see how quickly he took to protesting. He went from being Chi the fashion enthusiast to Chi the co-founder of Warriors in the Garden in just a matter of days. The first day I wore shorts. I brought some water and some chapstick. That is the most immature I mean protesting outfit you could bring. But he was still so new to all this. In Chi's Instagram video from that very first day you can hear him crying from behind the camera. And it is obvious that he did not expect things to go as far as they did. Oh my God. I saw a police car get burned. I was like whoa it is really like this. I did not know it would get that far. By the end of that first day what was your overwhelming feeling? So I cried that first day in the middle of the protest but then it was like anger. I have never been so angry at police officers before when these motherfuckers are beating us and spraying clouds of pepper spray for people frickin' chanting. Seeing police violence in person made Chi more determined to keep coming back to the protests. So on day two Chi comes correct. He is looking like he is ready for battle. The next day I was-- you know safety glasses and covered my entire face pants combat boots not for combat but for just toe protection. By day three he looks like a seasoned revolutionary. He is in Times Square on a stage holding a microphone in the middle of a sea of people. Everybody! They are trying to strike fear in our hearts! If they do not kneel with us they are fucking against us.  Do not let them break you. Be peaceful. Do not break. They want us to break. If we break we give them what they fucking want. No justice! No peace! No justice! No peace! The next time you went out is that when you wore the beret? The beret was day three. That was when I was finding my own and people were listening to me and people were recognizing me. And I was like let us go. If we are going to do this let us bring fashion to it too. So Chi was the first Warrior I started paying attention to because it is wild to see someone so good at something they just picked up yesterday. The second Warrior I noticed those first few days was Derrick Ingram. He is the one who compared the Warriors protest to Coachella. He is always out there in a tank top and leather baseball cap. Derrick and Chi are both queer but unlike Chi Derrick was not new to this. And honestly I was probably drawn to Derrick because like me he was skeptical of protesting. He tried the marching thing back in 2014 and quit when nothing much changed. He would moved on. He was settling into New York City. He had a new apartment without roommates. I finally saved up got all this money got my place in Hell's Kitchen. But this was like my party pad. Like get to know people go to the club bring somebody back. Like I thought this was going to be my summer. But then George Floyd was killed. And his friends pushed him to come back out and protest again. So Derrick threw himself back in. The third Warrior I started watching is a man named John Acosta. John is extremely intense no matter what he is talking about. But it does not take more than a few minutes to realize he can be a real softie too. John will tell you how much he hates white supremacy and how much he loves you and there will be a vein popping on his forehead both times. This is John. It is Black lives baby. All day. All lives that just sounds stupid. Of course all lives matter but right now it is Black lives that are getting taken the fuck out. Most of the Warriors are in their early to mid 20s. John is older. He is 32. He is got kids. He grew up in the Bronx. And up until the protest he worked as a security guard at the World Trade Center. When Derrifck asked John if you wanted to join the Warriors-- He said yo you want to be a part of the Warriors? And I was like sure I will be a part of that. Let us go. Fuck yeah. Last summer I kept coming back to see what the Warriors were up to. I would watch them lead protests of thousands walk for miles shouting Black Lives Matter Hands up do not shoot NYPD suck my dick and my personal favorite 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 fuck 12. I also watched as they formed bonds with each other sleeping over each other's houses going out for drinks. I rode along as they traveled to other cities to protest. When they talk about those early days it almost sounds romantic. They use words like fate and destiny to describe meeting each other. It is low key corny but kind of cute. The murder of George Floyd brought them together but it also brought police into their lives in a way they would never been faced with before. I had not figured out the right way to deal with the space that police violence took up in my life but they seemed to be on a path to figuring it out for themselves. The Warriors were pretty successful straight out the gate. They started organizing their own huge protests. They got a ton of media attention and built a big social media following. Chi in particular became a really recognizable face in the movement. He figured out early on something that takes a lot of first-time protesters a while to come to terms with which is that at some point the attention will die down and the streets will clear. And then what? Just a couple of weeks in Chi was already starting to think about the future. And then he got a text from his auntie. Well she was giving some critiques to my brothers and I over a group text a couple of weeks back about how young people do not know about their council members and was challenging me on all of this and that. And I did not know so I took it upon myself to do the research. And-- So he learned who his city council member is and he also learned that that guy would not be running for re-election in 2021. There was going to be an empty seat. He texted his auntie back. Like hey. Well I think I am running for city council now. When I heard Chi was running I kind of wondered if he just got caught up in the moment of last summer. He is a 22-year-old. What does he know about policy facts and figures crafting a political message how to reach voters? He started bringing in the Warriors to act as his political advisors. They asked Chi about any incriminating posts he may have made on social media debated if he should tone down his chants the merits of his whole beret look. And then just a few days later on Juneteenth Chi attended a public meeting on Zoom with a bunch of New York political heavy hitters-- the leader of the New York County Democrats a sitting city council member and a few other public servants who had been in the game for years. Chi took his turn to speak. I do applaud the passing of initiative 760-A 721-A and T2020-6267 yesterday but I am looking forward to the proposed 1 billion budget cut and the repeal of 50-A. I heard that and my first reaction was like what? What is 760-A 721-A 2020-626-- like what is that? This is the moment where I was like oh shit this man has been doing his homework. This is not just about berets and looking good for him. He is actually got receipts and he is not afraid to show them. It was really impressive. It is just the tip of the iceberg. I challenge you all to go further than 1 billion in NYPD budget cuts. I challenge you to go further in passing legislation that prevents police brutality and systemic racism within policing. He caps it off with this. Also I am announcing my campaign for city council district 36 2021 Chi Osse. Thank you so much Chi. We really really appreciate you being here. By June the Warriors had a political candidate. By July they applied for nonprofit status so their work could extend beyond the protests. And in August in response to their activism and protests throughout New York Governor Andrew Cuomo repealed 50-A. It gave the public open access to police disciplinary records for the first time in nearly 40 years. This is the kind of legislative victory that Chi wants to secure for the movement by running for office. But he is still a Warrior which means he is still out in the streets with the rest of the group. Being Black and choosing to fight for justice is like putting a second target on your back-- the first you are born with the second you are literally volunteering for. All summer I watched protesters being tear gassed kettled and beaten by cops. The cops were so persistently violent that the state attorney general would later sue the NYPD for quote pattern of using excessive force and making false arrests against New Yorkers during peaceful protests. The Warriors were already mostly Black. They already had that first target. They were about to find out what exactly that second target could look like. One Thursday night in August Kiara one of the Warriors along with Derrick decided to go out for drinks. We were drinking. We were dancing. We were singing. It just felt like it was fun. I had a couple of shots and I had two or three of those. And I was slammed-- slammed! Having fun. Like we were just hanging out outside. We were having a blast. Around 200 AM Kiara and Derrick and a few of the other Warriors split up from the bar and made their way home. Derrick told me that he drank so much that night that when he got home he tried to cook a whole steak at 300 in the morning which-- who cannot relate? He did not end up going to bed till around 400. What do you hear at 715? A knock at the door. Boom boom boom. Derrick drags himself out of bed to go see who it is. I have the deadbolt chain on. I looked through my peephole-- short white guy. He asked the address and I told him my address. And then he asked my name and I told him my name. And he was like I have a warrant for your arrest. It was the police. Derrick had no idea what this was about. He asked the cop to slide the warrant under the door. He looks down but he does not see anything. He did not know what to do. So he alerts the rest of the Warriors in their group chat that the cops are outside of his door. And pretty soon all the Warriors are awake and alarmed. A lot of them start checking their own windows and looking through peepholes to see if cops are at their houses too. I was scared for him. I was scared for myself. Are they coming to my house next? Are they going to knock on my door? Like how is this going to end? When the rest of the Warriors do not see cops at their doors they start strategizing about how to help Derrick. Some of them want to head to his apartment ASAP. But others say no what if the cops are expecting us to do that? And once we show up they just arrest everybody? Then Chi comes up with another idea. Chi instantly was like Go live go live go live go live. Everybody said go live. Document that shit. I mean if they are banging on your door lying about a warrant people need to see it. The Warriors had been amassing a huge social media following all summer. Before it was basically just a tool to keep young people engaged in the movement. But now they were telling Derrick to go live to their 40000 followers in hopes that it would keep him safe. I do not know what the fuck is going on. Honestly I have no idea what I did. So this is crazy. In the video Derrick is wearing the same clothes he wore out drinking the night before-- a leather baseball cap a navy blue button down and a silver ring that shines whenever he touches his face trying to figure out what to do. In the comments Derrick's friends tell him to go back to the door and ask for the warrant again. Officer? Yes sir. What is going on? Did you have the warrant? There is probable cause to arrest you right now. Is there a reason they have not called me about this investigation? Is it active? It is active yes. For assault. The cop says yes it is active. It is for an assault. OK. That is why I am here. To detain me? You will be arrested yes. Oh Jesus. So there is that. Sitting back down in front of the camera Derrick takes the cap off a gallon of water and starts chugging it. He does not know why the cops are here. He wonders if this has to do with a complaint he filed against the police a few weeks back. Was this retaliation or something? He is not sure. An hour passes. So I get a message saying that yo there is a bunch of fucking cops up in front of fucking Derrick's crib. And I was like what? John immediately hopped on his bike and flew over to Hell's Kitchen Manhattan as fast as possible. It is not unusual for cops to show up to arrest someone without a warrant. What is unusual though is what John saw outside Derrick's apartment that day. It was not just like one or two cops in a patrol car at Derrick's. It looked like a full-on tactical operation-- large NYPD trucks men in suits going in and out of the building a battering ram. They would even begun closing off the block with barricades. So I get there. I am rolling up. I am like what the fuck? Yo to see all those officers outside bro was intense. What I saw that kind of baffled me that let me know that oh shit they are treating him like a terrorist was when I seen the canines. When I seen the dogs I say they got him like he is a fucking terrorist. For all his intense energy all John can really do at this point is be a witness. So he stays out there on his bike. Back inside Derrick realizes he is surrounded. So you all officers in the hallway officers with guns officer in empty apartments in the building across from me. They are banging on my door. They are literally peeking in my curtains. I had to put up a sheet. Like there is over 30 officers here. At this point Derrick starts thinking about his parents. They do not even know what is going on. So he calls his dad. And I Facetime my dad because he does not know how to use IG. His first reaction was call the cops. I was like are you serious right now? I was like you want me to call the police on the police? What are they going to do? Like he was deadass. He was like no bring a captain out. I was like nah that is not going to work man. Oh man that is really interesting because-- My parents are-- But that is what parents tell you to do. You know what I am saying? Like wait something bad is happening? Call the cops. I am like yep. And I am showing my dad like yep there is three out of my window right now one on my balcony a couple in the building across the street. He is like oh my god. Derrick's friends kept telling him not to open the door. But the Warriors did not really have that many other options. I did not know what to do at that point. So I felt like I can get riddled with bullets if I open this fucking door but I was thinking about fuck it I am going to put my body on the line. It is going to make a difference. I am just going to open this door. If they fuck me up that was a thought too. Like-- The thought of dying for the cause. Yeah the thought of dying or getting hurt was definitely a thought briefly. Wow. Where do you think that came from? Thaddeus. Thaddeus McCarroll was Derrick's childhood friend. They went to school in St. Louis and would run around church camp playing pranks together. Derrick and Thaddeus lost touch for a while but linked up years later after high school. It was 2014 the same year Michael Brown was killed by police in Ferguson not too far from where they grew up. That is when Derrick went to his first protests. And Thaddeus was with me there the whole time. Unfortunately he was struggling with mental illness. Almost a year after the Ferguson protests in 2015 Thaddeus was at home when he started having an episode. He locked himself in his house with a knife so Thaddeus's mom did what Derrick's dad had suggested-- she called the cops. After a long standoff Thaddeus opened the door. And he came storming outside and he was shot several times riddled with bullets. And that is how I felt. I felt like I was barricaded in here. And if I surrendered that I could have met that same fate. Thaddeus died. It is messed up to feel a kinship to somebody in this way to know that you all are part of some depressing brotherhood of people whose friends were killed by police. And I did not have to be trapped in a room and get threatened by cops to identify with the thing that Derrick is feeling now-- that he might be next. It is a thought that I have had many times since Marcus was killed. But I always talk myself down. Like there is no way something like that could happen twice in one friendship. But here was Derrick in that exact scenario. 3 and 12 hours in the cops have officially closed off Derrick's street on both sides. So anyone else who wants to come and try and help is going to have a hard time. So Chi comes up with a new plan. He gets on the next train to Derrick's apartment and when he gets off at the stop he ducks into a nearby corner store and buys a jug of milk. When he gets to Derrick's block he walks up to the cops at the barricade. I said what is going on here? They are like there is an incident over here. We are closing the street off. So I was like I am subletting at 146 right over there. I have my milk. I do not want it to get spoiled. And they were like sorry sir. Blah blah blah. And then I dropped my milk. His plan fails but across the street from Derrick's apartment a small group of protesters have started to gather in a park. Chi runs over and joins them. Back inside Derrick is on the phone with a lawyer and things start to get even more intense. They literally cover my peephole. They had a battering ram so all of this stuff on my wall is falling. I heard a pop pop pop.   Derrick you are the one making this difficult. We are just trying to get you to come outside. Derrick do you understand what I am saying? Bro this is-- There is no hostility. You are the one being hostile right now. I am not being hostile. I am calm. I am calm. I am chill. I am sorry I think I lost you. Um hey Derrick-- There is no warrant. And then at another point-- and this was caught on camera-- they were like-- So why do not you be the warrior you state you are and come out and let us face the situation? --why do not you be the warrior you say you are?   Derrick only has two options-- stay inside or open the door. And as the police ramp up the pressure it is getting harder and harder to know which one to choose. The lawyers he is on the phone with have been trying to negotiate a peaceful surrender with the police but have not had any luck. So now they are just trying to help Derrick stay calm. There is a lot going on.  Yes yeah I will-- Did you hear what I said Derrick? Derrick-- Now could you acknowledge me please? I am treating you like a gentleman. OK I am so overwhelmed. Right? I am treating you like a gentleman. I just want to get this over with and it is too much. It is too much. No I hear you. I hear you. By noon almost five hours into this whole ordeal the crowd of supporters is getting bigger. A couple hundred people have tuned into the Instagram Live to watch. And at this point Chi is pissed. He and the rest of the Warriors realize that what they have to do now is start putting as much pressure on the NYPD outside as they are putting on Derrick inside. So Chi grabs his megaphone and gets to work. If there was a reason for his arrest they would have arrested him by now. It is been five hours. Where is the warrant? Where is the warrant? Where is your warrant? Where is your warrant? And then at one point I could hear my friends I could hear some of the protesters chanting from my windows. Where is the warrant? Where is your warrant? Where is your warrant? And it was Chi. Where is your warrant? I felt protected because there were so many eyes on me. I felt like they are not going to kill me on live. They might hurt me. They might do some fucked up shit but I feel protected. Like that is how I felt. This was wild to me because cops killed people in front of an audience all the time. But Derrick felt comforted knowing that his friends were outside. So finally he decides to open the door. I literally had my hands on the door and I see a message. Says do not open it DWRECK. Do not open the door. They are leaving. I hear cheering outside.   I was like oh shit they are leaving. So I did not open the door. With no warning no obvious reason and almost as quickly as they would shown up the cops had packed up their stuff and bounced just like that after more than six hours. The moment the police left John took off towards Derrick's building. That was a good moment man. I would seen him he would seen me. He would seen that it was somebody that loves him that was there. It was not some fucking cop ready to take him out and shit. Did you just hug him? Hell yeah man. I hugged the shit out of that man. I am proud of that man yo! The people united will never be defeated. The people united-- The next day Derrick went with his lawyer to turn himself in at the precinct. They figured he would be safer that way so something like this would not happen again. And that is when he found out the charges against him-- assault of a police officer for allegedly shouting into a cop's ear with a megaphone at a protest. They also charged him with obstructing governmental administration which basically means getting in the way of a cop doing their job. I tried to get more information from the NYPD about why all this happened but they would not tell me anything other than a generic statement saying a police officer had tried to stop Derrick from entering a quote frozen zone at a protest and quote a struggle ensued. I am not sure that explains deploying the full force of one of the most militarized police departments in the country for one man for six hours. I could not think of any justification other than they wanted to intimidate Derrick and the growing movement against police violence. Derrick was shook. But he told me after the whole thing he also felt pretty victorious. He had been able to capture the police abusing their power to intimidate an unarmed Black person. Literally that is what this whole movement is about. And that is what they did to me publicly in Hell's Kitchen in Manhattan. It made them look savage. Derrick did have a second target on his back. He was Black and now he was a prominent enough activist for the NYPD to come after him. But the Warriors' tactics the thing they would been doing all summer made him safer. They won. A little while later I was talking to John on the phone about that day at Derrick's. He mentioned that he got a message from an anonymous account on Instagram. He had not noticed it at the time when he was focused on the cops. But later on-- And as I am looking I am like what the hell is this? I open it and it says You are next. I was like what the fuck? Like this is a threat. John laughed it off. He sent the guy an emoji of a middle finger and a message-- You will have to catch me first. Coming up after the break revenge. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Emanuele Berry sitting in for Ira today. Today on our show Saidu Tejan-Thomas Jr. is telling the story of three activists in the group Warriors in the Garden who like Saidu are trying to make sense of the question what do you do when police violence finds you unwittingly? When we left before the break the Warriors' activism had started to draw the attention of police. Here's Saidu again. By the end of last summer almost all the Warriors said they would gotten death threats on social media all except John. John got his first one that day outside Derrick's apartment when he was watching the police siege. He got in a message from an anonymous account on Instagram saying You are next. I did not really pay any mind to it like that because-- I asked people because this is my first threat. I asked people. I was like yo I just got threatened. This is my first threat. What should I do? Oh ignore it. I have so many. And I said all right I am not going to be worried about it you know? But I am going to be wary. I am going to be looking around making sure everything's OK. And then boom. Then I got caught with my pants down. Within two weeks of the siege at Derrick's John got on Instagram Live. He was holding up bloody wrists to the camera. Hey what is up everyone? I just got hit by a car. I am 100 sure they just-- they tried to kill me. They hit me and they booked it out of there. He pans the camera to show a couple of nasty scrapes on both his legs. He was riding his bike when he got hit. I can tell John is shaken up as he tells the people watching what just happened. I am moving out of 