Last resort letters are not exactly a secret but most of us have not heard of them. Journalist Ron Rosenbaum came across them because he is got a Google alert that brings him any news story with the phrase World War III in it. He is written about nuclear war on and off for decades. And news came across the Google about a BBC documentary that details what these last resort letters are all about. Ron explained. On every British nuclear submarine there is a safe. And then within that safe is another safe and within that safe the inner safe is a letter from the British prime minister. And every new prime minister that comes into office is required to handwrite this letter and seal it. And the letter instructs the submarine commander what to do when the homeland has been wiped out by a nuclear attack. In other words Britain's destroyed. And maybe it is better if you hear this in a British accent. This is from the BBC documentary. The letter tells the sub commander-- --whether to retaliate or not if Britain is already a smoking irradiated ruin and they are dead. It is a system peculiar to the British and emulated by no other nuclear nations. You write with all due respect for our British cousins this seems well insane. The old-fashioned pen and ink on paper quality of it all somehow makes the system seem like it emanated from a 19th century madhouse. It is so absurd. It is Kubrick territory. It is Dr. Strangelove territory. I mean I cannot imagine you know someone writing Dear Mr. Submarine commander I am dead. Everyone you know is dead. We are all radioactive ashes. Here's what I would like you to do. Number one-- Rosenbaum says that the letter poses some immediate practical questions. If the whole country was just destroyed how would the sub commander know who killed them and where to target his bomb? Does the sub commander have to show his letter to anybody else? If he is the only one reading the letter what is to stop him from substituting his own judgement for what is on the paper? And it raises a few broader questions. If the purpose of a nuclear deterrent is to convince your enemies that if they destroy you you are going to destroy them does not it undermine the whole point of having nuclear weapons in the first place to publicize the fact that there is a secret letter that very well might say no do not retaliate? Which Rosenbaum says gets to the moral paradox that is at the heart of all nuclear doctrines. If your nation has been wiped out by a nuclear strike is there any point in retaliating and killing tens hundreds of millions of innocent people when the threat to retaliate has already failed? Right. You have been annihilated. Yeah. Your nation's been annihilated. Is there any point in killing millions out of pique vengeance or is it justice? You know I was at this conference of generals and admirals in July and I actually made a point of asking them what is the point of retaliation? And they all recognized that this was a difficult question but they all said that well to talk about it invites attack. Because you are undermining the threat of retaliation by even discussing your Hamlet-like doubts and dithering about whether you would retaliate. And so then why have a letter? Why let people know there is a handwritten letter that might say oh do not launch the missiles? It does not make any sense. Why did they make the existence of this letter known? Ron Rosenbaum contacted the British Defense Ministry and was told essentially that the letter was a fail-safe almost a formality. If Britain were destroyed somebody was going to need to issue an order to launch those nuclear missiles. The letter is that order. But of course this is what they would have to say even if it is not true to make the threat seem credible. And you really need all the theatrics of the two safes and the personal handwritten note for all that you know? And remember no one knows what is in the letter. It is sealed. Or-- maybe this is something that is maybe better to hear in a British accent. As the BBC puts it-- History will never find out because nobody knows what is in the prime minister's letters of last resort and they are destroyed unread by the cabinet office when the premiership changes. Rosenbaum believes that most people faced with the choice of ordering genocide after the threat of genocide has failed would not launch the missiles. And one of the few people who have had their finger on Britain's nuclear button have ever talked about this publicly a former defense minister named Dennis Healy says in the BBC documentary-- I realize I would find it very very difficult indeed to agree to use a nuclear weapon and I think most people would. Because most of the people you have killed will be innocent civilians. Which brings us back to the question why do it this way? What is the advantage of a secret that is inside a safe inside another safe deep below the surface of the ocean? A secret sealed away where nobody can get to it? Well Rosenbaum found himself asking a very similar question while researching a very different subject years ago. He spent ten years writing a book about Adolf Hitler. And he said that when he was researching that some of the evidence that he is heard about-- there was stories for example of a hypnotherapist report on Adolf Hitler from when Adolf Hitler was in a sanitarium after the first World War-- that supposedly explained why Hitler wanted to conquer the world. And this was supposedly again sealed away in a safe deposit box in Switzerland. And Rosenbaum has a theory about the appeal of that kind of thing. It allows us to believe that certain truths do exist. There is an explanation for Hitler but it is locked away in some safe deposit box beyond our grasp. So it gives us a feeling that this is not some numinous irretrievable mystery. We could explain Hitler if only we had found the right safe deposit box. To follow your logic then the advantage of having this letter with the order locked away in a box inside another box-- what it does is that you do not want your enemy to know that you are not going to launch those missiles but you do not want to think for yourself that you are. So it lets you believe both things. It lets two truths exist at the same time. Yes I suppose that is true. It allows us to have it both ways. From WEBZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Today on our show Contents Unknown. Stories of truths big and small that are locked away. Sometimes the most exciting thing about these truths is knowing that they are out there the answer exists but you do not know it. Our show today in three acts. Act one is about the truths contained in America's mini storage lockers. No kidding. Act two is about the truth of an entire empire 1400 years ago. Act three is about truth wiped away from inside someone's head. Stay with us. Act one. Needle in a crap sack. Self storage units. There is a lot of them. 2.35 billion with a B square feet in the United States according to the Self Storage Association. That in case you are wondering is 7.4 square feet of self storage for every man woman and child in this country meaning all of us all of us could stand inside self storage at the same time. And when people do not pay their self storage bills after the facility tries to collect through all the normal means and fails often the contents of the storage lockers get auctioned off. Jon Mooallem went to some of those auctions in Northern California. They are a big exercise in guessing at the unknown. This morning a little after nine a crowd of a few dozen prospectors is already waiting in the fog outside Bridgehead Self Storage an hour east of San Francisco. The auctioneer a guy with the briskly mustache named John Cardoza runs a company called Storage Auction Experts. Today he will go to six different storage places in three different towns and auction off upwards of 50 units. The crowd will follow him for nine hours. Hey Ricky? Go ahead and open up this one too please. We have got two of them open. Here's how it works. A unit is door is rolled open. No one's allowed to step inside or open any boxes or touch anything at all. The mob just stands there sweeping their flashlights around making educated guesses about what is inside. They crane their necks contort their bodies or step up on little folding stools they brought for a better look into the nooks and corners. You gotta get all up in there like a proctologist one guy explains. I spoke to a giddy-looking woman in the crowd about what she saw. There is an unusual-shaped box that is behind these old mattresses that are leaned up and the mattresses did not lean all the way up against the wall. So I kind of was really trying to look behind there and see. So that is what drew my attention to it right there. So hopefully it is what I am thinking it might be. What are you thinking it might be? I do not know yet but I have something in my head yeah. I could not get her to even say it out loud. She did not want to jinx it. Locker number A80 the one out here. The one out here. Here we go ladies and gentlemen. How many dollars? Can I get 50 start it? It is informal. The auctioneer stands right in front of the open locker. People raise their hands to bid. Most of them are regulars. They all know each other and are here to make a modest second income. They resell what they buy on eBay or at flea markets. They have their niches. One guy does antiques. Several are into tools. One loves anything military. But they all know the stories of blockbuster hauls too. The hippies who for 225 bought the unit of a Sacramento rail yard heir several years ago and found a stockpile of silver coins inside. In 2007 a guy in Southern California bought Paris Hilton's storage locker when she fell 200 behind on the rent. He resold it to another guy who set up a website called Paris Exposed and charged 39.97 for a virtual tour of the contents. There were topless photos in there ones people had not seen yet. A more common scenario though goes like this. You spend several hundred dollars on what turns out to be cheap halogen lamps cassette singles by Heavy D  the Boyz and a couple of bent mattresses. Then you have got to spend the rest of your day shoveling all that crap to the dump which charges you more money to throw it out. People think you find like diamond rings and stuff and everybody's doing this for a decade. That is Christine. She is here with her friend Lois. They say for every good score there are plenty of disappointments. All you find is other people's porno stuff that goes along with that nasty clothes that smell like mildew dead rats. Oh definitely dead rats. And you know how long it is been there and . With such a great likelihood of failure you have to give yourself an edge. And everybody's got their own arsenal of tricks. What do you look for when the door opens? Cobwebs. Seriously cobwebs. That stuff has not been moved in a long time so you know no one's gone through it. Cobwebs tell you the renters did not have a chance to whisk away their valuables before the manager locked them out. When it looks like a unit is been churned over you see upside down furniture boxes crushed on boxes. It just indicates either low quality or they took what they wanted out of there before they knew they were losing it. So you are not going to get anything. That is Dave Lewis a stick-thin guy with a beard. He is wearing a denim work jacket that is way too big for him. He looks like a precocious kid in a smock. Dave's been going to auctions off and on for most of his life. But you know you see a unit that is neatly stacked and organized thought went into it certain brand names or a tendency for a lot of the items in there to be brand or quality items versus say just generics or that kind of thing-- so people tend to print really nicely and just the level of organization goes into some of them lets you know hey. Somebody took the time as value here. And the kinds of boxes matter too. Crisp brand new moving boxes good. Rat-bitten old diaper boxes not good. A plasma TV box is almost guaranteed not to have a plasma TV in it but it tells you something about the income bracket you are dealing with. No unit is a sure thing Lois tells me. Every once in a while one breaks your heart. I know one guy a story I heard a few years ago. This guy-- they opened a huge unit and it was all boxes packed neatly and they all said Fragile Crystal on the side. He bid up to 500 or 600 or something on that. And when he emptied it it was all just a bunch of garbage that belonged to someone named Crystal. I have not seen him for a while either come to think of it. Still the game is the same for everyone. You are trying to analyze what you can see to get a sense of what you cannot. Dave makes it sound a little mystical even. As soon as the door opens he starts building a profile of the renter in his head really trying to get to know the person. This looks to me like somebody who did in-home daycare. Beanbags a number of individual tubs that have crayons chalk-- you know not enough for one kid about enough for 20. So it probably in my estimation this should not go anywhere over a hundred. Although there is some Star Wars sheets right there so you might have the fanatic collector who notices that or something. You never know. You can see if a lot of people are interested in it see how long it is taking them to look. They are trying to find something to draw themselves into buying it. Something to say buy me. That is Mike DeHaas. He is not like Dave at all. He is not like anyone else here. Mike does not fantasize or make projections about what cannot be seen. The stacks of anonymous boxes the big enticing furniture shapes draped over with blankets. To some bidders these just mean more chances to win. To Mike they are traps a mirage. His strategy is the anti-strategy. He just bids on what is visible. When the door rolls up Mike quickly tallies up the value of everything he can see and definitively identify in the unit and then bids based on that and only that. It could be a piece of art it could be a coin it could be a baseball card it could be a toy it could be an old military item it could be a piece of clothing. You just never know. So I look at everything realistically. I have just had a rough life and I have been through a lot of things that most people should not so I do not see things like you know I see it for what it is. Two plus two is four. That is how I describe everything and that is how I see it. So I do not do this with a lot of hope. I do it realistically. Mike's buying at auctions and reselling at flea markets around the state full time just barely supporting his girlfriend and two little kids. I keep noticing Mike far away from the rest of the crowd staring at the ground with his hood pulled over his head and a Maglite flung through his belt. Mike's got a history with these storage places. He tells me his parents did a lot of drugs his whole childhood. And he got to the point where we ended up homeless and put everything into a storage unit. And instead of trying to save our storage unit they spent all the money they had on more drugs and kept repeating that process so we lost our unit. I have had a whole 10 by 30 just gone one day. My whole life up until the age of 15. Everything before my parents lost because of their drug habit. So it was rather disappointing and things like that. And that is why what I try to do is make sure like anything personal especially baby photos baby books things of that nature I try to put it all in a box and give it back to the office and they will return it to the people. Because it makes me feel a little better. We got to get to the next one because there is bad parking. Where is this? On San Miguel. When we reach the sixth and final storage facility of the day San Miguel Mini Storage a short barrel-chested Asian guy shows up turning heads. Darren someone whispers. Well I came back here because I scored last time so I am going to come back again see if I can score again. Last time Darren came to an auction at this place he found a big box of jewelry buried in the back of a unit. He made 40 grand from it or 400 grand maybe. The number changes as the story gets told and retold and passes into legend. This helps explain why when we get here the crowd's suddenly tripled in size. There is close to 100 people here now because word's gotten around that San Miguel Mini Storage is the kind of place where Darrens happen. But not today. There were 27 units to auction here and one after the other the doors went up and none looked even remotely like a Darren-maker.   This last unit a 10 by 25 is a cartoonish mound of junk. It is such a jumbled ridiculous end of the long day that all the jaded old-timers have perked up. They are almost enjoying it. Oh my God. Shopping carts? Was this a family? Is that a shrunken head right there? Wow what is in the back? I ask Mike if he sees anything here worth bidding on. Everyone's just baffled. Oh there is nothing to describe here. I do not even know what to use as a word. An abomination. It is like a wall right? It is like a wall of stuff with something behind it. It is a wall of-- somebody was really desperate and in a big hurry to unload wherever their garage their house whatever they shoved it all in. And when they opened the door stuff just spilled out of the bottom. A bunch of books and a camping chair. There is a pizza stone. There is books about U-boats boxes. It looks as though someone had a bulldozer inside the unit and just pushed everything all the way to the front. And behind there people are saying they see a giant Santa Claus. Someone shouts out the name of a bar to head to. A man tells his girlfriend Go use the bathroom. Let us get out of here. The auctioneer starts the bidding. Some people are actually raising their hands. Now 325 now 350 new blood now 375. Now 400. It gets competitive. Now 425. 400 425 now 450. Anybody else? 450? Sold them out. 425. The winner turns out to be Dave and his girlfriend Linda for 425 plus fees. They own his giant pile of tetanus now. And the weird thing is they are thrilled. Behind this could be anything. Wait wait wait. We have to get a full explanation on this. Because you understand that this was very controversial unit. So you knew right away you wanted this one? I did as soon as I knew that there was a hollow spot behind there. That could be-- could be nothing. They could have been just idiots. And Dave says they took the good stuff out. But who is going to pay 225 on a unit every month to store this? There could be motorcycles jet skis a car. Could be anything. It could be nothing. We could have just flushed 485 down the toilet. So we will see. You want to just climb over the-- I do I do. But I do not have a flashlight. I think I can-- Dave clambers up sidestepping a not totally empty jar of Red Raspberry Smuckers and an electric carving knife. Holy moly. What is it? Uh-- OK I do not-- there is nothing like a motorcycle or-- but for everyone that thought the back half of this unit was empty they were absolutely dead wrong. This thing is about four feet deep and going all the way about 15 feet back. In fact I see three more shopping carts books boxes bags a seven foot tall Santa-- oh I am telling you. There is no telling here. This is one huge heap. No motorcycle? Boo! If he feels defeated though he is trying not to let on. He and Linda start freeing things from the mass including bags of recyclable bottles. And Dave especially is trying to put a good spin on whatever they find. Yeah this is I do not think it is any kind of a special wine. It looks like Charles Shaw Cabernet Sauvignon 2001. OK see we found two bottles of one unopened wine a 2001 Cabernet Sauvignon a 2005 something else. So we may have somebody's wine collection in here too. See now this is the kind of stuff I like to see. This offset seeing those recyclables. Gradually though the bad omens stack up. I almost hate to comment on this but I know what it is. Methamphetamine. Not the actual stuff but this is what people do when they are on meth. Can you describe what it is? I guess somebody thought they would improve on the wheel. Yeah it is a bicycle that somebody thought that they could try to take coat hangers and make a bunch of spokes out of and then wrap it around the tire it looks like to try to keep the tire on the rim. And I just somebody's got to be on drugs to do this. I have seen it way too many times. You come across something like this where you see somebody's done something to it that absolutely makes no sense. I mean they have basically made the bike unrideable doing what they tried to do to it. So I would be willing to bet that this person had a drug problem. And that is how I leave them scrabbling through the unit in a floodlight in the cold. Maybe they lost. Maybe it was a draw. Dave says it will take a week to sort everything out. Jon Mooallem is a contributing writer for New York Times Magazine. Coming up-- when you lose your memory in India and you are searching for whatever clues you can find to reconstruct who you are. What is the protocol they use to help you? And yes incredibly this happens enough that there is an informal protocol of sorts in some places. That is in the second half of our show from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This American Life from Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program-- Contents Unknown. Stories of people having to guess at the mystery of what is inside all sorts of various things. We have arrived at act two of our show. Act Two. He Shapes Ship Shapes By the Seashore. All right. I am going to say two words to you now. Byzantine Empire. Quick! When? Who? Where? What? Yeah me neither. But I look it up. The Byzantine Empire is basically the eastern half of the Roman Empire which broke off. It existed from around 300 AD to the 1400s. And archaeologists thought they knew most of the big things that you would want to know about the Byzantine Empire decades ago. So much so that by the 1950s they would bulldozed Byzantine sites to get at stuff that seemed more interesting underneath it Greek and Roman stuff. And then everything changed. Our whole understanding of the Byzantines changed. And the way we got to this new understanding starts with one shipwreck. Adam Davidson tells what happened. Fred van Doorninck does not do anything on a lark. Except one thing once. In 1961 when he was in archaeology grad school he took a break and went to Turkey put on some scuba gear and checked out a 1400 year old shipwreck off the coast of the tiny island of Yassiada. At the very beginning I just thought this was a summer of adventure. But slowly-- well not too slowly. I think by the second year I was hooked. Hooked on Yassiada? Yes. Because this ship was a great mystery you know? It needed to be put back together and it all needed to be explained. It was surprising that Fred of all people took this on since Fred by his on admission is not a water guy. I have a throat that when one little drop of liquid hits it it closes. And I never enjoyed diving one minute. Fred used to come up from almost every dive with blood in his mask. That is George Bass Fred's research partner in what would become a 50 year exploration of this one Byzantine ship. Speaking of the Byzantines George remembers a grad school trip to Greece this way. I did not even get out of the bus at Byzantine churches. I just found them so boring. I found everything about the Byzantine period just awful. So a guy who hates diving meets a guy bored by the Byzantine Empire. Naturally an academic buddy movie ensues in which two men find that the path to happiness lies in diving and studying the Byzantines. And along the way they create an entire new field-- underwater archaeology. Because they were the first archaeologists to thoroughly excavate a ship on the seafloor. George remembers diving and seeing Yassiada for the first time. It was a mound of jars amphoras two-handle jars we call them amphoras and it stood maybe three feet high something like that. So there is no ship there is no--? No ship. In the Mediterranean in fact most of the oceans of the world are filled with shipworms or marine borers mollusks that eat wood. Like water termites? Like water termites exactly. You guys must hate those water termites more than anything in the world. Oh yes very. We yet only the part of the ship that is sunk down into the sand. So we are always hoping that a ship that we excavate has fallen onto one side that we will learn more about it. Ships are symmetrical. You find one side safely buried in the sand you know what the other side looks like. Now remember these are the first diving archaeologists. Scuba had only been invented in the 1940s. It was so new they could only stay on the seafloor for 20 minutes at a time. Imagine trying to excavate some ancient pyramid or something and you can only go there and work for 20 minutes and then you have to leave. And in those 20 minutes George and Fred had to solve problems nobody ever faced before. An ancient hole on the seabed the wood is very fragmentary. And so if you sweep with your hand to get the sand away a little piece of wood not bigger than two playing cards put together for example that is just going to float away. So we had to figure out some way to keep it all intact while we mapped it. I thought of knitting needles. I could not find any. A Turkish colleague suggested bicycle spokes. We ended up buying more than a thousand bicycle spokes sharpening one end of each one turning with the other end over so we could pin to the seabed every little fragment of wood we found. Oh my God. So at the end we have like a butterfly on a piece of cardboard all pinned down we have thousands of sharpened bicycle spokes driven through every wood fragment all the wreck holding it down while we map it. This bicycle spoke thing became standard practice although now they have higher tech ways of doing it. A lot of stuff George and Fred figured out along the way became standard. Another thing they were the first to do? Reconstruct an entire ship from its fragments on the ocean floor. At that time nobody knew what Byzantine ships look like. I asked Fred about this. I mean frankly even though you have done it it still seems impossible to me. Well it almost was impossible. I am fond of saying if they had been one less fragment of the ship down there on the seabed I would not have been able to put the pieces together. There was just barely enough evidence to reconstruct the shape and dimensions of the ship. And another part of this was that when this ship sank it came down on bedrock and then slid further down the slope and the stern end of the ship came into sand and made an impression of itself into the sand. Incredibly that impression held in place by some wood fragments stayed intact for nearly 1400 years. In order to figure out what the hull looked like Fred had to invent a way to measure the dent in the sand. He built this contraption using a protractor some string and a flashbulb. Seriously. Again that is a technique still used although in much improved form today. So huge triumph. 1967. Fred's figured it out. He knows what the ship looks like and he writes it up understandably proud as his PhD thesis. Except a few years later a friend sees it someone who knows more about ships and says-- You know Fred your ship would never have gotten out of the harbor. It is simply hydrodynamically unsound. Fred's mistake? Although he had the back half of the ship almost perfect-- that is where most of the wood fragments came from-- he had just extended the lines forward to estimate the front of the ship. But since he did not know anything about ship engineering he got it wrong. Working with a colleague who built scale models it took Fred 15 more years to get the drawings right and ready for publication. Since Fred's not one to brag here's George. What Fred did did not just allow to see what the ship looked like. It actually revolutionized all of our ideas about ancient ship construction. I mean it was incredibly important. It was not just saying this is what it looked like. Because he found out that the ship was built in an ancient manner below the waterline and in a modern matter above the waterline. In other words it is a transitional ship in a transitional period between the ancient and modern world. By the way this is the George and Fred partnership. Fred does the endless meticulous scholarship. George is certainly also a scholar but he is the better diver and the better salesman. George traveled the world talking up Fred's work spreading the gospel of nautical archaeology and raising money to keep Fred hunched over tiny fragments of wood and pottery for 50 years. The partnership worked. By 1982 Fred figured the ship out. As far as he could tell the wreck was a routine merchant ship. A bit ho-hum he called it. It was time to move on. He was wrapping things up at the site in Turkey. But just as Rush Hour was followed by Rush Hour 2 just as Lethal Weapon 2 led to Lethal Weapon 3 the Fred and George franchise was not over yet. Right when they thought they would retire they got pulled back in for one last caper-- their biggest caper yet. Fred got surprise news from some of his interns. Oh Fred you have to come and see what is been discovered. And I am taken to this store room where there were some Turkish college student interns in there cleaning these amphoras. And they were discovering graffiti on them inscriptions on them. And you thought there were not any right? No. And we had looked for inscriptions on them. But the growth marine growth on them had concealed these inscriptions. The inscriptions were cryptic. Just some initials in Greek and some symbols. To figure out what they signified Fred went on what would become his very last dive. He went down and brought up hundreds of amphoras those jars. And this led to a series of discoveries that changed how scholars understand the Byzantine Empire. For starters they realize that the amphoras were made in uniform sizes with uniform-sized mouths and uniform-sized stoppers. This showed that the Byzantines were using sophisticated mass production techniques more than a thousand years before the Industrial Revolution. They were way more advanced than anyone realized. The parts were uniform so that different components could be made all over the empire at different factories. And then Fred cracked the inscriptions which revealed something surprising. We finally realize from an inscription that the captain of the ship was a priest. And in the seventh century there were a lot of priest sea captains because the church owned a lot of ships. So it is a ship owned by the Christian church transporting supplies for the military. What Fred thought was a ho-hum merchant vessel turned out to be the key to understanding that the Byzantine church and the Byzantine army were far more intertwined than anyone knew. In fact Fred believes on the day they ship sank in 626 AD the church had lent the ship to the military to get supplies to troops who were fighting the Persian empire. It was the final year of one of the longest and most exhausting wars in the ancient world. The church's involvement and those mass production factories were part of this remarkable military supply chain that Fred helped uncover. In part because of that industrial sophistication the Byzantines who controlled much of modern day Turkey Eastern Europe parts of Italy all the way to Spain defeated the Persians who ruled over present-day Iran and most of the Middle East. And at the very moment Yassiada sank Muhammad was forming the armies that would a few years later lead to the Muslim takeover of much of the weakened Persians' territory. Then those Muslim armies started fighting the Byzantines Christians in wars that would continue for centuries and of course feel pretty relevant today. By the time he was done Fred had figured out not just what the ship looked like and who owned it and what it carried and what it was doing the day it sank but how that ship fit into the global politics of the day. That is right. And that took 50 years. Well I guess yeah. That is right. That is pretty depressing. I mean I will spend some time today working on finishing solving that puzzle. You are working on Yassiada today 50 years later. Yes. Every day I spend a little time on that project. The interv