OK. Imagine for second what it would be like to have the entire country have one opinion about something and you were the only person who disagreed. Out of the entire country. This pretty much happened to the woman I am about to introduce you to. She was a juror in the criminal trial of Rod Blagojevich. You may remember Blagojevich Governor of Illinois. When Barack Obama became president Blagojevich was caught on tape talking on the phone about how he might use Obama's senate seat for his own personal profit. I have got thing and it is  golden. And I am just not giving it up for  nothing. When the tapes became public Blagojevich did the kind of media blitz that did not seem to win many people over. He squirmed on talk shows he appeared as a contestant on The Apprentice. Here he is about to get fired by Donald Trump. Your Harry Potter facts were not accurate. Who did the research? There was not a specific direction to do the research on Harry Potter but the inability to learn the product-- and it was an issue in the-- Was what their inability or your inability? I suppose I should have directed everybody else to learn the product. And so most of us who saw him on TV decided that guy is guilty. And then the case went to trial. Seven weeks. Jury deliberated for 14 days after that. Six men six women. 24 counts against the governor. The jury could only agree on one count-- lying to the FBI. They convicted him on that one. It was split with a handful of not guilty votes in various configurations on the 23 other counts. And on the charge that everybody was the most interested in selling the senate seat that was the one charge where the vote was 11 to 1. 11 to 1. The holdout? A 67 year old grandmother JoAnn Chiakulas who says that yes the jury did know that the people of America wanted this guy convicted. Well I think that that was a big part of it. I think that there was a tremendous amount of pressure on the jurors to convict and I do think a lot of it had to do with people did not like him. He was an annoyance he was on TV. And so I think it was like people wanted to make him go away. I mean I certainly had that feeling. And I think that those of us who had some doubts felt a great deal of pressure. It was probably one of the most difficult things I have experienced in life. I could not sleep at night. I had headaches I had stomachaches. Today on our radio show we have three stories of people who end up as the lone holdout the last man standing in various situations. And if these three stories are any indication it is always pretty dreadful. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. In JoAnn's case she says that she is been on a couple of juries before and nothing like this happened. She went into the case with no particular fondness for Blagojevich and no desire to draw attention to herself. In fact it was kind of the opposite on that score. In the aftermath of the trial hounded by the press for weeks she did one interview. I was her second. She says she simply felt that the prosecution failed to make its case. When she looked at the entirety of the secret tape recordings of Blagojevich he said so many scattered different things about what he would do with that senate seat-- maybe he would give it to Oprah maybe he would take it himself maybe he would leverage it into something else-- it just did not seem to rise to the level of a criminal conspiracy which was the charge against him. There were enough other things in the transcripts that could make one think that this guy was like a little nuts and just talking. Just talking off the top of his head. Do you remember when you got your first hint that you were seeing the case differently than some of the other people on the jury? Probably almost as soon as we were beginning our deliberations. I think when we came back into the room as people started to talk there were some people who were very firm in their belief that he was guilty and there were some other people who were not so certain of that. I think what happened as we went along is that the people who felt he was guilty did not look at anything to the contrary. I got a sense that there was no sense that there might be reasonable doubt or there could be reasonable doubt. So whenever anyone in the room raised an issue that might have questioned the guilty verdict those that felt that he was guilty were very antagonistic very hostile very critical very demeaning. Can I ask you does some particular example come to mind of some time when you or somebody else raised one of these points and the reaction you got from the side that thought that he was guilty? Well I think that some of us felt that some of the material was open to interpretation as to what the governor meant when he said certain things. And it was often the women who had more reasonable doubt then the men. Most of the men on the jury felt that the defendant was guilty. We were criticized. And it was so difficult in the room sometimes that one juror cried several times because she felt that her point of view was not being listened to. We were made to feel that we were not smart enough we were not looking at the evidence correctly we were misinterpreting the facts. You are saying that the men were saying things that were demeaning. What kinds of things did they say? Well I cannot recall specifically but it was a dismissive attitude. Oh you are not looking at the facts. We have to convict him because the prosecution will have to retry the case if we do not. Or we will be embarrassed if we do not find him guilty. Hey JoAnn are there any other moments for you that stand out when you were deliberating? One gentleman who sat somewhere else decided that he had to sit across from me so that he could look into my eyes. And I felt it was very much an act of intimidation. I think that one day in particular towards the end-- I think we had been there for 12 13 days at that point-- and I think that was the day the gentleman sat across for me and another man said he wanted to tell the judge that one of the jurors was not deliberating in good faith. I really felt that I was going to lose it that day because of the pressure. What happened after the verdicts were announced? What happened to you then? Well we were cautioned by the judge to not give any statement and to take a few days to think about how we wanted to approach it. And we all agreed that we were not going to talk about who voted how and that we were all going to go home and not give a statement. So we all left thinking that that was going to be the case. But I could not go home because I received a phone call after I got off the train that there were swarms of reporters in front of my house. And so I went straight to my daughter's. And at that point the phone started ringing nonstop and went on for days if not weeks. We turned on the TV and we saw some of the jurors talking immediately. They were pointing to the fact that there was one juror who was the holdout and the press figured out that it was me. There was a helicopter flying over my daughter's house which is where I was saying. One gentleman on TV who was a reporter said that he had listened to the evidence and he definitely thought that Blagojevich was guilty. And the only way that he could explain the fact that I voted not guilty was because I was crazy. So it was absolutely overwhelming. I do not think it stopped for at least a month. And I think that it-- I do not think I know that it really made me question jury service in general in terms of if you go in and you do your duty as a citizen you are vilified if you do not give the verdict that people want and expect. If a person who serves on a jury knows that they are going to be vilified harassed after the fact maybe that'ill have an effect on how they act in the jury room. And that is kind of chilling to me. Let us say we are talking about a death penalty case. And people did call me and tell me that they know of people-- and one person in particular served on a case where it was a death penalty case-- they went into the jury room thinking that they had reasonable doubt but based on the pressure that they felt in the jury room they voted guilty. And have regretted it ever since. JoAnn Chiakulas.  Act Two Last Man Stand-Up. Most people do not choose to end up as a last man standing. It just kind of happens to them. Sarah Koenig has a story about that somebody like that somebody who was simply following his dream. Duke Fightmaster was making good money but he hated his job. More than hated it-- he loathed it. Felt like he was dying inside. He was a mortgage broker. He was married with two sons-- a toddler and a baby-- living in Orange County south of LA. Then the mortgage crisis happened his company collapsed. So he got another job. Working in a cubicle doing like phone sales for people in credit card debt. This really depressing office-- dark with like eight cubicles in it. And you are just on the phone all day calling people that are deciding whether to file for bankruptcy. And I was just thinking This is so depressing. And I had this idea that if I just follow my passion or find something that I am passionate about something that uses my creativity and if I just am able to find that and then throw myself into it I will be successful. His two initial ideas in Duke's own opinion were stupid. He would start a boy band or else he would make Orange County which has a lot of churches into a huge Christian rock scene like Seattle was for grunge. Actually these ideas are not quite as stupid as they might sound if you know that Duke had once had a semi-successful rock band which toured college towns all over California. So he started in on both these projects but soon realized he was interested neither in boy bands nor Christians. It was 2007. And then right around that time I was watching TV and I saw that Jay Leno was going to step down and Conan O'Brien was going to replace Jay Leno and so they needed someone to replace Conan O'Brien. And then the light just clicked on in my head-- Why do not I just do a talk show? It just felt like it clicked. I said I will start a talk show. I will just do it in my bedroom. Good evening ladies and gentlemen. Recorded somewhere in the US Southland it is the Duke Fightmaster Show. Tonight on Duke's show special audience member Robert the comedy stylings of Robert and special guest Robert. Duke Fightmaster is not a man of half measures and he believed in the aphorisms of success that if he wanted something badly enough he would have it. He was going to replace Conan O'Brien. Not by doing all the normal things like getting a production job at a local talk show learning the business working his way up. Instead he would make himself into a talk show sensation from his own bedroom. And so I had my little desk and I arranged it and I arranged the couch for the guests to sit. And I had these little curtains that went out to a deck and I just stood in front of them. And I had a video camera so I had my friend hold the video camera. And we just started to-- we just did a show. It is good to be here. I feel alive right now. I am finally doing it. This is my own talk show I am stoked I am going all the way. That is Duke's friend Tanya's French bulldog yapping in the background. Duke is standing in front of a white curtain actually his bedroom drapes. He is a little chubby he is got wavy brown hair. He is wearing a black sweater and jeans. The camera is jerking around like crazy and when it swings over to the audience you see a few people in chairs. Someone else is sitting on the bed which is covered in satiny pillows. Everyone looks happy and a little confused. I am in a relationship been in a relationship for 10 years. And my secret to a long lasting relationship is do not leave. I would do a little monologue then I would talk to my wife who was my sidekick. And then my best friend was my second sidekick. He was like an Andy Kaufman and he would do something weird and crazy. Then I would interview a guest and then we would have a little music act and we would do it all in like seven minutes. Now it is time for our first guest Robert.  Robert how are you doing this evening? Good good. Do you guys have any water or anything? You can have my water. And I remember I put it out on YouTube and I remember I kept checking how many hits it was. And by the next episode it was like I told everyone it was 72 hits but then I pretty much figured out that most of those were me just clicking on it and just checking it again what the hits were. So every time you clicked again were you like wow another person has looked since I last looked. Exactly yes. That is what happened. The Duke Fightmaster Show got longer over time to about 40 minutes and developed regular characters. Besides Duke's wife Leslie and his best friend Ryan he did one hilarious bit about declaring war on vegetables. No longer shall they take our land. Ryan is actually really really funny. No longer shall they rape our women! There was a beautiful busty blond named Tantalizing Tanya. They had a house band a number one fan and a weekly catch phrase. There is no audience crazier than the Duke Fightmaster Show audience. There is no audience crazier than the Duke Fightmaster Show audience.  The first show I had two friends in the audience that I basically just forced to be my studio audience. And then in the second show I had maybe four people. And then it doubled to eight. And when I got to like episode 24 I had like 30 people packed into my bedroom. It is tax week it was tax week. And I actually do my taxes and take my annual blood test at the same time each year. So I have some good news-- I am getting 2000 back and I have herpes. I am sorry that I have to tell you this way honey. Do not be sorry. It is not like I am going to get-- we do not really have-- Episode 24 was key. That was the night a local reporter was in the audience. By that time the show was looking more like a show. They had real graphics and theme music. And a surprisingly big number of people were checking it out on YouTube every week. 180637 views.  Fans and critics were writing in so Duke started a segment on the show called It is Time For the Comments. And he is wearing a suit now. His hair is cut he is lost weight he looks good. He made it into the newspaper. And then the following week we were on the front page of the paper in town. And then I got a couple other newspaper articles and it just felt to me like something was happening. And other people actually really believed it so much that it almost seems like it could work. Like maybe who knows? Something could happen. What was the plan though? What was the long term plan? How is it going to go from a bunch of people you sort of half knew in your bedroom to actually going on TV? Or was the TV part just a lark like you knew that was never going to happen? You know I was like OK we are going to be the replacement for Conan O'Brien. And I somehow thought that maybe I would pick up some type of esteem and become some internet sensation. And who knows maybe someone would see me and go wow look how much this guy can do with no money. Why do not we just give him a chance. And it always seemed like one more person would find out about it and it just seemed like success was just right around the corner. Duke got a producer and an executive producer and they started booking better guests-- actual working comedians for instance and popular local bands. Duke started producing commercials in hopes of getting sponsors. And he met weekly with a successful business friend to map out a plan to buy space on cable TV. By this time Duke had left his job at the credit card place so he needed the show to make some money. I said OK well I can quit my job and not work for three months. I have enough money to make this happen for three months. But then three months came and after that I was like wow we got on the paper and we got all this and I was just like I can just go a little bit longer just a few more episodes. And it was always just a few more episodes. At what point did you quit your job? After the first episode. Are you serious? You quit after the first episode? Yes. After the first episode I was at my job watching the episode over and over checking for the views and then I quit. And then on the second episode I told my wife that I quit my job. I quit my job today. Wait. What? I quit my job.  I am no longer doing the debt settlement anymore. You know we have two kids and a lot of bills to pay. We will talk about this later. OK. He had actually told Leslie the day before and she was fine with it-- a three month experiment seemed reasonable. Soon after episode 24 the one that got them the press coverage Duke had to move the show out of his bedroom. The neighbors were getting mad. One guy had written him a note that said Please stop whatever you are doing. He thought Duke was holding weight watchers meetings in the house what with all that clapping. Duke found another venue at the local veteran's hall but it was a lot more work than the bedroom. Setting up and breaking down the set plus the tech got more complicated-- more cameras. Duke start stressing out about it. He was not having as much fun. I would be looking at the cameraman going hey he is not filming what he is supposed to be filming. And then I would start yelling at the cameraman like Norge do not be zooming in on the camera-- you are not supposed to zoom. Do not zoom in Norge. OK? We are going to get this later. Goddammit Norge. Hey Norge how are you doing? Oh I forgot we do not care. At this point there were about 20 people helping Duke put on the show every week volunteering. And these volunteers were constantly backing out of shows of the last minute or just not showing up. This is the story of my life. My right hand man's not here flaking on me. Everyone lets me down. Ooh I have a little baby boy I need to watch him sleep. DJ Flux is not here. And who else has bailed on me? None other than Chipper Starkenberg. He is bailed. He is bailed. Meanwhile Duke's wife Leslie who is a yoga teacher was supporting the family. On the show she is constantly letting him know she is not so happy about that. Her delivery is so deadpan it is hard to tell whether she is joking. Duke that voice is not in your head. That is actually me asking when are you going to get a job? That became her character get a job. Here's another one. Now who are these sponsors you ask? Yes. Who are these sponsors? Because I would really love to quit my third job. And another one. How are you doing this evening? Pretty good? I am a little tired because I have to work so much to support the family. I think she was actually being sincere. We did not have any direct communication unless the cameras were rolling. That is probably her being just direct with me. Get a job. I am sick of this-- get a job. Only we had an audience laughing. And so was that the only time you were hearing it from her though was in front of the camera? Yeah. That is when she was able to speak her mind. I do not know. I kind of thought that I was pressuring him to get a job but I guess maybe I was not pressuring him enough if he thinks that I was not. But yeah I mean I think I was. I think toward the end I said to him I cannot think of any other place you are going to be able to live rent free other than your mom's house so either you get a job or you are going to have to go find somewhere else to live rent free. I thought that was pretty direct. I do not know. Wow. Were you sort of thinking OK well any day now he is going to give this up? Yeah I was thinking more and more that he was not going to give it up. Oh really? Yeah. So more and more I was telling them that This is what we make this is what our bills are this is how much we are short every month. So his was idea was Well let us get a roommate. He literally suggested a roommate? Yeah. I mean that was his solution. Instead of him working he would prefer to have a roommate move in. Duke's talk show had inched over the line from ambitious lark to obsession. And like all obsessions it was greedy. It sucked up not only Duke's time and energy and temper it sucked up money. So the family's finances were not just suffering they were a disaster. We had to leave our home that was kind of nice in Laguna Beach and we moved to where I am now in Dana Point. It was like half the rent. And you know it got pretty scary here and there. Just how are we going to pay for food? How are we going to buy clothes for the kids? You know things like that. My car was repossessed. My home went into foreclosure. And we would have to borrow money from our families. And we had a house in San Francisco that we ended up short-selling because we could not afford to pay the mortgage on it anymore with the taxes. And so we lost our house in San Francisco. I maxed-out all my credit cards-- I think we had like maybe eight-- and our family went bankrupt. But did not you used to be one of those guys who counselled how to get rid of your credit card debt? Yeah yeah. That is-- well I was just becoming one of my clients basically. So I was kind of hoping that he would look around him and see what was going on and notice that he had two young children that needed to be taken care of. I do not know. I think there is kind of a fine line between having denial and have a good attitude. I think sometimes I probably tried to keep a positive attitude more then I should have. Duke was under so much pressure you could almost see it ricocheting through him on screen. Take episode 60. Duke's monologue is so fraught it is painful to watch. But hey that is what credit cards are for-- to help you in a time of need. So I would use the credit cards-- Oh my God I do not know what I am doing. This is just getting very stressful. But you know we are married now. And then my wife says My biological clock is ticking-- So this goes on for another five minutes or so. I can hear your breathing is getting a little weird. Leslie is looking a little concerned-- there are couple cuts to her and she looks kind of-- her brow is a little furrowed there. Just explain what was going on. Yeah well I think that that particular night the guests backed out too. And all my-- I mean all together I had probably had like 10 monologue writers who had all quit by that point. Just because they just had other stuff in their life. And so I was down to writing it myself. I think that was like one of my first ones that I wrote by myself. And I was having panic attacks like every day. They would last like I do not know like 20 minutes. But then I would be scared that I would have another one. And then they would last for weeks at a time and it got to the point where I think I was having panic attacks for like six months in a row. And I think at that point right there I wrote a monologue wanting to talk about stress and then I started having panic attacks right then. During the monologue? During my monologue. God. I do not understand why you did not just stop. It sounds so miserable. Like you were having panic attacks. You know you are not having fun. Why did not you just stop? I guess somewhere in my mind I just thought you know no matter how bad things get I will just kind of put my head down and keep going. And I knew that it was ridiculous starting a talk show. I mean I knew that outwardly people think I am ridiculous. And I remember just driving around like The show is not going anywhere I am not going anywhere I have wasted these last years. And I remember just driving around so depressed. And I just felt like I had broken-- and I had a breakdown where I just started crying in my car. And I just felt like I hit the core of my being and it was you are a loser. And I think that was part of my rock bottom. Did you quit after that? No. No I think I still went for another year after that. You know anyone who makes it in this life at anything you always hear has to go through hell. So I figured I will just go through hell. I remember my friend who worked in real estate worked for one of those cheesy real estate motivators that used to yell out You have to have a break down to have a break through. So I was thinking OK I have had my break down so now I am going to actually break through to some new level. By episode 60 and the on-air panic attack a year had gone by. Conan O'Brien of course had long been replaced by Jimmy Fallon. Duke still was not working and the show still was not making any money. None of the sponsors materialized though Duke did manage to get Red Bull to send them free drinks every week. The first people to leave were the monologue writers. And my best friend Ryan he just got busier with work and had a baby. And the house band Evan had left. And the other house band guy left. Our two camera people left and I had to switch them. And I think I was down to like one camera guy and then I was just getting random people who showed up at the show to operate cameras. Leslie was basically not going to show that much. I think Tanya quit towards the end. I mean towards the very end I was pretty much by myself. We had a number one fan and he was always excited when he was there but I mean they just eventually did not want to commit every Friday night to me. Now I have some news and this could be our last night here at the Veteran's Hall. Unfortunately these veterans they want rent is what they want. And these veterans I mean they just get so crazy. It is like they are all up in your face and stuff just after only one time just one time it happens one time you do not pay rent for like four months and then they call you and they are like Where is the rent? And did you in fact get kicked out of the Veteran's Hall? Yeah I think that night they picked up the keys. It might have been the next couple nights but the guy showed up-- and we did not record it but he showed up during the show and I gave him the keys. I had to stop the show and I went out and talked-- he was with his son it was an old veteran with his son-- and I just said Listen I am very sorry but we are broke and we cannot pay the rent. . How much was the rent? It was really cheap. It was 30 bucks a night. After the show got booted from the Veteran's Hall it moved to a local nightclub which at first seemed like a step up but in fact was the beginning of the end. The space was all wrong the magic of the bedroom was long gone-- everyone could feel it. So the nightclub shut them down. And still Duke kept going more or less alone for another few months until finally after two and a half years he had nowhere to go. It was just like the whole roof was falling on my head. I basically just stopped after that. Notice Duke says he stopped. Not that he quit he stopped. He describes the show as on hiatus. A month or two later Duke got a job one he says is perfect for him. He works for a company that makes those advertisements you sometimes find hanging from your front doorknob-- they are called door hangers. Duke's job is to fly around the country and take photos of the people whose job it is to hang the hangers on your door. So his job is to make sure they are doing their job. He is a job cop. Which maybe is not his dream but his schedule leaves him enough time to do some stand-up and to produce a podcast from his house. Plus he is making some money. After all he lost during the Duke Fightmaster Show-- the house car friends self-esteem-- he is not sorry he tried it. If I did not try to do this talk show then I would never know and I would be on my death bed wondering like I could have done something. But now that I have done it I know I cannot. Going out and saying I am going to be the replacement for Conan O'Brien it turns out that that is a lot easier said than done. It is not as easy to start a talk show and replace Conan O'Brien as I thought it might have been. I find that a really funny-- The lesson I learned is it is really hard to replace Conan.  Because I feel like well I could have told you that three years ago. I mean nobody gets to be Conan O'Brien. Only Conan O'Brien gets to be Conan O'Brien. That is why it is so hard to be Conan O'Brien. I think that if you have some outlandish big deal chasing type of an idea you have to be in some type of denial to even try it. Thinking back on the show how he believed he could do it and how so many other people did too Duke says it is like he was an alcoholic dad who'd go out drinking and then come home and play with the kids and promise they would all be going to Disneyland tomorrow. And everybody is so happy and expectant and then the next morning the father wakes up and they are not going to Disneyland and he is forgotten he ever said it. Now that Duke has sobered up he says really the biggest lesson he learned is that you cannot just put your head down and soldier on for two and a half years. At some point you have to look up. And if you see that say your wife your sidekick is not in the audience you correct your course. Sarah Koenig is one of the producers of our show. And these are the song stylings of Duke's wife Leslie from the show.  Coming up Car Trek to Star Trek. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. In my house growing up there were two pictures of men being hit by beams of light. At the top of the stairs we had a painting of Joseph Smith's first vision. At age 14 he went into the woods looking for answers from God. In the painting he is fallen to the ground and is looking up through the trees at a pillar of light-- God and Jesus are floating there. According to church history this is the moment they told Joseph Smith to start a new faith. The other beam of light picture was a poster in my bedroom from the 1993 movie Fire in the Sky. Alien Abduction the poster read. November 5 1975 White Mountains north eastern Arizona. The layout is remarkably similar to the Joseph Smith painting. Travis Walton the abducted man is standing in the woods. A bright blue beam of light shoots from the sky diagonally across the image striking him in the chest. His body is arched backward and he is suspended a foot above the ground. The beam of light is fuzzy and mysterious and inside that beam is what made the poster so special. Written with a sharpie were the words Elna do not go towards the light Travis Walton. Fire in the Sky is actually based on a true story and my dad got me the poster because he knew Travis and some of the other guys involved. Among UFO types it is one of the best known alien abductions. Travis Walton was part of a logging crew with six other guys. They had been cutting down trees all day and were on their way home. They were all piled into one truck when they say they saw a bright light through the trees. When they got up close it was a spaceship hovering. Travis immediately jumped out of the truck to get a closer look. Here's how the movie played that scene. Travis! Travis! You son of a bitch! The hell you doing? Get back in the truck ! My God. That is when the beam of light struck him in the chest. The impact threw him to the ground. His friends took off afraid that the UFO would get them next. A quarter mile later they realized the ship was not after them and headed back. When they got to the site Travis was gone. He was missing for five days and when he returned he claimed he would been abducted. The details are familiar-- aliens with big eyes and big rounded heads. There is an exam table. But surprise no probe. And Travis is let go unhurt. My dad knew these guys because he was from the same town as Travis and all six witnesses-- Snowflake Arizona. It is a small Mormon town named for the two pioneers who founded it Erastus Snow and William Jordan Flake. Almost everyone in town is either a Snow or a Flake and Mormon. A month ago I found myself driving north from Phoenix towards the White Mountains with my soon-to-be be brother-in-law Josh Dickens and This American Life producer Jonathan Menjivar. So what the hell are we doing right now? Right now we are driving to the mountains to meet Ken Peterson and Mike Rogers who were both witnesses to Travis Walton's abduction by aliens in 1975-- 35 years ago today. And we are driving up there to camp overnight on the site of the abduction with Ken. Ken has camped out on the site of the abduction before. Three times. Of all the witnesses that night he is the only one who still fixates on it. He feels like he missed his chance to connect with these other beings to be taken on board the space craft the wa