A quick warning-- there are curse words that are unbeeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version you can find that at our website ThisAmericanLife.org. Remember that old-fashioned idea that two people who disagree about politics could sit down talk. Each would see the other's point of view. LBJ used to quote scripture as he headed into political negotiations-- Come let us reason together. Now of course we all realize that that is impossible. I am overstating for effect but you know what I mean right? There was this famous moment a few years ago when all this seemed way more possible a moment which was so long ago now. It came about because of this thing that happened at a presidential press conference. Before I take your questions I want to talk for a few minutes about the progress we are making on health insurance reform. That of course is Barack Obama. The year is 2009. One of my co-workers here at the radio show Robyn Semien has been revisiting this piece of very recent history. Because it is so recent but feels like it is almost quaint the fact that people thought that sitting down and talking together might work. Hey Robyn. Hey Ira. OK so I talked to Dan Pfeiffer. He is the deputy communications guy in the Obama White House at the time. He was there in the room for that press conference. So beforehand they would gone over with the president the 10 specific reporters they wanted him to call on. And he got to the end of that list. And instead of going off stage-- and you can tell the president was feeling very good about his performance because it is usually when he thinks he is doing well that he will take more questions. And nothing good ever comes of the one more question. All right. I tried to make that short so that Lynn Sweet would get her last question in. Thank you Mr. President. And I remember this question like it was yesterday. Recently Professor Henry Louis Gates Jr. was arrested at his home in Cambridge. What does that incident say to you and what does it say about race relations in America? Well I should say at the outset that Skip Gates is a friend so I may be a little biased here. I do not know all the facts. OK so just to remind everybody Henry Louis Gates Jr. a famous Harvard professor African-American scholar he comes home one night. He is trying to get into his own house. He has a problem getting in. Like the keys do not work or something. And someone sees him and calls the police. The cops show up and the responding officer Sergeant James Crowley he learns that it is in fact Gates' own house. But then they get into an argument and it escalates and they both have words and then Gates gets arrested. Right. So this comes up at the press conference. Yeah and President Obama is so comfortable in his skin. He is so casual in this moment that he even makes this little joke that it is impossible to imagine him making now. Right I mean if I was trying to jigger into-- well I guess this is my house now so--  It probably would not happen. But let us say my old house in Chicago-- here I would get shot. OK but then he says this. This is the part that is going to cause all the trouble. I think it is fair to say number one any of us would be pretty angry. Number two that the Cambridge police acted stupidly in arresting somebody when there was already proof that they were in their own home. And number three what I think we know separate and apart from this incident is that there is a long history in this country of African-Americans and Latinos being stopped by law enforcement disproportionately. And that is just a fact. So the night ends and you are thinking that was pretty good? Yeah I felt fine. Yeah we survived which is the goal of any press conference. Usually we would do a press conference I would walk back with him and sort of like do post-game analysis. But in this case I think he might have gone upstairs to bed. Because I am pretty sure we were in the East Wing in the State Dining Room. So I do not remember talking to him about it that night. He might have talked to Valerie right afterwards. Valerie Jarrett one of Obama's senior advisors she was at the press conference too. And I remember listening to the answer and thinking yeah that sounds right. And then when he said the word stupidly I paused for a minute. And then I thought about it and I said all right well when somebody gets arrested in their own home that is pretty odd right? And I did not give much more thought to it. But by the time I got from the East Room in the residence back to my office in the West Wing it had blown up. Oh that night? I mean literally within six or seven minutes. It just went viral right away. It was a big deal. Almost instantly the reaction to him saying the word stupidly just was an instant problem. After accusing police of acting stupidly for arresting a Harvard professor in his own home President Obama came under fire. Cambridge police are not stupid. I think everybody that knows us knows that. I think the president should make an apology to all law enforcement personnel throughout the entire country who took offense to this. This president I think has exposed himself as a guy over and over and over again who has a deep-seated hatred for white people or the white culture. I do not know what it is. I am not saying that he does not like white people I am saying he has a problem. He has a-- this guy is I believe a racist. That was Glenn Beck on Fox News. Kind of famously. Yeah. So that was one reaction. But simultaneously civil rights groups are calling the White House and thanking Obama for putting a spotlight on this issue that was important to them. So essentially President Obama had effortlessly divided the country with his one word stupidly. It was not intended to trigger-- polarize the police from the communities that they serve and protect. It was really kind of an offhanded comment. And if perhaps he had not said stupidly things would not have gotten as derailed as they did. If he had said for example It is understandable that Skip would be annoyed that a police officer would arrest him in his home I think people would have said yeah I would be annoyed. But when he said something about the police officer's intent or behavior I think that is what got under people's skin. So inside the White House they go into full crisis mode. They are hoping it will die down but it does not. So they come up with this idea to invite Gates and Crowley to the White House to sit down and have a beer. And then that led the press to become very interested in what I believe they deemed the Beer Summit. And there were demands for them to cover the Beer Summit as if it would be some violation of norms and transparency if they did not get a chance to take a picture of the Beer Summit. Right.  And yeah we did not want to make it a thing. Those are nice pictures of the garden.  So they get together for beers to calm the nation down. People take pictures. And as we all know that did not work. Yeah no it still comes up. Like a month ago as you know our colleague Zoe Chace was at a Trump rally in New Hampshire to talk to people there about why the country is so divided. And two separate people brought this up on their own pointed to this as the moment that they knew that Obama was out to divide the country. What he did his first-- what within his first year he went after the cops in Cambridge. That is the thing that started it. I think that is when it really started. He started it. Just the things that he did starting with the Beer Summit we had in Cambridge. You know all these dumb things that he did you know? It was his agenda. OK so Beer Summit did not unify America. Right. I have thought about this so much since it happened just the casual way that President Obama stepped into this. I have wondered if he was like I set the table already with the race conversation as a candidate so people know where I am coming from. I wondered if maybe he was just trying to test the waters right then. Maybe he just thought well let us just see how-- let us just see where we are. I do not know that there was that much thought. I think to your point-- and honestly Robyn I have not thought about this before you put it to me. But I am sure because the race speech had gone so well and was embraced broadly and was so raw and honest about himself he hoped that people had a better sense of who he was. And because he had won the presidency and had comported himself throughout his short tenure at that point as a president for all of America I think perhaps he thought he had the standing to say that and not experience the backlash. And so that was a teaching moment too that you know-- For him. For him. For all of us yeah.  Dan told me he thinks that it was not what Obama said but that he was the first black president in the White House. And that if it was not this it would have been something else. OK but if the goal of the Beer Summit was just three people sitting around trying to understand each other a little bit better like even for those people did it work? I mean yeah it kind of did. Like they were really mad before. And then after the Beer Summit Sergeant Crowley did this press conference where he says you know we agree that we both have a lot to learn from each other and we want to stay in touch. And they stay in touch? Yeah it seems like it. Since then Gates has said that he and Sergeant Crowley have developed a really good relationship. And then he did this thing-- you know he has this PBS TV show where he tests celebrities' DNA and tells them about their history. So he asked Crowley to do a DNA test and found out that they have a common Irish ancestor a cousin. So Robyn in other words it is possible for people to get along and become friends and see each other's points of view especially around the magic potion that we call beer. But we live in a country where most of the nation for one reason or another chooses not to believe that. It seems that way yeah. Well that is actually our show today people sitting down trying to see the other person's point of view over beer. In all these stories-- no kidding-- beer is involved at a critical turning point. In one story the fate of an entire nation is at stake. Actually now that I think of it it is true for the other story too. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Stay with us. Act One One for My Baby and One More for the Road. So with everybody in the United States and Europe breaking off into political groups who seem to understand each other less and less these days this German journalist named Bastian Berbner spent the last three years reporting on people from these kinds of groups that dislike and mistrust each other and see things very differently who actually sit down and try to get along. He is traveled to a bunch of different countries looking for examples of this where people do indeed somehow come to see eye to eye. So for example in Denmark he interviewed policemen who decided that the very best way to combat the most radical people they faced-- jihadists and neo-Nazis-- was to invite them in for coffee with I have to say amazing results. And the most extreme example of this that he found was in Botswana where for decades now the government has been running this kind of big social experiment to fight tribalism. Basically what happens is that every year the government tells thousands of civil servants to just pack up their belongings and move sometimes very far from home to live and work with people who are sometimes very different from them. This plan is not popular. Sometimes a parent is forced to work hundreds of miles from their own family. But the government has stubbornly stuck with this policy for decades. Here's Bastian. When Botswana became independent from Britain in 1966 it was one of the last African countries to do so. Imagine the colonialists leave and you are the first president of Botswana. For years all around you you have seen the same story over and over again-- countries become independent ethnic violence follows. Mali became independent in 1960. Two years later the Tuaregs started a civil war. Congo same story. Soon after its independence the province of Katanga tried to break away. Nigeria-- independence in 1960 very soon the Igbos and Hausa started clashing. Having seen all of that the early leaders in Botswana knew they had a problem. Because the exact thing that had fueled the violence in all those countries they had it as well. If you think about that these borders were just drawn up. And some of them really straight borders. They could have cut through a person literally you know. This is Unity Dow the foreign minister of Botswana. She was a kid back in the '60s when a few people in London drew the borders of her country on a map creating Botswana. And like in all those other places in Africa they were putting a bunch of ethnic groups together that did not really like each other-- the Kalanga in the north the Bakwena south of the Kalahari Desert the Bangwato in the center. In Botswana everyone refers to these groups as tribes. So that is what I am going to say in this story. In Botswana there were 20 tribes give or take. They spoke different languages had different traditions and now they were forced into one country. So the early leaders figured to avoid that kind of violence here what we need to do is break up the tribal identities and form a true nation. No more us no more them just a we. But how do you do that? They came up with a plan. First they decided everyone needs to understand each other. So in schools they would only teach English and Setswana-- the other tribe languages not at all. Second to keep people from fighting over land they gave a piece of land to anyone who wished. And they said everything underneath that land belongs to the state. This is important because this is one of the diamond-richest countries on Earth. So what happens if I am given a piece of land I settle there I dig and I find a rich diamond mine. Well you get moved. What do you mean? That you get moved. You have to declare that diamond you must surrender it. It is against the law to actually keep it for yourself. You cannot just find a diamond and say oh I found it. Once you find it it is not yours. There is a law that just very clearly says it is not yours. It belongs to everybody. So you would just get another piece of land someplace else. I would be so frustrated. Well I am sorry for your troubles.   There was one more thing probably the most important one people told me-- the transfers. Remember each tribe had its territory. So if you were from a certain village in the north you were most likely Kalanga. If you were from the Central District probably Bangwato. So they figured why not make all civil servants move to a different tribal area from their own for a few years? That would make sure that there are teachers and doctors everywhere in the country. But also it would force people to mix. It would be an anti-tribalism tool. When you move people around you are indirectly forcing them to take that culture in that new home to adopt the new culture and even to call that home. You are forcing alliances and you are forcing friendships. Can you force friendships? Does that kind of thing work? The transfers affected everyone working for the government by far the largest employer in the country-- engineers administrators doctors nurses and most of all teachers. When I was in Botswana I talked to 20 teachers to find out if this works and what it is like for the people going through it. I am going to tell you the story of one of the teachers a woman named Carol Ramolotsana. In a way Carol's story is typical of what I found but she also stood out to me. I will tell you why in a minute. So the teachers would always ask you what do you want to be when you grow up? I said I want to be a teacher like you madam. Carol told me she became a teacher for the reasons a lot of people do-- she liked the one she had as a kid. This lady was a lady who always every morning when she gets to school she will look at us. She would not shout at us. If you did not comb your hair she will say baby come here. She will comb your hair nicely. She would ask us did you have breakfast? She was this kind of a lady who always come with foods to make. What did she bring? Most of the time she brought oranges. And she would just sit there cut the oranges and just give to us. And she said you know I love you so much. And we said we love you teacher. In 2004 Carol was working in a school in the capital city Gaborone. She was 28 and everything was going great. She loved teaching. All her friends were in the city. At night they went out to eat in Chinese restaurants. They went dancing. They were happy. But then one day the head of the school where she taught called her in and handed her a letter. She was being transferred. With immediate effect. I still have the letter now-- you are transferred with immediate effect. The head of the school told her the name of the place she was going Lentsweletau Lion's Hill. Oh God. I did not even know the place. I asked him where is that place? He told me it is a village it is a small village. And I just saw from his eyes and his looks that he was just consoling me. Oh so he knew the place. He knew the place and he knew the place was not that good. Carol had known about the transfers of course but she had always figured maybe she would get lucky. Well she did not. She had just paid for some accounting classes. If she went to this village she was not going to get her money back. She feared that she would lose everything that was important to her-- her friends her clubs her restaurants. And she liked being among people like herself people she had things in common with. And there was nothing that I can do. Did you try? I tried. I tried. I spent about a month-- tried moving from one office to another just to no avail. She would walk into the Ministry of Education with her letter saying please cannot you put me somewhere closer? Or at least delay so I can finish my classes? She was not getting anywhere. Most people do not. That woman Unity Dow before she became foreign minister she was the Minister of Education and she had to deal with people like Carol all the time. She taught me that once a teacher brought in her elderly mother pleading please do not transfer me I have to take care of her. Unity said that woman could barely walk and it was clear the woman would not live much longer. Still she said sorry lots of people your age have an elderly parent I cannot do anything for you. Carol could not get out of it either. She was desperate. I was telling my mother you know mama I want to come back home you know. That is what is happening. You know I do not think I can go on you know being a teacher. But my mother on the other hand would say no my daughter. Just go. Just go. You will see how it goes. Just go.  Carol knew nothing about the place where she was headed. I really did not know them. You know the fact that you are speaking different languages. And I was not even interested-- really I was not even interested in knowing them that much. To me I just felt like they are just people that I do not have to bother knowing them. Carol's tribe was kind of the elite. The founder of the state for example he was from her tribe. And it was his grandfather who back in the 1800s went to London to negotiate with Queen Victoria. The place where she was going very different story. She says they used to be enslaved by another tribe. One day the ministry sent a truck to take Carol's things to the new place. She did not go with it. She stayed for two more weeks. And then reluctantly she got in her car drove out of the city. And when she approached a village-- There was a building an old building. You know I was like oh God what is this? On the other side of the road there was something like-- maybe they wanted to build a filling station but they did not go along with the structure but they just left the things there. There was the tank that showed that this place was supposed to be a filling station. I have been there. It is remote. Dusty makeshift houses many without running water. The school just a few houses scattered on the deep red earth. Carol's house was on the school grounds. Campus housing for both kids and teachers is pretty standard in Botswana actually. She got her keys opened the door all her stuff was there in boxes. She cried and slept. For days she would not leave the house. A few times someone knocked probably a fellow teacher or her boss. She ignored it. She had brought food for weeks-- rice pasta 10 pounds of dried chicken and tons of hard cider. Finally she showed up to work. It was really odd. It was odd. Like I said the people in that village-- even the teachers were like them. So I was wearing high-heeled shoes I was carrying a handbag. Some were gossiping behind. Some were telling me straight you know my sister this is a village. Eventually you would leave your handbag at home you would leave your high-heeled shoes. Then I said for what? This is me. No one is going to change me. That is what I said. And you know because of their attitude and what they said I also had an attitude towards them.  It is worth noting how this is basically the opposite of what the program is supposed to do. She is forced to go there. She did not necessarily think anything bad about the people at first but now she did. She did not notice what she had in common with them. She noticed how they were different. Carol found herself in a corner that she had not really been in to start with. And I was angry with the Minister of Education. I was angry with everyone. They have abused me they have ill-treated me. So I did not even want to be a teacher anymore. At times I would just go to class I would look at these kids I would just give them a book to read and I would go back to my room. Wow so the students would sit there by themselves? The students would sit there by themselves. They would just read their books. I do not know whether they would be reading or making noise. Did you think to yourself what happened to the girl who brought oranges to the classroom? At that time that thing did not even cross my mind. Most of the teachers I talked to told me stories like this but many were reluctant to go on the record. Carol not so much. She was like what the hell this is what the government does to us people should know about it. After a few weeks in the village she had finished all the cider she had brought. So that night she drove to the local bar and went in. I was just looking at these dirty people. To me they were very dirty. And I would not even look at them and see someone clean there. Dirty in what way? Dirty like they were not bathed and they have a smell. So most of all you remembered the smell. Yeah. It was horrible. I am telling you. You know the smell of armpits and everything dirty and the shoes? To me I was somebody in a different class. They were not the type of people that I want to chat with I would sit down with I would laugh with. You know in a bar when you get into a bar there would be these guys that say hey baby such things. And I would just look at them with this harsh face. Rolling your eyes. Yeah then they would say uh oh this one. And they will keep quiet. And I will get to the lady who is selling and I will buy and get outside and get into my car and sit there and drink. How many beers would you have a night? Around six. Six beers? Yes. The whole point of transferring teachers around the country is to expose them to people who are different from themselves. But whenever possible Carol just tried to avoid that. Like the teachers for example they had a break room where they could eat lunch together and socialize. I only went there when there was a meeting-- only. I never sat with the teachers there never. From the class I go back to my house. I never sat with them. Lunch break? I never sat with them never. I would rather sit in my car.  After three months she got a housemate another teacher from a different part of the country. And one Saturday he suggested going out to this nearby town that is just a little bit bigger. They brought their camping chairs because on weekends the bars can get so crowded that you do not find a place to sit. So they take the chairs sit outside the bar and Carol feels happy because the people there seem more like her kind of people.  No we just had some drinks. It was a new environment for us.  Why are you laughing? I am remembering exactly what happened.  You know you were just sitting there chatting. And my housemate just went to the toilets. And there was this guy who approached me. He said hi. I said hi. And he said my name is Thabo can I please have your number? And then I was like what do you want to do with my number? He said no I just wanted to chat with you. I feel like we can chat. Sometimes she gives out a fake number. But that guy he got the real one. I just felt like talking to him being nice to him and chatting with him. I just felt something from him the moment he came. Just I do not know-- maybe that was the clinch of love. I do not know. Yes. What did he look like? Thabo. Yeah.  He was handsome. What is so handsome about him? No I think beauty lies in the eyes. Maybe when you look at him you will see him ugly. But when I look at him handsome. He seemed like the guys she hung out with in the city not like the people in the village. They talked a bit with the guys he was with. We were talking just like yeah. And they said oh you guys are you from here? We said no. Then they said where are you from? I kept quiet. Then my housemate said we are from Lentsweletau. And they were like what? Thabo the guy who had asked for her number said that is my home village. It is where I grew up. My family lives there. This guy that Carol liked was from the town that she found so repulsive. And I know my housemate was laughing because he knew very well that I hate the place and everybody in that place. I always told him  I do not like this place. I hate this place. What happened next is exactly what you think happened next. He visited her the next weekend took her to parties introduced her to friends they got together. They traveled to South Africa to the north of Botswana to see elephants. When they went out to dinner he would order the same thing she ordered. He lived a few hours away so they only saw each other on weekends. But they would talk on the phone. You know love chats love chats. What do you mean love chats? You know he would ask me how I am am I fine? If I was not well I will tell him no today I have a headache or what-- just those things. That is not a love chat is it? It is. If you want to know how your partner is that is the love chat.  The transfer program was created to forge a nation. It is funny to think that this could be the real secret to how it might actually work-- people fall in love. For Carol after she met Thabo-- Everything changed. I started loving the place. How? How did that change? Hmm? How did that change? You know you have someone in the village he is your boyfriend. He moves around showing you things in the village. You tend to love the place. What did you discover about the place that before you had not seen? It is just a village. There is not anything much. What do you love about it? Those people they are loving people. You are smiling. Yes. They are loving people. I love them. I love them. She became friends with the owner of the smelly bar. She cooked for the soccer team. She was invited to be a judge in a beauty contest which is kind of a big deal in the village. She went to weddings and funerals. There was even a woman who gave her a piece of land. I have built a house there. No way. I am telling you. No way. Serious.   The former education minister Unity Dow she says what Carol experienced is actually pretty common and a big part of the program's success. What happens when you move people around? Maybe 80 will come back 20 will stay they get married. Oh so it is a massive dating program.  I do not know if it is a-- I mean-- It is like a government-sponsored dating thing. People go someplace they fall in love. First of all I am going to say that you joke but the truth is that it is just the nature of how humans move and acclimatize and call those their homes.  A few years after she had moved to the village Carol finally felt at home. She had built that house her relationship with Thabo was going great. Carol was taking oranges to class again. She did still bring her handbag and her heels to class every day. In fact one of the women who teased her about it a science teacher she started bringing her handbag too. Carol was still a little bit of a snob about the locals. But overall she was as happy here as she had been in the city. But there is something I have not told you about the transfer program. You do not just get transferred once. For teachers it is every five years sometimes a little less sometimes a little more. So one day-- The school had called us. And it was a lady. She told us that one of you has to go. There were five teachers teaching religious education one too many. We asked her what criteria are you going to use? So she basically said whoever came first would be the one to go. And definitely I knew it was me. So I think for about four or five months I was waiting for the letter knowing that any time I would go going. That must be so frustrating. I mean now you are there you know people intimately and then you know that you have to start from the bottom. Yes. And you have to take all of this. It is really frustrating. Yeah it is. It is. It is frustrating. It is frustrating a lot. On the other hand if it were not for the transfer program she would not have met Thabo. Are you happy with him? Yeah we are very much happy. And we are planning to get married. EXCITEDLY Oh. Probably some time-- April May. This was December last year. They had been together for 15 years at that point survived three transfers. Thabo had never moved with her. As a soldier he was also told by the government where to work. But then a couple of months after the interview I was texting with Carol and she told me she had broke up with Thabo just before the wedding. She had found out that he was having an affair. Do you blame the transfer program for the end of your relationship with Thabo at all sometimes? Not really. A person's mentality it is not to be blamed on anyone or the government. No I do not. But if it was not for the transfer program you would have been able to stay with him maybe and-- Maybe. I do not know. Yeah maybe. Do not want to speculate. Yeah.  All the teachers I talked to found the transfer thing mostly annoying. Some of them found it so disruptive that at some point they considered quitting. Like there was this one guy after being transferred he fell in love much like Carol. He had a kid. But then he was transferred again and again and again. He worked in seven schools. He had four kids with four women. And he was single again when I talked to him. He blamed the transfers and himself. Recently the government has made some changes. They now allow married people to move together. They have tried to reunite couples who have been split up. They also allow swaps. So if you find another teacher across the country who is willing to switch jobs they will usually agree. So yes they try to make things a little easier. But still this policy is supposed to be intrusive. That is the idea. All the officials I talked to acknowledge the hardships it causes and all of them stood by it. Yes it was sometimes bad for individual people but it was good for the people as a whole. In fact they say it is a big reason why they are a whole. The effect of the transfers has never been systematically analyzed. There is no study. And Botswana had other things going for it that helped them unify. There was less of a colonial legacy to overcome. The British had kind of ignored the country and ruled it from neighboring South Africa. And Botswana enacted those laws that prevented any one group from getting rich off the country's diamond wealth. But the officials I talked to were convinced the transfers were essential. They helped make their country drawn on a map 50 years ago into a unified nation-- one that has never seen war one that is the least corrupt country in Africa and one of Africa's best-working democracies. And the economy? From the mid-'60s to the mid-'90s Botswana had the fastest-growing economy in the world-- not the United States not emerg