When they started to prepare for COVID-19 patients at Rogue Regional Medical Center in Southern Oregon Dr. Somnath Ghosh was part of the team. He is the medical director for the intensive care unit a pulmonary specialist and very dedicated to his job. Works long hours the kind of doctor who gives out his cell phone number to staff and patients and families. He tells them to use it anytime. And his wife Renu is also a doctor says he really threw himself into this task. He spent a lot of his even off time at the hospital trying to gear up for the big wave to hit us. Right. And he is a little bit of a geek so got super excited. He is like Oh we today figured out how to use one ventilator on eight patients instead of-- I think four or six is considered the max standard. So he is been calculating OK we will be able to vent 360 patients preparing for all of this. So far they have been lucky. The pandemic has mostly spared the half million people his hospital serves in Southern Oregon. But I spoke with her husband Dr. Ghosh one afternoon last week. He said in total they have only had three COVID patients that needed intensive care. Dr. Ghosh prepared for a war that he is not having to fight. But all the time he gets invitations to go join the fight in New York Louisiana and other hotspots begging him to fly out and help. Every single day. In fact I get at least four or five of these a day. And I have been getting them for the last few weeks. I can read you a few. Sure. Hi Dr. Ghosh. It is Elizabeth with Core Medical. I hope you are doing well. We have a client in New York who needs critical care support. Due to a high volume of patients I hope to connect with you soon. Thank you for all you do. Another one says Immediate ICU coverage needed. Should you be able to assist please give me a call or send a CV to yadda yadda yadda. We can license. Another one says Good morning. A facility in Houston area is needing some help in their ICU. Can you help them during this crisis? I also have received texts from friends personally. They are in such a need for critical care physicians. Do you wish you can go? Oh hell yeah. Hell yeah. I mean this-- I mean this is what I trained for. This is what I do. This is six years of specialty training and then nine years of experience. I feel useless sitting here in Southern Oregon while the Northeast is getting pummeled. Yeah. Like there is a historic medical emergency that could use your exact special skills. Yeah. Yeah. I mean I feel guilty even going home and playing with my kids and watching TV. And I know my friends and my brethren on the East Coast are risking their lives suboptimal PPE not enough specialists to help them. So he comes back from work one day. I am in the midst of getting dinner going for our two children and he is like what do you think about me going to New York? I am sitting here. Nothing is happening. And there they are just dying. And I think my first flash action was just anger. I am like how can you be so selfish? You only always think as a physician. And me or the kids or family just you do not even think about it. And trying to go to New York? Especially looking for trouble? I am like there are other doctors but I only have one husband. My kids have only one dad. And you are the only son to your mom who is a widow now and kind of depends on you for everything. But then I think 10 minutes later I was telling myself that I am not surprised by this. He is at his best when he is the physician. He works harder than anything he will work at at home. He is more patient with his staff and patients than he is with my children. It is just how he connects. I think there is some part of him which just gets very satisfied when he is able to help someone. But he is not going to go to New York and not because of her. Not because of their kids who are still little. Not because he is worried he will get COVID. He is young and healthy and has a doctor's overconfidence assuming he is going to be fine. He is not going to save lives like he wants because he cannot go. And he cannot go because of his immigration status. He is in the United States on something called an H1B visa. And the rules prohibit me from working for anyone else other than my employer. So he has to stay in Oregon. He cannot go to work for a hospital in Brooklyn or New Orleans. He cannot even volunteer. We are in a health emergency in the United States. And over a fourth of the physicians here are foreign born. Over 8000 of those have the kind of visa that Somnath has an H1B visa which is given to people who have special education or skills and want to work in the United States. In Somnath's case he was born in India came here for his medical residency got his H1B visa when he got his first job out of training at the hospital where he still works nine years later. If he had a green card it would fix the problem. And he is waiting for one but the backlog on green cards is massive. That'ill take decades. He believes the government should grant exceptions to the rules right now and let health workers with H1B visas fly to the hotspots and help out during this crisis. And dozens of senators and Congress people mostly Democrats but a few Republicans sprinkled in have tried to get the US Citizenship and Immigration Service to do just that though that has not gotten much traction. So Dr. Ghosh is stuck in Southern Oregon during this crisis far from the action. What if you just went? Could not you just go? Well if I do that then I violate the terms of my H1B and it becomes null and void. Oh I see. Then you would be here illegally all of a sudden. Well yeah. Then I will be out of status which means I will be unemployed. And yeah that thought did cross my mind. Trust me. But the cost is just too high. Yeah. If I was just by myself sure. I would do what I thought was right and then I could just up and leave go back to India or elsewhere. With a wife and a 3-year-old and a six-year-old yeah I cannot risk that. Yeah. How does it make you feel that you cannot help? Frustrated. Small. I mean you would think that common sense will prevail and they would do what is right for the population especially in such trying times. You want to yell and shout and scream and say what exactly are you guys thinking of? Dr. Ghosh says before this he felt happy in Southern Oregon. He is one of the leaders in his hospital. He felt like he belonged. But since COVID for the first time he is started to think he might leave the United States. I have been thinking about this more and more because my kids are only 3 and 6. They can easily adapt to a new way of life. Mm-hm. I will be honest. The community in Southern Oregon has embraced me and this is home for me. I was happy just doing my job raising my family. And then when this thing hit and I realized how helpless I am and how inconsequential it boggles my mind that they do not think that this is a priority. If this happens again this winter with an outbreak and this repeats itself I am out of here. I am done. What do you mean? Oh like if this winter season there is another surge and then we are hit with the flu and the coronavirus and a personnel and equipment shortage and they need help I am not going to sit around just going through this rigmarole all over again. I am going to pack my bags and leave. Maybe make a stop in New York or something for a few weeks before I leave. So the plan would be to leave take the whole family back to India. And maybe on the way you would work for a few weeks or months in a New York hospital since at that point it would not matter. Might as well. I mean if I am going to get out of here I might as well do some good along the way. When I asked his wife Renu about that plan she was like well we will decide about that together. For now anyway Somnath is stuck getting texts like this one that he got recently from a friend a guy who he went to medical school with who is now in New Jersey deluged with COVID cases. So here he says Hey dude have not heard back from you in a few days. What happened to your plans of coming here? We could certainly use you. Getting our asses kicked here. Besides I have not seen you forever. So I reply So apparently cannot help due to H1B visa. So he replies Are you f-ing kidding me? We are using residents from unrelated specialties in our ICU. You are just going to sit there? So I reply What do you want me to do? And he is like This is bullshit bro. I gotta go. Talk to you later. Later in our program Stuck. There is so many of us stuck at home or stuck without a job or stuck on hold for everything next that was going to happen in our lives waiting for a future to arrive that now seems unreadable and impenetrable. We have stories of people stuck in some unusual and extreme situations with-- I swear we are human beings here at our show we need this too-- with some happy endings in some stories. From WBEZ Chicago this is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One You Can Check Out Anytime You Like But You Can Never Leave. So our show today is about people who are stuck. And years ago one of our co-workers Elna Baker found herself trapped in a hotel room with her siblings held there by a stranger. What happened was their family was all staying at this Marriott. But they are such a big family four of the kids were in one room with the oldest kid and the parents next door. Elna was 14 years old at the time in the room with 10-year-old Julia 8-year-old Britain and 5-year-old Jill who Elna was sharing a bed with. Elna the 14-year-old the eighth grader was more or less in charge. And then one night they are all asleep it is the middle of the night. My memory is that it is like I saw like a sliver of light which is what woke me up and the sound of the door closing. And there was the feeling that there was someone standing at the foot of the bed. Mm-hm. So I reached over and I turned the lamp on. And there was this woman. Uh-huh. And she looked startled to see us. And the first thing she said was you are just children. I did not expect you to be children. So that is pretty creepy. Right. What did you make of her saying that? I instantly felt like this is an unsafe situation. Yeah. Describe her. I remember she was my mom's age so she was probably in her 40s. Mm-hm. And brown hair white frumpy looking like somebody you would sit next to on the bus or something. Did she seem menacing? She seemed really distressed. She was crying too. She was crying? She was crying yep. She cried the whole time she was there. She is crying and she said You are children. I did not expect you to be children. Yeah. And did the other kids get up? Everyone's wide awake. I distinctly remember my little brothers' and sisters faces because their eyes were just huge. But no one said anything. And are they sitting up too? Or are they just laying flat still? They are still laying flat. Like nobody moved. So what happens next? She is talking right? This is not how it was supposed to be. And she is also crying. And she is talking to herself. I remember it being very hard to follow what she was saying. Yeah. And eventually I said I am sorry. I think you have the wrong room. And she started to cry and she said I know I know. I do this I do this. I do not know why I do this. And then she is pacing back and forth and crying. And she sits down on the bed at the foot of the bed. Did she seem crazy? Or did she seem upset? I mean it is interesting. I think I-- I was too young and unfamiliar to identify what a crazy person seems like. Yeah. But what I could identify in that moment was that this person was unpredictable. So you were just like oh I have got to be really careful how I do this. I remember feeling that pressure and in that moment very very very aware of my brothers and sisters because they were so little. Yeah. And that something bad could happen to them. And that the way that it was not going to happen to them was me. There were no adults there. I think it was the first situation I was ever in where there was-- you could not defer to someone else to keep you safe or tell you what to do. And what do I do? And it had that quality of like time slows down. And you are there but you are also watching. And so then I did the math in my head and I was like OK I have a couple options. They are cry for help scream but I do not think anyone will hear. Mm-hm. I remember looking at how far away the phone was from me and I realized I can reach and grab the phone and I could call for help. Or even like if I could knock on the door where my sister was-- Sister in the connecting room next door. I could-- at least they would know something was happening in here and they could get to us in time. Yeah. But all of that felt like an escalation like I would provoke her. And so what can I do to not provoke her and play up the fact that we are children? And what I felt I needed to do was I needed to calm her down and become her friend. And if I could become her friend she would leave and she would not hurt us. Like get her to see you as a person. It was like make her think I was on her side. Because then it did not feel like she did not see us as people. It just felt dangerous and I did not understand why. And I felt like the key to being safe was slowing everything down. And I remember her saying I am really sorry. I am sorry. I am sorry I am here. I am sorry I am doing this. I am sorry. Mm-hm. And I do not remember this but my brother remembers that what she said was I am sorry girls. I am sorry girls. And that his whole memory of this night was just being like I am a boy.  He was so mad. And so I ask her. I said are you OK? Is everything OK? And she kept going on about how her night was so hard. And I was like I am so sorry. That sounds really really difficult. And this is you trying to befriend her? Yeah this is me trying to befriend her. But it is weird. I feel like I was hyper alert to if I can understand what is going on with her I can help solve it. But I could not understand because it did not make any sense. Did you feel sorry for her? I felt concerned for her. Yeah. And then she took out her purse. And she reached into her purse and then she gripped onto something. And I remember thinking like oh no. The way-- I thought-- Oh like it is like a gun or something? Or a gun or a knife or something. I remember my heart just dropping. And then she pulled out a hairbrush. And then she just started brushing her hair like at the foot of my bed. Wow. And then at that point I was like this is really weird. Like this is like-- Right. And I do not think she is going to leave. And then she sat on the vanity in front of the mirror at the desk and she took her earrings off. Oh wow. And she started taking-- she took her shoes off. She took her coat off. She was just like-- Oh wow. --making herself comfortable to be here now. Right. And so I let her do all that and was listening to her go on about what was wrong. And then eventually after I felt like enough time had passed I said we have to wake up early to go to school tomorrow. And we are really tired so I think we should probably go back to bed now. And she was like I know I know. I am sorry I am sorry I am sorry I am here. I am here. I am sorry I am here. And I said no it is totally fine that you are here-- almost like thank you for being here-- but do you mind leaving now? And so I very slowly stood up and walked over to the door. And every moment was making sure we are safe. And then I opened the door. And she said OK OK. And put her shoes on. And then she started to leave. And just as she was about to leave I said oh you forgot your earrings. And then she started crying all over again like it was this huge thing. Walked over to get the earrings and then sat back down on the bed. And I remember thinking god damn. Why did I bring up the earrings? We were so close to being safe. So then basically the whole thing started all over again where I had to listen to her cry calm her down. And then finally I am like you know we have to wake up early to go to school. Do you mind leaving? And I walked her to the door and she walked out of the door. And as soon as she was out of the door I just pushed the door as hard as I could to close it. And when I pushed it basically like slammed it shut she screamed at the top of her lungs. And is there a bolt or something on the door? I think I did bolt it after I slammed it shut. And then I heard her screaming in the hallway. And then she ran down the hallway screaming. And then she ran back towards the door screaming. That must have been terrifying. It was so scary. And then it was quiet. And then I heard this loud-- she is like banging on the door as hard as she can right? And then I hear a voice and it is my dad. And my dad's like open the door open the door! And I realize it is not her banging on the door. So I open the door and my dad's standing there. And he is like did you hear someone screaming in the hallway? So then I tell him this whole story. I am like there was this woman. She was in our room. I tell him all the details and he is furious. He was so mad. And then he told us to stay there shut the door do not open the door. And then he went downstairs and talked to the hotel about it. Yeah and what did he learn? They tell him that she had been outside. She was crying. They asked if she was a guest there. She said yes. Her name was Elena Baker. And so they looked up the name. Elena Baker? Elena Baker yeah. And your name is Elna Baker. Yes. OK. But I do not believe this part of the story. I think someone at the hotel just said this to him to cover. OK. And then they gave her a key? And then they gave her a key. Yep. And so the hotel offered him the whole stay for free everything for free. And he is like I do not care about your money. I want you guys to do a formal investigation as to how this happened. Wow that is such a white man takes charge move. My dad is not white. Oh point taken.  He is a Hispanic man. Passionate with such a Hispanic passion. I was just thinking you just never hear somebody be like I demand a formal investigation. You know what I mean? It is like he is a member of Congress or something you know? Yeah. Yeah. All right. Anyway-- But I mean that is totally how my dad would-- like that is my dad. Point taken. OK. And so they do a formal investigation which they then send to my dad. Long after you have gone from the hotel. Exactly. And in it there is a picture of the woman. And then there is her history. She had been in a psychiatric hospital and escaped that night come to the hotel. And she had a long history of breaking into people's homes. And he is not certain about this part so I do not-- He does not remember it. He does not remember but he says that he remembers there being like she had attacked people when she would broken into their homes. That is what he remembers. That is what he remembers. Yeah. Yeah. That part of the story the investigation who the woman was Elna only found that out a couple years ago when she asked her dad about it. At the time back when she was 14 her parents kept all that from her and her brother and sisters. They did not want them to dwell on it or make them afraid of the world. They did not want that evening to become a bigger deal than it already was. And Elna says today that worked. And it is funny. Even as I have told this story over the years people are like oh that is so traumatic or that is crazy. And I do not want to think of it like that. How so? It just was sort of like a-- because nothing bad happened it has no category for me if that makes sense. It was easier to just think like oh this weird thing happened one night when we were in a hotel. In retrospect would you have preferred if they had told you back when you were 14? No I think it is good that I got to live in a world that I think is safe. On the other hand she says if they had made clear how much danger she was in the family's memory of it and her memory of it would not be of this weird event with no category this random thing that happened one night. Instead it would fit squarely into the category called victory solid win for 14-year-old girl in a big religious family when she got that stranger out of their hotel room without anybody getting hurt. And Elna says she would have liked that win. When you are trapped inside of a room with an unpredictable person really all you have got is your wits and your ability to read the situation and your judgment at guessing what will work. Nice to show everybody that even a kid can make the right call sometimes if they pay attention closely enough. Act Two You Cannot Go Your Own Way. There is this piece of writing that for months we have been trying to figure out how to get onto the radio trying to figure out a theme where we could conceivably run it. And it is about somebody stuck in a bad relationship in this case an abusive relationship. And it tries to capture what that feels like in particular all the mental energy that somebody in that situation can put into trying to figure out exactly what they should do to avoid setting off their partner. In her memoir In The Dream House Carmen Maria Machado invented this totally ingenious way to get that feeling across. There is this chapter that is a choose your own adventure where she imagines different choices that she could have made. A heads up that this excerpt includes a scene with sexual content. It is read first by actor Zo Winters. Page 1 you wake up and the air is milky and bright. The room glows with a kind of effervescent contentment despite the boxes and clothes and dishes. You think to yourself this is the kind of morning you could get used to. When you turn over she is staring at you. The luminous innocence of the light curdles in your stomach. You do not remember ever going from awake to afraid so quickly. You were moving all night she says. Your arms and elbows touched me. You kept me awake. If you apologize profusely go to page 2. If you tell her to wake you up next time your elbows touch her in your sleep go to page 3. If you tell her to calm down go to page 5. I choose page 2. Page 2. I am so sorry you tell her. I really did not mean to. I just move my arms around a lot in my sleep. You try to be light about it. Did you know my dad does the same thing? The sleeping damsel swoon? So weird. I must have-- Are you really sorry? she says. I do not think you are. I am you say. You want the first impression of the morning to return to you its freshness its light. I really am. Prove it. How? Stop doing it. I told you. I cannot. Fuck you she says and gets out of bed. You follow her all the way to the kitchen. Go to page 7. Page 7 breakfast. You scramble some eggs make some toast. She eats mechanically and leaves the plate on the table. Clean that up she says as she goes to the bedroom to get dressed. If you stare mutely at the dirty plate and all you can think about is Clara Barton the feminist icon of your youth who had to teach herself how to be a nurse and endured abuse from men telling her what to do at every turn and you remember being so angry and running to your parents and asking them if women still got told what was right or proper and your mom said yes and your dad said no and you for the first time had an inkling of how complicated and terrible the world was go to page 10. If you do as you are told go to page 8. If you tell her to do it herself go to page 5. Page 5-- are you kidding? You would never do this. Do not try to convince any of these people that you would stand up for yourself for one second. Get out of here. Go to the next chapter. You are out. Wait. No. Let us try that again. I go to page 8. Page 8. As you are washing the dishes you think to yourself maybe I should put a tack on my forehand. Maybe I should be a better person. Go to page 1. Page 1. You wake up and the air is milky and bright. The room glows with a kind of effervescent contentment despite the boxes and clothes and dishes. You think to yourself this is the kind of morning you could get used to. When you turn over she is staring at you. The luminous innocence of the light curdles in your stomach. You do not remember ever going from awake to afraid so quickly. You were moving all night she says. Your arms and elbows touched me. You kept me awake. If you apologize profusely go to page 2. If you tell her to calm down go to page 5. If you tell her to wake you up next time your elbows touch her in your sleep go to page 3. I go to page 3. Page 3. Baby if this ever happens in the future you can always wake me up and I will go to the couch. I promise. I really do not mean to do it. I do not have any memory of it. I cannot control how I move in my sleep. You are such a fucking cunt she says. You never take responsibility for anything. Well all you have to do is wake me up you say a kind of incoherent desperation zipping through your skull. That is it. Wake me up and tell me to move or sleep on the couch and I will do it. I swear to you. Fuck you she says and gets out of bed. You follow her to the kitchen. Go to page 7. Page 7. Breakfast. You scramble some eggs make some toast. She eats mechanically and leaves the plate on the table. Clean that up she says as she goes to the bedroom to get dressed. If you do as you are told go to page 8. If you tell her to do it herself go to page 5. If you stare mutely at the dirty plate and all you can think about is Clara Barton the feminist icon of your youth who had to teach herself how to be a nurse and endured abuse from men telling her what to do at every turn and you remember being so angry and running to your parents and asking them if women still got told what was right or proper and your mom said yes and your dad said no and you for the first time had an inkling of how complicated and terrible the world was go to page 10. Page 10. That night she fucks you as you lie there mutely praying for it to be over praying she will not notice you are gone. You have voided your body so many times by now that it is force of habit reflexive as a sigh. It reminds you of your first boyfriend who fucked you while watching porn how he rutted and rutted and then every so often lifted the remote to rewind something you could not see. Once you turned your head over the lip of the bed and saw a tangle of upside down limbs and your brain could not make sense of them. You never looked again. You would just lie there silently watching his face move over you. It was like being unfolded beneath the yawn of the planetarium as a kid-- the sped up rotation of the Earth the movement of the stars the constellations melting into and out of being. You shudder and moan with precision. She turns off the lights. You watch the darkness until the darkness leaves you or you leave it. To sleep go to page 14. To dream about the present go to page 13. To dream about the future go to page 12. To dream about the past go to page 11. I want to dream about the past. I choose page 11. Page 11. The first time it happened the first time she yelled at you so much you were crying within 30 seconds from waking a record. She said The first 10 minutes of the day I am not responsible for anything I say. This struck you as poetic. You even wrote it down sure you would find a place for it in a book maybe. Go to page 14. Page 9. You should not be on this page. There is no way to get here from the choices given to you. Do you think that by flipping through this chapter linearly you would find some kind of relief? Do not you get it? All of this shit already happened. And you cannot make it not happen no matter what you do. Do you want a picture of a fawn? Will that help? OK here's a fawn. She is small and dappled and loose legged. She hears a sound freezes and then bolts. She knows what to do. She knows there is somewhere safer she can be. Go to page 10. I do not want to go to page 10. Page 6. You should not be on this page. There is no way to get here from the choices given to you. You flipped here because you got sick of the cycle. You wanted to get out. You are smarter than me. Go to page 10. Fine. I go to page 10. Page 10. That night she fucks you as you lie there mutely praying for it to be over praying she will not notice you are gone. You have voided your body so many times by now that it is force of habit reflexive as a sigh. It reminds you of--   --sped up rotation of the Earth the movement of the stars the constellations melting into and out of being. You shudder and moan with precision. She turns off the lights. You watch the darkness until the darkness leaves you or you leave it. To sleep go to page 14. To dream about the past go to page 11. To dream about the present go to page 13. Page 13. You should not be here but it is OK. It is a dream. She cannot find you here. In a minute you are going to wake up and everything is going to seem like it is the same but it is not. There is a way out. Are you listening to me? You cannot forget when you wake up. You cannot go to page 14. I want to dream about the future. I go to page 12. Page 12. It is going to be all right. One day your wife will gently adjust your arm if it touches her face at night soothingly straightening it while kissing you. Sometimes you will wake up just enough to notice. Other times she will only tell you in the morning. It is the kind of morning you could get used to. Go to page 14. Page 14. You wake up and the air is milky and bright. The room glows with a kind of effervescent contentment despite the boxes and clothes and dishes. You think to yourself this is the kind of morning you could get used to. When you turn over she is staring at you. The luminous innocence of the light curdles in your stomach. You do not remember ever going from awake to afraid so quickly. You were moving all night she says. Your arms and elbows touched me. You kept me awake. If you apologize profusely go to page 2. If you tell her to wake you up next time your elbows touch her in your sleep go to page 3. If you toss back the blankets from your body and hit the floor with both feet and tear through the house like it is Pamplona and when you get to the driveway your car keys are already in your hand and you drive away with a theatrical squeal of the tires never to return again go to page 15. Page 15. That is not how it happened but OK. We can pretend. I will give it to you just this once. Turn to page 16. Page 16 an end. In the pit of it you fantasize about dying tripping on a sidewalk and stumbling into the path of an oncoming car a gas leak silently offing you in your sleep a machete-wielding madman on public transit falling down the stairs but drunk so you flop limb over limb like a marionette and feel no pain-- anything to make it stop. You have forgotten that leaving is an option. Zo Winters reading a chapter from Carmen Maria Machado's memoir In The Dream House.    Coming up a family in quarantine thinks it is figured everything out doing everything perfectly until evidence of one tiny tiny mistake. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show Stuck. For these long lockdown days and weeks and months stories of people trapped in one situation or another for long stretches stuck. I say this recording these words in a closet at home. Here I am going to tap. That is the sound of me tapping hangers and a shirt. So this writer named Damon Linker wrote this column for the magazine and website The Week about how right now with schools and jobs shut down we have all become unmoored from the future. We are stuck in the present. And it is unclear when we are going to move forward to graduation or a new job or whatever else we are building for ourselves and our lives in a normal time we would be looking forward to. And he tries to make the case that this is a big big deal. Human beings live their lives in time he writes. Our sense of ourselves is partly who we are trying to become. Quote A life without forward momentum is to a considerable extent a life without purpose or at least the kind of purpose that lifts our spirits and enlivens our steps. Without the momentum and purpose we flounder. A present without a future is a life that feels less worth living because it is a life haunted by a shadow of futility. End quote. I have to say I have thought about that so much these last few weeks because so many people that I am close to I just see how they are stressed out by how weirdly formless their days have become. The normal routine is all gone. And all of us have only the cloudiest sense of what the future is going to be. Act T