OK. Of everything in pop culture what can make a teenage boy cry? That is a very specialized list right? And we got to talking about this at our office because Lina Misitzis one of the producers here remembers how there was this one video game a PlayStation game that got her brother and his friends when they were kids. She says he was definitely not a crier. And honestly in my memory of it my brother Yannos cries halfway through the game because this character dies. He actually says that that is not true. But one of his other friends also remembers him crying. And lots of people had this reaction to the character's death like famously. No matter how you play the game she always dies and people reacted. What was the game? It is called Final Fantasy VII. When was this? 1997. And the character that they are all crying over is named Aeris but some people call her Aerith. And what was it about this character that was so intense? Well OK. So I have no idea. To me it made no sense. She is like this one-dimensional girl. She is a cartoon. At the time it was a big deal that she was 3D. So she looked I guess believable but she kind of looks like a Mario character. It does not make sense to me that all of these boys would cry over it. And so since my brother disagrees that he cried about it I called someone who definitely did. His name is Mike Fahey. He is a writer for Kotaku this video game review and reporting website. And he wrote about Final Fantasy VII being remade. It comes out I think in the next year or two. And he wrote this article and the title of the article was I Cannot Go Through This Again. About this scene? About this scene. About this scene. It is about how he does not feel like he can deal with her dying two times in his life. One time was enough. It was a big part of my youth. I mean it was what 22 years ago I played this game. And I still remember that particular moment. He is in his 40s now but then he was like-- I do not know-- 24. And he is on his couch playing the game. It felt like there was no real lead into it. I might have even had my attention wandering while the cut scene was playing. And then all of a sudden there is a giant sword in her. Sephiroth comes down impales her and you are like no. This has to change. This has to stop. My stomach fell. I remember my stomach just falling and feeling like it was just dropping in my chest. And that music kicks in just as she is dying. And whenever I hear that music I just tear right up. And Ira this is what the scene looks like. All right hold on. Let us put this up. OK you are now watching a video that we are seeing online. OK so you are the protagonist. You are Cloud. His name is Cloud Strife. So that is the character with the orange hair. Uh yeah. I mean it is yellow but you can call it orange. It is his job to protect her. And so they are standing on some sort of platform. There is mist all over the place. Yeah and you can see this girl up here. That is Aeris. Can you see what she is doing? Oh she is kneeling-- praying? She is praying yeah. She is praying. She has long hair braided in a bow I guess. Pink dress. She looks up. Cloud looks back at her very dramatic. Oh a menacing figure in a cape drops down. So I had Mike watch this with me when I talked to him. Wait he wrote a whole article saying I cannot go through this again and you made him watch it again? Uh yeah he was fine. It was just a video clip. And here we go. Sephiroth plunges from the heavens. Oh my god. I have to say it is very sudden. And she just slumps over like that and her eyes are still open. Her mouth parts just a little bit. This is right about where the music starts. And is when the tears start to fall. Ugh I mean there is that moment of shock when that sword goes through her. And then This cannot be real. He is reading off the screen. Cloud says This cannot be real. And that is really what everyone was feeling right there. That line right there Aeris will no longer talk no longer laugh cry or get angry. Oh my god.  OK. Damn it. His fingers are tingling his mouth is dry. His eyes are burning. I am right there with him. Yeah I am tearing up. OK so why of all the characters in all the video games in the world why do they tear up for this girl? Well in part it is because it is one of the first times it is happened. I mean it was just like a surprise. It was really new. And to clarify Mike knows that Aeris is just this one-dimensional character. The official game description of her is literally quote young beautiful and somewhat mysterious. Wait. Could we pause on the word somewhat? That seems so weirdly insulting. Like well you are just somewhat mysterious.  OK. Right. And in the game she really does just two things. She stands next to people and calms them down. Like she will put her hand on someone's chest in this meaningful way. She is this reassuring presence this healer. And then the other thing she does is she asks for help. So that is the two basic female functions right? It is like fix and help. Fix and help. Right. OK. And Mike knows all of this. But he says that is enough. It is enough about her to make you the protagonist care. She sort of is one-dimensional. She is like the ray of hope. She grows flowers in this disgusting slum. She is almost like a billboard that things can be better. Her sweetness and lightness is what they are really trying to squeeze out of her. So that is what they focus on. And she is understanding. And maybe that is why one of the other reasons you feel for her. Because you feel kind of like she would understand you. Also of course she is pretty. Yeah she is adorable. She really is. It is those big blue eyes. They bore into you really. They are in my head and they have been for 20 years. They are blue are not they? Um actually they are green. And Mike realizes that later in the interview and he wanted to make sure that I make it clear to you that he knows that they are green. Check. If Aerith were not as likeable maybe if she were not as pretty if she did not have those big green eyes and she were not as sweet her death would not have meant as much. Would Aeris the character have been as effective if she were a little brother? Wow. That is a good question. I mean I think she might have had to work harder as a little brother. Gosh that is an awful thing to say. Yeah I think he would have had to have a stronger personality. There would have been some more scenes of bonding with that character. I mean she has no personality. Yeah. There is a bird in the game that is called like a Chocobo I think that has more personality than Aeris does. Yeah. Yeah she is young and she is innocent. And I do not know. In the game it is confusing whether or not she is like you the protagonist's romantic interest or like your little sister. And I think that that is intentional. Those are the things that it takes for you to feel protective of her. And then her death is the thing that energizes all of them to fight and win. It motivates the remaining party members. I think her death makes the stakes real. It is a game up until her death. Even after the Shinra drops the plate and crushes that entire city you are like wow. They mean business. But we have got a party of kickass heroes that is going to save the day. And then Aeris dies and you are like we might not save the day. It adds a layer of reality. And her death sends them to their actual mission-- to save the world. She is just a prop that gets them there. That is her whole function in the game. So basically it is like she is this barely filled in character and yet just that is enough to work to make people have all these feelings and to actually cry when she dies. All she needs is to seem vulnerable and nice. This kind of story the girl who needs rescuing is still around. It is persistent. Despite all the films and stories that try to leave it behind despite best efforts to quash it you still run into it. And you run into it in real life. People jump in in real life to rescue young women and get so caught up in that heroic mission that sometimes like with Aeris it kind of does not matter who the girl really is or if she wants to get rescued. She is sort of just a girl getting rescued. They do not see what the girl actually wants or needs. They do not see her. We have examples real life examples. Stay with us.  Act One My New and Happy Birthday. So let us begin with a young woman that the United States government thought needed to be rescued meaning well with good reason at first anyway. Nadia Reiman explains. I am looking at a sheet of paper with a couple photos of a young woman a front view and a side view. Pretty small. She is got brown hair brown eyes. But right below the photos is an X-ray of her jaw. The paper says the X-ray was ordered from O'Hare Airport in Chicago. And this X-ray is what sealed her fate. Two years ago the woman in the picture lands in Chicago. She is coming from Laos disoriented and jet lagged. Her name is Yong Xiong. She is meeting her fianc who is waiting for her with his mother and sister at the airport in Minneapolis. All she has to do is get through customs and make her connecting flight. So she steps up to the customs desk all 4 feet 7 inches of her.   They asked me how old I was. And I did not know how to say it in English. So I showed them by fingers how old I was. Can you show me? What did you do?  I did this and I did this. Yong holds up 10 fingers pauses then holds up nine more. 10 plus 9 19. The Customs and Border Protection officer asked to see her passport. Yong does not speak English and the officer does not speak her language Hmong. There is no interpreter.   I gave them my passport and then they looked at it and asked me to write down my birthday. What did you write down?    641997.   June 4 1997. So then they asked me about my birthday again and again. After they got my birthday they looked at me and kind of just thought whatever they are thinking that maybe I was too little or my size was something that they were looking at. At this point the officer pulls Yong aside and calls another officer and another and another. At least five Customs and Border Protection officers all inspect Yong and conclude that she quote appeared to be under the age of 18 based on her physical characteristics and childlike mannerisms. That is what it says in her immigration documents. I saw a bunch of them. Customs and Border Protection or CBP is trained to watch out for child trafficking. And they thought Yong looked too childlike to be 19. For what it is worth Yong does look very young. When I met her I thought so too. She did not look like a young woman. She looked 13. So the officers went through her papers. They learned that she is here to get married. She has a fiancee visa so to get it she is already had to do an interview at the American embassy back in Laos. She is gone through a whole process to confirm that she was not lying that her engagement was not a sham. And the government decided that yes everything checked out. Visa approved. But now here she is watching the officers going through her stuff her bags her suitcase. And they find pictures of her with her fianc. I have seen them. Some are totally innocuous. They are from their engagement ceremony. Yong and her fianc are both dressed up tons of flowers. But in a couple pictures taken in some park Yong's fianc is kissing her on the mouth and Yong is looking away. Her face is contorted. You could say she looks put off disgusted even. Yong's family told me that Yong almost always looks grumpy in pictures. A cousin said that Yong never smiles not even in the ones with just us girl cousins. But the officers note that in the photos with her fianc Yong seemed quote physically scared and uncomfortable. They wonder whether Yong has been brought here against her will. Fianc visas and work visas are a common way traffickers use to get people into the country legally. So they get an officer who speaks Hmong and start to ask Yong a bunch of questions. What is your full name? Is this your passport? How many siblings do you have? Where did you meet your fianc? Oh and what was your age again? All of which Yong seemingly answers without hesitation. Yong Xiong. Yep that is her passport. Seven sisters. Met her fianc in Laos at a New Year's party. He is a US citizen naturalized. He is also Hmong. Her date of birth? June 4 1997. She is 19. He is 22. So did they tell you at some point that they were worried that you were being trafficked?  Yeah they did tell me that. What did you say when they told you that?  I just thought no that is nuts. That is not what is happening.  I just told them it was my choice. That I was not being trafficked and it was my decision to come to the US to be with my fianc. Because it was my choice.  The officers go through a checklist of 11 questions to determine whether Yong is being trafficked stuff like is she missing any documents? Does she appear scared? The answer to 10 of them is no. But then there is one about whether or not she is been coached on what to say. And that one the officers write down quote Appear to be. That plus the fact that she looked so young seemed to make the officers believe that yeah she is probably trafficked. This checklist is just normal procedure. It is what officers have to do if they think something's going on. But then they did do something unusual. They wrote a new birthday into her file January 1 2000 making her a minor 17 years old. There were a lot of unusual things that happened in Yong's case and this made-up birthday is the first one. The officers tell Yong she has to stay at the airport overnight. In the morning they tell her through a Hmong speaker that they need to figure out if she is over 18. If she is fine. If not it will be a problem. They tell Yong to find out how old you really are we are going to take you to a dentist. Yong had never been to a dentist before. As she took a seat in the waiting room she just thought I guess this is normal. This is what they do when you enter the United States.   I waited until they called my name took me to the dental chair and told me to just sit down and lay back. And then they told me open my mouth. And then they had a stick that looked like it had a mirror on it. And they went to the side here and this side all around on the inside. So did you know what was happening?     I did not. It was just pointing and hand gestures.  They said open your mouth like this. Yong shows me how they moved their hand like a sock puppet who just opened its mouth wide. Like with your hand?  Yes.  I remember they told me to bite down too. The dentist took the X-ray. No one would talk to me on the record about this but because it is the government there is a massive paper trail. And not just in Yong's case. I am going to go deep on these tooth X-rays for a second so bear with me. They are used all kinds of immigration cases not just trafficking. And a lot rides on the results. If you are under 18 you have more protections. You get put into a shelter instead of a detention center. It is harder to get deported. But tooth X-rays are just not a very precise way to determine someone's age. The way it works is they measure how developed the roots of your molars are and then based on that the dentist can determine your age but only within a range usually around five years. So these X-rays cannot tell you the difference between a 17-year-old and a 19-year-old. The same teeth might belong to a 15-year-old or a 20-year-old. Back in 2007 Congress told ICE they were quote troubled by the use of these exams by their lack of accuracy and by the fact that migrants do not necessarily give consent. Congress said please stop. And yet the government keeps using them anyway. And also I found out the way the government is using these X-rays is alarming. They are using the teeth to make migrants the age they want them to be. A political science professor at Northwestern named Jackie Stevens is the one who told me about this. Back in 2018 Jackie was helping research a legal case. She runs something called the Deportation Research Clinic which reports on government misconduct. And she got a giant document dump from the Office of Refugee Resettlement ORR people putting migrant kids into shelters. She got about 5000 pages. The documents revealed that ORR had done hundreds of these forensic exams on migrants over the past couple of years. Jackie found two things that ORR was doing wrong. One is they were using exams they were not supposed to. The rule is that legally speaking if you are trying to prove someone is an adult you can only take into account exams that show that with at least 75 probability. If they are below that threshold you cannot use them as evidence. But Jackie found that ORR was consistently determining people's ages with reports they were not supposed to use. The second big thing Jackie found time and again ORR used the age range in the report to make the migrant 18 or over. So if they got a range that said this person could be 15 to 23 they would pick at least 18. It is hard to know exactly why ORR would do this. I asked ORR why. Like what is in it for them? They never responded. But the way the teeth are usually being used is mostly to turn boys into men. In Yong's case the opposite seemed to happen. Her X-ray was used to make her officially a child in the bureaucracy of the US immigration system. CBP had flagged her as a possible trafficking victim. She looked young. Southeast Asia is a trafficking hotbed. And once that idea took hold of US government agencies it was very hard for Yong to shake. Because the way I see it if the government sees Yong as a girl entering the country in danger as a girl coerced a girl too small to be a bride then they had to protect her. And even if part of the officer suspected she might be telling the truth that she might really be 19 that she might really be here because she wants to get married they would have to be sure-- like 100 sure. So they had her teeth X-rayed. In the documents the dentist writes quote The range of possible ages is 14.76 to 19.56 years. In other words it is totally plausible that Yong could be 19 as she is been saying. But she could also be 17 like the officers decided. They seemed to use the X-rays as proof that they are right. Yong's new birth date of January 1 2000 it sticks. And it starts to reshape her life. The agents drive Yong straight from the dentist to a juvenile shelter. It is in Chicago. It looks like a school. It is run by ORR. She is told she cannot talk to her fianc the supposed trafficker. As soon as she is allowed to Yong calls her mom.   I just told her they brought me to this place to stay with all these kids. I just thought now I am in their hands and this is where they put me. I do not know what is going to happen next.  Yong is assigned to a room with four other girls. There are 13-year-olds at the shelter but also babies. She spends her days doing all these kids things like she has to vote for which kids movie to watch during movie night. She goes on trips to the zoo. She does math worksheets. She gets clothes to wear while she is there but they do not fit her because she is so small. At first Yong soldiers on. She starts to learn English. She thinks she will just sit tight and it will all get sorted out. She is pragmatic keeps a tight lid on her emotions. When she is assigned to a clinician Yong tells her right away like the day they meet that she is 19. She is here to be with her fianc. Two days later she brings it up again. Nothing changes. She brings it up dozens of times. It is in all her shelter documents. In one note the clinician writes quote Minor repeated to clinician she is not under 18. Clinician told minor she believes her. But there needs to be documentation to prove her statement. Day in and day out Yong keeps asking what is happening? Why am I here? Her frustration starts to bubble.   I told them I am almost 20. I came here in April and my birthday's in June. So I am almost 20. They told me we cannot change that for you. We cannot help you with that because this birthday that is on the paperwork is what came with you when you were admitted into this building. This is not true by the way. ORR makes changes to ages based on dental X-rays like the ones I mentioned at any point. They can happen even after someone's been admitted. Yong has an aunt named Xia in Minnesota one she does not know very well. They met once back in Laos. And she asks since they will not release her to be with her fianc can she be released to go live with her aunt? The shelter contacts the aunt to test her DNA to make sure she and Yong are related. They are. But the shelter decides not to release Yong to Aunt Xia because Xia tells them that Yong is an adult. So the shelter concludes she might let Yong run off with the fiancsupposed trafficker. At one point her documents say quote Minor began to state she does not know what to do anymore. And she cannot think of any solutions and feels stuck in the program. And also quote Minor states that she is 20 years old and no one believes her. January 1 2018 was looming closer. At that point Yong would reach her fake 18th birthday after which she would be a legal adult again and not really shelter material.  So as I stayed there and it got closer to my 18th birthday the 18th birthday that they gave me they had informed me that once I had turned 18 they were going to take me out and put me in a different facility. And so that is when they switched it and gave me a new birthday September 1 2002. Wait so they switched you and gave you another fake birthday?   So they gave me a new fake birthday but one that made me younger too. Did you ask why?  I did. And I asked them why could not they just give me my real birthday? And they said no they could not do that. And they did not know why they could not do that. I looked into it. It turns out ORR resubmitted the X-rays of Yong's teeth to a second dentist who concluded Yong could be anywhere between 15 and 20 years old. After which ORR did change her birth date. But they used the lowest end of the range possible. The documents say DHS the agency that oversees everything related to immigration told them to. Her new new birth date is now September 1 2002. The shelter orders a wrist X-ray to assess the age of Yong's skeleton. The results come back that Yong is likely 18. The doctor concludes that Yong is still 15 just has quote advanced bone age. She is gone from being 19 to 17 to 15 just like Benjamin Button. You know that kind of nightmare where you are trying to run but you cannot move? Yong says living inside the shelter was just like that. Day after day she watches the kids around her leave to go stay with relatives. But she is trapped. The clinician notes that Yong's become more irritated. And then about 10 months into her shelter stay something pushes Yong over the edge.   I was hanging out with my friends and then my friends had asked me what my name was. I told them my name was Yong Xiong. And so the friend came and said well who is Jane Doe? And I told them huh? I do not know who Jane Doe is. The friend said come here. I was not able to read and write well enough yet. And so the friend said let me show you. On the outside of my door it said Jane Doe as my name. I was so angry. And I had a permanent marker with me so I went outside of my room and blacked out the Jane Doe name that was on the outside of my door. And I just marked it all off. A worker came by and said who vandalized my name on my door? And I told her I did it because that is not my name.   Yong had had it. And then what did you do after that?   Then after that I refused to pick up my meals under the name Jane Doe. And they were asking why I would not pick up my meals. And I said because I do not know who Jane Doe is. I am not Jane Doe. At that moment I was really angry thinking I have a mom. I have a dad who gave me my name. Why not use my real name? Why give me that name? I did not like that name at all. So the shelter is like fine. We will not call you Jane Doe anymore. For the first time in almost a year Yong is heard. Meanwhile in the outside world many parts of the US government with many different acronyms are trying to figure out what the hell is going on with Yong. ORR the shelter people who have been given the new age by DHS the immigration people are running around with the OS the State Department people to confirm what CBP the Border Protection people originally thought of Yong the migrant person. It turns out according to Yong's family someone from the US embassy office in Laos went around Yong's village asking questions asking to see her family registry which is this record that families in Laos keep that basically lists who was born when. Also they asked the Laos embassy to confirm Yong's fifth grade and ninth grade school certificates. Both have her age and the embassy says they are both legit I talked to an ICE spokesperson more immigration people and they say that going deep like that does not sound uncommon. Like if they think they have a case of human trafficking on their hands they spend time and resources checking it out especially if they think the victim is a minor and especially if the region is known as a place where trafficking is common which Southeast Asia is. In the embassy's report about Yong it says that quote It does occur that the Hmong population will represent themselves as older for the purpose of applying for a visa. And quote Usually under questioning the girls will admit their real age if they lied. And quote Common for them to look very young malnutritioned underdeveloped. In Laos the average height of a woman is about 4 foot 9 inches. This makes them one of the shortest populations in the world. At 4 foot 7 Yong is shorter than average but not unusual for Laos. It is obvious that Yong is being measured with a Western ruler. The fianc was never charged with anything. He says no law enforcement came to talk to him. Lawyers that deal with cases like this told me this is unusual if he was actually a trafficking suspect. Normally an investigator from ICE would show up to interview him but as far as I can tell no one did. There is one thing I found out though-- something about Yong's fianc that troubled me when I heard it. One person working with Yong told me that he was kind of a big jerk that he yelled and threatened the shelter when he was talking to them about Yong and that when the shelter said this will be a process to get her out he said fine. If you do not let her out then I do not want her anyway. The person I spoke with said that is why the shelter did not want to release her to him. They were afraid he did not really care about her. I ran this by Yong's fianc and he says none of this is true. He would have loved to talk to Yong but he says the shelter would not let him. He says that at one point he took a week off and weighted by the phone because the shelter said they would call him. They never did. Finally on June 8 2018 about 14 months after entering the shelter and four days after her 21st birthday Yong is released. They release her as a minor under the custody of her aunt Aunt Xia. This is her.   They said we are releasing her to you. You need to be aware that she is only 15. We have given her multiple birth dates but that is the birthday that she is coming home with. It is the birthday that she is 15 years old. You need to keep an eye on her. You must know that anyone who is 18 or older comes and takes her to go get married you will go to jail for it.  What did you think about that?   So I did not say much and I did not think much. I just thought OK the Lord gave her a birthday. But you choose to give her a birthday and just send her home with the birthday you gave her. Even if she is just 10 I just want her home. So Yong went to live with her Aunt Xia in St. Paul 15 miles from her fianc. In May I visited them. Yong's been living with Xia for a year. She has to because according to one part of the government she is 17 which means-- OK. So the first thing that I want to do is we finished female reproductive system right? We have finished male reproductive system with the parts right? She has to go to high school. It is one of the conditions of her release. I went with her on a Monday to her health class where she was learning about pregnancy and the placenta. She is a freshman there. And you know what? She likes high school. She is there with a bunch of English language learners. So the teacher helps the students repeat everything. Can you say it with me everybody? Yeah. Passes into the-- Passes into the-- --cord-- --cord-- --to the mother-- --to the mother then-- --then out. Yeah. So the mother she gets the waste and she has to say oh! Bathroom. She is in a school full of other immigrant kids. Most of them do not know how much older she is. She does not bring it up and they do not seem aware of it. And then finally after more than two years of waiting Yong got her identity back. She had an immigration hearing just two weeks ago at the end of June a little after her 22nd birthday. DHS told Yong's lawyers that they were dropping the age thing. They said they were not contesting her passport or quote any of its contents which of course include her birth date-- you know the one she says is real June 4 1997. Yong went home that day and called her fianc at night. It was the first time they were allowed to talk since she got to the States. They cried. Then they made dinner plans. Yong was happy but sort of is not used to the idea that this is real. Same thing for her fianc. He says he keeps wondering if she really is here for good and if legally he really is allowed to marry her. So for now he just waits for Yong to call him and make plans. So I still cannot say exactly why any of this happened to Yong. I reached out to all the immigration agencies involved in this case. CBP and ICE both declined to comment on Yong and ORR as well because they say she is a minor. Her lawyers' take on why this happened is they think the government made a judgment call and screwed up and just started something in motion they did not know how to stop. On some level it seems like maybe everyone was just afraid to miss a trafficking case. And then her passport her visa all her documents from Laos just did not matter anymore. Yong's still here under a fianc visa so she has to get married. If she does not she has to go back to Laos. She is back at square one. It is like she just came into the States holding her passport and her suitcase. Like no time has passed when she landed at O'Hare in 2017-- except it has. Nadia Reiman is one of the producers of our show.   Coming up a whole country gets obsessed with rescuing a girl-- a missing girl. This in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Save the Girl real life damsel-in-distress stories where rescuers charge in going full force on the rescuing assuming that they know what is best for the girl that they are saving-- but really not paying too much attention to what she might like or who she really is. This kind of saving the innocent girl damsel-in-distress story there is this old video that I love of the novelist Kurt Vonnegut and he is talking about the effect of that story on people. In the video he is standing at a blackboard explaining that classic stories each have their own formula. And then he is literally mapping them out on the board. So there is no reason why the simple shapes of stories cannot be fed into computers. They are beautiful shapes. And then he starts to draw graphs draw these shapes representing different types of stories. So picture OK like in school an x and a y-axis right? With me? And then the vertical axis represents here how good or how badly a person is doing in their life. So bad fortune at the bottom of the line good fortune at the top. Sickness and poverty down here wealth and then boisterous good health up there. Now this is the BE axis. BE axis that is the horizontal line that stretches from the left side of the chalkboard to the right side of the chalkboard. B is the beginning of the story. E is the ending. And then Vonnegut demonstrates how this works. He says that some stories start with the person who is kind of happy so they begin more than halfway up that vertical line that measures good or bad fortune. So I would start a little above average. Why get a depressing person? We will start-- The whole thing we call this story man in hole. But it need not be about a man and it need not 