 For over 20 years Eric Capstick's worked for Yankee Stadium. He is a camera operator. During the game he runs around the crowd looking for fans to put up on this impossibly huge TV screen that sits over the outfield. And I have seen lots of people work a crowd with a microphone or a camera over the years and I can say definitively he is masterful. So I would appreciate it if you gave me some really great energy like  you know positive Yankee energy. Are you guys a bachelorette party or something? Yeah. All right. I am going to try and get you for the second shot. Yay. He is this lanky friendly guy. By the way he seems to know everybody working in the stadium. Daphne and Curtis. What is good? What is up bro? When he walks past he tosses them pieces of bubblegum that he swiped from the Yankees dugout. Danny. A piece of gum arcs through the air. Oh he dropped it. He dropped it. But usually he has pretty good hands. I like to say that half the people in the building cannot catch. It is pretty accurate actually. The whole purpose of putting fans up on the big screen is to keep the crowd energized between innings when nothing's happening on the field. So what Eric's looking for is pumped up passionate fans. Sometimes fans ask for Kiss Cam. I am like no you got to go to Queens for Kiss Cam. We do not do Kiss Cam here. You get that Queens reference? He is saying Kiss Cam's the kind of low-brow garbage that you see at Mets games. How are you doing? Hi I want to get the kids. I mean you know primarily so you should sit probably. He is talking to some teachers and parents of kids from a school PS 71 in the Bronx. They are here on a class trip. You do not want to be in it? Eric likes to position himself between the people who he is shooting and the screen so they can actually see themselves on the huge screen right over his shoulder. Sometimes that means perching himself over the edge of a balcony but not this time. We are about 10 seconds away. Everybody waits. It feels like a long time. Here we go. You are up. Hey you are .  Cool! Have you been on TV before? No. So how was it? I do not know. Exciting yeah. And so what is so fun about being on TV? Like you just get to see yourself on there and it makes you feel famous. How did you know what to do when the camera went on you? Well I have seen people and what they do. Like they wave and stuff. Duh-- even if you are in fourth grade. The camera's a magic wand. Somebody points it at you you know what to do. A few friends sitting near these kids-- Kristen and Joanne and Howie-- they saw Eric and they called out to him that he should shoot them next because it was Joanne's birthday. Eric saw right through that. I did not. It is your birthday? No it is not my birthday. He lied because I wanted to be on the camera. Why do you want to be on the camera? I do not know. Because I love the Yankees and I am happy to be here. And I want all my friends to be on TV. Kristen and her friend was actually on the big screen once. Oh my god it is so exciting. People saw me on TV and they texted me from home . We see you on camera. It was my moment of fame. I have never been on TV before. I was on TV. Well we actually were on TV once last-- two seasons ago. There was a ball that came out and our friend--   first home run and our friend caught the ball and dropped it. And it fell right on our seats and we all bent over to get it. And then we watched SportsCenter that night and you saw all of us like ahh and bent over. And that is our one time we were on TV. So they were on SportsCenter-- SportsCenter. It is so far away in the stands so small on the screen that nobody they knew recognized them. Nobody texted nobody called. Yet still it is kind of satisfying. Like I DVRed SportsCenter and then paused it and took pictures of the TV. And every year it shows up in my Facebook memories I share it. I am like oh that is when Wayne blew the ball.  You are only on the big screen at the stadium for a few seconds. But to get there one woman told me it makes your day. Another said she was recognized on the subway on the way home from a game that she had been on the screen. It is like this thrilling thing the Yankees can bestow on any lucky fan. So much better than a bobblehead. Because who does not want to get on TV? Well today on our program non-TV people suddenly find themselves on TV. They did not expect it. They did not ask for it. They just found out they were whether they wanted it or did not want it. And some definitely did not want it. Others did not even know it was happening because they are babies. What that kind of attention can do to you. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act I. Anything You Say Can and Will Be Used on Television. So since the 1980s there is been a way that tons of ordinary Americans suddenly found themselves on TV though it probably was not how they wanted to be making their TV debuts.  Stop. Stop. Stop. OK. So if you live in this country you probably know the TV show Cops. This particular clip is from a kind of updated version of Cops called Live PD which is made by a different company. It is actually more popular than Cops these days. And with me to discuss this is Dan Taberski. And Dan you have watched a lot of these shows over the years. I have. I have watched a lot of Cops. I have watched a lot of Cops over the years-- too much. And I know that one of the things that is interested you about that show and that you enjoy when you watch a show it comes from the fact that you yourself used to make television. Yeah I did for a long time. And a lot of reality shows too mostly kid shows and game shows silly stuff. But I know what tricks that you employ in making a reality show. And I have always wondered how were they doing this? What are the tricks that they are using? What is the difference between what they are showing me on TV versus reality? Like what really happened? Yeah yeah. And you have a new podcast about this very question. It is called Running from Cops. I have listened to the whole thing. It is a great show. And in this show you take that question apart for Cops and for Live PD. And I think before we get further you should explain what Live PD is for the people who have not seen it. Yeah the thing about Live PD is that half the country does not even know what it is. And in the meantime it was the most DVRed show of 2018. It is three hours long of live policing on Friday night and then another three hours of live policing on Saturday night. So it is a lot of hours of television. And just so people can picture the show describe what Live PD looks like what makes it different from Cops. Live PD is mainly different because it is live. It is basically set up like any SBN show. So there is a host and there is all these monitors behind him. And the monitors are following six to eight police departments around the country live. And he just keeps cutting to different police departments to show you the highlights of what is going on right now. Let us go right now to Jeffersonville. Both of the officers Alyssa Wright and Denver Leverett are serving as backup on a speeding pullover. Let us see why. Both hands out the window. Both hands out the window. And then they go back to the studio where there is a couple of police officers offering analysis and color commentary about what they are seeing. If they are aggressive you are going to try to use less lethal to taser pepper spray to try to control the situation. Now you are dealing with a dog and the suspect at the same time. It makes it a lot more difficult. Yeah. So one thing that is interesting about Live PD is that it premiered in 2016 right? Right when there was this proliferation of people filming their own police interactions on their own phones and putting it on YouTube. And it really changed the conversation around policing. Lots of videos of people getting shot by the police. Yeah and Live PD consciously positions itself and markets itself as a response to all that. To the videos. Right. Like we are going to go a step further than your iPhone video or your body cam. We will bring it to you live. It does not get more real than this. That is their position. So here's a promotional video they put up. Being able to see exactly what the police are doing and how they are doing it is beneficial to everyone. The cell phone changed everything. Being able to instantly load video up. You have to be very carefully in these situations. They only put up what they want to put up. They do not get the whole interaction. So for police departments wanting to get their side out in this atmosphere Live PD is great on TV and also social media. Unlike Cops which is sort of old school Live PD has a big social media presence. It is a live show. People tweet along live. They have a rabid fan base. During the show the police departments will actually tweet if you liked seeing Pasco County Florida for example on Live PD here's how you can apply to become an officer yourself. So I spoke to this one guy Sheriff Ozzie Knezovich. He is the sheriff in Spokane Washington. And that is one of the places where Live PD's been filming. This thing has tapped into something that I cannot explain. I have never seen anything like it before-- not in 28 years. I can tell you that Live PD has done wonders for our recruiting. Really? How? Applications-- people calling us all over the country. Really? Yes. It is been amazing. It is been amazing the amount of Christmas cards we got from people all over the country. Get out of here. No. It shows people at their worst. Well no it shows what we are dealing with. It shows what society is dealing with. So one of the things that is the most interesting about your series Running from Cops is that you really do try to figure out what is the gap between what the programs show us and what really happened out on the street. And as part of that you and your team watched how many hours? 846 episodes of Cops. Wow. And for Live PD we watched hundreds of hours. And the 846 episodes of Cops why 846? That is all we can get.  That is what was available to us. There have been over 1000 and we could get 846. And so now what we have done is we have asked you to do an excerpt from your series here for us where you try to figure out the gap between what we see on these two programs and what really happened and where you talk to the people getting arrested on Live PD and on Cops about the experience of being reluctantly put on television. Right. And so what is going to happen now is you are going to start with Cops and then go to Live PD. Take it away. We will start here. This is Cops 2013 season 26 episode 14. This scene happens in Gwinnett County Georgia. It is after midnight and an officer pulls up on two teenagers. They are parked in a church parking lot. Hey how are you doing? Great how are you? Good. What are you guys doing here? Just hanging out. Just hanging out? OK well it is the church and it is closed. Are we not supposed to be here? OK. So you guys have your IDs with you? I have got mine. Anything illegal drugs anything like that at all? No. No? OK. Would you mind if I check to make sure there is nothing illegal in the car? Yeah. OK. The guy tells the officer that he is out on bond for possession of cocaine but that he is been clean for a month. So now we are all getting suspicious right? Just leave it there for now. The cop starts rooting around in the front seat past the half-drunk soda cups and empty chip bags on the floorboard. And pretty much immediately he finds what he is looking for. This right here crack cocaine has almost like a cake consistency to it. So we are going to nick test a portion of that and see-- test a small amount. The officer picks up a sample and he does what is called a nick test a roadside drug test. If it ends up being cocaine it will have a blue or a blue over pink change to it. And that would be cocaine. The blue hue on the pink on the bottom that is positive for cocaine. The guy and the girl look stunned. They deny the cocaine is theirs. The cop arrests them both. You are being placed under arrest for possession of cocaine. Just go ahead and place your hands behind your back OK? And scene. It goes to commercial. Now I know my way around a reality show edit room. And as far as reality shows go Cops seems pretty real. In that segment we just watched there is no music. There is no narrator. It is just edited-down observational filming of police at work. That is what I like about it. And it is that style that makes it so believable to the casual viewer. It is what it is-- until it is not. Did you always want to be a police officer? Was that always the plan? I do not know. It seemed like a good idea at the time. Really? It would never seem like a good idea to me. It seems dangerous and difficult-- and thankless often. It is dangerous and it is difficult and it is very thankless. This is John Burdges. He is a former narcotics officer and he loved it. But after 14 years on the job he went to law school. He is been a defense attorney ever since here in Buford Georgia where he was retained by that young woman in that Cops episode that we just heard. I thought she was guilty having been in law enforcement. And I am very fond of the police and I am very pro-police. But I just thought it was a regular episode. So did her family and so did the district attorney and so did everybody else. Until that is a secondary test on that drug sample taken on the scene came back from the lab. The alleged cocaine came back negative from the state lab that it was not cocaine. In fact it was nothing. They could not figure out what it was. But it was certainly not a drug. In fact that roadside drug test in that episode they do them all the time on Cops. The colors tell you if it is coke or not. Easy-peasy. But what they never say on Cops and which I did not know myself until now is that in fact those tests pretty much every jurisdiction in the country says they are inadmissible at trial including Gwinnett County Georgia where that young woman and her boyfriend were arrested. But when that test pops up as blue on Cops they never say well we will see how the official test comes back. They say-- And that would be cocaine. But it was not. And that is not the only discrepancy that John Burdges learned about as this case progressed. The cop did not just open the car door and find the suspected drugs like on the show. He searched for 14 minutes before testing anything. And he did not just do one test like they show in that episode. He actually tested it two times for coke before it came back blue. One month after the official test results showed it was not cocaine the producers of Cops aired that episode anyway attracting the wrong kind of notoriety for Burgess' client. And in fact she ended up over a period of a few months moving out of Gwinnett County where she grew up several miles away. You put this young lady through this for what? To film a damn TV show. And nobody cares. Burgess's client did not want to talk to me. She is trying to put the whole thing behind her. But why would she have agreed to be on Cops in the first place? Because the thing is for pretty much any reality show Cops included the producers do need your consent to show your face on their show usually by signing a consent form. Why would anyone who just got arrested sign that piece of paper? Well you got to talk to people and you got to persuade them. Any producer that is worth a salt knows that. John Langley is the co-creator of Cops. 30 years later he still produces the show now with the help of his son Morgan. Most people who sign do so fully cognizant of what they are doing. It is just like they talk to him and listen-- Here's the good news. At this stage of our show is life people know the show and it has a certain pop cultural iconic value. And they will say get those news cameras away from me. Say we are with the Cops crew and they go oh Cops. Well that is OK. I have actually heard Langley say this before that people want to be reality show famous even if it is Cops famous. And I have always found it hard to believe but you kind of gotta take his word for it unless you are going to track down the people who have been filmed by Cops and ask them yourself. And so we did. Because I was given a choice. Sign if I go to jail. I do not feel like the TV show should have anything to do with my freedom. Corey Robinson was chased and filmed by Cops on his 18th birthday while he was hanging out in a park in Tampa Florida. And he says when he was sitting in the back of a police car the first person to approach him was not a cop but rather a producer from Cops the show who told him-- I need you to sign this release form or you are going to jail with a felony trespassing. So Corey says no way. And he asks to talk to an actual cop. And he says to the officer-- They are telling me you are charging me with a felony trespassing and I am going to jail if I do not sign a release form. He was like yeah you should take him up on his offer. He is trying to help you. You need to sign the paper or you go to jail. He put the window up and he walked away. In fact of the nine people we were able to find who had been filmed by Cops all but one say they did not sign a release were too drunk or high to do it willingly or they were coerced into it like Corey Robinson. And that young woman in that video that I played you the cocaine bust that turned out to not be cocaine-- Does that not look like cocaine? What is that? Cocaine. According to her attorney John Burdges-- They told her you either sign this waiver or you will not get a bond. So you are sitting in jail in a holding area. You are 18 years old and you cannot get out of jail unless you sign this piece of paper. So yeah she signed a waiver but it was not voluntary. Nothing's voluntary when you got handcuffs on. The producers of Cops maintain that they do not coerce subjects to sign consent forms and that they will not even consider a segment for the show unless they have a signed release in hand. A spokesperson told us sometimes people sign then regret it and make quote outrageous allegations. So that is Cops. There is more going on than what you see on screen. But what about Live PD? I mean it is live. How do you manipulate live? Nothing is more it is what it is than a live TV show right? No one from Live PD would talk to us about the show or how it is produced. And so we set out to find the answer ourselves by tracking down suspects who have been on the show and having conversations about what actually ended up on television. In the past three years they have shot in over 30 cities. And so we picked one-- Spokane Washington. Welcome back. Let us go to Spokane County Washington. Deputy van Patton is there. And oh no looks like we have got another shirtless dude. Spokane's 89 white. And like a lot of places they have got a pretty serious opioid problem. The city's been on 99 hours of Live PD. And so me and my producers we watched them all. Meth or heroin James? Not doing anything. All right James you have the right to remain silent. The goal was to look for clues as to the suspect's identity. They only say their first names if even that. So we look for a first name or a street sign maybe so that we could see where the arrest happened. And then we would cross-reference that with court records from around the same time trying to find a match. And that is how my producer Henry and I met Amy. What do you think? I am going to just kind of mic it like back and forth. This is weird. It is like I am being interrogated but not by police officers. And remember it this time. Amy was on Live PD season 2 episode 21. I will play a little bit of that episode for you. Excuse me. Oh is she drunk? A Spokane County Sheriff's deputy is responding to a call about a disturbance. And they find a woman in her late 30s. That is Amy. Then why are you sitting on the floor crying? Because I am drunk. And I lose everything I love. OK. So you were not arguing just drunk and obnoxious is all? She is sitting on the floor of what looks like a trailer behind a regular house. Amy is drunk. Drunk drunk. Sure. OK. Do you have shoes? Let us walk out. Come on. Let us get you out of this nice gentleman's trailer so he can enjoy his evening. They do not explain where or why they are even moving her and they do not wait for shoes. There are six inches of snow on the ground and they drag her through it in her pink socks. OK. OK. The officer runs a check on her name and a warrant comes out. You have got a felony warrant for possession of stolen property OK? What possession of stolen property? I do not know. Come on let us walk. I did not do nothing. You are arresting me for nothing. I have no . The warrant is not actually for stolen property. It is for failure to appear in court. They cuff her in the snow in her socks. You can see her breath. Please do not. I have got no shirt on underneath. Please do not. Hey relax. He is just making sure you do not have anything on you. I have no shirt on underneath! So what? You have a sweatshirt on.  I am not a whore. OK good. The officer arrests her and her boyfriend and puts them both in the same cop car. And host Dan Abrams gives this commentary at the end. It seems those who steal together stay together. And they are together now in the back seat of that car both with outstanding warrants. And that is it. We do not see her again in the episode. Let us go to Richland County in South Carolina. Do you remember it at all? Just bits and pieces. We met Amy at her parents' home on a street that dead ends at the Spokane River. Amy does not ask us in. We sit and talk on a couple lawn chairs in the front yard. It is still patched with melting snow. That afternoon I remember having a drink. And I am a drinker obviously. And I have no recollection after this just cup of alcohol. Do you remember the cop showing up? No. Literally do not remember it. No I have no fucking clue. Do you remember the cops picking you up and helping you out of that house? Do you remember walking through the snow? I do not even remember them reading me my rights. You saw the cameras. I have no recollection of that whole time frame gentlemen. Do not even remember the cameras. Mm-mm. I did not start actually really remembering things until I was in booking. I woke up in booking. And I guess I had a mask on my face and-- A what? A mask on my face because I guess I was spitting. And it was just really embarrassing you know? Can I ask you I mean is that something that happens? Have you blacked out before? Often? You do not have to answer that if you do not want to. I am just-- Not often. Probably like the fourth time I blacked out and the police were around. Question-- how does someone that drunk-- blackout drunk-- consent to being on Live PD a live television show? I mean it is hard enough for the show Cops to get them to sign and that is taped months in advance.