When she was a kid LaDonna Powell would go to Easter parties at her mom's work. It was great because her mom worked at JFK airport in New York City. LaDonna and her brothers and sisters and cousins would gather Easter eggs out on a parking lot by the tarmac in what is now the American Airlines terminal. Planes were taking off and landing right overhead. They liked that. A bunch of her family works at JFK. Her mom makes airplane meals but there is also her uncle two aunts three cousins and her sister. Everybody has a role. They feed the passengers they deliver their bags they clean up the planes after them. And when she was 20 LaDonna found her role-- she would keep the airport safe. She got a job with TSA. She scanned bags and laptops. She took it seriously. Like she would picture the pipeline that runs below the airport carrying millions of gallons of jet fuel blowing up if there were any kind of bomb. Like if the bomb goes off in this airport what happens to everyone here everyone that I care about if we do not commit and do our job properly here? It was like I used to have this terrible dream of a woman walking up to me and pressing igniting a bomb. Every time-- I would go to sleep and have this dream all the time. So when I came to work I was always very adamant on staring at the X-ray machine. After a few years at TSA she moved to a different job this one out on the tarmac with a private security firm that works at the airport a firm that eventually became part of Allied Universal which is a huge company-- the largest security firm in North America with 150000 employees all across the country. At JFK Allied guards screen the vehicles and the airplane catering trucks and all the other stuff that is down there on the runway. LaDonna was excited to work with them. She went through training and then was assigned to shadow a more senior guard. My first day in the field was not great. I was put with this guy. He was an older white guy. And he was very nice to me but very mean to the people we were screening going onto the runway because a lot of the duty-free trucks come through that load the planes with food for first class and he was saying the nastiest things to them. Quick warning that we have un-beeped the curse words here on the podcast. If you prefer a beeped version of our show maybe you are listening with kids it is at our website. He was saying all types like things hurry the f-- hurry the fuck up move the fuck on get out of his fucking face. He would try to get free things. So he would like threaten them. Like oh I am not going to let you through if you do not give me free food. And they would give him water and juices and stuff. So it is like he was extorting them basically. Yeah. He kept telling me he was a Russian badass. That is what he kept saying. He was like I am a Russian badass. And he had-- it was like a baseball cap flipped backwards. We are supposed to wear it forward with the-- and he flipped it backwards and he opened his shirt and he was saying I am a Russian bad boy. You know I am a badass right? And I was like I have no idea who you are. Today's my first day I do not know who this guy is. He is freaking me out already. After checking cargo vans and trucks for a while the guy told LaDonna that he was going to be inside the security booth by himself for a bit. She should stay outside by herself and wait. He played music in the booth and started looking at what LaDonna says was a Playboy magazine. LaDonna had read the employee handbook and knew that both of those things were a violation of company policy. And she had also read a book that her best friend gave her Nice Girls Do not Get the Corner Office. And she thought of it now the way that guy dismissed her treated her like you know a girl. Like I am overly nice and easy to walk over. Like OK. Wrong. Nice Girls Do not Get the Corner Office spends a lot of time on not being easy to walk over on the need to speak up on the need to stand up for yourself. LaDonna reads lots of these business books and management and self-help books. She watches talks online-- not for motivation. She is so motivated in general one of her friends calls her Olivia Pope-- like always wanting to fix something. She reads this stuff because the worldview in these books matches the way that LaDonna already sees things. Like they give her words to describe what she is feeling all the time anyway-- always try to elevate always be moving ahead. And this dude disrespecting his job and her he was an affront to that entire worldview. So even though it was her very first day out in the field doing her brand-new job right then on the tarmac she decided she had to confront the problem. So I was riding back with him in the car and I said to him why do you do things like that at work? And he was just like he hates the job. He was like he hated that place and that is just what he does. He does whatever he wants to do. And I was like well you know you make it bad for everyone else. If you do not want to be here just do not come. And then he started calling me like Sister Souljah and then he made a joke about it. And that was it. She was not diminished. LaDonna had no respect for a person who did not value this place or this job. And when they got back to the supervisor's office-- LaDonna did not feel great about this but she told a supervisor about the Russian badass and his behavior. In other words she handled it. Spoke her mind to the dude check. Reported him check. He did not get to her check and checkmate. And eventually-- she explained this to our producer Chana Joffe-Walt who was the one who actually talked to her-- she explained that the Russian badass he got fired-- for something totally unrelated actually. He stole water from Port Authority and they fired him. What do you mean he stole water? The water coolers how they have-- he would take them out of the storage and put them in the trunk of his car.  And they caught him-- exactly. And they caught him. Those jugs that go in a water cooler? Yes. They had him on CC camera going to his car with the water because he is a badass. He probably walked out with it on his head and carried it to the car. So he got fired for stealing water not for looking at pornography while he was on the job? Right. Yeah. Dude likes water. Yeah exactly. Clearly. LaDonna Powell is not a Russian badass. She is a totally different kind of badass. It is like she is a dedicated student of how to be a great employee the kind of employee who excels and rises in an organization. And now she was entering a company that would be the greatest sort of challenge for an employee like that a place where people are not playing by the rules. The Russian was just the very first obstacle she faced. It was about to get way uglier. What you are about to hear is the story of a willful and principled person who sets out to figure out first how to rise in this company and second how to remake the way the entire place runs which requires some ingenious strategizing on her part. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One The Old Guard. Well Chana Joffe-Walt has been talking to LaDonna plus lots of other people at Allied Universal at JFK for months and now she is going to take over telling LaDonna's story. Just a heads up that there is provocative language and content in here that might not be right for every listener. Here's Chana. When you board a plane sit down and look out the window you see the guys throwing the bags and then beyond that just concrete expanse. That is where LaDonna worked. That is where the Allied guards are stationed in booths along the tarmac. The booths are basically checkpoints for everything that goes out there-- food fuel water duty-free purses. The booths are about the size of a U-Haul trailer metal and steel with big glass windows. At the beginning of each eight-hour shift LaDonna would go to the Allied locker room change and stand in line for roll call outside the supervisor's office. Then the supervisor would tell her which posts she had that day out on the tarmac and she would head out there to a booth in the pavement. The guard she was relieving would drive away. Trucks would come by. She would check for bombs drugs food packages to see if anything was open. And she would wait-- lots of waiting. Occasionally a supervisor would come by to check on her. One night it was an older gruff supervisor named Kevin McNamara. LaDonna says he came in to her booth-- And he asked me to open my jacket. And he took his phone out to take a photo of me. And I was like excuse me. He was like open your jacket and turn around. And I was like I am not. And he tried to say oh I am just taking a picture of you. The company has a policy where we take a photo of you. And I remember reading it when they gave us a handbook and I said no you are supposed to take a picture of my outside my outer garment. And he is like no you are going to open your coat and turn around. He was so abrupt and aggressive with me-- just you are going to do what I say. Like you are going to turn around you are going to do what I say and that is it. And I was like that has nothing to do with the job. The job was to guard the post. LaDonna felt like Kevin wanted a show. LaDonna is small just under 5 feet tall. Her resting position is almost always perfect posture standing at attention hands clasped at her belt elbows out. The booth was a very tight space for two people. And I was like you are going to get the fuck out of my face. Like I am not turning around and I know that is not what you are supposed to be doing and I am not supposed to open my clothes for you. And he told me oh if I did not listen he was going to make it hard. He is like you always have something to say. You always have something to say. But then he dropped it. He drove away. LaDonna took note. Success-- she drew a line and he backed down. JFK airport covers 5000 acres. There are approximately 300 Allied guards. LaDonna met some of her coworkers in the locker room before and after shifts. That is where she learned that one of the worst posts was called Post Hotel. It got the most traffic. Second worst was Post Papa. It was distant and remote though I do not think that is how it got its name. LaDonna noted that nobody wanted these posts and she also noticed that she started to be assigned them shift after shift. You feel forgotten in a way almost because how do you go to the bathroom? How do you-- you cannot do anything. You are just there. At first it was like OK solitude you know? But then it is like all right are you guys coming to relieve me? Can I go to the ba-- can I eat something? Am I going to get to go home? Sometimes you will be stuck there 12 hours. They will forget to send you a relief. There are cameras in the booths so supervisors in the main office can check on their guards. Of course she could not see the supervisor's office but they could see her. Were they watching her? When she did get a response on the radio the supervisor would say they did not have anyone available to relieve her. She would squirm needing to go to the bathroom. Did they see that? Most nights Kevin was her tour supervisor. He worked in the supervisor's office with the other supervisor on duty. Sometimes he would drive around to check on people. She would wonder are they are busy? Are they not there? Or maybe-- Are they picking on me? Am I not getting to go to the bathroom because I spoke up? Am I not getting a lunch break are my hours being cut because I spoke up about what is happening? And I would always have these thoughts are they doing this because I keep talking back? When traffic was low LaDonna would sometimes take out her reading and suddenly a voice would come into the booth put that away. Or when she would eat no eating in the booth. So they were there. But then silence for hours. As families took off in planes above her for Florida and business people came in from Dubai LaDonna was stuck in a box below amid 5000 acres of pavement. In the locker room another guard told LaDonna there is a corner of the booth where they cannot see you. The cameras do not reach there. They can only see your feet. So LaDonna started packing peanut butter and jelly triangles and standing in that corner to eat them. Sometimes that would work. Sometimes she would hear the supervisor Kevin's voice suddenly come forward in front of the camera. And I kept trying to understand what am I doing wrong with my interactions with him? Because someone else tried to tell me oh he is nice to this girl. She is Spanish. It is not because you are black. I-- He is a white guy? He is an older white man. It is something else. And I said OK maybe my approach is wrong with him. So I did not know how to manage him. He was just-- he would have these outbursts. He would always say oh he is management and we are not like him and he is better than the rest of us because he gets an expense card and he wears the blazer. He can do what he wants. Oh I have been here for years. It is like how do you manage that? How do I correct you? Kevin McNamara did not want to talk to us for this story. LaDonna says it was around this time that she started to repeat phrases to herself from the book Managing Your Manager by Gonzague Dufour. It lays out three strategies for handling a bully boss. Number one do not take it personally. Two find the humor. And three most important limit the pain target the game. Done correctly you build skills you level up and you move on to a place where you will get a better boss. View the bully as temporary. This is how she would correct Kevin-- do her job extremely well get through this part and be seen by the people above Kevin. She would repeat to herself everyone has a boss. And it was that boss-- Kevin's boss-- she was focused on. At the worst post on the worst shift without breaks LaDonna targeted the game. It was busy lots of opportunities for growth. I really learned a lot just working out there. You are outside in the field so it is very hands-on. You are using a mirror you are checking under vehicles for bombs you are checking under vehicles for any anomalies anything that is not supposed to be there just making sure when it goes on the runway that it is safe. So it felt good purposeful. Like OK I am actually doing something. This appeared to go unseen by Kevin. Everyone has a boss she would tell herself but she never heard from Kevin's boss. What continued to be noticed was her failure to put her body where the supervisors could see it. She would hear their voices in the booth telling her to come forward in front of the camera. When she worked hard nothing. When she needed a bathroom relief after 8 or 10 or sometimes 12 hours no answer. So she would limit the pain. On her way to work-- I would go to the-- there was a convenience store on Lefferts Boulevard before I got there and I would go to the convenience store. I would get a juice or ask for a coffee and get an extra cup on the bottom of it. In the locker room before her shift LaDonna would throw in the cup with the rest of her stuff for when she had to pee. She would head to roll call with Kevin. And I would be there. I would have a roll of tissue-- like I would roll it up on my hand in the locker room-- and an empty cup with me all night. Oh and that was another thing. He would come and look at your bag because you have a clear plastic bag. They want to make sure you are not carrying any electronics out there onto the field or you are not stealing anything. So you have a transparent bag. OK fine. You can see straight through my bag but then he still would make comments about my pads and my tampon-- oh why do you need so many pads? It is like why do you care? It does not bother you and clearly you can see that it is not something I stole from here so why do you care? Everyone has a boss she told herself. Do not go back at him. Tone it down and say OK. Just try to focus on me. How can I get past this stage? LaDonna stuck to her plan did her job extremely well worked hard. And then just as the book said she was noticed-- not by Kevin or his boss but by a manager at the airport. This man had seen LaDonna working seen how hard she worked and he recommended to Allied that they promote LaDonna to supervisor. This recommendation likely carried weight-- the airport is Allied's client-- and it definitely had an effect on LaDonna. She would never even thought about being a supervisor. That was many levels above what she would imagined. And then she read Lean In. Lean In is by Sheryl Sandberg the COO of Facebook. It explains why so few women make it to the top of their professions. Sandberg argues that women-- and this is the line LaDonna slowed down on-- women systematically underestimate their abilities. LaDonna had been so focused on her bosses underestimating her abilities maybe she had underestimated herself. Now she would been noticed. Someone saw her as supervisor material. She just had to answer one question for herself the question posed by Sheryl Sandberg one of the most powerful female executives in the world-- could she picture herself as a boss? It was like do I really want to be in charge of other people? And then I have to take a step back and say do I really want these kind of people in charge of me? It is like I never had that moment until then. These are the guys in charge of me? I am peeing in a cup outside. These are the people in charge of me. So I really had to evaluate what I was doing-- what I was doing mentally to myself. Like I was literally my biggest enemy. That voice in the booth the unseen authority that LaDonna had found so unnerving suddenly seemed ridiculous. Why is he counting her pads? Why cannot she just eat her PB and J? They seemed desperate and threatened. I can do the job you are doing. You are not Jesus right now because you are a supervisor. I can read and execute this job just like you if not better because all you are doing is acting like Adolf Hitler an insane person here and you are treating people like animals. Let us try the other way. After two years at Allied LaDonna made it to supervisor. She went from 15 an hour as a guard to 32 an hour. And in June 2014 she entered the supervisor's office. I get to walk in and now they are going to see me in my blue shirt-- because the supervisors wear a different blue shirt from the security guards-- and I was like oh they are going to piss their pants. They are going to be so pissed off because now I am equal. We are both in the same field. We are both in the same position. You will not call me a bitch. You will not do that because now possibly you might view me as an equal. The supervisor's office was about the size of a large bedroom an open space with three desks computers a printer-copier machine and schedules all over the walls. There were about 12 other supervisors different races mostly men. They worked in shifts of two. LaDonna met her new boss-- Kevin's boss the boss of all the supervisors-- a tall black man named Chris Timberlake. And she was given 50-something guards of her own to manage each shift guards who needed schedules and overtime arrangements and to be counted at the beginning and end of every shift. She managed payroll and drove the premises to check on the guard booths. She went to daily supervisor briefings. Every part felt urgent and exciting especially the meetings where they talked strategy. Sometimes I cannot wait for them to finish a sentence. I just jump in. I said sometimes I feel like they are thinking slower than me.  Like maybe they are still figuring it out and I am already at the end point. And I am like well that is not going to work. LaDonna had new ideas. She was nice but not too nice assertive but deferential to her boss Chris Timberlake bringing things to him first. Like one time she went to his office across the hall-- And I said to him we have a training class. I am just talking to him-- now I am a supervisor at this time-- and he is like come here come around the desk for a second. I want to show you something on the computer. I am like OK what is going on? So I come around to look. I am like hey-- and it is women pole dancing and they are like licking on each other in a strip club and pole dancing. He is like can you do this? And he is calling the other male sup-- come here come here let me show you what I am showing Powell. And they are both showing it to me. He is like yeah I seen that. I seen that on YouTube. It is crazy right? Powell you could do that right? You could do that? You do that at home? In LaDonna's head she is Sheryl Sandberg right here. They were imagining her in a porn show pole dancing. And I was like you know what? Fuck the both of you. And I just walked out. I just walked out. I was like you two are the worst the worst type of people. I walked out. Did you say that to them or did you just-- I said that to them and they just laughed me off. They laughed me off. So it was not just Kevin. It was Kevin's boss too-- Chris Timberlake who was now her boss. He told LaDonna you have nice lips made comments about her body. When she would go to the copier he would come up behind her and push into her. Chris Timberlake like Kevin McNamara did not want to talk to us for this story. LaDonna says she would come in to work to find other supervisors gathered around someone's phone watching videos of people having sex. They would invite her over and ask her if she could do it like that. LaDonna surveilled the supervisors in the same way they used to surveil her. She studied how they operated and just how closely they watched the women who worked there. Like with one guard Marsha-Nique Irving. She would change her hair often or her makeup often and they would make sexual comments about it. Like what? Like oh you saw Marsha-Nique? Her titties look good today and she got her hair done. Or she would change her lashes-- like they were longer. Like oh she got porno-star lashes things like that. And she would always brush them off. And she was very feisty and I loved that-- I loved to watch her answer them. And it was like good for you. You know? It was like good for you. LaDonna was working one night and she heard Marsha-Nique radio in to her supervisor Osvaldo Ortiz-- everyone called him Ozzie. LaDonna was doing paperwork. Ozzie was sitting with another male supervisor monitoring the guard radios. And Marsha-Nique radioed to say she needed bathroom relief. And I watched him tell her four times oh give me a few minutes. I am trying to find somebody. They were never trying to find somebody. Never once did they call anybody else ask anybody else check a sheet to see if you had somebody else. The two men that were in there was like fuck her she always talking shit fuck her. And it made me look up because I was doing paperwork. And I turned and I was like this is what they were saying about me when I was asking to use the bathroom. And it was so much validation. My assumptions were validated. It was like wow this is really what you guys are doing. This went on for hours. LaDonna did not say anything at first. She just watched as Marsha-Nique radioed again. Calling to go to the bathroom-- and she said to them I have my period. You could tell she was already hesitant to say it because she is saying it on a live stream. Not only can all of us hear it-- which is like 57 radios of people-- now you are making her say that and the client can also hear her. So that is our 57 radios and eight radios Port Authority in Manhattan and Port Authority in JFK can hear. Embarrassing. She ended up using the bathroom on herself and bleeding on herself that day. Nothing no sorry. They were all laughing about it thought it was hilarious. Oh she going to sit in her piss until she gets off. Like they had no concern for her. The supervisor Ozzie did not want to talk to us. I did talk to Marsha-Nique. She describes this the same way LaDonna does. But of course at the time Marsha-Nique could not see what was happening in the supervisor's office the things LaDonna was now seeing clearly. I am not just paranoid. This is in stereo. Because seriously I really was like OK maybe you are just paranoid. And then you get in the office and it is like oh no. They are disgusting. It is just disgusting. This is what you are doing at work-- at work. I think they need a shirt that says At Work. Maybe they do not get it. We are at work. It is just like a little T-shirt reminder. Right. Every time they start to do it they are like oh wait at work. Yes you are at work. Being at work means something specific to LaDonna something she assumes is universal but not everyone feels. To her you are at work. It is almost like saying you are at church. You are supposed to be your best and look out for others. In Lean In Sheryl Sandberg tells a story. When she was pregnant-- she was working at Google-- it was the early years of the company. And she was late for a meeting. She had to park way far out. The company was growing so fast there was no parking close by. And after running with a big belly to get to her meeting Sandberg marched in to speak with Sergey Brin and Larry Page the founders of Google. We need pregnancy parking she said. Oh they said. Sure of course. They just never thought of it before. Sandberg writes That is the power of being in the room. The other pregnant women must have suffered in silence. Having one pregnant woman at the top made the difference. That was the power LaDonna felt she had in the room when Marsha-Nique called in. And she used it. And when I said it to them the first time-- like so she is not going to get to go to the bathroom? No I am not going to send that relief over there for her. She will figure it out. How? There is nowhere for her to go. She is not a-- she cannot just pull her penis out and pee in the woods. And then he just-- he was like this is what she is calling for? And I am like you get a period? And he looks at me. I am like you tell me if you get a period if you know exactly-- a woman does not want to keep a pad on more than four hours. And it is that kind of thing that I just wanted to be in the room to be able to say-- consider this person consider them as a person. Consider this person-- that is what LaDonna's presence was supposed to do to induce empathy the kind of consideration she had wanted from her boss Kevin when she was out in the field. LaDonna put herself in the supervisor's room with him made him see her-- blue shirt just like him. But LaDonna says when she came in as supervisor Kevin's response was not to consider her. She says his response was wow they must have been scraping the bottom of the barrel to bring you in. LaDonna says Kevin would violate protocol and change the schedule without regard to people's medical needs. LaDonna would correct him. Consider this person. When he told the LaDonna to change the payroll so they would not have to pay one of the guards overtime he was owed LaDonna held onto the piece of paper and said no. And then he took the paper and he threw it back in my face. And he was like you are always talking back. You are always talking back. It was like I just-- I did not know what to say. And then he was like I am tired of seeing you niggers' faces and he walked out the room. That was just like wow. So now we know why you feel like I am the bottom of the barrel and those kind of things and I am disgusting. So thank you for letting me know. I remember being so enraged. I was like there is got to be a law against this. And I remember there was a book with all the codes and everything from the company. And I went through the book and I found discrimination I found hostile work envir-- ugh I am sorry. That is OK. And I wrote it up. And I wrote the pages and I did all this stuff and I wrote a four-- I wrote a complaint. It was like four pages long. I turned it in to the woman who was in human resources. I gave it to the man-- I hand-delivered it to them. I cannot experience this anymore. Like I am tired of working under Kevin. I said every time I am by myself with him he finds a way to tear me down talk to me disgusting. I am tired of it. Forever I have to experience this just because I stood up for myself? It is just not fair. They gave me the most nonchalant response. Oh Powell you are reading too much into it. I told you before Kevin's just like that. If you cannot handle the position in there let us know. We will put you back in the field. Everyone has a boss. LaDonna complained about Kevin to their boss Chris Timberlake and to his boss project manager Martin Feeney. Martin Feeney also declined to talk to us. There was a union for guards but LaDonna was not a guard anymore. She was management. According to Allied protocol every employee complaint triggers an investigation. LaDonna says nobody followed up with her about what happened with Kevin beyond that one conversation with HR and Martin Feeney which she says ended with Martin Feeney telling her kick him in the balls next time. LaDonna knew this strategy already. She knew it did not work. When she was 19 working at Applebee's she says a coworker grabbed her ass and said he liked Jamaican bodies. She turned around and smashed him in the face with a big metal spoon. Did not help. LaDonna had tried all the things. They were not working. And no matter how far I leaned into my career-- I made it-- I am the first female to ever start there as a guard at my age and make it to a supervisor. I leaned all the way in without letting anyone touch me with just showing I was capable-- I could read I could type I was able I understood the job. I made it all the way to supervisor. Still I am still being harassed. It just did not work. It worked as far-- OK now I have excelled in my career but I am still being harassed. Now what? Now what do we do? LaDonna settled on a new idea for how to fix it all at once. She could see clearly how the male supervisors were treating the guards now that she was on the inside. She could also suddenly see the female guards and how they were responding. She was in the office every day with another male supervisor and the women guards would show up in there. They come in they are bringing him lunch shirt open breasts out-- oh hi. So some of them were benefiting using it as a tool to get what they wanted out of it. And watching them with the men supervisors it was like why are you doing that? But they are doing it for a good post for overtime for a better break. It is like do not do that. Just do not do it. If we all would say no it would make it easier for all of us saying no. But you saying yes makes it harder for me saying no. Let us just say no because we are at work. Let us say no. This was it. When LaDonna heard Allied needed someone to train the new recruits newly-hired guards she immediately volunteered herself. Let me be the first face they see. These people are new. She could teach them. This was her new idea. She would change the entire culture of the place by starting at the beginning when people were hired. She would train them correctly. She could teach the women not to respond to sexual advances. She would teach them to focus on work security. And all the new hires would take root in this place like an invasive species. They would change the entire ecology. The supervisors would not respond to LaDonna telling them to change so she would change the world around them. Chana Joffe-Walt. Coming up the re-education campaign begins. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program LaDonna. We are telling the story of LaDonna Powell and watching as she brings her enormous sense of mission to the job of securing JFK airport in New York and to making the company that she works for Allied Universal a better place to work. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two The New Guard. So as you heard in the first half of the show LaDonna had tried managing up to reshape her boss's behaviors. Now she went in the opposite direction. And she created something brand new. She was going to start from the beginning training the new recruits. Again here's Chana Joffe-Walt. LaDonna did not actually have any experience teaching or training anyone. So she did what she does-- she read collected tips watched online videos about giving presentations. She bought The Essential HR Handbook and read about onboarding how to set company culture from day one. Because it talks about in HR knowing your people. So I made sure every time they came into the class I knew who was wearing-- oh you ha