Of all the things in the movies that could happen to you-- and there is so many right-- I think getting shrunk down to a miniature size-- I think that is one that nobody would ever choose. It seems dangerous. It seems frightening. How Marvel Comics ever thought that shrinking could be a superpower that is really totally beyond me. Turning yourself into a person the size of a pencil eraser? It does not make anything easier. Everything is harder. In the movie Ant-Man the first time Ant-Man shrinks-- What is this? --he is instantly in mortal danger. Water in a bathtub nearly drowns him.  People dancing in an apartment almost crush him with their high-heeled shoes. A rat tries to eat him.  It is a ridiculous superpower. The writers actually have to cheat and give Ant-Man a whole second power mind control over armies of ants or he would never get anything accomplished. But these stories of tiny people you know Honey I Shrunk the Kids The Borrowers-- when I was young I loved the film Fantastic Voyage-- I do get the appeal of them. They give you this feeling of what if. What if I was so small that I could stand between the wafers of an Oreo cookie that I could climb onto an insect? Last year when she was in fourth grade Chloe thought about this a lot. She is a kid in suburban New Jersey. Now that she is in fifth grade she finds this a little embarrassing. But last year every night when she would go to bed she would prepare for the possibility that magic might strike while she was asleep and that she would shrink down to the size of her dollhouse. Those preparations included-- I would sleep on the edge of my pillow. It is like the very top of my head is on the pillow and then the rest of my body is on my bed. That way if she shrunk in the middle of the night she would be on the bed and not on the pillow which seemed way more treacherous to her. She also took a slap bracelet which can stretch out like a ruler and positioned the ruler very carefully like a little bridge from-- The edge of my bed to the edge of my bedside table. And why? To walk from my bed to my bedside table where I had the little hammock The little hammock which she made for herself to sleep on which is basically a bracelet of intertwined rubber bands suspended in air on a frame of Q-tips. And then I also had a little couch and the couch was on the bedside table. So you walk past the ruler. You turn left you will see the couch. And if you go a little beyond that you will see the hammock. Under the hammock was a calculator that she could step on like a little footstool to get up onto the hammock. And next to the couch was a Post-it folded in half with a note to her parents explaining that she had shrunk all ready to be unfolded when this really happened to her for real. And finally every night when she went to bed-- I took some of the really important things to me put them in a blanket and then held onto the blanket every night hoping that it would turn small with me. So what would be wrapped up in the blanket? My stuffed animal Boo my cat stuffed animal one of my books and a couple other stuffed animals. And were you hoping that this would happen or were you fearing that this would happen that you would get small?  I was both. That beeping that you are hearing-- Chloe was being recorded on a telephone whose batteries started dying at this point in the interview making that beeping noise. Tell me the hope tell me the fear. The hope because then I would get to live in my dollhouse which it had a little swing on the porch. It is cool. And I would not have to watch Netflix with my sister. And every popcorn would be a meal. So that is the hope. What was the fear? The fear was my parents would not be able to hug me. I might not have electronics. I would not be able to see my friends because I would be tiny. And I would not be able to go to the pool.  You would not be able to swim anymore. Yeah well my mom could just set up a little bowl. Yeah. I was going to say she could just take a tray of water and just put it out for you. Yeah. Once you start to think about the world this way small stuff can become really transfixing. The sheer tinyness of tiny things can have a kind of mesmerizing power to it. We were talking about this at our office last week and Bim took the most extreme stand on this. I dragged her into the studio to talk about this. I just like generally small things. If there is a small version of a thing I am interested in seeing it or reading about it or hearing about it. It is Bim who told me about the radically tiny tubs of Vaseline you can buy which have the exact design of the bigger jars. It is about the size of my thumbnail maybe my thumbnail and a half. They are very small. They are very cute. They do not look like they are real. They look like ornaments that you might hang from a Christmas tree. And what you like about them is-- What I like about them is just how small they are. They seem almost pointless. You can find Vaseline in any number of other sizes. The fact that this exists-- I think it feels like somebody-- yeah it was just a pointless gesture. Let us make Vaseline even smaller. Can you imagine them looking across at one another and kind of going hey should we make this smaller? And someone said there is no need. And they were like precisely. And I think small things by nature are whimsical. They just feel like oh you did not have to be. You did not have to exist but here you are. And that is what makes them kind of joyful. They are just things for the pleasure of smallness and staring at smallness. It is like when you look at broccoli and you think oh I am a giant and this is a small tree. It is that feeling. I am almost 40.  Do you still have that feeling? You will look at a broccoli and you will think it is like a small tree? I do not still have that feeling. I used to have that feeling when I was a child. I will not be mocked.  No one has mocked you yet. Your face. Well today on our program Small Things Considered we have stories of people overlooking what is so great about the tiny the minuscule the peewee the bite size and the teensy-weensy. Also some very dramatic examples of the power of smallness including for instance the power to end health insurance as we know it for millions of people. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. My voice is affected by some sort of tiny tiny bug this week. Stay with us. Act 1 Coming Up Short. So a while ago we got an email from a physician who was starting to see a trend that disturbed her among her patients. She wanted us to look into it. We thought our contributor Scott Brown would be the best person for the job for reasons that'ill become clear as he proceeds. Here's Scott. So this doctor told us that all of these parents have been coming to her scads of them-- she used the word inundated-- with the same problem. Their kids were short not dramatically short. They were just below average height for their age. We are talking 9- 10- 11-year-old kids. And what these parents wanted was for this doctor to prescribe them human growth hormone injections to make their kids taller. These are daily injections that cost tens of thousands of dollars a year. It is usually affluent privileged families this doctor says who already have all the advantages. She went as far as to call the desire for growth hormone among these folks an epidemic. Because I have had parents come to me and say Everyone I know is on growth hormone. That was an actual quote. Everyone I know is on this stuff. Or it is all the rage in this anonymous community a very affluent community. This doctor want it to be completely anonymous by the way. She feels like she is whistleblowing. In fact this is not her real voice. We swapped her voice for an actor's in our recording of the interview. Since I cannot identify her I will refer to her from here on as Short Throat. All we can say is she is a pediatric endocrinologist-- that is a children's doctor specializing in stuff like diabetes thyroid problems and growth. She says she got into medicine to treat sick kids but fully half of her patients are coming to her just for the growth part. So parents will find out one kid is being treated and assume that their child because they are below average needs it too. Like oh if they are doing it then am I going to be missing out? In fact I think the phrase one mom used was something like I am just trying to be proactive and worried I do not miss my window of opportunity. That window is real. Parents have to start their kids on the drug by the time they are hitting puberty. Short Throat has been practicing for about seven years but she works closely with other doctors who have been at it for decades. And they do say that it is gotten much much worse. Like they do not remember anything like this. One of my senior colleagues it is almost like she is surprised every time. I cannot believe this kid came in here. Look at this growth chart. And I walk in the office and it is a kid growing at the 40th percentile with parents who are the 40th percentile. 40th percentile meaning 40 of the rest of the country is shorter than they are so just below average. And she is like can you believe they are here for growth? And I am like yes I can believe that because-- this is like everyday you call me in and are flabbergasted by the same thing. I had a conversation where I had a patient come see me. Her son was 5 foot 7. Mom was 5' 4. Dad was 5' 8. They wanted treatment. If you say something to them like well his predicted height is 5' 9 you might get a response that is something like well that is unacceptable.  You are laughing but that is my job. I am laughing for so many different reasons. Do you get it now? Oh I get it. I have gotten it my whole life. This is probably the point in the story where I should level with you if I could-- short joke! I am just under 5' 3 which puts me right around the first percentile of American males by height shorter than 99 of the men in this country. For years I thought I was 5' 4-- the second percentile. But a recent doctor visit confirmed that I would been rounding up. I have always been the smallest guy in the room consistently smaller than other kids for as long as I can remember. There are some downsides sure. But I think I have a pretty good life. My successes and failures-- I do not leave them at the tiny feet of my shortness. My height is just one thing about me not the thing not the defining thing. But recently I wrote a young adult novel about a 16-year-old boy who is 4 foot 11 and struggling with his identity. And I found myself thinking every day about being short-- what it meant to me what it might have meant what I might have missed. And then I hear from this doctor about all of these parents who think having a son my size is unacceptable and come to her to fix it to fix them. Short Throat tells the families who just want to enhance their kid's height that she will not do that but that does not always stop them. There are some private practice pediatric endocrinologists in our area who-- the phrase I have used is I feel like they would give growth hormone to a rock if you asked them to-- like sitting people down and giving them the worst-case scenario height prediction and then being like this is what you need and then treating them. Oh so their consult is part of saying you do not want this short kid here. You know? Yeah. You do not want a hobbit. Oh absolutely. That is what the paren-- I know the prescribing practices of all of others peds endos in our area. Because people bounce around and they doctor shop and they want other opinions. Among the things that bother her the most a lot of the parents seem oblivious to the possibility of side effects. But really the biggest bee in Short Throat's growth hormone bonnet is the fairness aspect. The full treatment over four or five years can cost 300000 or more. And even though most of these families are rich they find ways to get it covered by insurance when some of her diabetic patients cannot even get the latest insulin pump covered. She also says she is seen rich families take advantage of patient assistance programs the drug companies offer to needier folks. I have seen affluent patients get on these quote unquote patient assistance programs when-- OK this is terrible-- but sometimes I will Zillow their house. And I will be like you live in a 6 million home and you are getting patient assistance for your kid's growth hormone. Gross gross just gross. It is important to say Short Throat does treat some kids with growth hormone-- kids who are not producing enough of it or any of it on their own. That is a serious health problem. But she will also treat them if a kid is just going to be really really short like way way below average like way down in those basement percentiles where I am. Using growth hormone is kosher in cases like this according to the FDA. That is because there is a diagnosis for people like me. I learned about it while researching my book. It is called Idiopathic Short Stature ISS. Sounds scary but all it means is I am short and no one knows why. And because I fit that diagnosis I could have been one of Short Throat's patients. So yes even our whistleblower who believes this stuff is overused would have treated me if I would come to her if my parents had wanted it. And as one of those otherwise healthy kids who are just short and who kind of resents the use of the word otherwise I would add all of this looks not a whole lot like medicine. It looks cosmetic like a boob job for kids short kids. But before I went off on a Napoleonic rage bender over the claims of this one rogue grow doctor I thought I would run those claims by Dr. David B. Allen another pediatric endocrinologist and arguably the leading expert on this topic. He sat on the panel that wrote the recent guidelines for growth hormone treatments for kids. He is been writing papers about it for three decades specifically about idiopathic short stature. You actually-- not to get personal but you sound like you do fit the diagnosis. You may. Did you just diagnose me over the radio? It is amazing. I have got a lot of experience. He said he did not think unnecessary growth hormone treatments for kids was an epidemic per se. The reluctance of insurance companies to cover such an expensive and iffy treatment keeps widespread use tamped down. But sure there are lots of families in more image-conscious wealthy places who put their kids on it. When he writes about using growth hormone for height not health the phrase he uses is cosmetic endocrinology. And he told me this story. Back in the day growth hormone was used almost exclusively on kids who were growth hormone-deficient the way you give insulin to a diabetic. And the only source for this stuff back then was the pituitary glands of cadavers dead people so the supply was limited. Unfortunately because it came from cadavers some of it was tainted with a brain disease similar to Mad Cow. It was a freak thing. This was in the '80s. Dozens of young people got sick. Some of them died. But that same year synthetic growth hormone became available. Now there was lots of the stuff-- lab-made safe from contamination. Dr. Allen told me and my producer Sean Cole that the drug industry and doctors started looking around for other uses like say making idiopathically short kids less idiopathically short. Idiopathic short stature really became a thing once there was growth hormone treatment available that might work. It was a descriptive term. Of course it is been a descriptive term for a long long time. But as a diagnosis I think it was more really after there was a treatment available. It is one of these situations where it is almost like a treatment that is in search of a diagnosis. So a solution in search of a problem. Sort of. Yes right exactly. And also why are we treating shortness like it is a disease? Because when you look into it as researchers have there is no evidence tying being short to having a bad life. Studies show short kids get teased bullied. They are often treated as younger than they are. But there is no direct connection between being small and failing at life. I for instance did not end up depressed and alone living in a tiny cardboard box behind Bob's Big Boy at least not because of my height. Another thing Dr. Allen said is that the use of synthetic growth hormone in kids is generally agreed to be safe. But he said it just has not been on the market long enough for us to know yet. There could be an increased risk of cancer down the road. One study and only one points to more instances of stroke among adults who took the drug as children. Thing is we will not really know how dangerous this stuff is until 30 or 40 or 50 years down the line. Also on average kids who take growth hormone might gain three inches a little less than half an inch per year but that is average. Your heightage may vary a lot could be more could be less. I will just note that less than a little less than 12 inch a year would be a very sad title for a country song. The darkest irony here is Dr. Allen says the kids you would think need the drug the most kids with short parents are the ones who benefit the least. And it is conceivable that there are some risks that we do not yet know about or are just learning about 20 years down the road that this completely healthy 10-year-old has now been exposed to for a benefit that we have a lot of difficulty documenting. That to me that is the conundrum right? Not a conundrum for me. The health effects are unknown benefits uncertain and even if you get taller you are not necessarily happier? Then I am not putting my kid on it not for a maximum 3 inches total not for 12 inch a year. Who would choose that for their kid? I decided to find out. Are you going to call this growth hormone gate? Is that what you are going to call it? That sounds snappy. We should definitely do that.  It is funny because-- I cannot tell you any of these folks' names either. They are in Southern California. I will call the dad Jeremy. He is a doctor. He is 5 foot 8. The mom who I will call Laura is 5 foot 4. She is a personal development coach. There are two kids Dylan and Marnie also not their real names. Dylan's been taking growth hormone injections for five years. We asked Laura why they wanted to be anonymous. It is a little embarrassing. Most of his probably peers do not know. His close friends know. But for a girl it is cute if she is short and petite. But for a guy it kind of says something about your masculinity. So I just wanted to protect him for whatever reasons-- short-term long-term. They all live in a big beautiful house with a pool that contains what I am fairly sure is a water polo goal. Dylan's on the team. The living room is immaculate like the lobby of a luxury hotel. When we got there there was a dog-grooming van sitting out front in which their dog was being groomed. She looked nice afterwards. Laura's been worrying about Dylan's size since he was a baby. He was born preemie-sized even though she carried him full-term. He spent four or five days in the NICU. And as he got older it just seemed like he was having a hard time catching up to his friends in the height department. He was the smallest in his team photos class photos always an outlier. So when she found out there was something that might help fix that it just felt like the right call. To me it was just a medical choice and it was never aesthetic. It just was more medical and I do not know if-- It is interesting. We have slightly different views and perceptions. Again this is Jeremy. He is a doctor so you would expect him to come at this from a medical necessity point of view too and he does. But he is totally upfront about his less doctor-y reasons. I do not know. Stereotypical-- I am a guy. I want him to be big and strong if he can be bigger and stronger. But to get to that the risk factor had to be eliminated. And so what was the point where you were like well now we can start thinking about bigger and stronger because I am satisfied that whatever long-term studies they are looking for-- There was a risk. I had to kind of take it. At least it was not my life so I was not worried. No I am just kidding. Just no.  punch you in this interview. I am sorry. No it was a risk. It is not easy making that decision. Like gosh I am putting my son at risk for diabetes? My brother has diabetes. I see it. Just to point out the risk of diabetes from pediatric growth hormone use is more theoretical than anything else. Doctors monitor for it but so far there is no causal link. So there was a little bit in the back of my mind like oh boy what did I just do to my son? Something may have happened that would have been irreversible. And so I would have just never forgiven myself had it happened. There is no question. It was in the back of my brain. I am a doctor so I get it. I did not think about it . I have worried about it in the back of my brain. I just do not verbalize it. But knock on wood fortunately he is been fine and all we have seen is the benefits. Better than fine Jeremy says. The drug seems to be working and he is satisfied. If I search my heart of hearts at least for myself I would be dishonest if I said I did not have superficial motivations exactly as you describe. Maybe not said in those words-- you know a future leader more attractive to a mate-- but unless you are a giant who does not want to be taller? But does it feel weird to be kind of like feeding into that? Like feeding into those-- Stereotypes? Yeah those societal clamoring for more. No. No weirder than your trying to look nice today. Why'd you dress so nicely? You are giving into society. It looks you have got some nice shoes on. You have got a collared shirt. And when you picked your glasses did you pick the most ugly glasses you could pick? No you tried to pick some nice glasses right?  We all to some degrees-- it is a continuum. I do not think there is anything wrong with that. But would you have been sad if he had been Scott's height? That stopped the conversation. I offered to stand up for him. This is where I stand up. No do not do that. I do not know the word sad. We would have always wondered maybe? Like what would have happened? But it does raise this question of in a fully pay-to-play society do you end up with different tiers of people some of whom have selected characteristics that confer advantages or seem to confer advantages? I get it. This smacks of the whole SAT-gate thing right? This is all this whole let me game the system. I want my child to get a 1600 on the SAT. I want my child to go to Harvard. It smacks of that and I get it. But at the same time I do not think it is all that sinister. Like for us we just did not want him to be sitting below the steering wheel and being made fun of or something. That is kind of like-- Which is where Jeremy and Laura's opinions about the whole thing line up a lot more. Laura used to blanch when people would ask if Dylan and his little sister were twins. She is two years younger. And Laura hated that her son wore clothes made for boys two years younger. But all of that is in the past now. Hi. Hi. How are you? This is Dylan. Good to meet you man. 15 years old. He came home from school in the middle of the interview still wearing his school uniform-- white polo shorts. He is 5 foot 6 now. My producer Sean sensitive soul that he is had us stand back-to-back in the living room. The back of Scott's head is going right into your neck. So I would not want to see you guys in an alley fight. Wow.  That was hot Sean. That was a little demeaning. Sean I thought we were pals buddy. Here's the thing. Measuring yourself directly bodily against another human being-- it is not a natural situation. As a 43-year-old man standing back-to-back with a 15-year-old I felt this almost primal humiliation. And just for a second I thought did I miss out on something? I felt a little jealous. Laura had spread out the charts on the coffee table inches versus years Dylan's whole history of growing up and up and up from elementary school on in a laggardly parabola that takes off like a rocket around the time he started the growth hormone. Each dot is a measurement. You know how I am in the first height percentile for men in America? Dylan started off parked between the third and fifth percentile and ended up nearly at the 50th almost average. It made him feel proud. Because I saw each dot climbing and it was going up. It was only going up. And that to me was like OK I am getting taller. But I am going to be a little sad that I cannot be as tall as I wanted to be. I would like to be around 5' 10 or 5' 11 for sure. That way I am a little bit above average. I have never thought about it that way. What height do I want to be? How average would I like to be? This demand-side attitude about height was alien to me. And standing there between this giant 5 foot 6 child's mastodon-like shoulder blades I thought about what had brought me here underneath my indignation my short identitarianism. Here's the thing I have glossed over a bit-- the downsides of being short. I took some hard punches to the stomach in elementary school. I often feel taken less seriously by taller people in professional situations. I prefer phone meetings for that very reason. I pretty much know that I have had friendships with women that might have been more than friendships if I would been a few inches higher off the dance floor. I have watched the libido drain from my date's eyes as we stand up from the restaurant table after dessert. I have been judging these people these parents trying to check every box buy every advantage. But there was a moment a long time ago when my parents thought about putting me on growth hormone when I was little-- littler-- and they did not. I have this really strong memory of their telling me they would looked into it. We were in a car. This would have been the mid-'80s in Virginia. I remember an apple orchard on our left a fairground on our right and my mom telling me they would considered it and decided against it. I remember thinking why are you telling me this? It is like the moment I became short the first time I really knew. It was official. Doctors had been consulted powerful elixirs considered. Maybe none of that should have come as a surprise. I am the outlier amongst my siblings. My brother Robert is 6 foot 1. Even my little sister Holland is taller than I am. They take after my dad who at 5' 11 is a full foot taller than my mom. In all these years we have never talked about that decision. Why did not they want me to get taller? Why did not they make the choice Dylan's parents did? I went home and I asked my mom about that conversation in the car. See I have no memory of this at all. How did that conversation come up? I am driving you home from school and I go by the way? You know how moms have a way of making the pivotal chapters in your personal history seem less pivotal and more totally apocryphal? Yeah it was that thing. My mom very convincingly debunked my big origin story of how I became short. The timeline was wrong. The location was wrong. The only true part was once upon a time I found out I was short. And I am clearly more hung up on it than I thought I was. But mom confirmed they did decide not to treat me and we must have talked about it back then. I wanted to know why they did not treat me. And the answer was pretty simple. When I was about 10 my pediatrician sent me to an endocrinologist to check my growth hormone levels because I was small and doctors like to check every box. So I got tested. I was normal in terms of hormone levels anyway and that is it. They did not pursue it further. Also my father was a pharmaceutical researcher who tested experimental medications. My mom was a nurse. They know about this stuff. And this was right after the stories came out about the tainted growth hormone from cadavers. I had just listened to those stories. And it was kind of a gut thing. It was kind of like well it took them 25 years to figure that out that we had this issue. It took them 25 years. So am I going to wait 25 years to find out oh here's a really bad consequence of growth hormone? Of the synthetic. Right. Of the synthetic. And we could not foresee it. And I had a healthy son who was thriving I thought. And he was a sharp guy and I did not want to screw it up. My parents were trying to protect me by doing nothing the same way Laura and Jeremy were trying to protect Dylan by doing something something elemental making him bigger. But for my mom there is something else. She does not think of what might have happened if she would made me bigger. She thinks about what might have been lost if she had. It is always been interesting to me to see genes will out you know what I mean? You know when you say wow you do that? And my dad did that. It is like a physical thing that somebody does or the attitude they have or the way they handle their hands. Those are genes coming out. That I would like to see. They are familiar to me. They are familiar to me too. I remind myself of people I have known-- my grandfather my uncle my mom. I have got their bodies. I am built on their blueprints reliable blueprints that delivered several generations of tiny living things from primordial slime to this crazy risky present moment. That is no small thing. All I know is this is the box I came in and I like it in here I think. Scott Brown is a writer producer on the Hulu series Castle Rock. His young adult novel about a super short kid who grows freakishly tall in a year is called XL. Coming up when something shrinks and shrinks and shrinks it can undo a 900-page law and more about the power of tinyness. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show Small Things Considered stories in defense of the little and the Lilliputian. We have arrived at Act two of our show. Act Two Let us give them nothing to talk about. David Kestenbaum has this story about something that got shrunk to exactly as small as something could possibly be shrunk with huge consequences that are playing out right now this very moment. Here's David. This thing that got made small? It is a tax. A couple years ago the government set it to zero-- 0 dollars 0 cents-- which makes what follows so remarkable. How could a tax so small it does not actually exist cause any trouble? But before I explain-- and since this show is about the importance of small things-- let me just confess here how much I love zero. It is unlike any other number in its capacity for destruction. 0 times anything is 0. No matter how big it always wins. And even better is dividing. When I was a kid in math class I would like to put 1 divided by 0 into my calculator. It would show E for Error because 1 divided by 0? There is no answer to that. It is undefined. Divide by any other number and you are fine. 1 divided by 2 for instance or 57 or 693. But put a zero in and it just blows up. Mathematicians call this kind of situation a singularity where the math is not well-behaved. In fact it stops making sense. There are singularities inside black holes but I never heard of a real world example outside of that until December 14 last year. A law that brought health care to millions of Americans has been struck down by a US judge. The judge has ruled it unconstitutional. Maybe you remember this. A judge in Texas ruled that the entire Affordable Care Act violated the US Constitution. This was big news and it immediately got appealed. But the signature domestic policy achievement of the entire Obama presidency the thing that right now is giving millions of Americans health insurance that whole thing this judge was saying it was unconstitutional had to go. And the thing that set all this off? A zero. Last year Congress reduced the penalty tax for not having health insurance to zero. The judge ruled that without-- Let me explain how a zero could blow up an entire law. When Obamacare the Affordable Care Act was written almost a decade ago it included this thing that people called the mandate which basically said you have to have health insurance. And if you do not you have got to pay a fine. In 2016 the average fine paid was a little over 700. Opponents of the health care law took issue with that part saying the government cannot just force people to buy something they may not want. All this went to the Supreme Court which ruled it was OK because-- and this is key-- the mandate could be viewed as a tax.