Adriana was talking to a homeless guy near her neighborhood in Chicago. And at some point they started talking about you know his life on the street why he was out there begging for money. He straight up told me I do it to pay for my heroin addiction. Which you know not the typical answer. And then he tells her this story. He is from Puerto Rico and he was flown to Chicago for rehab years ago. But then after three days he quit rehab. And since then he is been living on the streets. It is been five years. Now Adriana is the editor of a newspaper-- a bilingual newspaper called The Gate that comes out in a mostly Mexican neighborhood called Back of the Yards. And in her interviews just going around the neighborhood talking to people about what is going on people started mentioning there are all these Puerto Rican drug addicts who come to the neighborhood for treatment quit treatment and then just stay homeless. And then she realized oh wait a second. She knew these guys. She would been seeing some of them for years selling lotions and socks on the sidewalk. Yeah they were walking back and forth on 47th Street all the time. And so I just started stopping people on the street. Any street person with a Puerto Rican accent. And she heard the same weird story over and over. They were flown here from Puerto Rico for rehab. They quit rehab and ended up on the street. She writes and edits so much about the neighborhood but this was happening right under her nose all this time? And in a period of about four months I talked to at least 23 people just kind of like approaching people on the street.   Wait. So are you just running down the street here? Yeah I was running after these two guys I saw on Ashland and 48th hoping that they were Puerto Rican. And their names were Hector and Jonathan. And they were telling me that they came from Puerto Rico. They were told that they were going to find a great place here in Chicago with medicine with treatment doctors even a pool. And when they got here there was no detox. There was no medicine or anything. This is Hector.   And then this guy Jonathan he said that the municipal government in Puerto Rico had bought a one-way ticket for him to come to Chicago. Wait. The government itself? Yeah the municipal government in Puerto Rico.  What? And here in Chicago-- Wait wait wait. Basically they are saying like you need treatment but we are not going to give it. We are just going to send you to Chicago. Yeah. I mean I was shocked. I could not believe it. So I asked him again.   Did the municipality pay for your ticket? Si.  So the details of the story that Adriana kept hearing from these Puerto Rican drug users were crazy. Several guys told her that it was the police who drove them to the airport in Puerto Rico. It was the police who helped arrange for their one-way tickets. Not just one but lots of guys were told that there would be a swimming pool that the facilities in the United States were going to be clean and beautiful with doctors and nurses. And then when they arrived in Chicago they were taken to these places-- and there were a bunch of them-- that were basically just like flop houses open 24 hours a day with group therapy going till late at night sometimes 10 or 13 hours straight. The therapy was really just basically like AA meetings led by former addicts who did very un-AA things like yell at them and berate them. When the guys would go through detox because there was no medicine or methadone or professional staff they were sometimes given folk remedies like an onion to bite on or alcohol would be poured in their belly buttons. And after a while they would leave without much cash no way to get home. When I was talking to Hector and Jonathan they were saying our families have no money. They cannot afford a plane ticket. And sometimes actually from other people I heard that their families sometimes do not believe them either. They really do not believe them or they do not believe them anymore. I mean we are talking about people that have addiction problems. So basically they are stranded in Chicago. They do not speak English. They are in this place they have never been before. They are drug addicts. And then also they are from a tropical island and they are in the middle of winter in Chicago. Yeah. And that is something that also some of them told me. Like they do not have the proper clothing. They do not know how to survive the winter. Adriana got curious about the rehab places that these men were talking about. She would never noticed them before but now she started seeing them everywhere all over the city. Just asking people and driving around she found 14. But when she searched city and state records and did Freedom of Information requests to see if these places got city funding or were registered or licensed in any way just if there was any information on them at all there is nothing. They were totally off the grid. The authorities have no idea that they are there. I talked to several city agencies with the Department of Buildings the Department of Public Health the Department of Support Services. And I mean they just did not even know what I was talking-- they did not even want to comment because they had no idea that this was going on. In Illinois treatment services for drug addiction have to be licensed by a state agency especially if they are residential-- if people are living there. Adriana told the agency what she was finding. They said we do not know what you are talking about. We do not know about these treatment houses. We do not know about people being flown here from Puerto Rico? They did not know that either. If the men Adriana was talking to on the street were telling the truth this was very strange. It meant that government officials in Puerto Rico were sending addicts to Chicago for treatment but the places they were sending them to cannot offer treatment under Illinois law because they are not licensed for it. Why would they be doing that? Did they know the places were unlicensed? Was somebody getting rich off this there or here? Was it some kind of scam? For example is anybody getting their IDs and selling them in the black market? That is one thing that a lot of guys kept telling me. They ask us to turn in our IDs. And when we walked out they did not give it back to us. Is anybody making money out of this? She talked to a case manager who works with injection drug users in Chicago. And then he went around and did his own informal survey and found 93 guys like this-- guys who were flown in from Puerto Rico with promises of rehab who skipped rehab. Adriana also found a researcher in Puerto Rico name Rafael Torruella who wrote a dissertation about drug users being flown off the island to unlicensed facilities. He told her it is not just happening in Chicago. Different municipalities ship send relocate however we want to call it drug users from Puerto Rico to different sides of the United States. We know that from Fajardo they would send to Philadelphia. We know that from Barceloneta Vega Baja y Vega Alta Dorado they would send to New York City. But there is also New Jersey. There is Florida. There is South Carolina Wisconsin Boston. The more you ask the more you see that this has been happening for a long time. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program Not It! Stories where people are facing something difficult and they declare no. Someone else can handle it. Let us just send this one elsewhere. This is not my problem not right now. We have three stories for you including later in the show a group of high school students dealing with the collateral damage from a joke-- yes a joke and not a joke that any of them told. It was a joke told on television 15 years before. Stay with us. We are continuing right now in Act One of our show. Act One Como Se Dice 'Not It'? So most of the Puerto Rican addicts that Adriana Cordona-Maguigad met on the street have been sent to a treatment center called Segunda Vida Second Life. She decided she had to visit and see it for herself. She had the address 50th and Ashland. But when she went by she could not see a sign or anything. All I saw was a little corner store a cell phone shop a parking lot and then a gray brick building until someone told me just go look up to the second floor. You will see in the window-- in the top window you will see a sign. And I saw the sign. It is super small. There is a little green logo with two As for Alcoholics Anonymous. Adriana called AA and they said they had nothing to do with this place. And in fact they do not run any kind of residential treatment facilities at all. So she tried to get inside. At Segunda Vida they would not let me go past the top of the staircase. I called. I went back in person many times. And each time I went I asked to speak with the person in charge but they would always tell me to go back on a different day. Could you see inside? Yeah. At the top of the staircase you find kind of like an open room. And there is a painting on the wall that says Segunda Vida. And I saw just men walking back and forth sipping coffee and smoking cigarettes. And actually I went to another group. I went to El Grito Desesperado The Desperate Scream. And they have the phone number-- Wait wait wait. They called their rehab group The Desperate Scream? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah I was shocked as well. It is like the name of a horror film or something. Yeah. Desperate Scream. And now coming out Desperate Scream 2. There is a Desperate Scream 2. It is actually further east. Wait. No way. Really? So I went to El Grito Desesperado The Desperate Scream on a Saturday evening. And the cigarette smoke was overwhelming. And it was really dirty. It was like dusty. And someone was giving testimony really loud. And some people were kind of not paying attention. They were talking. People kept coming back and forth to buy cigarettes in like a small little counter in the back. It seemed very unorganized. Somebody gave a very personal testimony. A man who looked like he just came from the shower walked through the room she says. His hair was wet. He had a towel over his shoulder. Another man was asleep in a cot on the side. There was a lot of cursing in the testimony which surprised her a lot of crude language and berating themselves. Like she would been told it was not a normal AA meeting. When I was looking into these places I was still meeting new people on the street. And one day I met this man Manuel. Manuel is not his real name. He asked Adriana that she not use his real name here on the radio. He was squatting by the door of a local supermarket looking up. And he was asking customers for spare change. And when I asked him like how long have you been here he would just arrived from Puerto Rico two weeks ago.   He seemed totally shocked and lost. The other men I have talked to they have been here for months and years. But with Manuel he was just starting out. He had no idea of what to do or where to go.   So Manuel told me that he also came to Segunda Vida but he walked out after a few days and he really wants to go back to the island. But the problem is that the people at Segunda Vida kept his documents. So I told him I will go with him to get them.   Where are you guys? So basically we are right outside of Segunda Vida. This is last summer. So after knocking on the door several times Manuel starts walking up the stairway saying that he left some documents there and that he is been talking to someone who keeps telling him go back on a different day and then a different day.   But he really needs his documents. So who is with you on this trip? Well I asked a couple of colleagues. One of them is a big tall guy just in case. I was coming in with my equipment to confront these people.  There is a man from Segunda Vida and he sees me coming in with a microphone. He immediately calls someone for help and says someone is recording.  Yeah what is going on guys? So Manuel keeps saying I need my documents but they keep telling us that we need to wait outside.  I keep telling them that I want to talk to the head of the program. I need to speak with someone in charge.  I need to speak with someone about the program. But again they keep telling me to leave to wait outside that there is no one here that there is no head of the program. But I need to speak with someone-- the person in charge of this program.  Why not?   I felt like no. You cannot just be telling me that no one is in charge when you just had these men here who just walked out. You are keeping his documents. I just felt like they were not making sense. I felt like everyone's giving me the run-around like no one is responsible for anything. We will be waiting outside for his documents. Yeah so we all agreed to wait outside but I ended up staying in. That is when someone kind of came pushed through the crowd and came with a white envelope and gave Manuel his documents. No make sure those are your documents.  So I looked through the envelope and I found Manuel's birth certificate his ID and his medical records where I also found that he was HIV positive. Which he knew right? Oh yeah. Yeah he knew. But I was just really upset. Like why would you send someone who has medical needs away from where he can find services? I mean we are talking about someone who needs medicine who needs treatment. Back in Puerto Rico he was getting medicine to manage his HIV. Here in the States at Segunda Vida they were not providing that. A week after forcing her way up the stairs to Segunda Vida Adriana was surprised to get a call from a guy who said he was one of the founders of Segunda Vida. His name's Efren Moreno and he agreed to come to her office for an interview. He showed up in jeans and T-shirt with one of the guys who had actually tried to kick Adriana out of Segunda Vida the week before. They would not let Adriana record but she took notes. Efren Moreno told her that he is a former addict. In fact he would gone to a group in Milwaukee like Segunda Vida that was open 24 hours called El Ultimo Paso The Last Step. Then he moved to Chicago and he started to Segunda Vida. He said sure at Segunda Vida they do take the guys' IDs and they usually keep them in somebody's house. But he said that is for safekeeping. In the past at Segunda Vida he said some have been stolen. He confirmed that yes they have no doctors no medicine that when people go through detox they basically use folk remedies and he confirmed they are totally unlicensed. He said the government does not know we are here. The government does not give us any help. And actually they sound like they are proud of the fact that they are running this group on their own with donations with their own efforts. Adriana did you get any sense of if he was making a lot of money off this? You know I looked into it and it did not really seem like he is a rich guy making tons of money. In fact yeah it did not seem like he was actually benefiting or financially benefiting from this. By this point Adriana had heard about how many of these groups make their money. She would been told that in Chicago addicts live in these groups for free with free room and board for three months. Then after that they have to pay 50 to 75 a week which you know is cheap considering that they are getting meals. Efren Moreno confirmed that that is how it works at Segunda Vida. The scam-iest thing Adriana had heard about the finances of these groups was that some guys told her that they were taken to get Link cards which is government assistance for food. And then they would have to give the cards to the rehab place which would use them to buy food for everybody who was living there. Moreno told her that he is against that that he did not want his participants to get any government assistance that he wanted them to go out and earn money. After having this conversation Adriana wondered if these groups were some kind of evil ripoff of disadvantaged drug users and their families. Moreno told her that these 24-hour groups started in Mexico and they spread north years ago with a mission that was idealistic. Did talking to him change how you saw the groups? Not entirely. It made me realize that he seemed to be someone who wanted to be part of the solution that he wanted to bring services to those who were not able to get rehab services out there. Like he seemed sincere? Yeah that he seemed sincere. But at the same time-- and he even said-- each group has its own rules. And because there is no oversight it is really hard to know what are those other groups doing. Did you ask him about these guys who get sent up from Puerto Rico and then end up out on the street? Yeah and I also asked the other man that he brought with him. And what did they say about that? Basically they actually do outreach in Puerto Rico to try to get people to come to their place. They actively recruit people from Puerto Rico. The fact that they end up on the street Efren Moreno told her that is because they are weak. They do not really want to get clean. By this point Adriana had figured out about as much as she could in Chicago. It was obvious what she needed to do next. I got on a plane. Welcome to San Juan Puerto Rico where the local time is 250. So what'd you find out in Puerto Rico? Well I talked to a lot of people. I talked to municipal authorities local police in different municipalities. I even talked to the governor of Puerto Rico. Wow. Yeah. They all say yes we do this. They are completely open about sending users off the island. Wait. But do they know that these are unlicensed places? Or do they think they are sending people to legitimate rehab facilities? No they do not know that these places are unlicensed. They assumed that they are licensed. I do not think they even questioned the fact that they could be unlicensed. The list of people who assumed that they were sending people to licensed facilities is long and it includes four police officers in the municipality of Caguas the mayor and police commissioner of Juncos a police officer from Juncos and another from Utuado health department officials and a few people involved in a program called De Vuelta a la Vida Return to Life. This is the biggest single program involved in flying drug users off the island. It is run by the state police. They help drug addicts get food clothing hygiene and other services on the island. But also they arrange for lots of them to fly off the island to these unlicensed programs in the United States. And they coordinate the activities of other organizations that do this. How in the world did you get the governor to talk to you about this subject? Yeah so I was at a local event at a community in Old San Juan. And I noticed that there was a lot of security there. And I did not know he was going to be there. And I just kind of like-- oh my god I really have to interview him and ask him about De Vuelta a la Vida.   So what is his name? His name is Alejandro Garcia Padilla. And what'd he say? So I asked him if he knew about the program De Vuelta a la Vida the state police program. And he said it was a very successful program that it was a great opportunity for users in Puerto Rico who were hoping to get off drugs. Did you tell him that you kept meeting all these addicts from Puerto Rico who ended up in Chicago and they were supposed to be going to these programs and they basically end up homeless? Did you tell him that? Yeah I explained the situation. But he did not seem really worried about it. He told me that he knew the mayor of Chicago Rahm Emanuel and the governor of Illinois at the time Pat Quinn had a lot of services available and that they the users should look for help and try to find services. From the state of Illinois. From the state of Illinois yes.   And if they want to come back here to Puerto Rico we have services for them too. They are our brothers. We welcome them. Right. I like his whole attitude is like well you know I am sure they will get services. It is going to be fine. Yeah. He was pretty much kind of making it sound like yeah well do not worry about it. We got you. Adriana also spoke with the woman who runs De Vuelta a la Vida. Her name's Loribi Doval Fernandez. No surprise even though her organization is helping arrange for drug users from all over the island to fly to treatment in the United States she said she had no idea she was referring people to unlicensed facilities. And the interesting thing is that she says it is up to the families of the users to check if these places are certified or licensed or not. Even though her agency is sending them to these places? Well that is the thing. When I interviewed her then she was kind of like getting technical and saying well we are not referring them. We are pointing them to those places.  We are showing those places to them. Like we are giving them the information and it is up to the family or the user himself to check if those places are certified or not.  If they do end up leaving the island under the De Vuelta a la Vida program they have to sign a liability waiver before they go pretty much saying that no government official is responsible for them once they leave and once they are out of the island.  The drug users in Chicago told Adriana they never got this message. They said no one told them that they or their families should check out the rehab places before flying to Chicago. Many would not know how to check she said. They do not have the internet. Some are not in touch with their families. If anything they said government officials were reassuring them that everything was going to be really great in Chicago. They pretty much trusted the government officials who were sending them here. Like Manuel he totally trusted that he was coming to a place with all kinds of services. In the end Adriana did find one official who seemed to really understand what was happening with these drug users once they got to the United States. His name is Dr. Angel Gonzalez and he was with the Puerto Rican Department of Health Anti-Addiction and Mental Health Services until last year. About a year ago while he was still with the agency he went to a drug treatment conference in Philadelphia and he heard about the unlicensed places from a reporter there. We felt terrible. I mean imagine somebody living in these conditions. So we became very alarmed with that. He started to alert other officials all over Puerto Rico to the problem. But he says nothing's changed. He told Adriana that the big issue is there are so many injection drug users on the island right now. Puerto Rico's become a big transit point for drugs traveling to the United States from South America. And the budget to treat these users is shrinking. And Dr. Gonzalez says he thinks most of the police or other officials sending users off the island for treatment think well it is either this or no treatment at all. So in other words it is something's better than nothing. I guess. I guess. Because when you look at somebody like Manuel he was not getting nothing in Puerto Rico. He got HIV meds and methadone. And after Puerto Rico said not it and sent him to Segunda Vida and after he quit Segunda Vita he tried to sign up for legitimate licensed drug treatment in Chicago but he ended up on a long waiting list-- kind of a slow motion not it. While he is been waiting he got sick from eating garbage ended up in the hospital where they found other physical problems. He got arrested for stealing from a store did a couple months in jail where he finally stopped using Adriana says. Then he got out of jail and Adriana says he is now using again. He is also found a place to get methadone and he gets that too. He still has no HIV medication. He still does not speak English. He still has to put up with the winter. Nine months after he arrived in the United States Adriana says things seem worse for him-- or in any case they are certainly no better than they were back in Puerto Rico. Though he does have friends. There is a community of people like him-- addicts that came here with the illusion that they will get great services and they are now in the streets. And they hang out at the McDonald's. They hang out at the corners. They all hang out all day. Because he has those guys Adriana says to her surprise Manuel has stopped trying to get himself back to Puerto Rico. Coming up the joke that launched a second joke that launched a third joke that launched a not it. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Not It stories of people passing the buck saying not me shedding responsibility dropping the hot potato. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Last But Not Least. This is a story about a city that years ago was given a title and is now saying not it to that title. They do not want the title anymore. Here's Brian Reed. Tim Keown is a junior in high school and he was sitting in class one day last fall when he learned something about his hometown that shocked him. Tim's lived his whole life in a small city of about 30000 people-- Kankakee Illinois. It is about an hour's drive south of Chicago. And so his class was on laptops researching local Kankakee history together. And they showed us this article and it said that out of 354 cities that we were ranked the worst city worst in all the cities in America. Hate to break it to you Tim but all the cities in Canada too. The article was from 1999 the year the ranking came out. It was ridiculous. I could not believe it. I grew up thinking our town was fantastic and then all a sudden I hear oh yeah we were ranked the worst city in America. It was pretty hurtful to see that. The ranking had been published in a book called The Places Rated Almanac. They use nine criteria like crime job outlook climate and culture to rate cities' livability. These lists come out all the time. They are a dime a dozen. So people outside of Kankakee probably would have barely noticed it if not for the other thing Tim and his classmates discovered during their research. The category tonight-- top 10 slogans for Kankakee Illinois. Here we go. Number 10. In 1999 David Letterman made Kankakee the butt of one of his top 10 lists on the Late Show. You will come for a pay phone. You will stay because your car's been stolen. Number nine. Ask about our staggering unemployment rate. Number eight. We put the ill in Illinois. Number seven. We also put the annoy in Illinois. My favorite by the way number four-- Abe Lincoln slept here by accident. And you know Kankakee might have even tiptoed past this without attracting too much attention. It was just a short bit. Except that a week and a half later on the Letterman Show on November 16 1999. We have the mayor of Kankakee Donald Green. And we are just going to see how he is doing. He may not be feeling so good you know. Dave called Kankakee's mayor on the phone. Kankakee as you know finished dead last. Right. Now how did that make you feel? Well it sort of hurt. Because that is in my opinion not really a true statement of our community. Mayor I hate to interrupt you here but a thought just crossed my mind. Do you think it has anything to do with the name itself? No. Kankakee's a fine name. What is it? Is it an Indian-- is it a Native American name Kankakee? It is an Indian name right. Do you know what it means? It means middle class factory town.   Pretty good. Letterman tells the mayor I am going to do you a little favor. He says he feels a connection with Kankakee because he is from Indiana right next door. So we thought long and hard and we came up with something to give to you to brighten the spirits of you and the community of Kankakee. Do we have it? Turn on the the satellite. Ladies and gentlemen there it is. The show cuts to a shot of Kankakee's City Hall where a trailer is parked out front with some kind of structure sitting on it that is about to be unveiled. All right go ahead. Tell them what it is Alan. It is a brand new gazebo! Yes featuring rugged cedar construction and white-washed to withstand the harsh inhospitable climate of Kankakee this gazebo has-- And if you thought the joke ended there well then you did not watch the Late Show two weeks later December 1 1999 when Dave called up the mayor of Kankakee yet again while the man was on vacation to tell him he did not think the show had done quite enough to help the town. We have something else Mr. Mayor. Sit down. Get a hold of yourself. OK. In addition to the gazebo Alan tell them what we are giving them. Dave we are giving them another gazebo! Identical to the first one. Again the show cuts to downtown Kankakee. Again there is a gazebo the second one sitting on a trailer next to the first with a sign Letterman's suggestion for a new tourism hook Kankakee-- the home of the twin gazebos. SINGING There it is. Kankakee's brand new gazebo. It makes everything OK. It is not a placebo. Gazebo. Gazebo. Gazebos were weird for me because I did not understand what a gazebo was. Because I had not asked my parents about you know like what is this? Why is this here? And then they told me oh you know it was from David Letterman. And that was the end of the story. There was no more talk about it. Tim Keown was one when Letterman gave Kankakee the gazebos. So for him growing up they were just a part of the city that had always been there like the courthouse or the old root beer stand. It was just ah they are from David Letterman. I was like OK. It was just there was no talk about it. None of the adults in our community ever really talked about it. They were ashamed of it I guess. So now 15 years after Letterman gifted the gazebos as Tim and his classmates were sitting there in school in disbelief seeing that their hometown had been made into a laughingstock on national television something clicked for them. Most of the students had lived in Kankakee their entire lives and thought it was fine. And it hit them. You know something? We do not get no respect. We do not get no respect at all. And they would never understood why. We were thought as like the lowest of the low because we were from Kankakee. I visited Tim's class and the students had so many memories of people from nearby towns sneering at Kankakee. What kind of stuff would people say? Rumors and stuff that we were all like drug dealers or-- The most common was that we were ghetto and everyone was fighting in the hallways. I transferred to this high school my freshman year and when I told people where I was transferring they would be like oh you are going to Kankakee? Well good luck. Tim remembers when he was little playing with kids in neighboring towns. Their parents-- They would not even want to take me home. I always had to have my parents come pick me up. Like you do not even want to go over there. There was the girl who interviewed to go on an academic exchange program in Spain. She was with students from other schools as she explained that she was on the honor roll held leadership positions. And as soon as I said I am from Kankakee this girl turned around and she looked at her friend and she was like well that is not very educational. And I am like are they calling me stupid? There was the time this student went shopping for a prom tux. Of course they were asking you like what school are you from? My mom's like oh we are from Kankakee. And the girl was like-- she goes to the other girl you handle them. They are from Kankakee. And of course there is the nicknames. Skankakee is on Urban Dictionary. Skankakee is on Urban Dictionary. There are actually several definitions of Kankakee on Urban Dictionary. One a noun when a manatee gets a canker sore. But also quote a once thriving railroad town that has become overrun by gangsters and hood rats. And you cannot lay all the blame for that on Letterman. Just like happened to cities across the Midwest in the early '80s several huge employers left Kankakee or went under almost overnight leaving thousands of people out of work. And like also happened to lots of other cities white people fled Kankakee in droves. Meanwhile white people stayed in the adjacent suburbs of Bradley and Bourbonnais. As a result those towns and their joint high school are much whiter than Kankakee which is about 40 black and 20 Latino. One of the teachers of the class I visited Steve DiSanto remembers when he was hired to come to Kankakee High a few years ago. I immediately went online because I did not know about Kankakee. I discovered quickly a lot of people thought it was bad and poor. There was blogs about it. Peop