Well people of Earth if I may call you that you are probably unaware of the gathering last weekend in Orlando Florida that was attempting to address a problem that you also may be unaware of. I am talking about the problem of interstellar space travel. We sent a reporter. This was the best assignment I have ever had. You know it is possible that Dan Grech says this to everybody who ever asks him to do a story I have no idea. His usual job is running the news at WLRN the public radio station in Miami. He attended the Hundred Year Starship Conference for us. This was basically a bunch of scientists and engineers finance guys tech geeks science fiction writers all imagining what it would take to build a starship a spaceship that could get us to the nearest star. The nearest star to the sun is four light years away and using the kind of rockets that we use now it would take 10000 years to get there. 10000 years. And what was so thrilling about this conference Dan says was that the people at this conference were thinking through the steps of exactly how you would develop and build a different kind of starship. They believe it was the first conference of its kind. It was sponsored by NASA and by DARPA which is the advanced research arm of the defense department who are going to pay a half million dollars to whoever invents the most feasible time line and plan to get us to the stars. And at this conference there were over two dozen seminars on the most basic question you face when you try to do that how do you power a rocket that can carry you fast enough and far enough? Some of the panels considered what they called exotic science which is the stuff that you see in sci-fi movies-- warp drives wormholes in space-- which in reality apparently would just stretch your body into infinity or crush you into a tiny speck of dust. But there was other stuff. Well there is a whole class of far-out solutions that are actually real physics solutions such as the ideal photon rocket the anti-gravity engine the antimatter rocket. They do not go faster than the speed of light but they do get a little bit closer. They do not go faster than the speed of light because nothing can go faster than the speed of light. Well that is what physics tells us. I spoke to a Tufts physicist named Ken Olum and I asked him what is possible. Antimatter fusion drive this is real stuff. It could be developed. It is a small matter of engineering as we like to say in science. In other words it is a huge matter of engineering. You know we are making antimatter now. All we need is a hundred billion times more than we are making now and we can go to the stars right? So then how real is that stuff? Like what is the most promising scheme that these scientists say that we would use if we wanted to travel at or maybe just a lot closer to the speed of light? Well at least according to the people I spoke to there was kind of consensus around this idea called the light sail. It is kind of like a sailboat in space but instead of the sail being pushed by wind it would be pushed by light. And that could be sunlight a laser microwaves. So one scheme for a light sail would be you would put this giant laser in orbit around the sun. And you know when I mean giant this laser would have huge solar panels miles wide and it would send this concentrated beam of light to hit the sail of a space ship. The great thing about light sails is besides the fact that they actually could work they overcome one of the biggest limitations of rockets which is that you have to carry around this huge volume of fuel which is heavy and it takes up a whole lot of room. Cost of the light sail? 10 trillion which is 16 of all the money spent on our planet in one year. And that is probably the cheapest interstellar spacecraft we could make. And how much energy would it take to travel at a reasonable speed? Just to give you a sense of how hard it is to get to the speed of light if you wanted to get to 34 of the speed of light-- and this was told to me by a Japanese physicist at the bar working on the back of a napkin-- he said it would take 30000 times all the power created by all of the power plants in the world in a year. Just to go 34 the speed of light. What was most amazing about this conference and you can read the agenda online is how much of it was scientists thinking through all these utterly practical questions of traveling such immense distances on journeys that would probably take hundreds of years. Questions like what kind of light bulb would you use that would never require replacements? How to communicate with the Earth from so far away which is a big problem if you are two light years away. It would take a radio signal two years to make it to Earth and then it would be another two years before you would get a reply. And then there is the problem of space dust which apparently is a big issue if you are traveling at for example a tenth of the speed of light. When you are traveling that fast a little speck of space dust will slam into the hull of a ship like it is a missile. And so you need to create some kind of shield. And what is interesting is that it seems like we have solved this problem. A NASA scientist named Geoffrey Landis has proposed an idea to create a plasma shield. It would be like a cloud of hydrogen in a magnetic field. You would create it you would have it in front of your spaceship and it would block the space dust from doing damage to the ship itself. So yeah the plasma shield is something that is real technology something we can make in the lab today. And so therefore this is kind of a real today solution to tomorrow's problem of space dust? Yes exactly. It is a solution that we have to a problem that we have yet to encounter. Dan says that this event did not feel like any normal scientific conference. It felt bigger. It was exciting like we are heading for the stars. He says there was a lot of talk about Columbus and maiden voyages. This is a group of people who see themselves as pioneers. They call themselves pioneers. And one of the speakers talked about this conference that when they look back 300 years from now 1000 years from now when people are writing the history of interstellar space travel people will look back at this conference and see this as the first small step towards interstellar space travel. Well today on our radio program ordinary folks like you and me-- glasses wearing slightly pudgy not getting enough exercise and I might just be talking for myself here-- who get the call of the wild the call of adventure and find themselves suddenly meeting criminals and smugglers on the other side of the world traveling through time traveling through space fighting pirates in the fires of hell. I am not kidding. We have true stories today and also brand new adventure stories written for our program by Dave Eggers Neil Gaiman Jeanne Darst Wendy McClure Fiona Maazel. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Chinese Checkmate. There are people who head out into the world looking for adventure and then there are the adventures that come and find you. We start today's program with a story of somebody who thought he was having the first kind of adventure until the second one came knocking. Alex Blumberg tells what happened. One way you know you have had an adventure is that the things you have been through are so intense you would like to have your name changed when they tell your story on the radio. So let me call our protagonist Luke. And the adventure he thought he was having was that he is an American from Minnesota working and living in one of the most booming vibrant cities in the world-- Shenzhen China. 15 million people one of the richest cities in China. And he loved it. He made good money he would built a life for himself a life which included a semi-regular after-work pickup soccer game. Now his real adventure the one that found him started after one of these soccer games. He would gone out for a drink after a game with some of the players and around 10 PM he was heading home walking along one of Shenzhen's wide boulevards with outdoor cafes and noodle shops all along it. So I am kicking my soccer ball for the most part completely under control but all of a sudden I slip fall on my back and the ball goes flying. Flying directly at a man seated at one of the nearby tables. Luke is a little unclear what happened next the ball struck either the man's bag or his dog. But in any event the man got upset and got right in Luke's face yelling at him in Cantonese. Luke spoke only Mandarin. The situation escalated. A group of young men also started yelling at Luke. He could hear them coming at him from behind. And instantly boom. This punch comes hits me in the right eye. I kind of turn around to face where it came from and there is the victim standing right in front of me and I headbutt him. I do not know where that came from I am thinking it is the soccer instinct. I am not a fighter. I have never headbutted anybody in my entire life before. And instantly he started bleeding and I fled. I turned around and ran. Back at his apartment when he realized that nobody had chased him he figured I guess that is that. But a week later the cops showed up at his door with the man he would headbutted. They would tracked him down through some of the Chinese guys he played soccer with. Turns out there are not that many foreign white guys in Shenzhen. Over the next few weeks the police questioned Luke several times. And then one night they brought him in they said to fill out some paperwork. But instead they locked him in handcuffs and threw him into a detention cell. Luke was confused and frightened but not as much as you would think mainly because a lot of the Chinese officials and police officers who were handcuffing and processing him were also telling him that this was just a small thing a mix-up and that it would all be resolved pretty soon. Even the guards who locked him up that night. It was like a Tuesday I think I went in and they are like we will be back on Friday to let you know what is going on. And honestly at that time I thought I was going to be released on Friday. I was thinking OK three nights four nights this is no problem. I am kind of an adventurous soul. At this point I am still fairly calm. Like well I am in a Chinese jail this is crazy but what a story. And in the end how long did you end up staying in this detention center? Eight months. Eight months. Over the next eight months Shenzhen Foreign Detention Center Number Three became Luke's home. The cell was a rectangle 10 by 50 feet. Imagine a bowling alley with high concrete walls. It was occupied by as many as 15 prisoners at a time. As many as would fit slept side by side on a narrow plank. The rest slept on the floor. Half the cell was covered by an overhang half was in open air. During storms you could not hide from the rain blowing in so everyone would get drenched. The jail was officially for foreigners but about half the prisoners were Chinese mostly white-collar criminals. The foreigners were a mix. They were African drug mules Indian jewel smugglers people Luke would never have met otherwise from corners of the world he would never have visited. And there were non-human residents as well. The rats and the la cucarachas. This detention center was fantastic for the rats because whenever we got done with our three meals you would scoop all your rice into the toilet and so they were just all in the pipes. And if lunch was late for some reason the rats would start squeaking like where is our lunch? And they would pop out of the toilet kind of run around a little bit and we would have to chase them back in. You would literally chase the rats back into the toilet? Back into the toilet yeah. There was always an Indian because of this big Indian case in every room and they were definitely kind of circle of life karma type thing and they would not want you to kill anything even a cockroach. So if a cockroach is running around they do not want you to kill it. And sometimes people would respect that wish and sometimes they would not. The day was strictly regimented. Up at 700 then breakfast-- thin rice water broth-- chores an hour of what was called quiet study time nap from 1130 to 130 an hour of exercise and then a couple hours of free time in the evening. Luke continued to get positive news about his case. From the beginning it had revolved around money. The man who he would headbutted wanted 2000. Luke thought that was ridiculous. He thought he was the victim. He figured all he needed to do was get in front of a judge and make his case. But he would failed to consider China's massive and mystifying bureaucracy. It took months for police to gather evidence then months more to get a trial date. In theory this detention center was supposed to be a short-term holding facility a place to spend a couple nights before going before a judge. But there were people who'd been there for five years. Contact with the outside was rare. He had a lawyer but he could only visit with him once every four or five weeks same with visits from the consulate. He had no phone no email and he was allowed to write one letter a month. Which I would always do at the end of the month hoping to get as much information I could during that month and then I would send it at the end of the month. When you read that first letter what do you--? Gosh there is so much optimism. You were presenting the whole thing as like a big adventure basically? Yes yes. At that point I am still thinking maybe a month maybe two months maybe three months. I am going to be home by Thanksgiving Mom. And then I am going to be home by Christmas Mom. Then I am going to be home by your birthday March 19th Mom. Then I want to be home for my birthday April 26th Mom. Oh jeez. One feature of an adventure story you do not just visit the foreign land you go a little native. That is why tourism as much as we would like to pretend otherwise is not much of an adventure. Luke settled into his strange new 500 square foot world with his new roommates. There was the mayor's son who'd taken bribes. Another Chinese guy everyone called Tiger who was doing five years for smuggling diesel into the country without paying taxes. Then there were the foreigners. Marco the Colombian musician with the Chinese wife whose charges were even flimsier than Luke's. A South African drug mule named Nathan. A teenage Vietnamese illegal immigrant named Nunu. And a member of an Indian jewel smuggling ring who was still getting a salary and used the money to buy lots of stuff from the detention center commissary which he shared with everyone so they called him The Warehouse. One of my favorites was Chacha. He was from Afghanistan. 45-year-old man Muslim big beard jolly old fellow kind of a Santa Claus belly. He just exuded warmth. And he was very open to the idea of-- we talked a lot about the clash of civilizations. So you would just have these big sort of political conversations about Islam and the West? Yeah. It is kind of interesting to see what kind of stories he had heard about from the United States. I remember there was that big one a couple years ago in Florida and that woman was on life support and like his family kind of wanted to pull the plug. Right the Terri Schiavo case. Yeah and he just thought that was horrible that people would want to do that. And it is not like I am trying to play the devil's advocate with him a lot of the time but I am you know-- this is a guy that also-- just understanding these people do not-- I was really surprised about how many of these countries did not believe the United States put a man on the moon. What? Yeah they do not think we put a man on the moon. The Chinese for the most part did not think we did. Southeast Asian countries. Yeah I mean the Africans. Even the Indians college educated Indians and they are like no we are pretty much sure you guys did not. As a big white guy from America Luke was pretty exotic. Everyone called him simply America. That was his nickname. And as nicknames go it came with a lot of pressure. Luke felt like everything he did would reflect on his country. There was also a guy everyone avoided who did not seem to have any friends. He was a thief nicknamed Crazy Eyes. He had a reputation for stealing stuff from his cellmates. And also he had these oozing bumps all over his body. All over. We all have the same shorts. They are red shorts. They look identical. And it is like my fifth day in there and I put on his shorts by accident. It was in the morning I took off my old pair I took his pair and I put his on. And I did not know it was his pair. And we do not have underwear so I do not have underwear on my penis is touching his penis area. All of a sudden this guy realizes that someone has his shorts and he is asking everybody who is got my shorts? Who is got my shorts? And everyone's looking like with big eyes like oh my god someone's got bumpy penis's shorts. And I look down and I realize I am wearing his shorts. And yeah that was tough. As time wore on the day's became all the same-- boredom punctuated by the occasional spasm of extreme emotion. There were fights mainly over snoring and hot water. Also Luke says you would hear screaming in the middle of the night all the time someone having a nightmare. And then there was lots and lots of crying the pining of hundreds and hundreds of men continents away from their friends their spouses their children. And sometimes people cried because they knew that this was where they were going to die. That was the strange thing about the detention center. Aside from the visa violations and tax frauds there were also death penalty cases. Mostly drug mules many of them poor African kids who'd been promised quick money and then been nabbed right off the plane thrown directly into Detention Center Number Three where they would stay until they were executed. Anything over a kilo yeah you are going to have a needle put into your arm and you are going to die. Did you see people taken off to be executed? Yeah just one. That was  from Taiwan. He got caught with like seven kilos. He was kind of like a semi-famous person in the detention center. He was in with the death penalty so he is shackled by his ankles his entire time for almost three years while he was in there. I still knew him even before I got to meet him. You cannot see these people but you can hear them when they are outside the courtyard or from 300 to 400 when we are doing our exercise. Everyone's kind of hooting and hollering quite a bit during that time and everyone kind of yells   But the way he exercised this guy just was a machine at the end. But he would do kind of like this step up step down step up step down on the bed that we were on. And this whole time he is got chains shackled that are on his legs. So you just hear smack smack smack smack smack smack. And then you hear him all the sudden like 45 minutes into it start getting faster. Smack smack smack smack. And we would just be like  go go go you know?  add gas. Yeah he ended up getting carted away one morning. And we did not know for sure but we definitely had a different sense because this time there was like three guards that came and one of them was the leader of the facility. But they were like  and he goes out and we do not see him. He does not come back all day. And we pretty much knew by dinner time that it was not good. And then the next day they came back and told us they had executed him the next morning. I mean I remember talking to him earlier that morning even before he left. Because I had some apples and he was joking that one of his apples I had eaten. And I said well if you think I ate one of your apples you need to eat two of mine or something. So he had two apples and we would kind of joke around about that. And about five minutes later they called him away and executed him. Because of the desperation of so many of the people that Luke met he is uncomfortable classifying his experience as an adventure. An adventure can be a wild night in college or a crazy trip over spring break but what he had was definitely different from that. But in classic adventure stories like The Odyssey there is not much fun. There is pain fear and death and occasionally if you are lucky small transformations. Maybe once every two or three months you can purchase  like this little hot sauce condiment thing. And you have to really ration that stuff out because you only get it every once in a while. So the idea of just little simple things like that realizing the significance in a place like that. It is like wow OK so after the new guy that just comes in slathers that stuff on because he does not realize how scarce that thing really is. And it is kind of like I was that guy for a couple months. You were that guy for life. Like Americans are that guy. Exactly. So I saw myself kind of slowly not become that guy anymore and just get my little spoon and put one little scoop on there and make that last and realize it tastes good. The pie chart of Luke's experience in the detention center might look like this-- 80 boring 18 sad 2 really weird. For instance the prison leadership felt the need now and again to engage the detainees in morale boosting exercises. So one day the guards came to Luke's cell with a new order. Every every cell needs to write a poem. You are going to do it. I am like all right fine. So I write a poem and I hand it off and I had no idea what was going to happen with this. About three weeks later they come and say all right at 3 oclock this afternoon we are having a poetry contest. You have got to have it memorized and give it. They would kind of set up a little stage outside and we had a poetry contest. I won second place. Who judged it? So there was a panel of elite judges. No it was maybe five people. There was two of the leaders I think they brought over a couple leaders from the other detention centers to watch. So I do not know they take a lot of pictures they are going to put it in these little pamphlets and say this is a model detention center is what they keep saying. I sort of want to get you to recite your poem for us. All right. So let us see here. I will start off with so-- you you him and her. You you him and I. Billions upon billions of souls in this world what brought us together and why? Destiny fate a higher purpose or power all I want to know is when can I shower? From the cradle of humanity pride length and strength from Halong Bay to UCLA we have all ended up here. Bending when one must for who can contest fate. Leave your possessions positions and ambitions at home and temporarily quit the human race. How long can we stay? The fairies with the stars will not say. It all depends on your money your  and your case. And that is it. And then roaring roaring applause. No. And then they kind of look at you with a blank stare OK he is done. And I am like  then they clap. It is very much drawn from personal experience it sounds like. Well yeah. I tried to nail every person that was in the room. We had the Canadian I had the Indian we had the Cameroonian. From the cradle of humanity pride length and strength. The Cameroonian guy was tall? Yeah and strong. By New Year's Eve after being told one more month one more month over and over again Luke had reached a low point. This was not a good story anymore. He was miserable. He was ready to go home. And that of course is when the most memorable moment of his entire incarceration happened. It was called the Spring Welcome Performance a facility-wide on-stage variety show. Since so many of the foreign prisoners spoke English the center's leaders wanted one of the MCs to speak English as well. Based on his strong showing in the poetry contest they chose Luke. He agreed. And he also agreed to do a performance. He just was not sure what. He could not sing or play an instrument. Then I came up with the wonderful idea of the hokey pokey dance because I could do it with three other people. It was not exactly the group but it was Chacha behind me and Nunu the Vietnamese boy and Indian The Warehouse. You know three guys behind me and me kind of lead vocals choreographing this-- you know you put your right hand in you put your right hand out. And we had a blast kind of practicing that because they allowed us to practice that for a couple weeks before it in our cell during our quiet study time. So if you would have-- like from 300 to 400 during this time you would have seen you a Vietnamese teenager named Nunu an Afghan drug smuggler named Chacha-- Correct. And then an Indian diamond smuggler named The Warehouse doing the hokey pokey. Yeah. You put your butt in you put your butt out you put your butt in and you shake it all about. They bought a suit for me as the MC. It was like the first time I actually got to wear shoes in six months seven months. And as an MC what part of my job was was to introduce each of these skits. And I did not have to write the introductions for them they would just kind of hand it to me and they wanted me to memorize them. So this was like a traditional American dance done at most holidays. Americans have a great sense of humor. Well here's one of their traditional American dances that they do at most holidays. Yeah and it is called the hokey pokey. We gather around the Christmas tree. I am like sure I do not know. It is funny when you talk about it it seems like a really fond memory. Yeah I mean it is-- looking back and seeing Chacha The Warehouse and Nunu dancing. I mean there was times where my sides hurt so bad from laughing. And maybe four times-- three four times?-- I can recall actually having that moment where I was just laughing so hard. And you know it is just you do not hear laughter much in that detention center at all and it just feels really good when you have a moment like that. A couple months after the Spring Welcome Performance Luke was finally released from the detention center through the help of a family friend with lots of connections in China. And it turns out Luke had been thinking about his case all wrong from the beginning. He would been thinking I just need to get before a judge and plead my case. But the Chinese process is different. The two sides basically bargain with each other. It is like a mediation which the police broker. He should have been negotiating a price that he felt he could pay the man he headbutted and that would have been justice. Once he got sent to the detention center it was too late. And Luke realized the guy he headbutted was probably just as confused by Luke's behavior as Luke was by his. You know me being like oh OK well I will see you in court then. And this guy never showed up in court. Right and he did not even want you to go to court right? Yeah he wanted money. And he did not get any money out of me at the end so it is-- But in the end now knowing what you-- like if you had to do it all over again you would have just paid him in the beginning? Yeah. No question? Yeah I mean if someone says you have got to spend eight months in Chinese prison or give this guy 2000 you give the guy 2000. And yet and this might be one of the best definitions of an adventure even though Luke would not do it again he is glad it happened. Yeah. I will go on the record as saying yeah. You do start to see or appreciate other things. Do you ever find yourself missing it? Gosh that is a tough question. You know the camaraderie that you get to have with those people you know the stories the opening up. Like I do not think I am ever going to get to know another Muslim-- I mean I hope I do but-- as much as I did with Chacha. I mean you spend every single hour with this guy for four or five months you really get to know this person as a person. It is this weird thing where like in order to get that kind of connection it requires like a deep amount of discomfort or unpleasantness that sort of goes along with it you know what I mean? To form like that kind of connection. Yeah you know everybody's suffering we are all suffering. When you are actually going to the bathroom right in front of somebody. There is no walls I mean you are talking to them. You are still having a conversation with some guy with his shorts down. And we are talking about everything. And so yeah I guess in a sense I do miss those kind of connections with people. It is so easy to imagine nearly anyone else in the same situation feeling bitter and resentful like they should not be treated this way. But talking to Luke he never complains never seems to feel sorry for himself. If someone had to represent our country in Detention Center Number Three in Shenzhen China he is maybe the perfect person. A sturdy open-minded Minnesotan nicknamed America. Alex Blumberg. He is one of the producers of our show and one of the creators of Planet Money which you could find at NPR.orgmoney. Coming up how to outwit 17th century pirates and other adventure stories in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. Act Two Oh the Places We will Go. We thought that any adventure show would be incomplete without the kind of old-fashioned adventure stories where people are swept out of the most ordinary lives when a visiting you know wizard shows up one day or they head through the back of a wardrobe and they end up in some totally extraordinary place encountering things that they have never ever even imagined. So we asked five writers to write us very short stories just a couple pages for each story that do just that. And we present those to you now. In order you will hear stories by Dave Eggers Jeanne Darst Wendy McClure Fiona Maazel and Neil Gaiman. When I was a kid in the suburbs of Chicago adventure meant Quetico Provincial Park up on the border of Minnesota and Canada. The name implies that the place was small but Quetico is a million acre nature preserve so big you could go days and days without seeing another soul. We would go on camping trips up there weeks of canoeing and portaging seeing bears and moose and deer sleeping under star-soaked skies. The park was isolated and so pristine that you could actually drink the water straight from the lakes. But I will not be going back to Quetico anytime soon. Not after what happened to a girl name Francis Brandywine. Francis was 17 at the time black haired and with a reckless nature determined always to leave the well-trod path to break new ground and be alone. A few years ago Francis was up in Quetico with her family. They were in a remote part of the park camped on the shore of one of the deeper lakes a lonely body of water carved millions of years ago by a passing glacier. The deep part of this particular lake was rumored to be about 300 feet. One night after her family went to bed Francis took the row boat out planning to find a quiet spot in the middle of the lake lay on the bench of the boat look up at the sky and maybe write in her journal. So she left the shore rowed for about 20 minutes and when she felt satisfied that she was over the lake's deepest spot she lay down on the bench and looked up at the night sky. The stars were very bright and the aurora borealis was shimmering like a neon lasso. She was feeling very peaceful. Then she heard something strange. It was like a knock. Clop clop. She sat up guessing that the boat had drifted to shore and run aground. But she looked around the boat and she was still a half mile from shore. She leaned over the side to see if she would hit anything but she saw nothing-- no log no rocks. She lay back down. She told herself it could be any number of things a fish a turtle a stick that had drifted under the boat. She relaxed again and soon fell into a contented reverie. She had just closed her eyes when she heard another knock. This time it was louder a crisp plop plop plop like the sound of someone knocking hard on a wooden door except this knocking was coming from the bottom of the boat. Now she was scared. She leaned over the side again. It had to be an animal. But what kind of animal would knock like that three quick loud knocks in rapid succession? Her mouth went dry. She held onto each side of the boat and now she could only wait to see if it happened again. The silence stretched out. A few minutes passed and just as she began to think she would imagined it all the knocks came again but this time louder. Bam bam bam. She had to leave. She lunged for the oars. She got them in place and began rowing. The water was