From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. You can call me Jesper. Jasper? Jesper with an E. Jesper. Yeah. OK and is Peder here? Yeah hi Ira. Jasper and Peder. Are those your actual names? Yeah. It is not a joke. Peder Jorgensen and Jesper Sundnes this is the first time they have ever agreed to do an interview about this thing that they created or even identify themselves as the creator of that thing. This thing they made they said it all began back in 2015. They were basically hanging out killing time together strolling through Facebook bored. The location for this? At work supposed to be working. Because you had a lot of free time at that job? No no we were working all the time working really hard. It is probably during a lunch break. I like that one of you said yes and one of you said no. They were working in radio. They live in Oslo Norway. Anyway they noticed on their friends Facebook feeds very common-- People were posting lots of like inspirational images with inspirational words. And it kind of looked like there was a system behind the whole thing. It kind of felt like a machine should be able to do this. Yeah a robot could probably make that. Could make an inspirational quote. After all they are so formulaic-- every day might not be a good day but there is good in every day. You fell down yesterday. Stand up today. The secret to getting ahead is getting started. So Jesper and Peder set out to program a computer to create these to generate inspirational sentences and paste them onto stock photos of beaches and starry nights and people staring into the distance. And what is interesting is just how quickly the program kind of took on a mind of its own. At first they said the computer really did generate very typical kind of predictable inspirational quotes. They said that was not terribly difficult. But as they gave it a bigger vocabulary and taught it to string together a wider variety of sentences the kinds of sayings that it started to crank out started to evolve. As they got more random they got funnier and darker and-- I do not want to oversell this but it is true-- actually sometimes kind of profound. The bot started to take on a personality the personality that it actually has now. Yeah I can remember very well the moment we were looking at the quotes and it was not what we had imagined. It felt like something that we had not created really. I have saved some of these on my laptop. Here's one. OK so each one is a quote on top of some peaceful contemplative image. This one first one the picture is a nighttime sky. And-- I do not know-- maybe that is the Aurora Borealis. And the words say love is an animal eating your brain. This one here is a close-up of a coin. It says never think of it as a job. Think of it as health insurance which you know people definitely feel some people about their jobs. I love this one. OK so this is a picture of Big Ben. It says when you are eating dinner do not forget that everything and everyone will someday be gone forever. A bunch of them have this kind of cold-water-in-the-face wake-up-to-reality slap-you-across-the-cheeks quality to them. There is one that says-- there is a photo of a man. This is a manager starry sky it says your time on Earth is random. A woman offers a lit sparkler. It says simply you are average. A man stands on a shore it says do not explore your true self. It is not worth it. But most of them are not like that. Here's a picture of a spiral galaxy. It says all you need in order to travel to Mars is a boy and a flag which in a certain way is actually kind of true. These are all made by a machine. They are made by a bot. And a certain number of them do seem like gibberish. An education can be like an angry child. What does that mean? Or be fine systematized spouse finity-- it is like OK. But a surprising number of these they not only makes sense they seem to have something on their mind. They have something to say. Celebrity is basically just another term for pretentious burglar. Life on Earth is just one long commercial for sperm. Urinating on an electric fence could be the mistake of a lifetime which that is true. Normies unite. Cooperate and fight your common adversary-- mass hysteria.   I reached out to Jesper and Peder because I was wondering how does this really work? How do you get a machine that does not understand what words mean does not understand what it is saying at all how do you get it to turn out sayings that mean something to us? And neither of these guys had been a professional programmer or studied it in school. Peder had taught himself to code years before. And he made this with just kind of a grab bag of standard programming tools. He explained the recipe for an inspirational quote like this. So right now we are in the studio in Oslo. And the sun is shining outside but the drapes are pulled down. So if I say something like you have to pull the drapes up to see the sun it kind of makes sense in a practical way. However as soon as you put something like that on a beautiful backdrop it starts speaking to you on a different level. You have to pull up the drapes to see the sun. It sounds like the cure for depression when it is put in the right picture. But it is just a very practical normal thing to say really. Another thing they noticed in lots of inspirational sayings they were juxtapositions-- opposites glued into the same sentence. Things put up against each other. Yeah so there are no limits to what you can accomplish except the limits you place on your own thinking. So that is just-- Limits is the keyword. Yeah and then you just take the words and then turn them around after a comma. So it is like the two-part sentences. They can be pretty obvious but still it feels inspirational when you put it on a nice picture. To make the bot able to do this the way to do it really they said is just imitation. The algorithm imitates the sentence structure and the kinds of words that appear in real inspirational quotes on the internet. They fed it thousands of inspirational quotes. At first of course it was a little buggy. The grammar the syntax was a total mess. Here's an early failed example. I can read one here. It is do not be jealous of spilled wife. Just jump. Do not be jealous of spilled what? Wife. Like a-- Do not be jealous of a spilled wife. Just jump. So it is kind of got this structure in a way but the words do not make any sense. It just becomes random like gibberish. How does it get to one like if one expects a friendship one has to prepare for a volcano? Well what it knows for sure is that expects and prepare are words that go well together. And does it know friendship and volcano will go together or that is just totally random? Does that go together for you? It does kind of go together yeah. How? It is like saying when you have a friend you have to prepare for the bad times when things get explosive. Yeah well that is you adding that.   That is not in the algorithm. They say the same thing about the inspirational quotes that actually could be taken as inspirational by somebody like for instance do not let nightmares get in the way of infinity. You kind of realize you are making them inspirational yourself. Our heads our minds you try so hard to give them meaning so they start making sense in a way. What was the one you said? Nightmares are-- Do not let nightmares get in the way of infinity. Yeah to me that is saying do not let the things that you are scared of get in the way of the big life you are trying to create for yourself. Yeah it is true. When you said that it was harder for me to make the same. I heard something else in the quote. Yeah. So you guys really are not just writing those? No no. Oh no we could not do that. There is too many. Everything is generated. We do get like sometimes people are-- oh there is no way this is a bot people would say in comments and stuff like that. But we do not go in and edit any of them. We have never done that. In fact they logged onto the website during our interview and 60 people were on the site at the same time right then clicking away and generating quotes way too many for them to edit. It is over a half million people a month. And they say that they are surprised sometimes when the bot comes up with something funny or kind of vaguely profound. Occasionally it is blowing my mind really. I do not know how it came up with that. It is weird that you can get to something profound out of a machine that is actually just generating random words in sentence structures that you have given it. Absolutely. Yeah it is totally weird. It makes humans seem pathetic.   That sounds like something the bot would say. You have become too inspired by the bot. Do you know what I mean? It is like oh really we are so primitive that a machine can randomly throw together words in a sentence structure. And then I have to say looking at them some of them are like yeah that is actually pretty true. Well it does not necessarily mean that we are pathetic. It also is a lot of credit to you as a reader just how much you add to something when you see it how much of the things that you see is actually your contribution. Well today on our radio show we have stories of this happening to people. They are presented with documents some words on a paper. And how they read it what they read into it really comes from them and they have strong reactions. As the InspiroBot might say it is not what the words say. It is what they say to you. I have learned so much. Anyway stay with us.  Act 1 the veritas is out there. So I just found this out that since the 1990s if you got into college and you decided to attend the college at lots of schools you can work at your own admissions file. See what the admissions people said about you when you were applying. In fancy schools that are hard to get into you can try to figure out why they decided to admit you in the first place which lots of kids do. But the downside is you might find something you did not want to see and then you have to deal with that. Diane Wu does the story of one Harvard student that happened to. At Harvard going to see your admissions file has suddenly got caught up into something much bigger. As you might have heard Harvard's being sued for allegedly discriminating against Asians. Asian applicants with high GPAs and test scores have a lower acceptance rate than other students with the same numbers. Harvard does consider a student's race when they apply as one of many factors. The group that is suing them wants them to stop doing that altogether. It is a group called Students For Fair Admissions. They are trying to get rid of affirmative action all across the country. And this case is likely to be appealed all the way up to the Supreme Court. Alex Zhang is a junior co-president of the Chinese Students Association. I met him the first week of the trial. He is solidly team Harvard in the lawsuit because Harvard is on the side of keeping affirmative action. For him it was a moral decision. Of course diversity is good and getting rid of affirmative action is bad. So he wrote a statement for an amicus brief and got his student group to sign on to another one. Friends of his were looking at their admissions files. So Alex decided to go as well partly because he was curious how his file stacked up against the claims made in the lawsuit. But also he just wanted to see how he got in. He would always wanted to find out. I am really curious about the interview component because I just feel like that is what did it. Did you have a really good interview? Yeah a really good interview with a really old and experienced alumni. The way this usually works-- you meet with an alumni volunteer for an hour or so in a coffee shop or wherever in your hometown. Alex is from Portland Oregon. He had an exceptional interview. It lasted two hours. Then even more unusual his interviewer set up a second meeting. He did this whole thing where he ran through all my extracurriculars kind of tallied up hours and stuff just was very rigorous even asked for some contacts for references which apparently he was not supposed to do. He was really-- He did that because he wanted to have everything on the table for him to advocate for me. Alex wanted to know did this guy get me in? The alumni interview is important at Harvard because usually it is the only face-to-face contact the school has with an applicant. And admissions officers use it plus other information to assign applicants this thing called a personal rating. The personal rating is actually the crux of the lawsuit. It is basically a rating of your personality. The words Harvard uses to describe what they are looking for are things like leadership courage sense of humor effervescence. It is like they want to fill the school with future senators perky Griffindors and Reese Witherspoon in Legally Blonde types. Students for Fair Admissions says the personal rating is where the discrimination happens where implicit bias leaks in. Because at Harvard Asian applicants get a lower personal rating than white applicants. Harvard does not dispute those numbers but says they do not consider an applicant's race when assigning the personal rating. A couple days after I met him Alex called me from a study lounge. He would just gone to see his file sat with 15 other kids around a table at the registrar's office and paged through it. He was not allowed to take the file with him but could take pictures on his phone. He scrolled through the photos and read parts of it to me. Let me take a quick look. The first sheet is the Harvard scores so they have this weird coding jargon that I do not really understand yet. I will probably look it up later. We got quickly to the part he was curious about-- the report from his alumni interviewer which was the most remarkable part of his file. For starters it was long. My interviewer wrote like five pages of notes. Wow. Which I think is kind of unusual. It is. Everyone else I checked with had only two pages. Reading through Alex saw that his interviewer Jim McCandlish was really going to bat for him. He told Alex that he was one of the best candidates he would met in more than 20 years of interviewing. Though Alex learned a lot of Jim's thoroughness-- the extra interview the references he called-- that was Jim checking into whether or not Alex was for real. It seems like he was skeptical of a lot of stuff I did at least was concerned about this resume-builder mentality and wanted to verify whether I did that authentic work. Like when Alex said he worked on homelessness at the youth commission Jim wondered is he just saying that because he googled my law firm and read that I represent disadvantaged people? Quote was this a perfect for MIT mechanical engineer playing me? Perfect for MIT I guess is code for too boring for Harvard. Jim called up Alex's supervisor at the youth commission and found out no Alex genuinely cared about homelessness and works there even more than he would let on. Alex read Jim's interview notes to me matter-of-factly then paused to note this one section. Oh here's an interesting portion actually. Jim was writing about a conversation he would had with that supervisor. Apparently he had asked not just about Alex but about Alex's mom too. He writes-- She is far from the stereotypical quote tiger mother. His mom is supportive but not directive. So I guess there is just those two three sentences on my mom. How do you feel about that? How would you feel about that characterization of your mom? I mean it is true. Yeah she is supported but not directive. She pushes me. She pushes me hard but has always sort of let me push in the direction I wanted. Is it weird to you at all that the interviewer is pointing to stereotypes that you are not? Is he a perfect-for-MIT engineer playing me or does he have a tiger mom? Oh yeah. That is a good point. As soon as I asked the question I felt like I overstepped like I was planting the idea in Alex's head that something racial was going on. But when I heard tiger mother I thought there is the implicit bias they are talking about in the lawsuit in a way more explicit form than I was expecting. Alex did have a strange feeling about it even if he was not sure exactly why. Yeah that is really weird. I guess it kind of goes into a narrative like the Asian applicant has to disprove certain things to be considered viable for something ivy league. In other words if you want to get into Harvard do not be too Asian. Hmm. That makes sense. I do not know what his motivations are my interviewer's motivations. Maybe the interviewer was like oh I should distinguish him from other Asians or maybe he just does it subconsciously. Yeah. Yeah. There is another thing like this in Jim's notes another spot where he points to an Asian stereotype and says it does not fit Alex. It has to do with the fact that Alex is quiet which is a stereotype about Asian students. One actually that Harvard was called out for using in a 1990 federal investigation. But in Alex's case Jim casts it as a plus. He writes Alex is reserved quietly confident uses language frugally but effectively. There is no teenage patois. Perfect-for-MIT engineer by the way also plays into a stereotype of Asians only being interested in science and math. This one did not bother Alex though since he literally wanted to be an engineer when he was applying. The tiger mother part is definitely interesting. No other mom is called a tiger mom. That is what you call a Chinese mom. Only Chinese moms are called tiger moms. It definitely seems like he is trying to disprove what a reviewer might assume about the reasoning for why I do things. Yeah. How do you feel about that? I do not know. So he actually has a Chinese wife. Is he Chinese? He is not Chinese. No he is an old white guy very American grew up very American went to Harvard during the time when it was like four white people played baseball on the baseball team. Everything's with good intentions. But I think he might just be a little more old-fashioned. Alex actually knows Jim pretty well. They kept in touch after his interview. Their families became friends. Alex's mom helped teach Jim's wife how to drive. He gets dinner with Jim whenever he is back home. Alex left our conversation feeling pretty fine about what he would read. But then he stepped back into a campus caught in the force field of the lawsuit where anything to do with race and bias and admissions felt hypercharged. One of the biggest ways the lawsuit has shaken up Harvard is that certain statistics are now public like the school said that without affirmative action one out of two black kids would not get it. Latino kids-- they would lose one out of three. Kids whose parents went to Harvard who are by the way mostly white have a seven times better chance of getting in than regular kids. It is making students ask questions they would rather not about how they got in. It is uncomfortable. I talked to two black students who chose not to see their files this fall. Both were worried it would say let us take her because she is black. They did not think it would but still. One of them had the request form open on her computer for more than a week before she decided nah maybe senior year. For Asian students the question is the opposite. It is not am I here because of my race but am I here in spite of it? It is cranked people's race goggles up to level 10. One of Alex's friends wrote on Facebook about a comment in her file. She is a bright student but what distinguishes her from other bright students? To her this was racially coded. When she read it she saw she seemed smart but is there anything that makes her different from other Asian students? Well if that was racially coded Alex thought you should see mine. He texted some close friends from his freshman year Chinese class. I sent a couple screen grabs from my admissions file to them. I was like hey I cannot get this off my mind. I did not react that strongly to it until after I saw this stuff online. And now I am starting to feel pretty troubled by it. What was the part that was troubling to you? My main trouble was oh does he feel like he needs to prove that I am not like other Asians to the admissions office? And is that what it takes to get in nowadays? Most other college interviewers I just talked for like an hour an hour and a half. But Jim was doing a background check you know? Why did he feel the need to do so rigorous of a background check? Alex's friends saw his screen grab saying tiger mom and perfect-for-MIT engineer and texted him back oh my god and that is kind of horrible. Tiger mom was actually a lot more explicit than any of the examples of bias that came up at the trial. It was really a fight over statistics and economic models but a few stereotypes did come up. They were subtle. Things like Harvard referring to Asian applicants as one-dimensional or book smart. Alex wanted to see what Jim was actually thinking when he wrote tiger mother. See if it really was a racial thing like his friends were saying. So he gave him a call. Alex taped the call and with Jim's permission sent it to me. First they catch up a little bit. Alex tells Jim about how he went to go see his file. He mentions an op-ed he co-wrote for the student newspaper. Did you read the op-ed I wrote by any chance? I do not think I sent it to you. Yes you did send it. I read it and I totally regret that I did not respond. It was very well done. It was very well done Jim says. Oh really? You thought so? Yes. I am glad you thought so. They talk about the lawsuit. And before Alex can even bring up tiger moms Jim volunteers his own ideas about implicit bias in admissions. He is been thinking about the effect of the interviewer's biases because-- Most likely at least certainly from a place like Oregon the interviewer is Caucasian. And we know there are stereotypes. I am just curious how that plays out. If you have an expectation that an Asian interviewee is going to have a drab personality or meek and mild you may play into your stereotype and not develop the rapport that would defeat the stereotype or at least resist it. You are in a really gray area of human nature. Jim of course went above and beyond to spend the time with Alex to get that rapport to make sure he really understood Alex as an individual not to write him off immediately. So I am actually kind of curious about some stuff you wrote. Yeah so you wrote five pages of notes. There is probably 2000 words at least.  Yeah and most of that was in the personal quality section which I was the most curious about reading. OK. So here I am right on the edge. What do they say? It takes another eight minutes for Alex to get the nerve to bring it up-- tiger mom. You mentioned that you asked her about my parents. Yeah I was trying to figure out whether or not you were basically driven by the parents in any way. You use the term tiger mother saying my mom's not like that. That is very much affiliated with Asian parenting. So when I read that it just was a little unexpected. Well recall I live with one. I live with one Jim's saying. He is talking about his wife who is Chinese. They have a young daughter. I live with a tiger mom and fight it all the time. You think that is a particularly Chinese thing? I think the Chinese on the west side have a very definite strong influence that way. West side-- Jim's talking about the wealthier side of Portland where he and Alex lived. No question in my mind. Huh gotcha. Because for me it is kind of like if you had a Chinese applicant would you be suspicious that perhaps their parent or their mom was like that? If I saw somebody Alex that had their fingers in a lot of pies and I had no way to ascertain the depth of what they were doing-- what I am looking for and looked for was the person who was thriving on their own that is self-motivated. And it is not just Chinese. I use that term because I am an Amy Tan Fan. Amy Tan wrote The Joy Luck Club. Apparently after this conversation Jim's wife told him that she did not also write Battle Hymn of the Tiger Mother. That was Amy Chua. His wife offered to buy him the book. But anybody I interview the longer I did it the more suspicious I was. After doing these interviews for 20 years Jim was not naive to kids puffing up their extracurriculars or getting coached on how to act in the interview. He is saying he was tough on everyone. I talked to Jim later. He did not want to be recorded but he was open about what he wrote. He told me yeah part of what he was doing was overtly pointing out to the admissions officers that Alex was different from other Chinese-American applicants. That this young man did not fit whatever stereotypes that he or the admissions officers might have. And his no-holds-barred strategy to get Alex in it seemed to work. The first reviewer who went through Alex's file before his interview wrote hope the alumni interview can add. The next reviewer saw Jim's report then wrote interview in and is pretty remarkable for its in-depth review comes out in the right place and is reassuring. Besides his write-up Jim gave Alex a personal rating of 1 the highest possible score. He gave Alex ones across all categories. The official admissions officers were not as effusive. They gave him a 2 for his personal rating twos and threes for the rest. Wrote that his personal qualities seem to be still evolving. After I read mine my impression was that if you had not written such an in-depth positive review that I probably would not have gotten it which is kind of an interesting thought. That is surprises me. You were at the top of everything. That surprises me. I thought I was a gravy. Yeah I really appreciate how much you did. Well I appreciate you. So how was New York? They go on to talk about Alex's summer job in Manhattan the classes he is taking this fall. Jim starts in on a story about his kid before telling Alex oh hey turn that recorder off. I met up with Alex again after that phone call. He was not totally satisfied by it thought Jim did not get the gravity of tiger mother had not thought it all the way through. But he had no hard feelings. Though when Alex thought more about tiger mother he realized it was not just the use of the term that unsettled him but also the assumption that it was a bad thing in the first place. Something that Harvard would want to make sure none of its students had. This idea that a tiger mom would even be-- I know it is a thing in our culture for a lot of parents but also is weird that there is a fixation on that by American society. Also the question is why does it matter if your parents pushed you in that way? Is that not part of your upbringing and who you are now? I do not know. There seems to be these very negative connotations about the way Asians are raised or the way that they behave growing up. And it just seems like there is this very deeply ingrained prejudice and misunderstanding. Alex personally was grateful for when his mom pushed him when he was younger. I remember in high school my mom was gave me a lot of pressure. Make sure you connect with the teachers and talk to them during break time so they can get to know you because it is really important. They are going to have to write you recommendations. And I did not want to do it but I guess I had to. Your mom was on the ball. Yeah she is really on top of stuff which is really good. Because she did it without killing me overworking me. She is a really good mom. In race-conscious admissions it is not just the university that is conscious of race. It is also the applicants themselves. Almost all the students of color I asked had considered whether and how to portray their race in their package. Just one white student had. Alex is from a mostly white neighborhood in Portland Oregon. Growing up his classmates often could not see past his race. They teased him for having a flat face about being a nerd. One girl exclusively called him Asian instead of Alex. In middle school he started playing basketball partly to downplay his Chinese-ness fit in with the white kids. Out on the court though someone would still always call him Yao Ming. But he did not write about any of that in his personal essay. Instead it is about how he transforms from a lonely elementary school kid playing video games by himself to big man on campus at his high school. You did not talk about race in your essay. That is not the topic. It does not mention race at all. Was that part of the subtext of what you were writing looking back on it? Probably yeah. In high school I had a lot of internalized hatred about being Asian. I had this whole perception that I needed to differentiate myself. So I think one of my views is that oh we are not seen. This also goes to myself being really cautious of the system or potential biases. So I was like oh I probably need to show that I have been more social or I have been a leader have done these cool things.  It struck me that it might be that while you were preparing your application you were making some similar-ish calculation to maybe what Jim was making. Yeah. Not I want to differentiate myself from all other applicants but I extra want to differentiate myself from other Asian applicants. Probably. And again looking back I do not like it in the same way that I do not like if Jim would have had to talk me up just because I am Asian. I do not like that I  that way if it was because of that. I asked Alex if what he saw in his file shifted his position at all in the lawsuit. No he said. To him tiger mom was weird for sure but it was not discrimination. It did not sway the argument one way or another. For Alex what he saw in his file what his friends have been seeing it is more personal. A lot of the comments my friends have been making and stuff they are not things that make as much of an argument for either side as much as like oh this is what being Asian is like. In other words even when you make it into one of the fanciest colleges in the world when you finally feel like people see you for who you are your whole complicated self just one word or phrase can snap you out of it. Remind you right right this is how they see me. This is how it really works. Diane Wu is one of the producers of our show. Coming up-- quoting Snoop Dogg fails to impress state regulators in New York. What a shocker. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show-- how I read it stories where people look at words on a page or words on a screen and see something of the rest of us might not always see. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two-- I am just going to see if the InspiroBot can come up with a good title for this act. Hold on. Pushing the button and the thing is flashing. And there is a picture of a tree and a night sky. It says know that you are unprecedentedly negative which I have to say that is actually a shockingly decent title for the act that we are about to do. We were going to call it side effects may include bankruptcy or whatever the thing came up with. And then the bot actually did a really good job.  Act 2 Know That You Are Unprecedentedly Negative. One of our producers David Kestenbaum recently came across this kind of amazing collection of documents on a government website. These documents-- letters and emails like thousands of them-- they are part of the usual machinery of bureaucratic decision-making. But David saw something more in them. I found these letters about four clicks deep on a website for the Department of Financial Services for the state of New York. I was digging around looking for some numbers on a different story and there they were-- page after page of detailed handwritten letters and emails going on at length and with great passion and precision about their health insurance plans. They would been buying them through the Affordable Care Act Obamacare. And every year their plans were getting more expensive and not just by a little. I printed these letters out. They filled two binders and I read them all. There is something about the intimacy of these letters that makes them hard to stop reading. You can feel people sitting down to write them in their homes coming face to face with the cost of their insurance and just searching for the right words. Some are desperate. Some are exhausted. Some people are funny. It is this record of our fellow citizens shouting into the abyss. And they got to me in this way that news stories about this never have. These are people reacting to a situation that would drive anyone