Lindsey Dills is 24. She is from a place in southern Georgia called Glynn County right on the coast. The nearest big town is a partly gentrified mostly impoverished city called Brunswick. Population 16000. Though I interviewed her in a prison way upstate. OK I am Lindsey Dills. This is Lee Arrendale State Prison. Before all this I was-- I actually was all-state for soccer five years in a row. I was expected to have a scholarship to college. A couple scouts had contacted my dad my coach at my school. But in her sophomore year of high school Lindsey started smoking pot. She began working at this bar and restaurant Spanky's as a waitress ran with an older crowd that she met at the restaurant. By senior year she was doing coke in a pretty serious way. She had a 21-year-old boyfriend which at the time she thought was the coolest thing ever though now she sees that one differently. Finally senior year she quit soccer which of course her dad and every other adult in her life tried to talk her out of. The coaches were calling the house telling my dad Will you please talk to her? And probably part of it was part of the drugs and I think part of it was that I just had done it for so long and I wanted to be-- I wanted to be a teenager. I wanted to go do stuff on the weekends and I wanted to not have practice at 5 oclock in the morning. And I did not want to have to run three miles every other day. And she says in retrospect she knows she was not coping well. Her home life had been pretty rough when she was little before and after her parents split up. And now she was self-mutilating cutting herself with a razor smoking a lot of pot. And her parents tried to do the right thing and get her treatment for all that. She went into a program for a week or so more than once. But here's where things took an unusual turn for Lindsey. October 2004 she was 17 her dad was out of town. And she forged two checks one for 40 one for 60 on her dad's checking account. She cashed them at her job spent some of the money on drugs. Well he comes back from out of town and he does his balance his checkbook. He is a CPA so he is on it. As soon as he gets home he knows that something's not adding up. And I do not-- I do not in a million years blame my dad for doing what he did. He was terrified. All he would heard was horror stories about what happens to people when they were doing drugs. He did not mess with drugs. My dad does not drink. In the 24 years I have been alive I have never seen my dad drink alcohol. I never heard my dad curse. She says he started randomly taking her to be drug tested. And told her that if she failed a drug test then he would go to the police about the two forged checks. Lindsey figured out ways to pass the test-- get somebody else's pee or dilute her own. But finally she fails a test. And her dad followed through on his threat. Two police officers come into my job and they are like We are looking for Lindsey Dills. I was like Let me get her for you. And I am about to just leave. So I know exactly what is going on at this point when they say We are looking for Lindsey Dills. I was like Oh my god he actually did it. I never thought he would do it. So I am arrested at this point. They slam me over the hostess stand. I am at the front of restaurant. People are turning around. I am mortified. I am like 18. And everybody's just like Oh . Because they know how my dad is. My dad used to call Spanky's to see if I had left work. He is be like Is Lindsey there? Because I would be like Oh I am working late. The sheriff's in there. He is one of the regulars at the bar. And the sheriff's standing there Like Oh my god. Because you know the sheriff because you have waited on him. Right I know the sheriff. And then there is a bond salesman there that he is a regular. Him and the sheriff are real good friends. And so he finds out what my bond is and he is going to bond me out because he is familiar with me. Well my dad calls him. Because I am like-- my dad's like I am not going to bond you out. I was like Well I do not need you to bond me out. So and so as bonding me out. It is the worst thing I could have ever said. So my dad calls this man and begs him not to bond me out. He is like Please do not. I am trying to save her life. Her dad declined to be interviewed for the radio. But Lindsey's mom Vikki Woodard confirmed that he was hoping that this would be the intervention that would change everything. She had moved from Georgia to South Carolina a month before Lindsey forged the two checks and kept in touch by phone with what was happening. She says her thinking was Lindsey had just turned 18. It was their last chance. After this-- She could do whatever she wanted. She could drop out of school. She could move out. We would have no influence over her whatsoever. And she was in a fast spiral down at that point. She was not going to school. Her father would call me and say I cannot get her out of the bed in the morning. She just will not get up. And so he rolled the dice. He rolled the dice hoping that she would agree to a drug treatment program that he found out of town away from her friends and everybody who was influencing her to do drugs and that she would go there in exchange for dropping the charges. But Lindsey did not want to go out of town to some drug treatment program that her daddy picked. And then the prosecutor put another option on the table. Drug court. Drug courts are all over the country. You have probably heard of them. They have been around since 1989 and they are a huge national success story. The idea is you take nonviolent offenders whose crimes are caused by their drug addiction. And instead of prison time you give them court supervised drug treatment. This accomplishes two things. It saves money because fewer people are incarcerated. And studies show it actually helps people. It gets them off drugs which means fewer repeat offenders. But if you enter a drug court program it is serious business. Especially the drug court that happened to be in Lindsey's small town. Which is run by a judge that many people truly fear. The Chief Judge at the Glynn County Superior Court Amanda Williams. The basics of the Glynn County drug court program are about as tough as they get. It takes two years to complete. And at the beginning you are going to five meetings a week with drug court counselors plus four AA or NA meetings a week plus curfews and drug tests every week. If you finish the whole program your record is wiped clean but if you mess up and flunk out you have a felony conviction on the original charge on your record and you serve the time for that conviction. So there is a real threat hanging over your head. So Jason Clarke is my public defender at the time and he is warning me. He is saying Lindsey do not take drug court. I am telling you you will not make it. He is told me this like three or four times. I am adamant. I am saying I am taking drug court. Because all I know is I get to get out of jail. It is all I know. I do not know anything else about it. So I go to plead into drug court. My dad's in the courtroom. Judge Barton was on the bench that day instead of Judge Williams. She was gone. My dad's done Judge Barton's accounting for probably the past 15 years and they are very good friends. So he sees me come in and he pulls me up to the bench and he is like Do not do this. Do not take drug court. Are you sure you want to do this? He asked me three or four times. Judge Barton says this? Judge Barton does this. Judge Barton's trying to talk me out of taking drug court that I would not do well. I would not make it. He did not think it was what I should do. And she was spiteful that day. Again Lindsey's mom Vikki. She was like You-- And Lindsey's just got a little bit too much of her dad and I in her. She is very independent. She is like You are not going to tell me what to do. You want me to do this? I am doing this other thing. She clearly looked at her dad. He said Vikki she looked at me with the most spite and hate in her face that he would ever seen. And she was like I choose drug court. And he could not believe it. He said his heart fell into his stomach and that he was just stick. And he had told me just the other day on the phone his voice was breaking he said I wish-- I think about it over and over again in my head and I wish I had stood up on that day in court. He regrets more that day than I do I think. That is because Lindsey happened to be at a very unusual drug court. Most drug courts you are in and out in a year or two. The average program is a year and three months. Occasionally very very rarely somebody is stuck in a drug court for three years. But the drug court run by Judge Amanda Williams operates so differently from others that Lindsey will spend five and a half years in drug court including 14 months behind bars. And then she is going to spend another five years after that. Six months behind bars-- she is in the middle of that right now-- and four and a half years probation. By the time she is done it will be 10 and a half years of her life. Now that seemed like a lot to me. Remember the original crime here is two forged checks totaling 100. First offense. But I thought maybe that is just how they do it in Georgia. So I ran it by two lawyers who handle drug cases around the state. That is insane. That is complete insanity. This would be Bruce Harvey a defense attorney who is handled felony drug cases for 33 years all over Georgia. Here's Parag Shah who was a public defender in Atlanta author of a guide book to Georgia criminal law called The Code. Wow. That is-- my opinion would be that would be egregious in probably 90 of the counties in Georgia. That seems like a lot. Extremely. Both attorneys said that typically two forged checks for 100 bucks first offense at most would get your probation. And you would probably get some sort of alternative program like a 16-week drug class or a life skills class without ever going to trial. Of course these were defense attorneys. Maybe prosecutors would see this differently. So I ran the facts of Lindsey's case by the District Attorney for Forsyth County Penny Penn who handles the drug court cases there. It certainly sounds rather Kafkaesque does not it? And I do not know that it is a very good use of resources. And that is separate and apart from just the fundamental fairness. What is the fairness issue? Well that it has gone on for so long. You know and the point of the drug court program is to get people help. WBEZ Chicago. It is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Today on our show we have a story about the kinds of court cases that almost never make the news because the offenses are so small. Two checks forged by a teenager tiny instances of drug possession or attempts to purchase. But these cases have life-changing consequences because they are being adjudicated in what is possibly the toughest drug court in the country. There are over 2400 all over the United States. They give enormous power to judges. You sign away all kinds of rights when you enter the programs. This is the story of what happens when a judge takes that power and starts doing things other drug courts do not. Things that violate the basic philosophy of all drug courts. After months of investigation I believe that it is likely no other drug court judge in the country is running a program like Judge Amanda Williams. Stay with us. Before we go any further there is something that is going to affect what you hear this hour. It was unusually hard for me to get people to talk to me for this story. Over and over I would hear about something that Judge Williams had supposedly said or done and I was go to the lawyers or litigants involved and they would refuse to speak with me saying they were scared of retaliation. Which to be fair would probably happen around lots of judges all over the country. In Glynn County though it was widespread. Ex-employees of the court people who'd come up before the judge on divorce proceedings or other business years ago parents and family members of people who went before Judge Williams. Nobody wanted to cross her. I was able to get Judge Williams to sit down for an interview. It was this fall. She was up for reelection. A small group of lawyers had organized against her tried to get her voted off the bench. It became a very contentious bitter race. Even in an interview setting she is imposing. Forceful very quick very smart. And she is idealistic. She told me that her interest in starting a drug court in Glynn County was not just to make the courts run more efficiently. It was personal. There is some addiction in my family. My husband has been in recovery for over 15 years. And about the time that I started looking to start a drug court around 1996 he had gotten into recovery. So we have lived it as a family. Because all the family members are touched by it. To nobody's surprise Judge Williams won reelection this fall. It is notoriously difficult to unseat a sitting judge. She had massive name recognition after 20 years on the bench and she outspent the other candidate 3 to 1. But by this winter Judge Williams's opponents were still digging around for dirt. Things were still incredibly divisive in town and everyone was sure that more challenges for the judge were still on the way. And I assume because they felt so embattled so unfairly attacked drug court staff counselors and lawyers all declined my repeated requests for interviews. They acted like people under siege. The head of the counseling program Steven Mansfield after not returning my calls or emails finally told me in the reception area of his office that he would not take part in the story. I asked him why and he repeated I will not take part in your story. I asked Do you first want me to explain what the story's about? And he said If you try I will call an officer and have you removed from the building. Unfortunately when I interviewed Judge Williams this fall I only ran through the issues that had come up in the judicial election campaign. Since then I have sent her my tentative conclusions about what I see in her drug court. I listed the ways in which it seems unlike other drug courts around the country and asked for an interview about those differences. But after I phoned faxed emailed and simply sat in her office day after day hoping to catch her she had her secretary turn me down. The main way Judge Williams's drug court is different from other ones is that it is simply more punitive. Take what happened to Lindsey. The week after she signed up for drug court she was caught violating the drug court's curfew on a Friday night. She also failed a drug screen. This is not unusual. Most people entering any drug court program relapse in the first few months. It is expected and built into the programs. Lindsey ended up in front of Judge Williams the following Wednesday. So she is telling me she still thinks I am smoking pot which I probably was. And so I had-- she like reams me out. Tells me that I am like-- I just remember being in drug court. My face turned blood red. She was screaming at me. I started crying. I had to go do seven days. Seven days in jail that is. And then from then on the only time I ever interacted with Judge Williams was when I was in trouble. And she would flip out every time I went before her. I mean she was just-- she is screaming at you in court. I mean she is standing behind the bench with a microphone and screaming at you. Judge Williams has a reputation for yelling from the bench. When the new District Attorney Jackie Johnson was sworn into office by the judge this August she joked Judge Williams heard my first trial. And of course she yelled at me. I talked to one former drug court counselor who told me he actually quit over this. They would see the judge lash out at clients embarrass them and scold them. He came to feel that it was counterproductive that what the addicts heard was the old punitive message that they were failures and worthless. It set them back. He eventually felt that he could not in good conscience be part of it. In the court transcript the day that Lindsey's talking about March 30 2005 Judge Williams says Do not come up here and tell me you are not drinking. I will put you in jail another 24 hours every time you tell me you are not drinking. I know you are drinking. Lindsey then says something that is inaudible to the court reporter. Judge Williams replies You are drinking. You are drinking. Do you understand that you cannot drink? Lindsey says Yes madam. Judge Williams says OK you are drinking and I personally think that you are using marijuana. This goes on for awhile and she says Now you give me seven days. Before Lindsey goes the judge warns her Do not come in here and pull this addiction mess with this court. Lindsey gets seven days for her first relapse. The standard penalty in Judge Williams's courtroom is less. If you fail a drug screen and do not admit to using drugs it is three days the first time you relapse seven days the second time 28 days the third time. Any drug court that relies primarily on jail or punishment generally is operating way outside of our philosophy and just does not understand addiction. This is West Huddleston who runs the National Association of Drug Court Professionals the main organization for 25000 judges lawyers and counselors in the nation's 2400-plus drug courts. He is been working with drug courts since the mid-'90s. He used to be a counselor and a coordinator for one. He says the problem with jail time is that decades of experience shows it does not work with addicts. Addicts keep using no matter what terrible things happen to them as a result of using. It is practically the definition of an addict. They have lost jobs. They have lost their income. They have lost their loved ones. All of those natural consequences which are much more severe than a day or two or three in jail have not stopped them from using drugs and alcohol. Why would we think that putting them in jail would do so? And so when drug courts use jail time-- and the majority do-- he says it is very sparingly. You know 12 hours 24 hours. And only after other sanctions have failed. The official National Association for Drug Court Professionals' guidelines lists seven other possible things courts can do before they resort to jail including warnings increased treatment or monitoring fines community service having to watch a whole day of drug court proceedings. The whole point of drug court was to be an alternative to what they called the punitive approach taken by the rest of the criminal justice system and to replace that with treating and curing the addicts. Now to be fair to Judge Williams and her drug court I should point out the while jail time for first relapses might be unusual in drug courts around the country it is not unusual in Georgia. Calling around we found that these counties and judicial circuits all do it Gwinnett Dublin Atlantic Eastern Forsyth Cherokee Enota Dekalb Waycross Hall. Most of these counties it is just a day or two in jail on first relapse. And none of them came close to the amount of jail time Judge Williams prescribes for later relapses and broken rules. Lindsey ends up doing jail stays of 51 days 90 days 104 days which would be unheard of in most drug courts. And Judge Williams takes people who relapse four times and sends them away on what she calls indefinite sentences. I could find no other drug court in Georgia that does this and none of the national experts I talk with have ever even heard of such a practice. I learn details of how it works through interviews court documents and court depositions. An indefinite sentence is just what it sounds like. Judge Williams sends you to jail but does not specify how long it is going to be. Often that is because she has not decided. I was told that Judge Williams would declare things like They are going to sit their ass over there till they get a better attitude. Or Take them away. You will come back when I am ready for you. So you sit in jail and wait not sure what is going to happen to you next. Usually it is two or three months but it can be more. At the end of all this some people are kicked out of the drug court program some are allowed back in. Some are sent to inpatient rehab facilities. Though the problem here I was told by a drug court insider was that contrary to national drug court guidelines Judge Williams first punishes the person for at least 28 days in jail-- and usually it is months-- before they are sent anywhere for more treatment. Lindsey Dills got sent away to indefinite detention on October 8 2008. She would been in the program for three and a half years at that point had relapsed a couple times done all sorts of things where you can understand they would be kind of fed up with her. There is no court transcript of what the judge said that day because rather than sentence Lindsey in open court like usual for reasons that are not clear-- She does not do me in front of everyone else. She has me go back into her chambers with her and the drug court staff. So we are in private now. There is no one that can hear any of this being said and she is telling me how she thinks she should terminate me. Terminate her kick her out of the program. Which would mean serving the full sentence on the original forgery charges 20 to 24 months. I was hysterically crying this whole time. Because I am like Oh my god she is going-- And I am back in the chambers completely by myself. I have no idea what is about to happen. And she is telling me how she is been thinking about terminating me how she does not know if I can get this. That maybe I just need to go to jail and maybe I will get it sometime later in my life that they have other people to deal with. So she says You are going to give me 28 days. So I get to the jailhouse and I call my dad immediately as soon as I get there from the pay phone that is in the booking area. And I hear the phone ring where the booking area is. And they answer it and I heard them say Dills. Like they were talking to someone and they said something about Dills. So I am on the phone and they said Dills hang that phone up. And I am like OK. And so I turn around and the tell me that Judge Williams has now called and ordered me to have no further contact no phone no visitation and no mail. And that I would be put in their isolation cell. And I am like How long? And they are like We do not know. And I am like Well for the whole 28 days that I am here? And they said Well your order is now indefinite. So I do not know what to do. I am thinking she is just going to leave me there for 28 days like this to really just scare the crap out of me. And then she is going to let me out. Well 28 days comes and goes and I am still sitting there. I do not know-- no one's come to see me. No one's told me what is happening. And then I also am on antidepressants at this point prescribed by the drug court doctor Dr. Cox that I have run out of 28 days into my visit and I am not allowed to call or tell anyone that I am out of medication. So now I am coming off antidepressants. I am taking Cymbalta and Seroquel and I am detoxing from both that I have been on for over a year. I have no way to fill a new script or tell anyone that I need any more meds. You can tell the guards right? Yeah. I did tell the guards. I told medical. But they cannot do anything. They cannot fill the script within the jail. Her isolation cell was just a regular cell in the middle of the normal cell block. Four walls and a door. And sometimes other participants in the drug court would relapse and wind up in that cell block. I am screaming through the door that I am behind. Like someone from drug court will holler up at me. And I told people leaving that were going to drug court to tell drug court please just let me get my medications back. And no one ever comes and sees me. I was in the same dorm as her. But I was not in lock down. Brandi Byrd was another drug court participant in the Glynn County jail at the same time. She had also worked at Spanky's though not at the same time as Lindsey. The cell next to hers me and some of the other girls would go in there and talk to her through the wall through the air vents. How do you do that? You just stand up on the toilet or the sink and get to the air vent and talk through it and they can hear you. Ask her if she was OK. They are not even allowed-- they are not really supposed to talk to me these other inmates are not. But I am telling them hey will you tell Gail to come see me to tell me what is going on-- my counselor-- they were going back to drug court. Drug court's telling them do not worry about me. They know where I am. I just check on her. Are you OK? Do you want my grandma to call anybody for you? Do you want something to eat? All she got to eat was the regular jail food which is awful. So we would slide her some ramen Noodles or some Kool-Aid or something under the door and try not to get caught. And how did she seem? She was very very depressed. That is why we kept checking on her. She was really depressed. I cried a lot. Pretty much all the time I was crying. I was like how is this happening? How is this ethical? Where am I? Am I in a foreign country? Have I killed someone that I do not know about? Like how does what I did merit that type of treatment? But there is nothing I can do about it because I cannot even use the phone. I cannot even send a letter. Weeks went by. Lindsey had no idea what was going to happen or when it was going to happen. Her public defender Jason Clarke was no longer with the drug court. And no other public defender came to check on her she says. She also says that no doctor and no counselor from the drug court ever checked on her. I am like Where do they do this? I have never heard of it and if it is even legal. And why is not my family doing anything? The family without Lindsey knowing was trying to get answers from the drug court counselors about when she would be coming out about what the plan was what was happening. Nobody tells them anything they say. Lindsey's mom Vikki up in South Carolina says as soon as Lindsey went into detention they were told that the judge put her in isolation that she could not have contact with anybody including the family. At that point in time I said something to Johnny. I said I have a good mind to go to the newspaper and tell them what they are doing to our child. And he said Oh Vikki you cannot do that. You do not Amanda Williams and the power she has down here. He said It is gotten worse since you have left. And he said You cannot do that. Because why? How could it be worse than your kid locked up indefinitely with no contact from the outside world? That it could be indefinitely longer. That she could make things really difficult for Lindsey. I kept thinking there is no way she will leave me here on Christmas. Typically when she leaves you indefinite you stay about 90 days is what usually you will see. So I am thinking there is no way that she is going to leave me here like this though Christmas. So December 8 someone came to jail from drug court on a sanction and they said Oh well Judge Williams is not having court again till January. She was gone. She would gone out of town. She does it every December. She is not even going to be back until like January 6. So this is the 9th and so I am just like I cannot do it anymore. I am completely a wreck by this point. I have not seen any other human besides the people that come bring me food. And I am not that stable anyway. And I cannot figure out how this is helping me. So I am like Whatever she is going to send me to prison and I cannot do prison. So that night I am like I cannot do this anymore. We had a new officer on duty that does not know that when you get your razor you are supposed to give it back. You mean like a little Bic razor that kind? Yeah. The little one blade in them. Like you buy disposable razors. But I just broke it and took the blade out. I have 15 minutes to use the razor. And then she came around to serve dinner. When she still did not ask for it back I realized at that point she was not going to. And then I slit my wrists and sat on the floor by the door. And they did a round 20 minutes later. Which is earlier than they normally would have done it. But she was changing shifts. And then that was when they found me. And then-- Was your thought I am going to do this in a way where I get out of here? Or is your thought I am going to do this in a way where I am dead? I actually hoped that I would die. But at the point that I figured then well if I die great. If I do not at least someone will freakin' hear me. They will have to send me somewhere. You know what I mean? They will have get me some type of help. And then the doctor that came in to do the stitches was like I cannot believe you all gave this girl a razor in the first place. How would you think that someone would feel staying in there like that? Like they are animals? And he was like Who ordered this? And they said Judge Williams. And he like I remember him cussing her name up and down in the room. He was like I am calling her myself. Duh duh duh. He said I cannot believe you would do that. He said What are you here for? I said Drug court. And he was like Did you get in a fight or anything? And I was like No sir. He was like What the hell you all? I mean why did not anyone tell any type of psych-- Have you even seen anybody? I was like No sir. And this is all like I am under anesthesia at this point talking to this guy. His name is Dr. Gunderson. He was really really nice. He was really nice to me. But nobody can believe-- they are like We do not know. It is just what Judge Williams told us to do. The officers are feeling guilty. They are like We do not know. It is just what the order said. There is some things in this story that I cannot confirm. Dr. Jeff Gunderson declined my request to check out the facts of what Lindsey said about him and what he said. I cannot confirm that her medication ran out and it was impossible for her to get a refill. I can confirm that Lindsey's drug court counselors did not visit her in jail though. I was told that it is standard operating procedure in Judge Williams's drug court not to provide any treatment or counseling or even AA or NA meetings in jail even though the National Association of Drug Court Professionals guidelines say they should. In files at the jail and at the courthouse I did find Judge Williams's order sending Lindsey into indefinite detention. Quote Until further order of the court. But nothing specifying solitary confinement. A jail official told me that it would be unusual-- but not unheard of-- for the judge to order that kind of thing. If Judge Williams had not ordered Lindsey into solitary the only other way that she could have ended up there is if the jail's disciplinary committee held a hearing and put her there. I asked the jail to check and see if she had come before the disciplinary committee in October 2008. They told me that this raised privacy issues and that I needed to get Lindsey to sign a notarized document giving them permission to release this information. Lindsey is currently in a prison halfway across the state so it took some doing to get a document to her and signed and notarized from behind bars. But I managed that. When I presented this document to the Sheriff's office which runs the jail I was told that Sheriff Wayne Bennett had decided that although the notarized document from Lindsey would allow him to give me the information that I wanted it did not mandate that he give it to me. So he did not. Lindsey's family did confirm that she tried to kill herself that they got called with this news when it happened. Two and a half years later Lindsey still has scars. Umm those two are there. The right one looks OK. The left one you could still see two big-- Yeah they are better today than they were. My hand shook really bad from where I guess I nicked some type of nerve. I do not do it real bad anymore. Just barely. I do not know. They are shaking. Yeah I mean they shake my wrists do but-- And did the counselors know that you had a history of cutting? Yes. Yeah. They did. And did Judge Williams know? Yeah. If they did not know they were missing out on some crucial information about her. The counselors and Judge Williams also had to know about any antidepressants Lindsey was on because the drug court contract specifies that they had to approve any medications that she used. And 