Government in this country you may have heard is not running so smoothly these days. That was true in the United States Capitol this week if you were a senator wanting to do the official count of electoral college votes having your work delayed by an angry mob. That was true if you were a dentist in New York City hoping to get a COVID vaccine from your state government. Dentists are supposed to be in group 1A according to the Centers for Disease Control guidelines. They were supposed to be in the very first group to get the vaccine because peering closely into people's open mouths all day puts them in danger of a virus that is carried by droplets on people's breath. But when they started rolling out the vaccine in December in New York not only did dentists not get vaccinated-- We were just kept in the dark. Alisa Neymark's a New York dentist. She says she and other dentists did get emails from their state dental association. I can send you some of the emails that they have sent to me. And they are just very confusing. Confusing like how? Like they are confused. They say we know that dentists are in group 1A. We do not yet know when or how you will be able to make an appointment. For Dr. Neymark at one level-- and I do not want to overstate this. She seems like a careful measured kind of person who does not get up on a soapbox. At one level to her it is not surprising that dentists would get this kind of treatment. Dentists she says they do not get respect. There is a bias against dentists. There is definitely-- there is a cultural kind of fear. I am just thinking about that-- what is the movie-- I thought she was going to say Marathon Man but no. --where they go to Las Vegas? The Hangover. She meant The Hangover where Ed Helms plays a dentist. And he is a dentist. And he gets made fun of for being a dentist right? It is like this big joke that we have. Oh you are not a doctor. You are a dentist. So not even being told when they would get the vaccine even though they are 1A she said par for the course. She and other New York dentists did get an official email on New Year's Eve an email that had been sent out at the very businesslike time of 507 PM New Year's Eve that did have a promising link to vaccination locations. But when Dr. Neymark clicked on that link with her information she found there is nothing for dentists in New York City. It is not just that they seem to be at the back of the line. It is the lack of information. That is what gets to Dr. Neymark. She finally did learn when the state would be vaccinating dentists but it was not from any official source. Somebody she knew just texted her. The vaccinations were supposedly going to start this week the week that began Monday January 4th the fourth week of the vaccine rollout. But when she tried to actually schedule an appointment for a shot on the official website there seemed to be no available appointments for dentists. But people have been checking and so we have been emailing each other. So it is kind of this underground network people who are kind of looking out for each other. Oh I know that you have not been vaccinated yet. I just got an appointment. Let me text you. So basically it is this underground thing like it is a Russia under Stalin or something. And you guys are passing each other little pieces of paper saying here's where you go for your shot. Exactly it is like the bread line is over there. Mm-hmm. Go ahead and sign up. I was actually born in the Soviet Union so.  Oh you were? I was yeah. So you have training. You are ready. Yeah I am ready. I talked to somebody on the New York State Vaccine Distribution Task Force which is supposed to be advising the state on how to do all this. Her name's Rose Duhan. She also runs the Community Healthcare Association of New York State where she says she is spending all day every day trying to distribute vaccine. I have to say she made a pretty convincing case for why dentists are not being vaccinated till week four even though they are designated 1A. In New York state the state estimated that there are two million healthcare workers two million people who fall into that 1A priority. So that is a lot of people. And it is just not feasible to vaccinate everybody the first day. So the state decided the first dibs should go to people who are in more immediate danger like medical personnel who care directly for COVID patients and nursing home staffs and residents. When I ran that by Dr. Neymark she agreed it seemed sensible. But nobody had told this to her. Nobody is pretending vaccine distribution is going well in New York right now. The state has only managed to administer about 40 of the vaccine that it is been given which is actually better than the country as a whole which has used about a fourth of the vaccine that is out there. But still the phrase that Rose Duhan used to describe her own feeling about how it is going was this. Somewhat panicked.  She ticked off some of the many many logistical challenges they faced-- figuring out which facilities could deliver the most shots and how to staff and schedule and track hundreds of thousands of people getting vaccine. They had to create scheduling software to figure out what to do in smaller health centers if people do not show up for appointments which is an issue because once you have opened up a vial of the vaccine you have to use all the 10 doses inside of it in a few hours or they go bad. There are health centers who have been told to vaccinate people from other kinds of facilities like mental health providers. And the health centers are trying to figure out OK how much allocation do they have how much of the other provider's staff can they accommodate how can they get those people either to come to the health center or is there a way to get some of the vaccine to those residential settings. Oy. It is so-- I do not know. The details are so kind of mind numbing when you describe it. Yes.  Yes. I love that this process begins on the front end with these super geniuses using this incredibly advanced science to invent the thing. That was the hard part. And then just literally like how do we schedule people from this facility into a time when we can get enough of them to use all the dose in the vial? That is where we are getting stuck. Yes and I think that is really where the people who do that kind of thing do not get enough credit. Exactly. There is no Nobel Prize for that. Right. There is no Nobel Prize for scheduling people. One person who finally did get scheduled-- Dr. Neymark. Though the only appointment that a dentist like her could get was 40 miles away. The situation we are in now is that the CDC made a carefully thought out plan for who should get immunized first and second and third. And then that plan collided with reality. And when and where we will all get our vaccine is going to depend on these logistical details and how well they are managed. Today on our program we see just how common this is. We have other stories of this happening-- scarce resources that need to go to somebody and how they end up getting allocated whether those resources are a place to stay for the night or love and companionship being redistributed in all kinds of new ways since the pandemic. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One God Committee. So we start with this example of a very pure situation of people who have been given the difficult task of trying to figure out how to distribute something important-- in fact in this case life-saving medicine. They are deciding basically who will live or die and the very idealistic solution they came up with. Lilly Sullivan tells the story which starts as you might expect with a medical breakthrough. Back in 1960 a doctor named Belding Scribner had a patient-- a young man with kidney problems. It was something Dr. Scribner had no way to treat so he had to send the guy home to his family to die. The case haunted Dr. Scribner. One night he woke up at 400 AM with an idea a way he could have saved that man-- a Teflon tube that could be stitched into the blood vessels of the arm and stay implanted there. It made long-term dialysis possible for the first time. They would pull the blood out of someone's body clean it the way a kidney does and put it back in. People called it a medical miracle an artificial organ that could cheat death. There was a problem though. The machine they came up with was big and complicated. They built it from a Sears Roebuck freezer that they would modified with a bunch of other parts. Nurses called the machine the monster because it was so big and unwieldy. And every patient needed to spend dozens of hours each week connected to it. And only five of these machines existed. This was still in the experimental stages so they could only take care of a few people. And there were thousands of people dying from kidney failure every year in the country. So on one hand a miracle. On the other Dr. Scribner had traded one harrowing problem a medical one for an equally harrowing ethical problem. How do you choose which few to save and which thousands would die? Dr. Scribner started getting flooded with requests from people desperate to be put on the machine. The pressure was crushing him. Saying no was ensuring a person's death. He went to the administrators who were helping to oversee this whole project and asked for help. The administrators took it from there. The first thing the administrators decided is you know what? This is not a medical decision at all. This is a societal decision. So they decided to assemble a group of people. They chose these people not because these people had any medical knowledge-- or really any relevant experience at all. These were ordinary people hand-picked to represent a cross-section of moral American society. I am a banker. I am a surgeon. I am a lawyer. This is from a documentary from 1965. I am a labor leader. I am a housewife. I am a clergyman. The names the faces of those who serve on this committee are never made known to those who apply for the places on the kidney machine. The committee was strict about anonymity. In the documentary their heads are darkened so you cannot see their faces. These people had just been going about their lives when the dialysis center's administrators asked them to come in. One of the people in the group a young minister told them it was not for him to choose who would live and die. The doctor said We are not asking you to decide who will die. This is already determined. We are asking you to help decide who will be given the opportunity of extended life. The minister agreed to do it. They all did. A few of them said it would be too cruel to force this responsibility onto someone else. Officially they were called the Admissions and Policies Committee of the Seattle Artificial Kidney Center at Swedish Hospital. But a lot of people called them the God Committee. At the time-- again this is in 1960-- there was no blueprint for this. The doctors gave them no guidelines. The committee considered first come first served or drawing straws. But they would been told to use their consciences. So they came up with a set of principles and rules. The first rules were clear-cut. The treatment was in Seattle so they would only look at applicants who lived in Washington state. Washington taxpayers were funding the research. They also decided no one over 45. There could be medical complications. And those people had at least had a shot at life. And no one under 18. The treatment was physically and emotionally demanding. No one knew how it might affect kids. But those rules only got them so far. They decided they would base their final selection on something else-- social worth. They would try to save the person whose death would most hurt society. They made a list of the factors they would weigh-- marital status number of dependents income net worth-- to pay for the treatment-- sex education occupation emotional stability past performance future potential and personal references. They made a policy of never meeting any of the candidates in person or even knowing their names because denying a person you would met face-to-face seemed too hard. They once let a journalist come see how they made one of these decisions. They just had a meeting where the doctors had presented them with five applications and the committee could only pick two. They walked the journalists through how they made that choice tried to recreate for her the conversation they would just had. Here's a transcript of their discussion. Banker-- Just to get the ball rolling why do not we start with number one-- the housewife from Walla Walla? Surgeon-- This patient could not commute for the treatment from Walla Walla so she would have to find a way to move her family to Seattle. Banker-- Exactly my point. It says here that her husband has no funds to make such a move. Lawyer-- Then are you proposing we eliminate this candidate on the grounds that she could not possibly accept treatment if it were offered? Minister-- How can we compare a family situation of two children such as this woman in Walla Walla with a family of six children such as patient number four the aircraft worker? This is something they talk about a lot. If one candidate has one kid and the other has two should you pick the candidate with two kids? They go round and round trying to answer a question that has no answer. Labor leader-- For the children's sake we have got to reckon with the surviving parent's opportunity to remarry. And a woman with three children has a better chance to find a new husband than a very young widow with six children. Surgeon-- How can we possibly be sure of that? How do the rest of you feel about number three the small businessman with three children? I am impressed that his doctor took special pains to mention that this man is active in church work. This is an indication to me of character and moral strength. Housewife-- Which would certainly help him conform to the demands of the treatment. Lawyer-- It would also help him to endure a lingering death. Housewife-- If we are still looking for the men with the highest potential of service to society I think we must consider that the chemists and the accountant have the finest educational backgrounds of all five candidates. In the end the people they chose were mostly men white and well-off-- people like them. Which seems inevitable given the criteria they would come up with to select for what they called social worth-- education future potential income. The treatment cost about 15000 a year what would be about 130000 today and it often was not covered by insurance. They would written all these rules to try to be fair but they would created an outcome that was anything but. Sometimes when you try to guess your own biases you come up with a very incomplete list. In a letter the minister wrote a few years later he talked about how he would been extra careful to guard against his own biases and not favor people who were good church members. But later on he worried that he might have gone too far been unfairly hard on religious people. The final votes were always made by consensus. They said that gave them some comfort. --some differences. I think that we are all of the same opinion at the present time. Does everyone agree? Agree. Well I think having arrived at that point that we are then ready to cast a vote in our poll. All in favor of accepting Mr. D say aye. Aye. Aye. Aye. And opposed? Mr. D is accepted as the next candidate for our kidney center. It is hard to find many recordings of Dr. Scribner. But I found an oral history recorded decades after all this happened where he talked about the God Committee. This was widely criticized afterward. The problem just in a word was you were faced with more people. Impossible choices. All right. Of course it was not fair at all but it was the best we could do and-- Dr. Scribner he talked to these patients constantly. He could not have the distance that the God Committee had. I have talked to a few of his patients. They all said he was a really caring doctor. And there was one patient he particularly liked a patient whose experience ended up changing everything for dialysis and for the God Committee. She was a teenage girl named Caroline. I talked to her mom Susan. She had a sunny personality. She was a very happy happy happy girl a very likable one. Well-rounded I would like to say. How did you know that Dr. Scribner liked Caroline so much? It is sort of instinctive. As a mother you get the feeling for if somebody likes your kid or not. Caroline was 15 a good student scout leader taught piano. When she was sick the athletes would carry her up and down the stairs at school. Kids from her youth group at church would donate blood. When Caroline's kidneys started to fail Dr. Scribner submitted her case to the committee even though he knew the rule-- no one under 18. Did he tell you when he put Caroline in front of the committee? Did you know that it was going on? Did I know what was going on? No. No I did not know until after the fact that that is what he had done. Oh. Mm-mm. I did not know there was a committee to choose who lives and dies. And she was turned down. What was that like for you? I can remember the conversation. I just know I was totally silent-- trying I guess to absorb what was being said. I do not know how you would put into words the feeling you have when you are delivered a death sentence like that. A part of you dies. Everything stops. And it still does when I think about it as a matter of fact. Were you ever angry that the committee did not just-- No. Or that she did not just-- No not at all. No? Not at all. Really? I mean they have their rules and regulations. And where you may have 100 people and can only take two you pretty much have to stick by the rules. Dr. Scribner did not see it that way. Dr. Scribner was not content with that decision. He thought he had a good case and had pleaded it well. And I really thought he felt that his cohorts would go along with him. He was a highly respected man. And I do not think he was used to having anybody say no to him. Dr. Scribner tried to find a way. He told the committee I will treat her on my own time nights and weekends. Just let me use the machines. They said no. He could not accept it. He had another idea something he would been thinking about for a while-- a smaller machine one that someone could take into their house and run themselves without any medical staff. It was nowhere near ready to be tested. And that is where we lucked out. And he was going to do whatever it took to keep her around until that machine was ready. He called the guy who had helped him build the dialysis machine an engineer named Albert Babb. He told him about Caroline and said Do you think we could make this? She only has four months. Albert asked Dr. Scribner Will not the committee get mad that you are going around them? Dr. Scribner said No this has nothing to do with them. I will get other funding. The engineer wanted to help. His whole team did. They were not technically supposed to. They were at the university and they were supposed to be working on something else. But they worked nonstop to do it. They decided not to tell the university concerned that the dean would shut it down. Someone on their team would actually do dean watch as they called it keeping an eye out for the dean and warning their team over the intercom if they saw him. In their lab they put their designs and sketches on sliding panels. When the dean entered the building they would quickly switch the panels around to hide their work on the machine. To get around the God Committee Dr. Scribner set it up independently as a research project. Caroline would use the dialysis machine at home. Susan would run the whole thing. It was presented to us as being a strictly family matter. To see if a family could run it. Correct. I believe it was phrased something like can layman non-professional people assume the role of engineer and nurse? So can lay people be trained? The engineers finished the new machine in four months and rushed it to Caroline's house in August of 1964. Susan learned how to do what before had only been done in a hospital-- run the machine that would remove her daughter's blood from her body wash it and feed it back in through her arm except it was happening in the basement of her house in a special room they would set up for Caroline. I would put her on the machine usually between 6 and 7 oclock at night. And that would mean taking her off after nine or 10 hours. So it was early early morning and then she would just stay in bed maybe for an hour and then eat breakfast before she went back to school. And you would take her off around 300 or 400 AM. So you would wake up in the middle of the night and-- Oh I was awake all night for sure. Oh you would stay awake all night. Our machines were so experimental Lilly. Alarms were going off all the time and then we would have to figure out what was wrong with it. A constant problem was that her blood would clot and clog the little tube the little shunt that Dr. Scribner had invented in Caroline's arm. I would have to get out heparin and saline in a syringe and unblock the clot. If it was unclottable that was very painful for her. And it hurt me to pain her that way. But I mean you had to get the blood flowing again and I had no alternative but to do that. That was probably our biggest hurdle was just keeping her blood moving. Were you ever worried that you would get something wrong? Oh sure. Sure. Oh sure. Sure. I mean when somebody's life is in your hands-- I mean at least when I felt her life was in my hands I was always aware that something could go wrong. But I better not let it happen. You have to concentrate. Do everything just right. Hm. Because she was sick. And I think my feeling was oh I hope she feels better after this because she was sick. And in just a few weeks Caroline felt better. Oh yeah she did. Her eyes sparkled and she was talkative. And I felt like this was the beginning of a new chapter in our life. Yeah. How did Dr. Scribner-- do you know how did he feel when he saw that it was working? Oh of course he was just jubilant. Oh he was just grinning from ear to ear. This research project was supposed to take three years to show whether or not home dialysis could be a viable treatment. But within one year doctors agreed-- this would work. This is what they would do. Susan kept dialyzing Caroline and Caroline kept getting better. She graduated high school started college. But dialysis is a treatment not a cure. And it was still experimental. A person's veins and arteries would often scar over and stop accepting the treatment. As the doctors had said it was a chance at extended life. In Caroline's case that meant four more years. She used up all of her usable veins and arteries. And they were having a very difficult time putting her on dialysis so that during the time she was in the hospital-- it was two or three weeks I think. I would dialyze her there as best I could for maybe as little as an hour before the blood quit flowing. Oh. And then she just deteriorated Lilly. Oh I am so sorry. She was in intensive care in the hospital. And she died at night when I had gone home. We knew that she was not going to come out of it. But so I guess I was as prepared as anybody could be knowing that we had done everything we could and that the bottom line is we would left a legacy for all the rest of these people-- not only our country but in the world-- that can live because of what we pioneered. After Susan and Caroline showed that home dialysis could work Dr. Scribner immediately put dozens of patients on home dialysis. People around the world started building these machines. It got cheaper. And with way more access to dialysis they no longer needed a committee to play God. The God Committee story now it is seen as a dark moment in medical history. People actually point to it as the birth of bioethics. We had to invent an entire field to deal with these questions. And we have agreed that having people vote on who makes the cut to live or to die was a bad idea. Although the truth is we vote on life and death decisions all the time just from a greater distance deciding things like who gets health insurance or where the best hospitals go-- which in a pandemic can make all the difference. We decide these things a lot. We just do not use the words God Committee. It is easier that way. Lilly Sullivan she is one of the producers of our show. Susan Vukich the mom in that story died a few years back. She was 91. After her daughter Caroline died she spent the rest of her life teaching people how to dialyze their family members at home. Act Two Winter's Bone. So when it comes to who will love that of course is not decided by a panel of experts somewhere. We each decide for ourselves who we want to be with. And one of our producers Elna Baker has noticed the way people are deciding on that deciding on who makes the cut who gets first date or becomes part of their life in a much bigger way. In New York City where she lives she says all that is changed lately. Have you heard about finding your winter? I had not either. Apparently it is a thing single people in New York have been doing since COVID. Basically over the summer and fall people started scrambling to find someone anyone before winter in a second lockdown. Back in August completely oblivious to this phenomenon I went on a date with a guy. We met on Hinge the dating app. Our first date we would spent six feet apart in a park. For our second date we met at an outdoor restaurant. It was going well. We just put in our order when he said What do we do about Hinge? What do you mean? I mean do I delete my profile? Why would you delete your profile? Because I met this really great girl and I am totally into her. I paused. Is it-- me? Yes of course. I was so confused. I would had to pull up Hinge right before the date to remind me of his name. And he was ready to be exclusive. I am not new to dating. This does not happen. Straight men in New York City rarely want relationships. The whole game is to stay single. At best you get invited into their harem-- one of three or four people they are sleeping with. No one ever wants to eliminate the possibility of other options so quickly. But then this kept happening. I would go on dates and everyone wanted to have road trip style marathon bonding sessions that lasted hours longer than usual. They wanted to see me again. They sent me flowers. They even held hands. This was my first time back in the game for a while. I would taken a break from dating for nearly a year. I would gone through a bad breakup. I left town for a while did some therapy meditated. And now back on the scene I felt like Rip Van Winkle waking up to a world where men suddenly wanted commitment. I went on 10 dates. Of them nine wanted to keep seeing me. By comparison three years ago when I was last single I went on 35 dates. Of them two wanted to keep seeing me. I thought did I get hot? All those months of work on myself had really paid off. I told this all to my friend Hamza. Did I get hot? Did you get hot? He could not stop laughing. You idiot it is COVID. That is when Hamza explained about people trying to find their winter. A friend of a friend named Christine a single woman in her 50s told me in her experience it is not subtle. One or two men has said to me winter's coming and I am really hoping to meet someone to spend the winter with. They have said that. Another person I talked to Kelsey 22 said she recognized what was happening early because she used to see it in Chicago every winter. Before temperatures dropped to below 0 and going outside was a non-starter people would rush to couple up. She said everyone called it cuffing season as in handcuffs. I was out. I was kind of seeing this guy casually and we were out one night. And we were sitting down at the bar kind of talking. And he was like Oh by the way we are together right? And I was like Oh my God you do not know me. Like no. I do not want to be exclusive with you. And by the end of the night he had gone home with someone else. So basically it was like-- it was musical chairs. He was trying to sit down in my chair and I said no. And he found another open chair and he was done. And he had a great cuffing season and I am sure that relationship ended by the time people were going out again. Kelsey says now it is COVID cuffing season like we are living in a forever winter. We are supposed to stay in. Dating multiple people is reckless. So people are settling. She told me one roommate of hers ended up with a girl he would not normally be into around Thanksgiving. And then another one left and is now living in a van in Colorado with an ex-boyfriend. But she does not want to date but I think she just did not want to be anywhere near New York. That is like an extreme cuff destination cuff. I guess you would think it would be nice. After all these years of rejection guys being into me right off the bat or being texted I miss you hours after meeting. But here's the problem with what they are doing. Projecting building up an entire fantasy based on barely knowing someone-- that is my thing. You cannot take my thing. One time I liked a guy so much after meeting him once that I spent a week imagining all the dates we would go on together including one where we got stoned and bought crayons spontaneously and colored in coloring books. By the time we went out again I would been on so many imaginary dates with him my brain genuinely did not know the difference between real life and what I would pretended we would done. But only one person can do that at a time. Otherwise you are both too into it way too soon. And that is bringing delusion to delusion and it cancels the whole thing out. Now I feel like I am on the other side of the equation. And watching people try to find their winter I am watching what I used to do and how disturbing it must have been. I get why 33 out of 35 men passed on me. It is offputting. I told Kelsey I do not like this new world of musical chairs we are living in. But the real question is do you need a chair? I have just really-- I would so much rather just be dancing around and not have a chair. It is nice to sit on a chair sometimes. Sometimes you got to sit on a chair. Sometimes you have got to sit on a chair. But if it is an uncomfortable chair you are going to be more miserable in the chair than not in a chair. Oh gosh I do not know. I had this-- oh my God I was getting out of the subway. I was getting out of the subway. And this guy approached me and he had a mask on. And he was like Excuse me. Can I ask you a question? And I thought for sure he was going to ask directions. So I said Yeah. And he was like I just bought a farm upstate and I am growing my own locally sourced produce. And I am looking for a girl to get in a relationship that I can bring upstate with me. Is this something you would be interested in? Oh my gosh. And I-- That is good. --was like-- You should have given him my number. I am interested.  I was like what is happening to the world? Is this truly the end of days? Also because I am used to guys using like I work in finance or I have financial stability. Like using things to reel me in but never crops. No one has ever said I have-- No. I got some crops. Crops but it is totally-- he is using his space. He is like I have fresh air and land. That is capital right now. That is total-- it is total capital right now. I get that it is hard to be alone. But this level of desperation is a bit much. He was a step away from saying I have a van two shotguns and a can of gas. Get in. We can make it at least two weeks before the zombies catch up to us. When really all we are in danger of is watching Netflix alone. I thought I could never be this way. But as I talked to people I admired the single-minded practicality of some of these New Yorkers. My friend Mica is a psychologist. She says people suffer when they are isolated. People need to be touched. She went looking for a winter to preserve her mental well-being. She is not deceiving anyone. She is clear about what she is looking for-- a warm body. Which does not sound very romantic but I feel like that is kind of where we are at-- where I am at-- in this moment. So you just want somebody for how long? Until I get my vaccine. And you are totally fine with it being someone that you would not normally be attracted to or want to spend time with? Well