A quick warning-- there are curse words that are un-beeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version you can find that at our website thisamericanlife.org. In a crisis we learn new things about the people we love. Saw this video online that this nurse Elise Barrett in Seattle made for her husband. She works in a cancer clinic but figured she would be called to work in an ICU once things heated up there with COVID-19 cases and she had some things she wanted to say to him. Hey Bubber. I wanted to make this video for you in case you find yourself in a really rough spot. I know you and I have had some conversations about what to do if you know I am where I cannot speak for myself if I am on a ventilator if I am super duper ill. You know I have seen a lot of awful stuff and awful deaths. And-- She was an ICU nurse for nearly 10 years. And she instructs him if she is on a ventilator with no awareness or ability to interact and no chance to wake up again let her die. Or another possibility-- If at some point I am coding and I am coding over and over they will be able to tell you. Do not-- do not make them code me over and over. If I have had a protracted hypoxic code do not make them keep working me. If they are thinking that there is going to be massive brain damage secondary to generalized hypoxia they will tell you there is white on the CAT scan. There is swelling in the brain generalized. People do not come back from that. And there is not really a lot of hope left at that point of getting me back. So at that point you got to let me go. She is entirely business-like about this-- medical professional running through the things that she needs him to now. Yes they talked about this before but now she has some details some gaps to fill in. And she ticks through the possibilities of what could happen to her. If she is on a ventilator and starts to recover she warns her husband not to get too hopeful because it is not unusual for people to turn a corner and get worse again. If she dies here's what she is thinking about a funeral. If she does recover and gets off the vent he should know that it might be months of rehab before she will be able to come home again. And one more thing she wants a partner to know-- You should be aware that when somebody is super duper sick when they are proned their face swells up. They look awful. If I am sick enough to be mechanically ventilated I am going to look like shit and I do not necessarily think you want to see that. It is OK for you not to visit me in the hospital. It is not going to be safe for you to visit me in the hospital. I would rather you stay home and take care of Kepler and have this video and other stuff that I have left for you to make sure that your memories of me are not traumatic or scarring. Kepler is their two-year-old son. I want you to be safe. I want you to take care of yourself. I love you more than anything else on earth except maybe Kepler. Thank you for him. Thank you for giving me that beautiful boy and for giving me the life that we have had together. And I love you so much. I will miss you. Bye bye. When you know somebody so well what can you possibly say that is going to be news to them about who you are or what you think? I am guessing nothing in this video was a huge surprise to this nurse's husband. But when there is a crisis it is important to say certain things-- practical stuff information and instructions. But also there is feelings to share. We need to connect. It is not a moment for big revelations. You just want to tint the colors in the picture of you two a little bit this way or that. My co-worker Bim has been having these daily conversations with her brother Demola. He is been sick with COVID-19 for over a week now. And these conversations are totally different than that nurse's video. All the ways that nurse Elise Barrett is so direct imagining every possible terrible outcome one by one and discussing it Bim and Demola are not into that. I am guessing with no evidence at all here that most of us are more like Bim and Demola. We would rather sidestep the scariest possibilities for as long as possible. But in their daily talks there is still new information passing between them than they usually share. She is in New York. Demola and the rest of her family are in London. He is four years younger. He perhaps remains the most beautiful baby I have ever seen in my life like aggressively so. My mom will tell you oh yeah Demola's the most beautiful of my babies. She makes no qualms about it. He was very beautiful. That is just rude to say to your other children. It is really rude. But Demola was beautiful. He was pretty. He was a pretty baby. He still has this little beauty spot right where Marilyn Monroe had hers. Oh wow. Yeah. And these lashes. And so when he was very little my sister and I would put him on-- there was a short exactly child level ironing board. It was more like a table. And we would put him on there and we would kiss him all over him until he would cry in protest. To hear Bim tell it Demola's relationship with the sisters today is a faint echo of that. His older sister is more expressive with her feelings. Demola a little bit apart happy to be by himself a separate island from the rest of them keeping his own counsel very quiet. Before he got sick Bim would usually text him or talk to him on WhatsApp a couple of times a week. Lots of it was talk about TV shows and quoting Zapp Brannigan from Futurama to each other and Bim mocking Demola whenever his team Arsenal loses. But now that they are talking every day and for the first time it is video chats the dailiness of it gives everything a different feeling. And the subject matter is different too. So I am asking him did you drink enough water today? What is your temperature? Did the cough go away? Is it a dry cough? So yeah the questions on the one hand are very dry and basic. But on the other I suppose because I have never asked them before it feels extra special now to be asking very specifically what is your temperature and to be able to track his life in this way. The knowledge that it went from 37 degrees and now it is 36 degrees. You know? Yeah. I mean in Celsius obviously. Yeah. It just feels really oddly intimate that I know the temperature of his body across an ocean. Even though the question seems really bland on the surface-- you know what is your temperature? It is a way of asking-- and it is a way I think also of circumventing the elephant in the room which is if he had a more serious case of COVID-19 if his symptoms were more severe if things were really dire-- you know we just do not talk about it. So when I ask about his temperature what I am asking is-- it is like a shorthand. It is half language that we are using. There is a Yoruba saying my mom often says which is speaking from underneath your tongue. And in a way I feel like I am speaking from underneath my tongue to ask a really serious question but in the most bland language which is oh are you drinking water? What was the headache like? It is asking these very basic questions that are basically pushing back my fear of what this could have been. That is terrifying to me. Because the thing underneath it that you are not saying is-- The thing I am-- the thing I am saying-- I feel like I am screaming it-- is please do not die. I do not want you to die. So it sounds like she is learning some new information about this person she knows so well in these daily conversations. But she is seeing such a different side of him. Normally he is so stoic she says. But now he is way more vulnerable and way more open to everybody in the family calling him all the time and asking him questions. I think he wants to be fussed over in this at least a little bit. Mm-hmm. I think he likes it a little bit. And obviously it will get more annoying as he gets better and stronger again. But for now he is basically a baby on an ironing table and we are going to kiss him. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program moments when we fill in the gaps and see parts of somebody we have not seen before but we learn it can be a kind of subtle shading around the edges. Though in all of our stories today I have to say it is way bigger than that. It is people declaring you thought you knew the truth but no no no you did not not all of it. And the part that you did not know changes everything. Now as Paul Harvey used to say now you know the rest of the story. Stay with us. Act 1 I Cannot be Your Hero Baby. Certain stories get told over and over about undocumented immigrants in this country. And one of the big ones is about sacrifice-- about hardworking people who work long hours in restaurant kitchens and farms and other low paying jobs to support their families grateful for the chance to be in the US. Or the DACA kids who strive and want nothing more than college and the American dream. Karla Cornejo Villavicencio has heard lots of these stories and thought she could do better. Just a quick note about her essay-- there are very brief references in it to rape and suicide. Here she is. When I was a senior in college I wrote an anonymous essay for The Daily Beast about what they wanted to call my dirty little secret that I was undocumented. This was in 2011 before DACA and I was one of the first undocumented students to graduate Harvard. The essay got me some attention and agents wrote me asking if I wanted to write a memoir. I was angry. A memoir? I was 21. I was not fucking Barbra Streisand. I had been writing professionally since I was 15 but only about music. I wanted to be the guy in High Fidelity. And I did not want my first book to be a rueful tale about being a sickly Victorian orphan with tuberculosis who did not have a social security number which is what the agents all wanted. The guy who eventually ended up becoming my agent respected that did not find an interchangeable immigrant to publish a sad book read everything I would write over the next seven years and we kept in touch. I was the first person who wrote him on the morning of November 9th 2016. That morning I received a bunch of emails from people who are really freaked out about Trump winning. And the emails essentially were offers to hide me in their second houses in Vermont or stay in their basements. Shit I told my partner they are trying to Anne Frank me. By this point I had read lots of books about migrants. I hated a good number of these books. I could not see my family in them because I saw my parents as more than laborers as more than sufferers or dreamers. I thought I could write something better and I thought I was the best person to do it. I was just crazy enough. Because if you are going to write about undocumented immigrants in America tell the story the full story you have to be a little bit crazy. And you certainly cannot be enamored by America not still. That disqualifies you. I did not want to write anything inspirational. I wanted to write for everybody who wants to step away from the buzzwords in immigration-- the talking heads the Dreamers in graduation caps and gowns-- and read about the people underground not heroes randoms people. I wanted to write about my parents and that is the story I am going to tell here the story of my parents. If you ask my mother where she is from she is 100 going to say she is from the kingdom of god because she does not like to say that she is from Ecuador Ecuador being one of the few South American countries that has not especially outdone itself on the international stage. Magical realism basically skipped over it. And our military dictatorship never reached the mythical status of a Pinochet or a Videla. Plus there are no world famous Ecuadorians to speak of other than the fool who housed Julian Assange at the embassy in London and Christina Aguilera's father who she said was a domestic abuser. If you ask my father where he is from he will definitely say Ecuador because he is sentimental about the country for reasons he is working out in therapy. But if you push them I mean really push them they are both going to say they are from New York. If you ask them if they feel American because you are a little narc who wants to prove your blood runs red white and blue they are going to say no we feel like New Yorkers. They have lived in New York since they left Ecuador in 1991. I do not know much about my parents' decision to choose New York or even the United States as a destination. It is not that I have not asked them why they came to the United States. It is that the answer is not as morally satisfying as most people's answers are-- a decapitated family member famine. And I never pressed them for more details because I do not want to apply pressure on a bruise. The story as far as I know it goes something like this. My parents had just gotten married and their small auto body business was not doing well. The idea of coming to America to work for a year to make just enough money to pay off their debts came up and it seemed like a good idea. They left me with my dad's family when I was a year and a half old. That is about as much as I know. My parents did not come back after a year. They were barely making ends meet. When I was four years old going to school in Ecuador teachers began to comment on how gifted I was. My parents knew Ecuador was not the place for a gifted girl. The gender politics were too fucked up. And they wanted me to have all the educational opportunities they had not had. So that is when they brought me to New York. I was just shy of five when I stepped off the plane. White Americans love academically achieving minorities. And I learned quickly that the most alluring thing about me was that I was young and brown and a good student the holy trinity. I went to a Catholic elementary school on a scholarship and we lived in Queens. My mother stayed home and my father drove a cab. This was back when East New York was still gang country and he had to fold his body into a little origami swan and hide under his steering wheel during crossfires in the middle of the day. Then came September 11th 2001. Here's how I remember the day my father started dying not long after the twin towers fell. My father comes home from work and I greet him in the doorway to give him a kiss hello. He walks slowly and comes toward my body at a strange angle a child could only interpret as a terrible fall. He collapses onto me to cry into my neck. I am little 12 or 13 but he does he falls. The letter says in English something about the DMV suspending driver's licenses for undocumented immigrants. It was part of an attempt to strengthen security measures after 911. My father had just lost his job as a taxi driver. He had also lost his state ID. Over the next 20 years he would lose many more things but let us put a little blue thumb tack on this memory map the first place in Hell we visited. September 11th changed the immigration landscaper forever. ICE was the creation of 911 paranoia. It changed my father too. It was hard to see him fall because he was the most powerful person I knew. He was a difficult man and I was a difficult child. I was polite and craved approval from authority figures but I was also dark and precocious. Not precocious in the we live in Tribeca and my kid is a born artist kind of way. More like my immigrant third grader is reading Hemingway but is secretly drinking Listerine and toothpaste until she throws up because she wants it to kill her kind of way. Only years later would I realized how real my suicidal impulses were. That was too damn young I would think lying down in the dark at my doctor's office with an IV of ketamine hooked up to my arm hoping to extinguish the suicidality that began when I was five and lay crayons around the perimeter of my bed so I would know in the morning if I would been secretly raped at night. I would know because the crayons would be broken. My father read parenting books that explained how to raise troubled children. But those children were never straight-A students who were soft-spoken and loved teachers. It confused him and the dissonance made him angry at me. He saw me as different from other children in a way that troubled him and he fumbled in the dark to help me with what he could not name. When I was off from school for any kind of break my father would plan out my day in half hour increments scheduling everything from bath time to TV shows to coloring time to math drills to time to play with dolls and even bathroom breaks. He called it my schedule and he hand wrote it on graph paper in different colored inks and taped it to my desk. When I became overwhelmed with panic crying hysterically he would send me to take a cold shower or take me out on a jog around the neighborhood. He would set aside a magazine or a newspaper articles for me to translate. He could not review the fidelity of the translation but he judged my penmanship. I did not know what would have happened to me if I had not been kept away from my own thoughts for so many years. My father kept me alive. After my father lost his job as a taxi driver he found a job as a delivery man at a restaurant down in the Financial District. In the mornings he would deliver breakfast to offices-- a raisin bagel with cream cheese and a coffee with hazelnut creamer orange juice and a banana a granola bar and chocolate milk. There was no delivery minimum so my father delivered it all. Because the deliveries were so small sometimes he did not get a tip. Sometimes he was told to keep the change a quarter. Sometimes he was tipped in pennies. He had to say thank you sir thank you madam. Sometimes he was given a 20 tip for a 5.00 breakfast. He always told us about those tips. They were usually from Puerto Rican receptionists who talked to him in Spanish and asked to see photos of me. When he came home was one of those tips it was like having my dad back from the dead. He would dance to no music and he would make jokes and he would come out of his shower looking like a teenager. My father did not use a bike. He made all his deliveries on foot. He speed walked while carrying bags of food to offices on Wall Street. The plastic handles of the bags would twist and cut into his fingers and he developed large calluses on both his hands. His polyester pants rubbed up against his calves so much that he lost all the hair on his legs. He went through many pairs of inexpensive black rubber shoes. My mother massaged his feet at night. My dad's feet are small and fat like mine so you cannot tell when they are swollen. After a few years my dad's feet would hurt so much that he walked like he was on hot coals sometimes leaning on me to move from the couch to the bed. Aye yai yai yai yai he would say as he limped like a mariachi. When I was 15 the owner of the restaurant where my father worked hired a new manager to oversee the delivery men who were all immigrants. The guy was Puerto Rican an American citizen and became immediately abusive threatening to call ICE on them yelling at them getting up in their faces. My father fell into a bit of a depression. I had just watched All the President's Men. I put on my best posh accent dialed 69 to block my number and called the restaurant. I asked to speak to the owner. I said I was a beat reporter for a big city newspaper and had just received a tip from a customer about overhearing racist abuse in the kitchen. And did he have a comment? The owner said he would handle it and asked me not to write the story. I do not know man I said it is a pretty good story. In the end the manager was fired and the cloud over my father lifted. My father was furious when I told him what I did. But not for a minute in the 15 years since have I felt that what I did was unethical. Nor have I felt guilty for having a man fired. I would do it again but my accent would be better. I went to a small public high school in Times Square where around 80 of the student body was at or below the poverty line. We were mostly all black or Latinx. I was a high achiever. I wanted to go to the University of Chicago because I found the unofficial motto where fun goes to die appealing. But there is no beating Harvard. That name. I needed the name to keep my parents safe. Harvard at the time did not know how to deal with undocumented students. When I was there a very successful Wall Street man who knew me from an educational NGO we both belonged to-- he as a supporter me as a supported-- learned I was undocumented and could not legally hold a work-study job. So every semester he wrote me a modest check. In the notes section and he cheekily wrote beer money. I wrote him regular emails about my life at Harvard and my budding success as a published writer. He was always appropriate and boundaried. I had read obsessively about artists since I was a kid and considered myself an artist since I was a kid so I did not feel weird about older wealthy white people giving me money in exchange for grades or writing. It was patronage. They were Gertrude Stein and I was a young Hemingway. I was van Gogh crazy and broken. I truly did not have any racial anxieties about this thank god. That kind of thing could really fuck a kid up. Different therapists throughout the years have tried to get me to confess to cultural shock about arriving to Harvard as a poor undocumented freshman. But the truth is there was none. I have always had a really wonderful sense of self-esteem thanks to my mother who is a tiny bit of a narcissist and has delusions of royalty and because of my mental illness which comes with delusions of grandeur of its own. So I kind of felt like it was my birthright. That probably makes a lot of people very mad. As I began to receive my diagnoses and misdiagnoses throughout my 20s-- depression anxiety OCD bipolar disorder borderline personality disorder complex trauma-- I did not feel anything other than affinity with writers I loved people like Emily Dickinson Sylvia Plath Anne Sexton and Robert Lowell. It made sense to me that I had my own demons. Of course I did. I have always been super casual when people ask me about my parents having left me in Ecuador. That is a bravado I would like to keep on the official record. But sometimes I think about it. I have not talked with my parents about their having left me in Ecuador when I was a year and a half old. Sometimes I do adorable things like take pictures of myself chugging vodka bottles or pretending to down the contents of a pill bottle and send them to my mother with the caption because you abandoned me. When I am away from my partner and dog for a few days for work and it is hard I wonder how my parents were able to do it for three years. I do not blame either of them for it. I never have. What I am describing to you is dirt extracted from a very tight pore. I do not feel anything about being left on the day to day but I am told by mental health experts that it has affected me. And I fought that conclusion. I denied it. I wanted to be a genius. I wanted my mental illnesses to be purely biological. I wanted to have been born wild and crazy and weird and brilliant writing math equations in chalk on a window. Instead therapist after therapist told me I had attachment issues and that my mental illnesses were related to my childhood. I left those therapists ghosted them. But it is not just those early years without my parents that branded me. It is the life I have lead in America as a migrant. As an undocumented person I felt like a hologram. Nothing felt secure. I never felt safe. I did not allow myself to feel joy because I was scared to attach myself to anything I would have to let go of. Being deportable means you have to be ready to go at any moment. I have never loved a material object. When my parents took me home after my Harvard graduation we took the Chinatown bus and we each took one suitcase of my things. If it did not fit we threw it out. We threw out everything that was not clothes. After I graduated from Harvard I went to Yale to do a PhD. I never wanted to PhD. But DACA did not exist then and I could not legally get a job anywhere. And I had to buy time for something to happen-- for the DREAM Act to pass which my dad had assured me would happened since I was in middle school. And I needed the health insurance. It is allowed me to write and my parents will be proud when I get that doctorate. I have fetched the American dream and laid it at my parents' feet. But the twisted inversion that many children of immigrants know is that at some point your parents become your children. And your own personal American dream becomes making sure they age and die with dignity in a country that has long wanted them dead. A few years ago my father experienced heart failure. This was the moment I had been preparing for my entire life. Everything that had happened to me since I took that New York-bound flight 24 years ago had been preparing me for this moment. Learning English getting bangs gaining weight losing weight getting the sick puppy from the pet shop-- all of that happened to prepare me to this point. My parents were sick undocumented uninsured and aging out of work in a fucking racist country. Until the pandemic hit my father was a salad maker feeding Manhattan's executive class. He had worked for 14 years at the same restaurant then left. He was invited to a promising new job lured there by an acquaintance who assured him of better hours better treatment a better environment. My dad is very gullible. He spent a week at this new restaurant where for spare change they had him work all day. And then at the end of the day he was given just two and a half hours to clean an industrial kitchen-- an industrial fryer a refrigerator a stove an oven and a sink-- wash the dishes in the dishwasher take out the trash sweep and mop the floors and clean the garbage chute. His body was wrecked at the end of each day. I am too old to for this he said. So he quit. His old job would not take him back. Desperate he began each morning by showing up at a Latinx job agency which would send him out to audition at a different restaurant day after day week after week to no avail. My dad started texting me blurry cell phone pictures from the job agency. He took the photos when he was sitting in the waiting room of the agency waiting for his name to be called. The first picture is of a man maybe in his late 70s wearing a green button down khaki pants and aviator sunglasses. His lips are downcast. My dad said he was applying to be a dishwasher. The second picture is of a man maybe in his late 40s who was wearing a black baseball cap a gray sweater and maroon pants. My dad said he would had a stroke. His right arm was paralyzed and he had a limp and his right leg. He was also applying to be a dishwasher. It is hard to see men like that not get jobs my dad texted. I hope they have children who can take care of them I respond. What I mean to say is I hope they have a child like me. I hope everyone has a child like me. I tell god this is going to kill me anyway so just take me. Patent and mass produce and distribute me to undocumented immigrants at Walmarts. I am a professional undocumented immigrant's daughter. I saved the photos on my phone as a reminder to myself of why I need to be successful so successful statistical anomaly successful. Then I deleted them because they harmed my mental health. I wish I still had them. My parents live in New York City and after the pandemic hit in March they lost their jobs. They are both in Queens the center of the center of the epidemic. I have prohibited my father from doing dangerous gig work like deliveries. And I have begun to financially support them both. My mom is immunocompromised. She has an extremely low white blood cell count. I have really lovely dreams crazy fucking cotton candy fantasy dreams dreams that make my whole body feel warm where I cut up my chest no anesthesia take out my lungs and implant them into her chest with the tree stitch. And if I am lucky in the seconds I have before I die I would be able to see her heart. We would not even need a ventilator. There is a Harvard scholar named Roberto Gonzalez who has conducted longitudinal studies on the effects of undocumented life on young people. He found his subjects suffered chronic headaches toothaches ulcers sleep problems and eating issues which is funny to find in research because I get these migraines an 8 or 9 on the 10 point scale. I have a CAT scan an MRI. I go to the neurologist. The readings are all inconclusive. I am told it is a migraine with an unknown cause. Have you tried yoga they say. The headaches get worse when I write about my parents. From migrants shot in the head by Border Patrol to migrant children being forcibly injected with drugs in detention centers US government's crimes against immigrants are beyond the pale. And the whole world knows. But when I was growing up and throughout the Obama administration similar crimes were happening if on a different scale and I am not sure the same people cared. I felt crazy for thinking we were under attack watching my neighbors disappear and then going to school and watching the nightly news and watching award shows and seeing no mention. I felt crazy watching the white supremacist state slowly kill my father. I would frantically tell everyone that there was no such thing as the American dream. But then some all-star immigrants around me who had done things the right way preached a different story and Americans ate that up. It all made me feel crazy. I also am crazy. Pero why? Researchers have shown that the flooding of stress hormones resulting from a traumatic separation from your parents at a young age kills off so many dendrites and neurons in the brain that it results in permanent psychological and physical changes. One psychiatrist I went to told me that my brain looks like a tree without branches. So I just think about all the children who have been separated from their parents and there is a lot of us past and present and some under more traumatic circumstances than others like those who are in internment camps right now. And I just imagine us as an army of mutants. What will happen to us? Who will we become? Who will take care of us? We have all been touched by this monster and our brains are forever changed all of us trees without branches. Karla Cornejo Villavicencio reading an essay adapted from her brand new memoir The Undocumented Americans.  Coming up a meaningless high school competition that years later becomes very very meaningful. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Embiggening stories where new details arrive that embiggen in the picture-- and thank you The Simpsons by the way for that word-- and change everything. We have arrived at act two of our show. Act 2 Popular Vote. So there are times when you discover an information gap in your own past something you thought you knew everything about. After all it happened to you. And then somebody comes along and says no it did not happen like that at all. What do you do with that new information? Sean Cole has a story like that. It begins more than a decade ago at a high school. Here's Sean. The school was Granada Hills Charter High School GHCHS. It is in the suburbs of LA. Huge more than 4500 kids enrolled right now. It is the largest charter school in the country. And in the spring of 2007 it engaged in one of the most hallowed of American high school traditions senior superlatives. You might have had these at your school. Kids vote each other most likely to succeed best smile cutest couple. Marc Snetiker was one of those kids. I have been embarrassed about my superlatives for 10 years. Have you been? I mean I won most school spirited. Nobody wants to win most school spirited. I put all of my closeted gay energy into school spirit. You know what I mean? I did the morning announcements. I was on student council. I did theater. I loved high school. He also won a category called all around senior. You were allowed to compete in two categories but no more than that. And GHCHS really put a lot into these superlatives. There was an election like usual with paper ballots. But instead of announcing the winners over the intercom or posting them on a hallway bulletin board there was this event run by the Senior Leadership Council which Marc was on-- a big ceremony and trophies. All of the winners received a little replica of the Oscar statuette. It was not unlike a roast. All the