OK so there is this couple. They have been married for years had two kids when they decided to separate. They get lawyers start to figure out custody and split the property. But they are still living in the same house and the guy is hoping that they are going to work things out. They are going to marriage counseling. They are going to parenting classes. And then one Saturday the guy spots a text message on his wife's phone from another man to his wife saying I love you and miss you. And he is devastated. And he turns to someone he knows will be on his side will help him make sense of this tell him what to do-- his lawyer. The guy who represents him in the separation. What he did not know was that his lawyer was probably at that moment the single worst person in the world for him to be bringing this up with because as he later learned the man his wife was having an affair with was his lawyer. Of course once the husband figures out the truth he gets a new lawyer. The old lawyer ends up being charged with professional misconduct. I have right here the transcript of that disciplinary hearing. Because the family's been through enough already with this I am not going to give their names here on the radio or tell you where this happened. They have moved on. I will just call them Mr. And Mrs. X. And this transcript is an amazing document because when you read it you realize it is even worse than you would imagine. Like it sounds bad and the details make it even worse because a lawyer you know is not just like a business consultant who you hire to deal with your paperwork. A lawyer is really a confidant. The Monday after he learns of the affair Mr. X goes to his lawyer's office and pours out his heart about what is happened. At that point Mr. X does not know who his wife might be seeing but suspects a firefighter in town. This is from the hearing transcript. Quote I am sitting with the lawyer for an hour explaining to him how I cannot believe she is having an affair that I think it is the fireman. And he is looking at me right in the face. I am in tears crying to him you know? Because I never thought she would have an affair on me. And here he is right in front of me. He is the guy that is having an affair with my wife. The person questioning Mr. X asks What is he saying to you? Mr. X Nothing. He did not say nothing. He did not even seem to care I was there. It gets even worse. Specifically when they deal with the question of payment which really boils down to if your attorney has an affair with your wife who is also at the same time the opposing party in the case do you get a refund for that? The 1500 that you paid your lawyer do you get that back? In this hearing the lawyer was actually given a chance to question the witnesses himself which led to a totally surreal moment in which under oath the lawyer actually cross-examined Mr. X the client whose wife he had an affair with. The lawyer says to Mr. X quote When we talked about returning the fee that you paid me is not it true that I said I was willing to talk about it? Mr. X-- No. You said you earned every penny. You said 'I had done a lot of work. And I feel like I earned all that money.' That is exactly what you said. Lawyer-- So you do not believe you recall hearing me say that I was willing to talk about it? Mr. X-- No. Lawyer-- Do you remember that I tried to apologize to you? Mr. X-- Yeah I do remember that. I asked you 'Do not you have something to say to me?' I said 'For everything you have done having an affair with my wife' I said 'do not you at least owe me an apology for all that?' And yes you did. You said 'I am sorry for all that.' Does that answer your question? Lawyer-- Did you at any point feel like you could bring yourself to accept my apology? Mr. X-- It is going to take a long time. I have and I pray for you every day. And I hope God has mercy on your soul. I really do. For his part the lawyer said he never intended to hurt anyone. He was an alcoholic he said just coming out of a divorce himself quote Lonely and not exercising good judgment. When he was asked about that moment in his office when Mr. X came in and cried and he did not say anything he says quote I remember feeling very awkward about it. In hindsight I should have revealed the relationship sooner and withdrawn from the case. And I did say to her on several occasions 'You know I am going to have to bow out of this case.' The person questioning the lawyer asks Well why did not you? The lawyer says Well to be honest it was very awkward. It was one of those things I just was not sure how to bring up or when to bring up. Yes that is an awkward thing to bring up with your client. And I think the most extraordinary part of this transcript is the part where the lawyer tries to explain himself by telling his own sad story. Quote I found myself justifying aspects of the relationship in terms of positive intentions if that makes any kind of sense at all. I hope I am not rambling too much. I guess part of my-- part of my attraction to Mrs. X initially was that she was one of the first persons one of the first individuals I had confessed my drinking problem. And she was just so understanding and so supportive. At the time I could not believe it. If a girl meets a guy and finds out that he is a drunk she should dump him you know? Run not walk to get away from the situation. But she was very kind very supportive. I know it looks real bad. For what he did he was suspended for practicing law for three years. But before the suspension was over another case came up of professional misconduct and he was disbarred. For his part Mr. X always regretted his choice of attorney. He said quote I have never had to deal with anything through the law in my life. And I hired him as my attorney. I expected him to represent me and he did everything but. The problem of course is when you sign up with an attorney or anybody else to give you advice to be your guide you have to trust them right? And you put your life in their hands in some situations. And it is a huge leap of faith. Today on our radio show we have people who need help who need advice and who make some very unusual choices about who they take that leap of faith with. A kid runs away from home to get advice from somebody who he has never met in his life. A man in a terrible medical situation looks for a doctor and gets a world famous doctor who chooses to communicate with him only in rhyme. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Just South of the Unicorns. When I was a kid I wrote to my favorite astronauts. I wrote to my radio hero who was this funny proto-shock jock in Baltimore named Johnny Walker. And I got responses. I got satisfying responses. It does not seem so strange at that age to reach out to people who you idolize no matter how far away they seem. Logan Hill has the story of somebody doing just that. In the winter of 1987 my middle school in rural North Carolina was preparing for an event called The Night of the Notables. For one night only the members of the sixth and seventh grade would dress up as historic figures and mingle. The parents would try to guess who we were. Each kid picked a notable-- Lincoln Washington Harriet Tubman. When it was my turn the 12-year-old me said Piers Anthony. My teacher Mrs. Beal gently suggested I might want to pick someone a bit more well notable because parents might not read as much science fiction and fantasy as I did. But I would not be swayed. I was so obsessed with sci-fi and fantasy that at my 12th birthday party I was pulled off the roller rink for reading the sci-fi book I had just unwrapped while roller skating. I read Ursula Le Guin and Ray Bradbury and Harry Harrison and Harlan Ellison and Larry Niven and Robert Heinlein. But at 12 the author I loved above all others was Piers Anthony who cranked out four books a year filled with heroic adventures goofy puns wise-cracking ogres and sexy cyborgs. I loved all of it. But what made Piers Anthony so different and so remarkable was that at the end of those books about alternate dimensions and apocalypses narrowly avoided he would often write these rambling confessional author's notes. They would run 30 sometimes 40 pages and they would rarely be about the novels. Instead Piers Anthony would write about everyday life at his Florida home and what he dubbed mundania-- his tree farm his vegetarianism his martial arts exercise routines. There were stories about his daughters his wife and the horse in his backyard name Blue that became the inspiration for a unicorn in one novel and a magical horse called The Nightmare in another. The notes were personal like a grown-up's diary-- clashes with publishers family illnesses daily responsibilities. I studied them to the point that I still remember when he upgraded his computer to MS-DOS and doubled his RAM from 256k to 512k. When I write to you he wrote once it is as if we are in privacy booth and we are sharing things that neither of us would confess elsewhere. I was sure Piers Anthony would help me impersonate him at the Night of the Notables. So I wrote him the first and only fan letter of my life. And he immediately responded with what seemed to be an Arc of the Covenant sized crate-- an amazing box filled with new books his unpublished memoir Bio of an Ogre and a long kind letter that wished me luck on my big night. When that night came I wore a fake beard cut from a scratchy carpet remnant plus jam surfer shorts and flip-flops since I figured that is what they wore in Florida. In the school library I told parents I was originally from England but I built this awesome writing studio in my backyard. And my novel Ogre Ogre was the first fantasy paperback original on the New York Times bestseller list. I bragged that I would written some 80 books and I was so famous that my novels were on sale at the Walden Books across from the Food Lion. My teacher was right. Not a single one of these muggles could guess who I was. Steven King one parent guessed. Star Trek guessed another. That is not even a person I thought. Somehow I do not remember being embarrassed in the least about my choice. I do not remember the slightest hint of regret. In fact I remember sipping sparking apple juice through my itchy beard with a 12-year-old Harriet Tubman and feeling kind of smug about the whole thing. And if nobody knew who I was that was their problem. For a night I would walked in my favorite writer's flip-flops. And for years I thought that had to make me his biggest fan. 10 years after the Night of the Notables I first met my friend Andy. It was the summer of 1997. I would gone to the coast of Georgia for a wedding. A bunch of friends of the couple barely out of college had gone out early to party. I was wading in the ocean with this guy Andy a friend of the groom. At some point it came out that I was a writer. And Andy asked me who I read when I was a kid. I could have said some hip sci-fi author like Philip K. Dick or William Gibson but I told Andy the truth that I would been obsessed with this guy Piers Anthony who wrote about centaurs and ogres and unicorns. And Andy cut me off. Me too! he said. I was obsessed. This did not happen very often so I got a little competitive. I said No I was so obsessed I impersonated him. And Andy said he was more obsessed really. And then I one-upped him by talking about my special letter. We went back and forth out-nerding each other until finally I blurted out What you were not the kid who ran away to his house were you? Actually you said Were you that kid that ran away from home to visit him? That is right. I totally remember that now. This is Andy. And the way I remember it is that after I said that Andy just seemed sort of stunned. And what did you think about when I said that? I think I had a young person's flash of like am I notorious? I was shocked that anybody had heard of that because it was not a story and still is not to this day-- well I guess today being an exception-- is not a story that I have told to very many people. The fact was I had read about Andy in Piers Anthony's office notes many years before. He would included a couple offhand sentences about a boy who'd run away from home and showed up on his doorstep. Andy had never seen this author's note himself but the story had stuck with me. And if I am honest it was probably because I was a little jealous. That same winter when 12-year-old me was proudly dressing up in Piers Anthony drag 15-year-old Andy was crossing seven states by himself to seek out our idol. Andy's story was not the high-spirited adventure that I would imagined. He does not like to dwell on the details of his teenage years mostly out of respect for his family. But the basic facts of his life back then are probably familiar to lot of unhappy kids. Andy lived in a suburb outside Buffalo New York. His parents had divorced when he was young and Andy lived with his mother half-sister and his stepfather. His relationship with his mom was not good. His relationship with his stepfather a red-blooded corporate athletic alpha dude was worse. School was torture. Not only was he small the smallest kid in his class even at 15 but he was weird. He liked to read books about elves. He says he had nobody to talk to did not have a single friend. By his sophomore year in 1987 Andy had so little hope of fitting in that he gave up trying. He started wearing his grandfather's 1940s fedora to school and buttoning his shirts up all the way to his neck sometimes imagining he was from some other country some other planet. The worse he felt the more he retreated into fantasy until finally like Spock slowly dematerializing on the transporter he was barely in high school at all. I just gave up. I said  it. I am not going to do anything. So I began failing all of my classes-- like all of them. I had to repeat the 10th grade. And I am not a dumb person. I just did not-- actually I would go to class. But I would just check out mentally with the help of Piers Anthony or Stephen King or whoever. And then in class I would have the textbook. And then inside the textbook I would have Ogre Ogre or whatever Piers Anthony novel. At the time I also was really into Stephen King. It came out a few years later but I remember I read It in class all day long for like eight hours however long you are in class 700 in the morning until 300 in the afternoon. And I finished that 1000 page book in like two days. That is how checked out I was. Like me Andy loved Piers Anthony most of all in part because you never ran out of books because the guy just wrote so damn many. And also because of those long author's notes which he read as closely as I did. I loved them and I devoured them as avidly as I did the rest of the book. And all he was describing was like the mundanity of his daily life. But it felt to me like he was talking directly to me. And it felt great to have an adult talk to me about the world and talk to me about adult life and leave nothing out you know? And explain things without it being condescending or talking down to me because I was a kid. And having trouble in school and no friends it felt like he was a friend. Little by little Andy says he found himself fantasizing less about the wild adventures of Piers Anthony's novels and more about the everyday reality of those notes. And at some point he stopped sneaking into the magical land of Xanth or the futuristic planet Proton entirely. Instead he begin to imagine another escape-- what life might be like on the small farm in the modest house he would read about in those author's notes. To Andy an ordinary happy life seemed just as fantasical as the novels themselves. I do not remember exactly when it started but it kind of crept into my mind. I would been toying with all kinds of ideas about running away. Like I imagined myself doing something wild like walking across the entire United States on foot. And a lot of kids want to run away and-- I do not know what? Live with hobos? I do not know. For me I wanted an alternate place to live. And so I imagined walking across the country. And then somehow I think through these author's notes I felt like I would gotten to know this person through these very personal notes. And so I felt like he would be somebody that if I explained my situation he might care and that he might give me shelter if I just went there. Right away Andy faced an enormous obstacle. He did not actually know where his favorite author lived. But Piers Anthony left hints inside his books. His bestselling series is the Xanth series a 36-novel universe that takes its name from its location the magical kingdom of Xanth a land of wizards and goblins and flirting fairies. I remember looking at maps a lot. I was into maps. I had atlases and stuff like that. And I remember looking at maps a lot and comparing them to the map of Xanth. As any fan on the books knows the hand-drawn maps of Xanth look exactly like Florida only Key West become Centaur Aisle Gainesville becomes a deep black void and West Palm Beach is transformed into a literal gold coast where sand castles are sculpted out of golden nuggets. As any fan of the author's notes knows Piers Anthony lives in Florida. So Andy made a calculated bet-- that the capital of Xanth that is where he would find the real Piers Anthony. I was a detective. I sort of poured over these books and thought that I would located triangulated about exactly where he lived based on the location of the capital of Xanth just south of the unicorns. And then some other offhand comments that he made of stuff that was nearby. And so I had it narrowed down to one of two small towns in rural Florida. It was either Inverness or Floral City. The two towns Andy had zeroed in on Inverness and Floral City were about seven miles apart in rural Florida. But Andy decided he could work that out if he got there. First he needed money for a plane ticket. Andy had been working a paper route for years. And his mother had been matching the earnings and depositing them into a college fund that Andy was not allowed to touch until after high school. But it seemed like his only shot. So on Thursday February 19 1987 Andy walked the half mile to the bank. I just went up to the counter. I guess I must have filled out a withdrawal slip. Or maybe not. I think I just had the-- somehow I got the account number. And I just said I want all the money. And I do not know why but the woman behind the counter-- the account had my name on it. I do not know if I had a student ID or what. But she just said OK. And she gave me 1200 in cash in an envelope. And I was a little astounded by that that it had worked. I think at this point I was not totally clear on whether any portion of this plan was feasible right? The whole thing depends on getting money. And then boom you have got money. And it almost felt like a dare. With his envelope full of money Andy prepared to leave the next day. But when he woke up he chickened out. For three days he sat on the money and went back and forth about the whole idea. And then finally on Monday morning he packed a backpack full of clothes. I kissed my mom goodbye and I said I am off to school. And instead of going to school I walked to the airport which is-- I would have to look at a map now. But I think it was at least eight miles. And I was not totally clear on how to get there. So I think it took me four or five hours to get in that general direction and then figure out where the airport was. Andy walked up to the first ticket counter he saw and bought a ticket to Orlando for 300-some dollars. This would be his time on an airplane his first trip anywhere without his family. He started to worry about his mom. So he bought a postcard with a picture of Niagara Falls on it and he wrote something about how he had to go away for a while and might visit again in a year maybe next Christmas. Andy hoped that would be reassuring so he dropped it in the mail. Then he got on the plane and hit Play on his Walkman. What did you imagine was going to happen? What was the goal of all this? I think the goal was to live somewhere else. I think the goal was very simply just what it was. Like I wanted to go live with Piers Anthony. Was there a worry at some point like Piers might not go along with it or might-- were you certain that you would get there and everything would be cool? Yeah that is a good question. No I was not certain. But I think I just well I will worry about that when I get there. Let us see what happens. And I had all kinds of pie in the sky fantasies of what it would be like to live there with him. You know happy days. Yeah what'd you think a day would be like? That we would get up and I could cook breakfast for the family. And then we would go out into the woods or the fields and ride horses or grow food or do work around the house. I think I wanted that the days would be purposeful for some reason or that they would be exciting. Logan can you correct me if I am wrong? Does Piers Anthony play the harmonica? Yeah. I imagined him teaching me how to play the harmonica. Yeah. Yeah just like whatever. I imagined myself participating in the daily life that was the Anthony household. Andy touched down late in the afternoon of that Monday beamed in from the icy cold of Buffalo to the tropical warmth of Florida. He could not believe that it had worked. There were no buses to Floral City until the next day so Andy had to spend the night in Orlando. And actually the next 24 hours tell you a lot about what Andy was like when he was 15. He hired a cab the first cab he would ever taken. It was driven by a Jamaican guy the first Jamaican guy he would ever met. Because he was too young to check into a hotel Andy paid the cabby 50 to get him a room at the Days Inn. Then on the way Andy thought of the 900 in his pocket. He wondered Why not have some fun? If you can think of all the things a 15-year-old boy away from home for the first time with no parents might do with nearly 1000 in cash. Andy turned to the cab driver. So I made him take a little side trip to an art supply store. And I made him keep the cab running. And I went in there and I was like wow I could get anything I wanted. So I got myself a really bad-ass portfolio to keep art in and a bunch of colored pencils and pens and paints and brushes and whatever else I wanted. I probably spent 180 or something like that which felt weird. But then I was like well why not right? Right right. Let the wild rumpus began. Andy spent the night alone in his hotel room drawing until he got hungry. Then he walked over to a Pizza Hut. Until that point Andy had not been very emotional. He remembers feeling nothing really just putting one foot in front of the other executing his great escape. But alone with his personal pan pizza in a restaurant that looked just like the one in Buffalo he started to think about his mom again. He pushed it down did not cry. 1000 miles in Andy decided he had to see it through. In the morning he hopped a bus to Floral City and arrived in the town itself. Andy walked into the local drugstore and asked for the telephone book. He had based this entire journey on a hunch that Piers Anthony lived in the capitol of Xanth. Now looking in the phone book under A there was no listing for Piers Anthony. But he did not panic. Andy knew that Piers Anthony's full name was really Piers Anthony Dillingham Jacob. He searched through the phone book and found a listing for Jacob comma P. Beside it there was an address. Next Andy hitched a ride. And the very first car to come along a red Cadillac stopped. He told the nice guy who picked him up a story about how he is visiting his uncle and then ended up having to keep this lie going for several hours because after looking and looking for Piers Anthony's address they realized the name of the street had been changed. They asked around and drove some more and eventually ended up on a long road into the woods. At this point we had been driving for at least three hours. It is getting more and more wooded. You are basically driving into the woods. And the road stops being paved. And then there is wooden fence posts. But it is not clear what the wooden fence is holding in or keeping out because there is just trees everywhere. And then we get to the address. And in my mind it is at the end of a dead end. But I do not think it was. I think it just took forever so it seemed like it was the end of a dead end. And we get there. And I am like OK thanks a lot. I do not really want this guy to find out that it was not my uncle and that I do not actually know this person. So I just jump out the car. I grab my book bag. I am like Later days thank you. And then just then I knew that Piers Anthony had dogs. But I did not expect them to be insane big mean dogs which is what they turned out to be. At least in my memory they are. And there is a house. And then there is a little shack out back which I immediately gathered was Piers' writing shack. Which he wrote about yeah. Yeah. And so the ruckus draws his attention. And this bearded head pops out and sees me standing at the gate and comes out. And I was like Oh my god it is the man. This is my idol here. And he just comes up to the gate. And he is like Can I help you? And at that point I have been through so much. And I did not really-- when he said Can I help you or What can I do for you I did not even know what to say. How do you explain What are you doing here? And I just burst into tears and starting saying begging him Can I stay with you? I can cook. I could help you do blah blah blah. Please help me. And I could tell he was just totally taken aback. And he just kind of shook his head and was like Ah you should-- you better come inside. We need to talk about this. And I was like OK. And that seemed like progress. I was invited into the house. So we went in the house. We went in. And he sat down with me and proceeded to listen to my story and listen to my tale of woe of high school misery. Andy says he told Piers Anthony everything. He talked and talked. He remembers that Piers Anthony said very little. Mostly he just listened as Andy laid out all the reasons why he was there that day. He told Piers about school about how he had no friends and about his home life and his stepfather about how alone he felt. Andy does not know exactly how long they sat there talking but he knows it was hours. And so we sat there. And he listened to my story. And we got to the end of it and I was like So can I stay with you? And he was just like Ah no. First of all my wife would kill me if I took in a runaway. And we did not really get to any more reasons than that you know? Yeah. I am sure that he was trying to let me down as easy as he could and be as-- which I guess involves passing the buck. Hey it is not me man. It is a typical parent thing. It was not me. It is your mom. But when he said that it made sense to me. I was like Ah yeah. What I am doing is wacky. I think it hit me for the first time. Like this is a really strange situation. And this is a lot that I am asking this person. And then he said Look I know that things are bad. But at this point you have a couple options. If you think things are so bad that you do not want to go back home I can help put you in touch with people that will help runaways. Or if you think that things are not that bad you should call your parents and go back. Both of which seemed like really sensible options. And so when he said that to me I realized OK I need to go back. Did you feel-- so it sounds like you did not feel disappointed that he was essentially saying no this fantasy you had of moving in with me is not going to happen. Right. No I think I might have felt a moment of disappointment when he first said no. But I think after-- the fact that he did not just dismiss it out of hand as soon as I got there that he sat down and listened to me and talked with me and tried to advise me in a really caring way and me outlining my situation in words made me stop and really think about my situation more clearly too. I think it made complete sense that he would say no. It did not seem like a cruel thing to say. I felt a little disappointment that my fantasy had smacked into an uncooperative reality. But I felt sort of invigorated about reality itself from that and more interested in working with reality rather than retreating into fantasy. Which is ironic that that is what a fantasy author-- that my interaction with a fantasy author was not more fantasy that my interaction with a fantasy author was plain reality. And it just felt good to be heard and to be accepted. Andy says that was the first time anyone had listened to him explain why he was so unhappy. And it felt like a fever or hex had broken. Afterwards Piers Anthony called Andy's mother. And Andy remembers the sound of relief in her voice. They made plans to drive Andy to the airport the next day. But first Andy would spend the night in Piers Anthony's house. He would get his wish for one day. That afternoon Andy walked around Anthony's farm with Piers Anthony's teenage daughter. He saw the horse named Blue who became the unicorn in Xanth and the gnarled branches that twisted their way into the horror novel The Shade of the Tree. And though he did not cook dinner for them as he would imagined he ate at the table with a family he would hoped would replace his own. After dinner Andy sat on the couch with the Anthonys and watched a bad cop show on TV. And he remembers that feeling good and normal. After the show Piers Anthony gave Andy a copy of his latest manuscript and set up a bed for him in the room of their older daughter who was away at college. Andy lay in bed reading about a young Indian prince who gets recruited to become the god of war. With the world on the brink of apocalypse the prince is the only one who can save it by learning how to turn back the hands of a doomsday clock. Comforted Andy fell asleep book on his chest. Andy returned to mundania the next day. His family picked him up at the airport in Buffalo relieved that he was back. Andy embarked on a crazy quest and actually pulled it off. He studied cryptic maps and pieced together clues faced down dogs at the gate and fought his way to the oracle. In a fantasy novel when a quest is completed everything changes in an instant. The zombies turn to ash. The aliens disappear into the mother ship. But Andy was right back where he started. He still hated school. He still struggled to make friends. He still flunked every class. In fact he would have to repeat the 10th grade all over again like some accursed time traveler. If anything his relationship with his stepfather actually got worse. Even so something was different. Something had shifted. After Florida Andy felt for the first time like there was a better world out there somewhere and he could find it. And the whole thing was like fresh air. It was like I pulled the lid off what had formerly seemed like this trapped existence where every situation was unpleasant and there did not seem to be any way out. And so I just forced a way out like a hero in one of Piers Anthony's novels. And it was completely refreshing. Yeah it was not what I thought it would be or what I wanted it to be. But it was exactly what I needed it to be. It was great. OK so we are dialing Piers Anthony. I kind of have butterflies. This is surreal. In the 25 years since Andy's adventure he often thought of getting back in touch with Piers Anthony if only to thank him to let him know that he turned out OK. But he never got around to it. So we set up a call.  Hello? Andy was worried that Piers Anthony might not even remember him. But he did. One of the things I do I keep a record each day of what I do. Usually it is just how much I write and how much I read and so on. And one of those days I would had Andy four hours.  Actually Piers Anthony remembered nearly everything. Well you told me how your stepfather was basically mean to you. And you did not like it. As far as I know your mother was OK. But as far as I know she did not oppose your stepfather. And so it made it ugly for you. And that I understood without needing to understand the details. Yeah. Your memory's very clear. But I do remember my general advice as such was keep your head down. Endure it. In a few years you can get out. Uh-huh yes. And I think that is what you must have done. Yes absolutely. I think that is part of what made the next few years more bearable. They talked for an hour. Andy thanked Piers Anthony for h