So Adam where are we? I recorded this at the Ritz Carlton Hotel in Lower Manhattan. It is a black tie dinner. This was about a year and a half ago. And you by the way are part of the Planet Money team of economics reporters who did stories here on our program and on the NPR news shows. That is right. I was there for my job. And this was spring 2008. We already knew the economy was heading downward. The subprime mortgage crisis was well underway. And so what was this dinner? It was like the Oscars but for a small group of specialized financial experts on Wall Street. They were giving out awards to the people who actually invented and created all these financial securities including the kind that was already back then destabilizing the global financial system. At this time I would like to ask all of our stars to please assemble over here on the left side of the stage. This guy is a legend. He is a granddaddy of our industry. I was sitting at the dinner with Jim Finkel. He was really nervous because he was up for CDO of the year. It was for a CDO he created. Now CDOs we already knew back then when we were having this dinner were the one financial product more than any other that had led to this subprime mortgage meltdown and the financial crisis that had already begun. That is so crazy that they are giving each other awards for this. Now I do want to say it that they did know that there was a certain irony here that they were giving out awards to each other for what was already clearly one of the most spectacularly unsuccessful financial instruments in human history. It was costing them a lot of money. It was costing the world a lot of money. Jim Finkel was doing this math while we were sitting there and he was estimating how much money had been lost by the people in that room right there. And he said the products they had created just the people in that room had already lost 300 billion in value. Wow. But he said-- and again this was April of 2008-- he said that the good thing was the worst was over. People are I think have already turned the corner a little bit. Spring has sprung. People are sensing some positive motion in the equities markets and people are starting to realize a lot of these problems have been put behind us already. A lot of the losses have been taken. A lot of the downsizing and the shifts in the banks have happened. And everyone's starting to say OK the dust has settled. So I am just going to take a wild guess here. When he said that 18 months ago that did not turn out to be true? No. Look we all got it wrong. Nobody saw what was coming. Almost nobody. But yes when Jim Finkel said that he was so totally shockingly completely wrong. The dust had not settled. The problems were not put behind us. In fact it was five months after this dinner after he said those words that Lehman Brothers collapsed. In fact the federal government had to step in and basically bail out the entire US financial system. Still in the future the stock market was going to plunge. It lost more than half of its value eventually. The debt markets were going to freeze. And for Jim personally his company before the crisis started was managing more than 5 billion in investments. And by the time of the awards dinner those investments had already lost about 30 of their value. Now I caught up with him recently and I asked him how are things now? I would say we have probably lost 60 probably 3 billion. And in retrospect doing the transactions we did were not a good idea. That is just a fact. A humbling fact. And it is made him reevaluate the business he is in and the very basics of how Wall Street works. And we will get to that later in today's program. This month is the one-year anniversary of Wall Street's biggest crisis since 1929. Lots of news outlets are looking back in various ways and we thought that we would do it here on our show by going back to one of the most popular programs that we have ever put on the air a show that tells the story of how the crisis started step by step. We called that show The Giant Pool of Money. And today on our program in the first half of the show we are going to play you a lot of that original report where we hear from the bankers and the mortgage dealers and the investment managers and the homeowners who together without meaning to created the economic disaster we are in today. And in the report they explained what the hell they were thinking when they did all the things that brought down the global economy. And then in the second half of the show Adam you and your partner in this reporting Alex Blumberg one of our This American Life producers-- And also part of Planet Money. Right. Track down the people who were in your original story-- now I guess a year and a half later-- to find out how did the crisis that they helped bring on how did it change them? And so from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Today's show is a co-production that we are doing with NPR News. And let me just turn things over to the two of you Alex Blumberg and Adam Davidson. Alex is going to kick things off. This investigation began when Alex heard about something. It was a home loan that just did not make any sense to him. The thing that got me interested in all this was something called a NINA loan. Back when the housing crisis was still a housing bubble a guy on the phone told me that a NINA loan stands for no income no asset as in someone will lend you a bunch of money without first checking to see if you have any income or any assets. And it was an official loan product like you could walk into a mortgage broker's office and they would say well we can give you a 30-year fixed rate or we can put you in a NINA. He said there were lots of loans like this where the bank did not actually check your income which I found confusing. And it turns out even the people who got them found them confusing. For example a guy I met named Clarence Nathan he worked three part-time not very steady jobs and made a total of 45000 a year roughly. He got himself into trouble and needed money so he took out a loan against his house a big one. Call it 540 for round figures. You basically borrowed 540000 from the bank and they did not check your income? Right. It is a no income verification loan. They do not call me up and say how much money? They do not do that. It is almost like you pass a guy in the street and say will you loan me 540000? He said well what do you do? I as not got a job. OK. It seems as if it is that casual. Even though there are a lot of papers that get filled out and stuff flies all over with the faxes and the emails and all like that essentially that is the process. Would you have loaned you the money? I would not have loaned me the money and nobody that I know would have loaned me money. I know guys who are criminals that would not lend me that money and they would break your kneecaps. Yeah I do not know why the bank did it. I am serious. They gave 540000 to a person with bad credit. As it turns out Clarence's friends acquaintances and shadowy criminal contacts would have been right not to lend him the money. At the time I talked to him Clarence had not made a payment in almost a year and his house was in the process of foreclosure. But stories like this have been in the news for months and they often feature an innocent homeowner who is duped by a lying greedy mortgage banker. Or if you are more of a Wall Street Journal editorial page type an innocent mortgage banker who was duped by a lying greedy homeowner. And no doubt both categories exist. But Clarence's case is more nuanced and much more common. Nobody came and told me a lie and told me story and said oh just close your eyes and all your problems will go away. That was not the situation. The situation was that I needed the money. And I am not trying to absolve myself of anything. I had a situation and I thought that I could do this and then get out of it within six to nine months. The six to nine month plan did not work so I am stuck. But if somebody had told me you could not borrow the money I probably would have had to do something else more drastic and dramatic and not be in this situation now. The bank made an imprudent loan. I made an imprudent loan. So the bank and I are partners in this deal. This imprudent partnership is new and it is at the heart of the current housing crisis. For most of the history of banking bankers would not have loaned Clarence their money either. They did not let people like Clarence near their money in fact people with part-time employment and unpaid debts in their past. And then suddenly in the early 2000s everything changed. Banking turned on its head and went out looking for partnerships with people like Clarence loaning him half a million dollars without even checking to see if he had a job. What happened? Well to help explain what happened here's my partner for the hour Adam Davidson. Hey Adam. Hey Alex. How is it going? Good. Good. So I guess the first thing we have to do is talk about the global pool of money right? Right. The global pool of money that is where our story begins. Most people do not think about it but there is this huge pool of money out there which is basically all the money the world is saving now insurance companies saving for a catastrophe pension funds saving money for retirement the Central Bank of England saving for whatever central banks save for all the world savings. A lot of money. It is about 70 trillion. That is the head of capital market research at the International Monetary Fund the place to go if you want to figure out how much money is in the world. So first off how do we pronounce your name? That would probably take if this goes on air probably that would take two minutes at least. It is Pazarbasioglu Ceyla Pazarbasioglu. Jay-luh Puh-zar-buh-sho-loh. I am very impressed. And by the way before you finance enthusiasts start writing any letters we do know that that 70 trillion technically refers to that subset of global savings called fixed income securities. Everyone else can just ignore what I just said. Let us put 70 trillion in perspective. Do this Think about all the money that people spend everywhere in the world everything you bought in the last year all of it. Then add everything Bill Gates bought and all the rice sold in China and that fleet of planes Boeing just sold to South Korea. All the money spent in every country on earth in a year that is less than 70 trillion less than the global pool of money. Wow. We are talking about a lot of money. That is a lot of money. And that money comes along with armies of very nervous men and women watching over the pool of money. Investment managers they do not want to lose a penny of that. They do not want to lose any of that money and even more so they want to make it grow bigger. But to make it grow they have to find something to invest in. So most of modern history what they did was they bought really safe and frankly really boring investments like treasuries and municipal bonds boring things. But then right before our story starts something changed. Something happened to that global pool of money. This number doubled since 2000. In 2000 this was about 36 trillion. So it took several hundred years for the world to get to 36 trillion and then it took six years to get another 36 trillion? Yeah. There has been a very sharp increase. How does the world get twice as much money to invest? There are lots of things that happen but the main headline is that all sorts of poor countries became rich making things like TVs and selling us oil. China India Abu Dhabi Saudi Arabia made a lot of money and banked it. China for example has over a trillion dollars in its central bank and there are office buildings in Beijing filled with math geniuses real math geniuses looking for a place to invest it. And the world was not ready for all this new money. There is twice as much money looking for investments but there are not twice as many good investments. So that global army of investment managers was hungrier and twitchier than ever before. They all wanted the same thing a nice low-risk investment that paid some return. But then something happened that makes matters worse. At this precise moment one guy took one of that army's favorite investments and made it a lot less attractive. This is where we have to talk about Alan Greenspan right? Yeah. We have to. All right. But I am just going to promise people that this is the only time you are going to hear Alan Greenspan in this story so bear with us. Here's one of his speeches that really drove that army of investment managers crazy. The FOMC stands prepared to maintain a highly accommodative stance of policy for as long as needed to promote satisfactory economic performance. You may not believe me but that little statement that is central banker speak for hey global pool of money screw you. Come on. That is not what he said. It is. I speak central banker. Believe me that is what he said. What he is technically saying is he is going to keep the fed funds rate-- that is when you hear the fed interest rate-- at the absurdly low level of 1. And that sends a message to every investor in the world You are not going to make any money at all on US treasury bonds for a very long time. Go somewhere else. We cannot help you. And so the global pool of money which does speak central banker they understood what he was saying. They looked around for some low-risk high-return investment. And among the many things they put their money into there is this one thing that they fell in love with. To get it they called Wall Street a guy like this. My name is Mike Francis. During the beginning of the mortgage implosion I was an employee an executive director at Morgan Stanley on the residential mortgage trading desk. Mike was one link in a chain that connected the global pool of money to its new favorite investment residential mortgages the US housing market and guys like Clarence Nathan. Think how attractive a mortgage loan is to that 70 trillion pool of money. Remember they are desperate to get any interest return. They want to beat that miserable 1 interest Greenspan is offering them. And here are these homeowners paying 5 9 to borrow money from some bank. So what if the global pool could get in on that action? There are problems. Individual mortgages are too big a hassle for the global pool of money. They do not want to get mixed up with actual people and their catastrophic health problems and their divorces and all the reasons that might stop them from paying their mortgages. So what Mike and his peers on Wall Street did was to figure out a way to give the global pool of money all the benefits of a mortgage-- basically higher yield-- without all the hassle and risk. So picture the whole chain. You have Clarence. He gets a mortgage from a broker. The broker sells the mortgage to a small bank. The small bank sells the mortgage to a guy like Mike at a big investment firm on Wall Street. Then Mike takes a few thousand mortgages he is bought this way he puts them in one big pile. Now he is got thousands of mortgage checks coming to him every month. It is a huge monthly stream of money which is expected to come in for the next 30 years the life of a mortgage. And he then sells shares of that monthly income to investors. Those shares are called mortgage-backed securities. And the 70 trillion global pool of money loved them. It was unbelievable. We almost could not produce enough to keep the appetite of our investors happy. More people wanted bonds than we could actually produce. That was our difficult task was trying to produce enough. They would call and say we are looking for more fixed rate. What have you got? Do you have anything coming? What is going on? Tell us what you are trying to do. From our standpoint it is like there is a guy out there with a lot of money and we have to find a way to become his sole provider of mortgage bonds to fill his appetite. And his appetite's massive. The problem was to make a mortgage-backed security you needed mortgages lots of them. So for Mike Francis to satisfy this demand and take his quite hefty fee from the global pool of money he needed to buy up as many mortgages as possible. And to do that he called a guy one link below him on this mortgage-backed security chain a guy named Mike Garner who worked at the largest private mortgage bank in Nevada called Silver State Mortgage. And to give you a sense of how fast this business was growing Mike Garner got into the mortgage business straight from his previous job as a bartender. One of my regulars he actually hired me from the bar. He just said he needed some guys and if I was interested in working for him. And then we started talking about how much I made and that and he beat what I was making so. I did not know anything about the mortgage business. I was as green as you could be. Mike Garner's job the guy in Nevada was to buy up individual mortgages mainly from brokers bundle 200 or 300 of them together and then sell them up the chain to Wall Street to guys like Mike Francis. There is just too many Mikes here. I know. So many Mikes. There is actually just two Mikes. There was Mike Francis the guy on Wall Street and Mike Garner the guy we are talking about now. He is in Nevada. He is in Nevada right. And in the beginning he would only buy mortgages that were pretty standard and pretty safe mortgages where people had come up with a down payment and proven that they had a steady income and money in the bank. And they sold so many of these mortgages that there came a point in 2003 where just about everybody who wanted a mortgage and was qualified to get one had gotten one. But the pool of money had just gotten started. They wanted more mortgage-backed securities. So Wall Street had to find more people to take out mortgages which meant lending to people who never would have qualified before. And so Mike Garner in Nevada noticed that every month the guidelines were getting a little looser. Something called a stated income verified asset loan came out which meant that people did not have to provide a paycheck stub or W-2 form to get a loan as they had in the past. They could simply state their income as long as they showed that they had money in the bank. The next guideline lower is just stated income stated assets. That came out. So then you basically state what you make and then you state what is in your bank account. They call and make sure that you work where you say you work and then an accountant has to say that for your field it is possible to make what you say you make. But they do not say what you make. They just say it is possible that he could make that. And loan officers would have an accountant that they could call up and say oh can you write a statement saying that a truck driver can make this much money? Or whatever. Then the next one came along and it was no income verified asset. So you do not have to tell the people what you do for a living. You do not have to tell the people what you do for work. All you have to do is state that you have a certain amount of money in your bank account. And then the next one that came out is just no income no asset. So you do not have to state anything. You just have to have a credit score and a pulse. Actually that pulse thing also optional like this case in Ohio where 23 dead people were approved for mortgages. An interesting fact here Mike Garner's bank did not care all that much how risky these mortgages were. This was a new era. Banks did not have to hold onto these mortgages for 30 years like they used to. They did not have to wait and see if they would be paid back. Banks like Garner's would just own the mortgages for a month or two and then they sold them on to Wall Street. And then Wall Street would sell them on to the global pool of money. Which is how we get half million dollar no income no asset loans. And loans to dead people. So there is this whole other thing going on as well. Housing prices were rising fast. I think we all remember that. Lots of people in the mortgage industry had this faith that housing prices in the US simply never go down. So from the bank's perspective even if the worst happens and someone defaults the bank would then own a house which is now worth even more than what they gave out in the loan. So all Mike cared about was whether or not his customers the Wall Street investment banks would buy those mortgages from him. And he was under pressure to approve more and more loans. Because other guys in his company the actual guys cruising strip malls all across Nevada buying mortgages from brokers their commission depended on selling more loans. And occasionally those guys would hear about some loan that some other mortgage company offered that they were not allowed to offer. And they would complain to Mike. Three of them would show up at your door first thing in the morning and say I lost ten deals last week to Meridias Bank. And they have got this loan. Look at the guidelines for this loan. Is there any way we can do this? Because we are losing deals left and right. And either they would find out who they are selling it to or I would get on the phone and start calling on all these street firms or Countrywide and say would you buy this loan? And finally you would find out who was actually buying them and they would say yes. So like Merrill Lynch would say no and Goldman Sachs would say no and then you would finally hit on somebody. And they would be like yeah we will buy that loan. Yeah. And then once I got a hit then I called the other peoples back and say listen Bear Stearns is buying this loan and I would like to give you the opportunity to buy these loans too. And once one person buys them usually all the rest follow suit. So what were you thinking when you are turning around and you are selling those to Wall Street? Were you ever thinking to yourself like what are you guys doing? Yeah. And my boss had been in the business for 25 years and he hated those loans. He hated them. And he used to rant and just say it makes me sick to my stomach the kind of loans that we do. And he fought the owners and the sales force tooth and neck about these guidelines and we got the same answer every time Nope other people are offering it and we are going to offer it too. And we are going to get more market share this way. House prices are booming. Everything's going to be good. And the company was just rolling in the cash. The owners and the production staff were just raking it in. At the height I was making between 75 and 100 grand a month. This is Glen Pizzolorusso who was an area sales manager at an outfit called WMC Mortgage in Upstate New York. And just to repeat he said 75 to 100 grand a month. That is over a million dollars a year. Glen was just out of college. His job was a lot like Mike Garner's. He is the same link in the chain. And Glen loved his job. What was that movie Boiler Room? You ever see that movie? That is what it was like. It was the coolest thing ever just cubicle cubicle cubicle for 150000 square feet. The ceilings were probably 25- 30-feet ceilings. The elevator had this big graffiti painting on it that was awesome. A graffiti painting that had been there since before you guys moved in? Yeah yeah yeah. So they had not done any amenities to this place? There was not-- No no no. It was just a big open space and it was awesome. We lived mortgage. That is what we did. That is all we did. All of us we just lived it. This deal that deal what is going on here? How are we going to get this one funded? What is the problem with this one? You get there and that is all everybody's talking about. And when Glen was not working he was doing his next-favorite thing spending. Preferably in the company of-- and this is his term-- B-list celebrities. We would roll up to Marquis at midnight with a line 500 people deep out front walk right up to the door and give me my table. We were sitting next to Tara Reid and a couple of her friends. Christina Aguilera was doing whatever like I am Christina Aguilera and I am going to get up and sing. So Christina Aguilera and all her people are there. Who else was there? Cuba Gooding and that kid from Filthy Rich Cattle Drive. What was that kid's name? Fabian? I do not remember. We order probably three or four bottles of Cristal at 1000 a bottle. They bring it out. They are walking through the crowd. They hold the bottles over their head. There is firecrackers and the sparklers. The little cocktail waitresses. So you order four bottles of those. They are walking through the crowd of people. Everybody's like whoa who is the cool guys? Well we were the cool guys. You know what I mean? They gave me a black card this little card with my name on it. There is probably 10 of them in existence. And that meant that I just spent way too much money there. Glen had five cars a 1.5 million vacation house in Connecticut and a penthouse that he rented in Manhattan. And he made all this money making very large loans to very poor people with bad credit. Loans we were doing we looked at loans these people did not have a pot to piss in. They could barely make their car payment and now we are giving them a 300000 to 400000 house. But Glen did not worry about whether these loans were good either. That was someone else's problem. And this way of thinking thrived at every step of this mortgage security chain. A guy like Mike Francis from Morgan Stanley he told me he bought loans lots of loans from Glen's company. And he knew in his gut that they were bad loans like these NINA loans. No income no asset loans that is a liar's loan. We are telling you to lie to us effectively. We are hoping you do not lie but-- tell us what you make tell us what you have in the bank but we are not going to actually verify it? We are setting you up to lie. Something about that transaction feels very wrong. It felt very wrong way back when and I wish we had never done it. Unfortunately what happened we did it because everybody else was doing it. It is easy to ignore your gut fear when you are making a fortune in commissions. But Mike had other help in rationalizing what he was doing technological help. Mike sat at a desk with six computer screens connected to millions of dollars worth of fancy analytic software designed by brilliant Ivy League graduates hired by his firm. And the software analyzed all the loans in all the pools that Mike bought and then sold. And the software the data did not seem worried at all. All the data that we had to review to look at on loans that were in production that were years old was positive. They performed very well. All those factors when you look at all the pieces and parts and you say well a 90 no-income loan three years ago is performing amazingly well. It has a little bit of risk. Instead of defaulting 1.5 of the time it defaults 3.5 of the time well that is not so bad. If I am an investor buying that if I get a little bit of additional return I am fine. Wait Alex. I want to step in here because this is a very important piece of tape. A big part of this whole story this whole crisis is that a lot of really smart people people who knew better fooled themselves with this data. It was the triumph of data over common sense. Can you play that tape again? Yeah sure. Here you go. All the data that we had to review to look at on loans that were in production that were years old was positive. As we now know they were using the wrong data. They looked at the recent history of mortgages and saw that the foreclosure rate is generally below 2. So they figured absolute worst-case scenario the foreclosure rate might go to 8 or 10 or even 12. But the problem with that is that there were all these new kinds of mortgages given out to people who never would have gotten them before. So the historical data was irrelevant. Some mortgage pools today are expected to go beyond 50 foreclosure rates. And then things got even worse. The thing that took this problem and turned it into a crisis was something else that was new something called a collateralized debt obligation a CDO. And that brings us back to the guy we met at the awards dinner in the beginning Jim Finkel. Well we are heading to the trading floor of Dynamic Credit where we have all of our mortgage and CEO analysts our head trader our CIO. Jim Finkel runs this CDO shop Dynamic Credit. It takes up three modified apartments on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The trading room is like a factory floor for CDOs. It is where they make the things. But what is a CDO? He shows us on a computer screen. I am going to show you. Here's our deal Monterey. To start with every CDO has its own name. Finkel loves his country house in the Berkshires so he always names CDOs after towns in western Mass like Monterey. Monterey CDO limited. We had 189 assets in Monterey 189 tranches of different mortgage-backed pools. Let us translate some of that. A mortgage-backed security remember is a pool of thousands of different mortgages. These are all put together and divided into different slices. Jimmy used the word tranche. Tranche is just French for slice. Some of these slices are risky and some are not. A CDO is a pool of these tranches a pool of pools. And Jim and most companies like his were not buying the top-rated tranches the safest ones the triple-As. They were buying the lower-rated stuff the high-risk stuff. There is another term the industry uses. This is not a joke. They call these lower-rated tranches toxic waste. They are so high-risk they are toxic. And so basically Adam a CDO is a financial alchemy right? Right. Jim takes this toxic stuff these low-rated high-risk tranches puts them all together re-tranches them and presto he has a CDO whose top tranche is rated triple-A rock-solid good as money. Now if this seems too good to be true to you you are in good company. Guys like billionaire investor Warren Buffett said the very logic was ridiculous. But back in 2005 2006 the global pool of money they could not get enough of these things. And the CDO industry was facing the same pressures everyone else was at every other step of this chain to loosen their standards to make CDOs out of lower and lower-rated rated tranches. This is Jim's partner Tonko Gast. Actually in 2005 already we had an internal debate here. Because there were two banks coming to us saying why do not you do a deal with us of triple-B securities and you get paid a million bucks in management fees per year? Very clear just like that. In 2005. And we declined those deals. We said we just do not believe that those triple-B ARM assets are money-good. We do not think they are well underwritten and we think if we do CDO of those that is going to blow up completely. We were a little early in '05 by not wanting to do those deals and people were laughing at us to be honest to say well you are crazy you are hurting your business. Why do not you want to make-- per deal you could make a million dollars a year. Did someone do that deal? Absolutely. Everybody. Well not everybody but a lot of people did. Let us go back all the way to the other end of this mortgage chain and meet one of those people in one of these poorly underwritten mortgages that Tonko Gast just referred to that the global pool of money was eagerly buying up. This guy's name is Richard and we met him at a foreclosure prevention conference in Brooklyn. He is a Marine a big guy over six feet tall. And when he came back from Iraq a few years ago he bought a house with one of those fancy new mortgages with an adjustable rate. Recently his rate reset. His mortgage payments have gone up by more than 2000 a month and he is falling behind. It got to the point where my son had 7000 in a CD and I had to break it. That really hurt because I was saving up money for his college. I put 2000 back but-- it was like you cannot have a future. They put you in a situation where after a while you are going to fail. And if you do not have anything saved you cannot do anything. It is hard. Richard like more than 4 million Americans at this point is fighting to keep his home. And we actually tagged along with him one day as he did that. How is it going? Kerry Campbell. Nice to meet you. Good how you doing sir? The offices of NACA the Neighborhood Assistance Corporation of America in Newark New Jersey were short on frills. Kerry Campbell who is helping Richard today is a counselor here. Kerry shows Richard the loan documents he filled out when he bought the house by his original broker. And Ric