Here's one of the strangest outcomes in a courtroom I have heard about in a while. And it contains a lesson that very well might come in handy for you and I do mean you some day in your own life. Jake Halpern was the reporter who witnessed this. It was in a courtroom in Georgia. He was down there researching a book about credit card debt. This is called-- in Georgia they call it magistrate court. And it is basically small claims court. And you go in and it is all debtors. People refer to it even as debtors court. So Jake meets a couple sitting there Frederick and Keanne. They are in their 40s nicely dressed. She is a shoe salesman. He is an ex-marine who had a business buying houses rehabbing them and then selling them which was going great till the housing market fell apart in 2008 and then that kind of went to hell for a while. They ended up taking on some debt. And then they got a notice in the mail saying that they owed money to a company called LVNV Funding which is what brought them to court. And Keanne at this point says like I do not even know who LVNV Funding is. And one of the reasons that she says I am here today in court is just to figure out what this is all about because she does not even recognize them as being her creditor. How much are they on the hook for? They are on the hook for 3762.20. So we are sitting there talking and this young guy in a suit all of a sudden calls out their name. And for a moment it is not clear who exactly he is. And he calls it out in a way that almost like an official would call out your name. And they are-- they start walking over to talk to this guy. So this young guy quickly says I am the lawyer representing the people that own your debt. Are you Keanne? Are you Frederick? And then he looks at me and is like and who are you. Jake explains that he is a reporter he is researching a book. The guy replies-- Well I am not comfortable with you being here. And Frederick was like well we are comfortable with him being here. And there is this like moment and then this lawyer just rolls his eyes and just continues with his pitch to them. Frederick and Keanne tell the lawyer that they are confused. They do not know who this NVLV Funding is or what the debt is. And the lawyer says that his client owns their American Express debt. Basically when Frederick and Keanne failed to pay of their American Express bill American Express sold the IOU to this company. And they are trying to collect it. Obviously that is a big business. There are lots of companies that do this. The lawyer asks them-- You did have an American Express card correct? And they say yeah we had American Express card. And you do live at-- and he gives their address. Yes. Well this is what you owe. And then he reaches into his briefcase and he pulls out this piece of paper which I am actually holding in front of me. I brought it along. At first glance it resembles a credit card statement like the ones that we get every month that says what you owe. But then at the top and you look and-- it says at the very top of it this is an account summary. It is not a credit card statement from the original creditor and has not previously been provided to the consumer. So it-- it is really bizarre right off the start because they are handing this thing that is clearly been set up to resemble a credit card statement and yet there it says right at the top but this is not actually a credit card statement. And so the things you would find on a normal credit card statement like a list of charges it does not have that does not say how much of this is the original debt and how much is interest. There is nothing that would help you figure out how they got to the number 3762.20. So Frederick asked the guy if he has anything else to help them make sense of this number. Does he have the original contract from when they took out the credit card to prove that in fact his client does actually own the debt now and it is all legit? The lawyer says he does not need to provide any of that. The debt is real they have to pay. And then Jake pipes up. For his reporting he is wondering does the lawyer actually have any of that stuff the original signed contract or account statements. So the lawyer turns back to me and he says are you representing them? And I said no no I am just curious. And he is like well you cannot represent them you are not a lawyer. And Frederick's like he is not representing us. He just asked the same question that I did. The lawyer repeats you cannot represent them. And Jake says they go around and around on this for a while. And finally it is time to go into a courtroom. And as they walk in the lawyer taps Jake on the shoulder and tells him I am going to put you on the witness stand. And I was like OK like I could not tell-- it was just a crazy thing to say. I did not know if he was just messing with me. Five minutes later they call Keanne's name out and then the judge also says and Jake Halpern you need to come up here too. So I am like-- and then it is me and Keanne raising our hands together and being sworn in together almost like co-defendants. That is the only-- that is the only way I can describe. It is like we are both on trial here. And you have known Keanne how long at this point? I have known her like 10 minutes. And the young lawyer immediately starts with what is his opening argument. And he tells the judge this man right here is representing this couple and he is practicing-- therefore practicing law without a license. And Your Honor I need you to inform him that he could face criminal sanctions for doing this. Jake tells the judge that he only asked a few questions. And the judge rules it turns out this is not the same thing as pretending to be a lawyer so that gets settled. And then they turn to the business at hand. Remember this entire story I am telling you is about credit card debt and what happens in court when a consumer is sued. And so far as you see so far right the lawyer is playing hardball. He is not messing around which makes what happens next even more interesting. The judge turns to the lawyer and the judge says to the lawyer so what do you want to do about this debt. And the lawyer then says to the judge you know what give me a minute. I need to consult with my client. So he walks out of the courtroom. Me and Keanne and the judge are kind of left in the courtroom. And the lawyer goes out into the hallway and then comes back like two minutes later and says Your Honor we are going to be dropping this dismissing the case. What? Yeah. And I am like-- I am looking at her. And Keanne's looking at me. And we are both like this just makes-- this makes no sense After all this fuss and this full court press you put on us? So Jake and Keanne and Frederick go into the hallway and they are trying to figure out what in the world just happened. And this lawyer from Georgia Legal Services who saw this whole thing go down joins their conversation. And he is not in the least bit surprised by this. He is like-- he is like oh yeah of course he dropped the case. And I am like what do you mean of course he dropped the case. He said oh well when a consumer actually shows up in court and says the magic words then these cases basically evaporate. And I say the magic words? He says yeah show me the evidence. Show me the evidence. In other words show me where you got this number 3762.20. The Georgia Legal Services lawyer told Jake that if you are standing before a judge and you say OK I do not recognize this amount that you say I owe and I want to see some documentation I want to see account statements or whatever because I have no way to know with certainty that this debt is really mine the judge will usually turn to the other side and ask for the evidence. And in all likelihood they will have no documentation and they will drop the case. And this is true not just in Georgia but elsewhere. Because the way this business works Jake says when credit card companies sell these IOUs to debt collection companies they usually do not give them any documentation. Usually they just give them a spreadsheet with a long list of people who owe money on their credit cards and their addresses and their last payment and how much they owe and not a lot more than that. So when these companies take you and me to court where they are betting on is we will not show up which is a really good bet Jake says because-- The vast majority of people do not actually-- who are debtors who are being sued do not actually show up in court. The no show rate there is different estimates but it is between 80 and 90 of people do not show up. If they do not show up they lose. If they showed up if they said the magic words they would probably win. And now you know the magic words you can use them yourself. Though Jake said he is not sure that he thinks it is always such a good thing. He talked another guy who had a lot of debt this is an Indian immigrant who owned a steakhouse and owed like 300000. And he had used these magic words almost to the point where it was like a scam like he owed all this money for this steakhouse that had gone bust. And he was just showing up in court and saying like show me the original signed contracts show me the statements and he was like beating these debts left and right. Like Keanne-- Oh wow. He was working it. Like oh my god there is this magic button and I can totally get off the hook for all this money that I owe. I am just going to keep on hitting it boom boom boom boom. Oh you see now you are confusing me. Because up until now I thought the magic button was a really good thing and now I think maybe it is a bad thing too. Well what it is-- it could be a good thing or a bad thing. I felt conflicted about it. It seems strange that you would not now have to pay off anything of what you borrowed. Well today on our program magic words. They can be used for good or for evil. We have stories of magic words that supposedly do all kinds of incredible things like erase your debts as you just heard or make you rich levitate you help you get along better with your older relatives whose minds are going. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass with the same magic words that I intone every week at this time full of hope that they are going to work even though the actual magic they contain is next to nothing. Those words stay with us. Act One I believe I can fly. So there is this book full of magic words that one of our contributors Jonathan Goldstein found in his apartment when he was moving. He had not looked at it in over 30 years. It is called Ultra-Psychonics-- How to Work Miracles with the Limitless Power of Psychoatomic Energy. It was written by a man named Walter Delaney published in 1975. And the book's premise its basic premise is that just as objects are composed of atoms thoughts are composed of psychic atoms or Delaney calls psychons ultrons and egons. And I am just going to let Jonathan explain what all that means. I was 11 years old when my father walked into my bedroom and handed me a copy of Ultra-Psychonics. He was not much of a gift-giver more of a check-giver but I was into magic tricks and fantasy novels. So when he saw it in a used book store he must have thought it would be right up my alley. The frayed yellow dust jacket promised a grab bag of every occult slash psychology slash self-help topic under the sun all in 237 pages. Among other things the book promised to teach you how to shoot mental laser beams move solid objects with your mind make others obey your command multiply your brain power by a factor of 1000 and defend yourself against demonic attack. Ultra-Psychonics revealed what I always suspected-- that the adult world operated on magic. Finding a job a wife acquiring a bag of Egg McMuffins with a mere flash of a plastic card how else were these things accomplished? To an 11-year-old the book's theory seemed as plausible as anything else. An excerpt from page 217 explains the secret of ultra levitation. One remove all your clothes and stand on a bathroom scale. Two generate the ultronic power globe on a string as you did for the ultronic poltergeist technique. Three concentrate on making it rise like a balloon lifting you with it. Four keep your eyes on the scale. It will start to drop bit by bit showing that you are getting lighter. This was not your granddaddy's old levitation. This was ultra levitation. And most importantly for me Ultra-Psychonics required neither time nor effort. The inside flap stated it was as simple easy and natural as breathing. And for a child adept at breathing but little else this was exciting news. In those dark ignorant days before the universal remote one had to rise not unlike an animal from one's perch to change TV stations. By using ultra kinetics as outlined in chapter 13 I would never have to debase myself that way again. Never again would I have to suffer through the depressing stage lighting of Barney Miller when the Beverly Hillbillies was a mere psychic click away. No longer would I be pathetic. I would be ultra telepathetic. This was during the Eden of my pre-adolescence a time when I had yet to discover the K-Mart lingerie insert and so had plenty of time on my hands. I wasted hours in bed lying flat on my stomach with the book open at my side squinting so hard that my vision began to blur as I tried to close the bedroom door with my mind. Even though I had as the book instructed dutifully turned on the ultronic generator in my head to stimulate my flow of ultrons I was getting nowhere. I assumed the fault was mine that I was not following the instructions properly. But reading it now it is hard to figure out how anyone could follow along. I now wonder whether my father knew it was insane and had only gifted me with the book as a means of getting me out of his hair. He could read in peace while his son stared at a doorjamb for hours on end. I wonder if my father still even remembered the book. Yes. You remember it? Yes. Right off the bat? Right. I thought I would have to refresh your memory. No no no. I remember it well. It is all kinds of psycho-- what do you call it? Experiments and magic very scientifically proven and concrete and so forth. They give you a formula step-by-step way of doing it et cetera. Did you try any of the techniques that were offered in the book? No I never tried any of the-- but for some reason I thought maybe there is a certain amount of validity maybe. But I do not know that I necessarily think of you as a believer in that kind of stuff. I pooh-pooh it. I do not pooh-pooh anything. This is patently false. My father has pooh-poohed everything from sushi to liquid soap. He is pooh-poohed abstract expressionism the Rolling Stones and the entire state of Florida. He once even pooh-poohed my Pu Pu platter telling me egg rolls were best enjoyed cold. In fact whenever my great uncle Saul bragged about how his other nephew Barney was a successful doctor my father pooh-poohed the hell out of that. Getting himself worked up he would insist that a chiropodist was no doctor. You remember mom's uncle Saul used to have a nephew named Barney? A chiropodist. A foot doctor. No he is not medical doctor no. You are not an M.D. Cannot operate on my foot. Here's what I am saying is I-- If I have a bunion or a corn. I bring that up to illustrate the fact that you do not just swallow things hook line and sinker. Here was somebody presenting someone as a foot doctor and you said no he is not a doctor. That is right. So but I mean in the case of this I imagine you approached it probably with some skepticism. This book it was kind of-- how could I put it-- seemed to me to be backed by some fact. Why? The way it was written. What was it about the way that it was written? Well the way-- because it was so concrete so specific. There was nothing vague about it. It is a sold book. It is got a table of contents if I remember. It is not like any little leaflet or a pamphlet. Whoever wrote this well he put a lot of effort into it. I will tell you that. He put a lot of effort into it. I get the feeling this guy was not trying to con anybody. He really believed what he was writing. Did Walter Delaney really believe what he was writing? Believe for instance that while the old-fashioned zodiac was outdated his psychonic zodiac with its cryanox vernox estavox and invernox signs was more scientific as it was seasonally based? And that even if you were born under the estavox summer sign you might exhibit a more cryanox winter type personality if you were born in an air conditioned hospital? The back of the book refers to him as quote one of the world's leading authorities on the psychic and occult sciences. But I could find no mention of him anywhere on the internet. It was only when I searched on Walter Delaney and pseudonym that I finally got a lead. It turns out that like so many other mystical men from Leonard Susskind to Regis Philbin to my father Buzz Goldstein Walter Delaney was originally a Jew from the Bronx by the name of Joseph Schaumberger. Schaumberger passed away in 2011 but I managed to track down his daughter Barbara. She was in her early 20s when her dad was writing the book and she remembers it clearly. At the time Schaumberger was living in New Jersey and making a decent wage as an editor at a publishing house that specialized in occult self-help books with titles like Secrets from Beyond the Pyramids and The Magic of Chantomatics. And he was astonished by the amount of money he saw writers making. Here's Barbara. They were just taking buckets of money home and it was driving him crazy. So his wife Dorothy said well why do not you write one of these books yourself? Had he ever written a book before? No. What he did was he did this careful study. He just flipped through magazines and looked at newspapers and he read scientific journals and such. So from that combination of things he just pulled ideas out and made what sounded good to him. Was his intention to make it scientific or was it-- No. No his intention was to make money. You have to understand that this was just a-- it started out as a kind of warped family joke. And he would read it to the family and say does this sound reasonable? Does this sound interesting? Do you remember him reading you actual passages from the book? Oh yeah. The best one our family-- the absolute family favorite was the money one where he-- one chapter was about money about making money. I think that was in the chapter on ultra pictronics how to materialize the riches you desire. I will be honest I have never read the whole book all the way through. But anyway he said this is where you would go around the house and you would gather up your bills and your bank statements and your wallet and such and you would put them all under your pillow. And then you would have this formula this chant that you would use. The lyrics go My money lies under my pillow my money lies close to me. No matter what I do tomorrow bring back my money to me. This was written to be sung to the tune of My Bonnie Lies Over The Ocean. Any time I hear those words I can hear it in my head. I can hear the echo of my father singing that song. Looking at it now it seems obvious it was a lark. It almost reads like a parody of another famous science fictiony slash self-helpy book with a lot of pseudo science jargon that for legal reasons I will only say rhymes with diuretics. Take for instance the astral spur. You were supposed to use it at the racetrack to give your horse extra energy. And it involved standing on one foot and projecting a psychic laser at your horse's hindquarters. And then there is the section on ultra vision influence. The road to domination is explained this way. One sit in front of a mirror and practice staring fixedly into your own eyes. Two practice the look on animals. Cats are the best. See if you can stare down a cat. Do not be surprised if the cat seems to win the first few rounds. Three practice the look on strangers on various forms of public transport. Stare steadily at someone sitting opposite you until you force them to turn their head away or look down. You have just mastered your first human subject. I am not that surprised but I am a little saddened or the part of me-- because I discovered the book when I was like 11 years old. So that little kid part of me-- Oh I am so sorry. No no. It makes sense. Because there are parts in the book where he references things like the Tibetan Book of the Dead and the golden flower and things from eastern philosophy. Oh he was very familiar with all these things. Like the Egyptian Book of the Dead was a big one because it was always the thing of well maybe if they had followed the formulas correctly maybe something-- He would say that? Yeah yeah. That sounds like someone who either did believe or kind of wanted to believe. He may have wanted to believe. It may be that in his private thoughts there were some things in there that he believed in. He would not have-- I cannot see him as sharing that with us because he did not want to open himself up to ridicule. No he was your-- he was a very geeky science fiction fan looking person. The thick black and heavy-lensed eye glasses kind of a short pudgy Jewish boy from the Bronx. No he was a very quiet private person. Do you have any idea how he arrived upon the name Walter Delaney? Oh of course. He was at the office and the book was all ready for publication going through all the copy editing. And he wandered into the men's room at Prentice Hall and thinking where am I going to find a name. What name can I use that is not going to be identifiable? And he just kind of looked at the top of the urinal and there was the brand of the urinal Delany Flushboy. So it became Walter Delaney from the Delany Flushboy urinal. Barbara told me that not only did her father make enough money from the book to buy a large beautiful house and take his wife on European vacations where they went to operas she also said that Schaumberger received boxes and boxes of letters from readers thanking him and requesting further guidance. In rereading the book all these years later I still remembered the stuff about how to travel to the furthest reaches of the galaxy through mind power. But what I did not remember at all was the last chapter chapter 14. In the book's introduction Schaumberger promises that in the final chapter he would reveal nothing short of the meaning of life. What could be of less interest to an 11-year-old? And what does the chapter contain? It outlines the 10 actions for leading a good life-- the joy of giving humility working caring fidelity sufficiency calmness learning meditation and reverence. Nothing flashy no ultras just the golden rule kind of stuff. I asked Barbara why she thought her father included all this straightforward do unto others kind of thing with nigh a single ultra in sight. I think he believed in that quite passionately and that would have been the only platform he had. And if there was anything that would transform their lives it was not going to be gained by chanting. It would be gained by living your life according to some basic principles of decency. Chapter 14 is the last stage in Ultra-Psychonics wrote Schaumberger. It is the culmination of many long and arduous years of research. Please do not try to read it now. You will not be able to understand it until you have mastered the rest of the book. But once you are ready for it I think you will find it to be one of the most profound and rewarding experiences in your life. Of all the chapters in Schaumberger's book it is this last one that might be the hardest of all to master. It is the chapter with the fewest instructions. And on some days I still do not feel quite ready for it. Jonathan Goldstein is the author of a number of books including Ladies and Gentlemen the Bible. Coming up how to properly use monkeys-- yes monkeys I said monkeys-- for the betterment of your family. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme and bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show magic words. They are used for good they are used for evil. We wish that they are going to work. We cross our fingers and we wait to see if they will work. We have arrived at act two of our program. Act Two Rainy days and Mondays. According to the Alzheimer's Association every 67 seconds somebody in the United States develops the disease. We are at this point with Alzheimer's where almost everybody has had some sort of personal experience with the disease through a spouse or a parent or a friend. And because we have had that direct experience we all know how scary Alzheimer's can be. The thing you hear a lot is the emotional toll of taking care of parents and spouses. And you hear about the cost. But there is this other more basic challenge. People do not talk about this as much but it must be a problem that everyone close to the disease struggles with. And that is what are we supposed to talk about with our relatives who have Alzheimer's. What do we talk about? The same stuff we always have? Did they tell you Jenny and Joe are moving to Florida? No. Joe got a promotion and they are going to go to Florida. Sharon Stobbe is sitting on the back porch of her sister's home with her mom Virginia. You were in Florida. Sharon says to her mom you were in Florida. Where were you? Let me think. I cannot remember. Do you remember who you were with? This is a little off mic. She says do you remember who you were with. I was with Betty. Oh dear. And you met somebody there. Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday. You met somebody special there. Dad. Dad is the answer Sharon's searching for. My father your husband. Sharon did not go into this conversation trying to play some memory game with her mom. She just kind of fell into that. And it is easy to see how right? You love your mom you want to spend time with your mom. What are you going to talk about? Shared memories are out mutual loved ones are not remembered. Even current news like joyful news does not necessarily create a connection. Right before they sat down on the porch Sharon's sister showed Virginia a picture of her two-week-old granddaughter said Mom look how beautiful your great-granddaughter-- and Virginia looked at the picture and said oh no for no clear reason at all. Sharon has a sister named Karen. And Sharon's the oldest Karen's the youngest. Virginia the mom was with Karen. And one of our producers Chana Joffe-Walt got interested in this experiment that Karen has been trying in their family. Karen's been on a search for a new way to talk to her mom looking for some magic words to say to her mom as her mom is losing her memory words that will keep them connected. And recently she developed a plan a fully formed theory of social interaction for the dementia landscape. She is got rules she is got best practices. It is a whole thing. And she thinks it can work. Here's Chana Joffe-Walt to explain. Karen did not have the plan in place when her mom first moved in with her but she has wanted a plan from day one. Day one there was just this constant stream of questions that never had definitive answers like can I leave my mom at home alone or what am I supposed to do when she wakes up at 200 in the morning and starts getting dressed? What about when she wants another bowl of ice cream? And I remind her that she has diabetes but she forgets that she has diabetes. See Karen is a person who likes structure. The lawless do-it-yourself nature of home dementia care never sat well with her. Karen would do what she thought was right take the ice cream away and her mom would lose it scream at her. This is a woman who never had a cruel word to say about anyone who considered shoot a swear word. She would look right into Karen's eyes and say you are a supreme  you know that? I had this moment where I Googled the rules of caregiving for someone with Alzheimer's. And I thought-- I wondered for some reason if they were even out there if there was some. And when I read one of them that said literally step into their world I went bam. Step into their world was a familiar phrase to Karen from the many nights she had spent doing improv comedy. She and her husband are actors. Step into their world is a mantra in improv. You walk on stage another actor says something and you step into their world whatever world they have just created. You do not ever say no you do not question their premise. You just say yes. And-- I did not even see it. I did not see the whole parallels of improv and Alzheimer's. And when I did it was-- it was just so obvious. It is a whole yes and world. If all you have got is yes and you cannot say things like but you do not even like pickles or you do not have a sister Mom. You do not tell someone they are wrong which Karen says is exactly what you always want to do. Like when her mom says she wants to go home the most natural response is-- Oh but this is your home now Virginia. Come let me show you me your room. But this woman is looking at you saying I want to go home and you are telling her she lives here. So now you are telling her she is a liar so you are going to see her little veins start popping out in her neck and her little fists. But if you look at her and you say-- she says I want to go home. Yes and tell me about your home. Now she is not a liar anymore. Karen felt like she had discovered an instruction manual. Here was a way into a relationship with her mom if she just followed some basic rules of engagement rules she conveniently already knew. And so did her husband Mondy who was glad to have some guidelines for how to relate to this new roommate. It is like improv Karen explained. You love improv. That is when I was like OK that is cool. I know how to do that and that is what I will do. For Karen using the tools of improv meant when her mom Virginia sees monkeys out the window do not correct her. But Mondy-- Mondy took the whole thing to the next level. When Virginia sees monkeys Mondy sees them too. He told me oh yeah just the last time that happened I said-- It is pretty early in the season for monkeys. Did not even know actually that they were here in North Carolina. Oh there is not a lot of them but they are pretty busy now. Well if you see one again we should try and capture it because that would be a blast to have in the house. You cannot keep monkeys in the house. Well we could-- you just have to train them right and give them pants because if they do not have pants-- I mean it is-- that is just a barbarian's monkey. We cannot have monkeys in the house. All right all right so I guess you are making up a rule that we cannot have monkeys in the house. Yes I am but she would-- at some point there is something in her mind that is going we are not being serious now about monkeys in the house. And it is fun for her? And it is fun for her yeah. Yeah she is definitely having a good time. For years the staff in nursing homes and dementia care experts advised families to keep your loved ones with you mentally speaking. Remind them who they are where they are from show them pictures of your family. Hang orientation boards everywhere that say today is August 15 the weather is overcast the president is Barack Obama. But recently the experts have changed course. And in the last decade or so things like validation therapy are what is in. Caregivers are encouraged to listen respond try to live in their reality instead of trying to pull them over into yours. Basically exactly what Karen and Mondy stumbled into on their own. Most people find it pretty challenging to interact in this way. But for Mondy and Karen it is not hard. Mondy does it all the time without thinking. How are you doing? I am OK. Yeah? I think. What a day. It is strange that when you get up the mountain it is much lighter in the sky. I am very-- I am very noticeable. You are very noticeable. Thanks. I have noticed you-- Do not-- I have noticed you before. Virginia points to the family terrier Gus tearing around the backyard digging holes. He is digging for his life. Oh yeah Gus is busy working on his caverns. You are starting a coal mine. So he is going to get it started and you are going to finish it up right? I am? The coal mine? The coal mine? I never worked in a coal mine. I know. Mondy says but I need you to now. I need your help finishing up the mine. Gotta get out there and find some coal so we can pay out these bills. Virginia gleefully refuses so Mondy says oh