   Alright sh! Be quiet!  You are-  Listening-  -to Radiolab.  The podcast-  From-  New York Public Radio-  -Public Radio WNYC   -WNYC.  -and NPR. Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich And I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab the podcast and let me just throw something out here to set up what is going to be an awesome podcast. New Year's resolutions okay? Robert Krulwich Yes? Jad Abumrad Now I know that is a few months out of date but that is exactly my point by now most of us are the same old schmucks that we were last year. We have completely forgotten about all the promises we made to ourselves we have slipped back into old patterns. How are you doing out of curiosity? Robert Krulwich I did not make any so I did not have any problem with them at all. But had I made them...in  previous years I did...I would have long since failed. Jad Abumrad Long since failed. Do you ever wonder why with things like New Years resolutions which require willpower why none of us are any good? Robert Krulwich Well I am not sure none of us. I know people I am married to a person who seems to be able to make a resolution and fiercely and determinedly stick to it. Jad Abumrad See there you go. See some of us can do it some of us cannot. Robert Krulwich Because I was born under a dark star. Jad Abumrad  There you go there you go. See the real question is are some of us just doomed because we are born under a dark star to not have willpower while others do have it? Or is it something that can be taught? Do you ever wonder about that? Robert Krulwich Yah.   Hello test test test test... Walter Mischel So you are monitoring the sound...  Yah as you can see that is  Jad Abumrad Well I want to introduce you to somebody his name's Walter. Walter Mischel Walter Mischel. Jad Abumrad He is a psychologist. Walter Mischel ...at Columbia University in the Psychology Department.  So what is going to happen is... Jad Abumrad And if you ever asked yourself questions about willpower like what is it exactly how does it work? If I do not have it can I get it? Well he has done a remarkable study. So are we ready to go? On the Marshmallow Study. Walter Mischel Ah the Marshmallow Study. Jad Abumrad At the start of the study how did you come up with the idea? Walter Mischel Well I had three little girls who at that time... Jad Abumrad We are talking now late 60s. Walter Mischel Were going from being these sweet sometimes and yappy often little creatures. Jad Abumrad How old were they at that point? Walter Mischel They ranged in age from 2 to 5. And what I was...what any parent immediately knows is that when kids start going into the fourth year of life a lot happens to them. Jad Abumrad Like he noticed that one of his daughters who had just hit 4 suddenly she could delay gratification almost all of a sudden. If he told her Look I know you want that...I do not know pack of bubblegum but do not whine do not complain when we get home I will give you something better. Suddenly she could wait. Walter Mischel This was in the late 1960s and there was almost no work on quote willpower or self-control or self-regulation. It just was not a topic. Jad Abumrad So he thought he would jump in. And here's what he did to test this hypothesis something happens to kids around the age of 4 he went to a nursery school- Walter Mischel -a big nursery school at Stanford University. Jad Abumrad -gathered up a bunch of kids of different ages and one by one he put them in a room. Walter Mischel A small room off the play room- Jad Abumrad He would bring the kids in sit them in a chair and then he would give them a choice which had to do with marshmallows. Walter Mischel Yummy. Jad Abumrad What kid does not love marshmallows? And he would say to them Here's your choice you can either have one- Walter Mischel -one marshmallow- Jad Abumrad -now or if you wait you can have two- Walter Mischel -two marshmallows- Jad Abumrad Later. Walter Mischel Later. Now that creates a lot of dilemmas. Jad Abumrad Yah it does. Especially because you know the researchers leave the room to give the kids a chance to think and right there on the table in front of the child were the marshmallows calling them. Walter Mischel There are no distractions in the room there are no pictures there are no toys there is no anything. Jad Abumrad The child is left to stare at the marshmallows... Walter Mischel So it is basically it is an isolation chamber. Jad Abumrad Pure agony. Walter Mischel I can show you video of what they are doing and you can see it. Jad Abumrad Could we watch? Walter Mischel Sure let us turn it on and... Jad Abumrad He walked over to a TV and pulled up a video of the Marshmallow Experiment and I must tell you that it is some of the greatest video ever shot...particularly because the round he showed us the researchers had replaced the marshmallows with something even more enticing. Walter Mischel Oreo cookies. Jad Abumrad Mmmm Oreos. Walter Mischel So what you are seeing over here is a tortured looking adorable little girl wearing a blue sweatshirt. Jad Abumrad About 5 years old pigtails... Walter Mischel -Kind of sniffing at it. Jad Abumrad She puts her face right up to the cookie...she is weighing Do I want this badly enough? Walter Mischel That is exactly what she is doing. Jad Abumrad She picks up the cookie puts it down... Walter Mischel Weighing and reevaluating her choice. Jad Abumrad She knows that she can have this one now but if she waits she can have more but... she gives in after just a few minutes. Okay now we have a sort of doughy faced boy in a yellow t-shirt who is kicking because he is so antsy. This kid's strategy is not to confront the cookie directly but to kick the table that holds the cookie. Kick it kick it kick it! Walter Mischel And it is a very male response. Jad Abumrad But remarkably he holds out way longer than the first girl. And of course there were the cheaters. Walter Mischel Here we see a guy looking at the two cookies he is... Jad Abumrad He is picked one up... Walter Mischel ...Taken one which is against the rules. He is licking the inside he is licking out the cream replacing the licked cookie and putting it back on the tray. Jad Abumrad Anyhow we watch kid after kid after kid being tortured by the gravitational pull of Oreo cookies some to avoid the pull went under the table some turned their backs and started singing a song. All in all Mischel and his team tested 500 kids in that initial study. And they found that yes 4 year olds are dramatically better than younger kids at resisting temptation. So something does happen at around 4 years old. But within that...and here's where the plot thickens...there was a huge range. Some kids gave up after a minute. Others could last twenty minutes. And most fell somewhere in the middle where they could resist the cookies for about- Walter Mischel Seven minutes. Eight minutes. Jad Abumrad That is the average? Walter Mischel All depending on age and what the goodies are and so on. Jad Abumrad Now in and of itself there is nothing too surprising here. You basically confirmed this hypothesis but what is amazing truly amazing is what happens next. Walter Mischel I just was sitting around the kitchen table with my kids about 5-6 years after the studies began- Jad Abumrad He was talking with his kids and he knew that they still went to school this is now 5 or 6 years later with some of those kids from the initial study so he is asking them- Walter Mischel You know  How is Jenny doing? And how is Cecily doing? This was just totally informal. Jad Abumrad His kids told him Well Cecily's doing fine. Jenny not so good. And he began to realize a weird pattern the kids like Cecily who he remembered had been good at waiting for the marshmallow back in the study they- Walter Mischel -Seemed to be the ones who were doing better. Jad Abumrad They were doing better at school. Walter Mischel And suddenly on a very small n...a very small sample it looked like there were differences here. Could there be a relationship between the number of seconds these kids waited when they were 4 and how they are doing when they are 10 and 11 and 12? So what we did beginning when these kids were 15 years old 14 to 17 years old was the first follow up wave. Jad Abumrad So he tracked down as many of those original kids as he could find and just for starters he looked at their SAT scores. Now keep in mind this is 10 years later and some stupid little test that a kid takes when they are 4 that has to do with resisting a marshmallow and how many seconds they can resist should not...I repeat not...have anything to do with how they do on their SAT scores which is one of the most important tests they are ever going to take. But- Walter Mischel We found remarkable correlations between the actual SAT scores and the seconds of delayed time. Jad Abumrad In other words the kids who waited the longest when they were 4 staring at the Oreos did better on the SATs than the kids who just gave up immediately? Walter Mischel Yes. Jad Abumrad How much better? Walter Mischel Significantly. Jonah Lehrer The differences are so big. Jad Abumrad That is Jonah Lehrer science writer often a guest on this show who is also reporting about these follow up studies. Jonah Lehrer Yah the difference between a kid who can wait one minute for the marshmallow and a kid who can wait twenty minutes...the difference in their SAT scores is 210 points. Jad Abumrad No way! Jonah Lehrer Yah this is not fiddling at the margins this is a profound difference. Walter Mischel Well above what one would expect by chance. Jad Abumrad And as they dug into the data it turned out it went way beyond SATs the kids who waited back when they were 4 now in their late teens- Jonah Lehrer Parents reported that they were better behaved. Jad Abumrad And on the flip side the kids who had not been able to wait back in the initial study they were more likely now to be suspended from school to be classified as problem kids to be...you know the kind of kids who- Walter Mischel -were most likely to wind up as the bullies. Jad Abumrad The results were so odd and strong that Mischel and his team decided to keep following those kids up through their teens into their twenties and thirties and beyond. Walter Mischel So this is now roughly 40 years because they are about 44 45 at this point. We are still in touch with all the 250. Jad Abumrad And they have expanded the kind of data that they are keeping track of. Everything from- Walter Mischel How well they are able to stick to goals at work how far they go in school. Jad Abumrad Even their health. Walter Mischel For example body mass index. Jonah Lehrer A huge amount of data they really want to amass an FBI file so to speak. Jad Abumrad And the more data they collect the worse it gets. The kids who could wait back when they were 4 now in their 40s have better jobs they have gone farther in their education they are even skinnier- Walter Mischel Yah yah. Jad Abumrad -Than the kids who could not wait. Now think about this how much willpower you exhibit as a 4 year old in something so insignificant as trying to resist the pull of a marshmallow could predict this frightening amount about your life? Walter Mischel There is no question that there was something predictive about it and that it was not a fluke. Jad Abumrad Here's what I am wondering...if I have a 4 year old and I informally give them this test and they fail- Jonah Lehrer  Yah. Jad Abumrad Should I be worried? Do you know what I mean? Jonah Lehrer Yah I mean you know me I have got such a bias against these kinds of rigid predictive variables when it comes to the brain. Jad Abumrad Yah. Jonah Lehrer But I think these experiments have to give you pause. Jad Abumrad Because one interpretation of Mischel's work and it is one that we unfortunately cannot rule out is that maybe self-control is hardwired. You either have it by the age of 4 or you do not and if you do not have it statistically you are screwed. There is another way to interpret this thankfully. If willpower gets its start when you are 4 which is a big if but let us just assume for the moment it does then you got to ask what exactly happens at age 4 that separates the willful from the rest of us? Walter Mischel So what you are seeing over here is a tortured looking adorable little girl wearing a blue sweatshirt... Jad Abumrad Walter Mischel would say go back to those videos really look at them. If you do much of what you see has very little to do with nature. Walter Mischel She is looking at it she is withdrawing from it and she is holding her breath... Jad Abumrad The first thing you notice he says is that every kid is in agony even the good kids. They are not models of strength they are suffering too because Oreo cookies man...they are good. Second the very simple difference between the good kids and the bad kids seems to be that the good kids just found ways to distract themselves. They had strategies. Like this girl Walter Mischel She is saying shhh to herself Jad Abumrad Shushing that seemed to work. Or- Walter Mischel Kicking. Jad Abumrad -Kicking the table. That is actually a good strategy he says. Or making up a tune. Walter Mischel Kids composing new songs. Jad Abumrad Or just turning around in the chair. Okay we are back to girl number one now she has her back completely turned to the cookies. Jonah Lehrer Some kids actually pretended the marshmallow was a cloud. Walter Mischel I mean the kinds of things one sees are extraordinary. Jonah Lehrer Or the cookie was a UFO. They turned this hot stimulus into...as Mischel puts it a cold stimulus. Jad Abumrad And that might be all that separated the kids who could wait from the kids who caved. Jonah Lehrer The best kids simply had a better bag of tricks. Jad Abumrad And if that is all we are talking about...tricks...well you can teach a trick. Jonah Lehrer I think one of my favorite twists on his experiment that he did was he found that you could take kids who had trouble delaying gratification so kids who had really had a tough time waiting for the marshmallow and you simply say to them Put a picture frame around the marshmallow pretend it is a picture and not a delicious piece of candy. All of a sudden you gave kids this little trick and you could turn low delayers into much higher delayers. Jad Abumrad Oh so he could help these kids? Jonah Lehrer Absolutely you can teach just as a simple suggestion Why do not you just pretend this is a picture frame? He is got these bar graphs and it is dramatic. All of a sudden the low delayers are performing just like the high delayers. Jad Abumrad Really? And is there any evidence that if you teach these kids these low delayers and you give them these tools that you can send their life in the right direction in some way? Jonah Lehrer There is no evidence of that yet. He has not shown that simply teaching kids how to draw a picture frame around a marshmallow leads to a balloon in SAT scores and that is where I think even Mischel admits that it remains unclear how viable these tricks are. Because you can teach obviously a kid a trick to deal with the marshmallow in a lab setting but that does not mean they will necessarily be able to go home and...and you cannot go around drawing picture frames all day long. Jad Abumrad But that is kind of the crux of it now I mean...you kind of have to know that these tricks are useful. Jonah Lehrer Yah. Jad Abumrad Otherwise you are just picking your interpretation you could say Oh it is learned tricks or It is hardwired. Jonah Lehrer Yah so I think that the answer to that remains completely unknown that they are just beginning to fly all these subjects out...do a couple days worth of brain scans. I mean this is a big big project. No one quite knows what they will find. Walter Mischel I think it is highly likely to be like most things in life are turning out to be...which is yes the wiring makes a difference and yes the experience makes a difference and the wiring and the experience are interacting and changing each other. Robert Krulwich So Jad? Walter Mischel Mm-hmm  Robert Krulwich I who have never been able to withhold my fierce desire to eat all the chicken when seven pieces of chicken are served to three people I will eat four pieces of chicken... Walter Mischel Mm-hmm  Robert Krulwich And yet somehow I have gone through most of my life holding a job. Jad Abumrad Doing quite well. Robert Krulwich So I think before people take Mr. Mischel's views too close to heart remember there are outliers there are people who have grabbed the marshmallow early and yet who have somehow thrived. Jad Abumrad That is right. Robert Krulwich I want them to know that. Jad Abumrad Anyhow Radiolab is funded by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation Robert Krulwich Yay! Jad Abumrad The Corporation for Public Broadcasting Robert Krulwich Yay! Jad Abumrad and the National Science Foundation. Robert Krulwich Yay! Jad Abumrad I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich And I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad See you later. 