 Listener-supported WNYC Studios.   Wait. Wait. You are listening ...  OK?  All right.  OK?  All right.  You are listening...  Listening...  ...To Radiolab.  Radiolab.  From WNYC.  C?  Yup.  Do you guys know why I have gathered you here today?  No idea.  Well I know only in the meta sense that you have got another crazy thing that you are thinking about. I do not know what though.  Well as maybe you know or just can like feel in your soul we are about to hit a year since the first state - California - issued its stay-at-home order.  What day was that?  That is March 19 so that is coming up.  Oh that is - yeah yeah. It is coming up.  Wow.  Yeah. And I think most people you know like - the claustrophobia I think is just hitting a new high. And so as I was stuck I just started fantasizing. I just started wondering like what escapes people have in their lives you know?  You mean like mental escapes?  Mental but honestly I was wondering more physical. So I put out a call just to see like will you take us - have you found a safe escape? Will you take us there?  And did people send you stuff?  Yeah.  Hi Radiolab.  Hello Radiolab.  Hi.  We were flooded with responses...  Right now I am in my greenhouse...  ...From all over the planet.  ...In Costa Rica watering my plants.  I live in Zimbabwe. I am looking out into the garden. The sun is setting.  People called in from every single continent...  Barcelona Spain.  Santiago Chile.  ...Except one.  Nairobi Kenya.  We did not get Australia but like we got...  Hello.  ...Antarctica.  Sitting on our German icebreaker.  Someone left us a postcard...  Really?  ...From the middle of the Weddell Sea.  Seeing some icebergs passing by.  Oh damn.  Wow.  And she actually was like I come here to do climate research and usually this is the claustrophobic part of my life.  Because it is only a hundred people on board. Now the entire story kind of swapped because now it is everybody back home being isolated while we can spend kind of a normal life at sea. It is just beautiful. It is currently midnight see still kind of the sun at the horizon.  There was a rainbow in Tokyo...  It is really pretty.  ...And a field of wildflowers in North Carolina...  Like seven or eight feet high.  There is citrus in the air. I love the smell of citrus.  ...And a quiet room in Nigeria.  The walls are painted red blood red - my favorite color. And it is midnight noise of insects outside. Can you hear them? I feel safe. I feel this space belongs to me.  You know when these tapes started rolling in I just kind of stopped everything I was doing and just fell into it.  Oh you are escaping your homework basically it sounds like.  Yeah. I mean it was just so nice to be transported...  I am sitting in my backyard under the apricot tree.  Yeah.  ...To so many places.  I am sitting on the floor of my living room surrounded by my three best friends my dogs Benjamin Bear and Brody.   Is not that lovely?  Yeah.  Should we just listen to this for like the next 20 minutes?  Oh my God yes.   OK I am going to have to step in here because you guys are getting too excited about the sound of dogs.  OK.  Fair fair fair. But I think what I am trying to show or what really struck out to me was just the range...  Hi. My name is Paris France  and right now I am sitting on my balcony. It feels amazing out here. The wind is blowing. The cars are not making too much noise.  ...Of like how many different ways people found escape.  It is 5 oclock in the morning and I have been unloading grocery trucks. And strangely it is been a source of calm and stability throughout the entire pandemic.  I am in a kind of den that I have made for me and my newborn baby.   I am in my chicken coop.   Some people found it by hiking far far away.  There is wood fires in the distance that you can kind of smell.  And others found it by simply turning their head one inch to the left.  My name is Rhiannon . I am talking to you from Hampshire in England. I am sitting in my home office. My desk faces right out the window but I do not look at it as often as I look to my left which is where my aquarium sits. I bought my aquarium a few weeks before my dad went into hospital and unfortunately he never came out. It is been quite difficult to sit here every day in front of my laptop and talk to people through a screen and pretend like things are reasonably normal. Being able to turn and look at this aquarium full of plants bright blue shrimp and see an entire world that is so detached from ours but still such a part of it helps me identify that I also feel detached but apart from the world. And that is OK.   Coming up a story of escape at an almost unimaginable scale. Stick with us.   It is RADIOLAB. I am Lulu. I am claustrophobic so we are doing a whole episode of escapes today a landscape of escapes an escape-scape  if you will. And as we were putting all this together I started thinking about this old RADIOLAB piece a real beauty that takes you far far away.  Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  I am Robert Krulwich.  This is RADIOLAB. And today...   We offer you escape.  This piece that I am thinking about is actually a duet of stories. It was inside a whole episode on escapes. And it starts inside the mind of one man and then catapults out of it to the farthest place a human-made thing has ever traveled.  Yes I hear you moving in.  It comes to us from writer Ed Dolnick and actually begins when Isaac Newton was himself hiding out from an infectious disease.  Around 1665 Newton is at Cambridge. He is a student.  And Cambridge is hit by the plague. They send everybody home because although nobody understands how the disease works they know that if people are crowded together they tend to all get it. So everybody go your separate ways.  This is kind of an enforced summer vacation or something?   Right.  And he is like 19 or 20 at this point or...  He is 21 22.  OK.  Newton goes home to his mother's farm.  Mom is like cool now you can help me on the farm. But...  He says no.  'ecause he has a plan. He would brought some books home.  A bunch of textbooks.  And he locks himself in his room.  And sets himself not only to having mastered all the science that had ever been done but to plunging on ahead of everyone else on his own motivated by this religious faith that everything in the universe was set up by a God who wanted someone to crack the code. Newton believes he is the one to...  But I mean what was he doing in his room? I mean was he...  That is...  ...Sitting there in - like with a thousand giant textbooks?  All that is known is that he did this.  He just went into his room and came out with what we are about to talk about.  He came out with how gravity works how light works how rainbows work how the tides work. And then having done...  In a  summer he did all this?   Yes.  What did you do on your summer vacation Jad? I know like my summer I learned how to fold sheets like Marines do which I thought was pretty good too.   Right.   So after having one flash of insight after another Newton now sets his mind to one of the great problems of all time which for our purposes we will call the problem of the moon.  And just to set this up...  What everybody before Newton and Galileo thought is there are a bunch of ordinary things here on Earth like rocks and they behave in the ordinary way that we know.  You know pick up a rock let go...   It falls.  And there are a bunch of much more different mysterious elegant perfect things in the sky.  Like the moon which does not fall. It just floats there.  So one could conclude that the moon has its own separate set of laws.  There are one set of laws that work here on Earth and another set that work in the heavens. And there is no reason it should be the same set of laws any more than New York's laws should be the same as Paris' laws.  Kind of make sense actually. Heavenly things float earthly things fall.  But then here's where the problem begins. Newton and a bunch of people at that time had gotten hold of this newfangled thing called a telescope.  And one of the things they saw...  ...Was that the moon was not this mysterious heavenly body that they assumed. It was a big rock a regular lumpy potato-ish rock.  Uh-oh. People were like huh.  But Newton being of course Newton thought now wait a second.  If the job of a rock is to fall and if the moon is just another rock...  ...Why does not it fall down?  Exactly so. What is it doing sitting up there night after night?  Good question. And it is at this point that Newton sitting in his room or wherever he was we can imagine makes a crazy mental leap. He thought back to a little thought experiment that Galileo had come up with which initially might not make much sense - the connection...  ...But it pays off.  And here's the setup.   You have got someone standing in a big field with a gun that he is about to shoot. And next to that person with his gun is a person holding in his hand a bullet.  So you have got a person holding a gun and a person holding just the bullet side by side.  And the bullet in the hand and the bullet in the gun are exactly the same height above the ground. And now somebody says ready aim fire. And at the instant he says fire the man with the gun shoots that bullet horizontally. And at that same instant the man next to him holding the bullet in his hand opens his hand and the bullet drops.  So there is one bullet zipping along and then falling. And then the other one just falls.  Right. We shoot the bullet out of the horizontal gun and we drop the bullet from right next to the gun.  At the same time.  Yes. Both bullets will hit the ground eventually but when they do they will be far apart. And Galileo's riddle was which of those bullets hits the ground first?  Well I mean that is...  Everybody would know that the one that would hit the ground first is the one that you just drop because the other one has to go all that distance.  So this is a hard riddle. And the answer is...  Well wait. Why is it such a hard riddle? Because I would think that the bullet you drop is just going to hit first. The gun's got to go all the way.  No. Those two bullets both hit the ground at the exact same instant.  Really?  That is an experimental fact.  The bullet from the gun and the bullet from the hand lands at the same time?  Yes. This bullet that is shot horizontally it does not go like Wile E. Coyote running off a cliff. It does not go straight straight straight and then fall. It is curving as it goes.  And the thing that causes it to curve as it goes of course is gravity. It is the same gravity that is pulling the bullet that you drop. Same gravity same pull same speed. So counterintuitively when you drop a bullet and it falls for this long...   ...When you fired the gun it will also fall for that long...   ...Even though it ends up a mile away.   See? That was Galileo's riddle.  And that is as far as Galileo took it.  Yeah.  Newton looked at that and he said something smart.  First thing he said is OK this field? Let us not pretend that this is some...  ...Perfectly flat field that goes on forever.  No. We are on the Earth and the Earth is round.  And what roundness means is that the ground curves away below horizontal.  So really what is happening is that as the bullet is shooting across the field and falling to the earth. The earth at the same time is very gradually curving away from it.  Now of course most guns you know they do not shoot the bullet very far. And at that short distance the field is still pretty much flat.  But here's what Newton thought. What if you could find...  ...Just the right gun...  ...That could shoot that bullet not just across a field but across like thousands of miles? And...  ...What if...  ...As it falls...  ...That bullet curves down towards the earth...  ...In just the same way as the earth is curving...  ...Away from it?  In this scenario...  ...The bullet that we have shot will keep falling and falling and falling but the earth keeps falling and falling and falling away from the bullet. So the bullet falls forever. The earth curves forever. The picture never changes.  So the bullet then does what?  The bullet is in orbit.   Hundreds of years before Sputnik and other satellite Newton has invented the satellite.   And on top of that he said when we see rocks like the moon that are not falling the reason we think they are not falling is because we misunderstand. Really just as the gun launched a bullet on Earth and it goes and never falls God - who was presumably a terrifically strong pitcher - launched the moon...   ...Around the Earth at just such a rate that that would continue in its circle around us forever. This is a perpetual dance. The partners are bound together but they never come close and they never break up either. It is this endless round...  ...From which there is no escape.  What this does what Newton did is take the moon out of the domain of poets and musicians the golden orb and this kind of thing and lasso it to the same rules that we use here on Earth.  In other words what he showed is in a very real way there is no separation between us and the heavens.  The same set of laws does govern everything. It is one universe and I have explained it all.   I mean once you figure out the laws of gravitation then you can send spacecraft to...  Mars...  Jupiter...  ...Saturn - anywhere.  ...Out there.  If you are a RADIOLAB listener from way back you might recognize that voice. That is Ann Druyan.  Hi.  One of the first stories we did actually I interviewed her about working on the famous Golden Record. You remember this?  Sure.  So the idea at the time was to put this record on the Voyager capsule send it into space and on the record would be all of these sounds it represented you know us.   A kiss...   ...A mother's first words to her newborn baby...  Oh come on now.  ...Mozart.   .  In any case Ann was the one who was in charge of choosing all the sounds to put onto that record. She and Carl Sagan worked together on that project. And here's the thing. We stopped our story as the rockets took off. But obviously that was just the beginning of the story. And the Voyager capsules right now are about to make a kind of escape that Newton could have only dreamed of.  OK.  ...The record thing. And our producer Lynn Levy has been...  Oh - sorry. I just turned my headphones up way too loud.  ...Has been following this story.  Ah ow.  Yeah just turn it down.  Yeah.  OK. So pick it up where we left it.  OK. So like in - the point of the mission was not really to deliver this record. It was to go out and look at all the planets in the outer solar system. So starting in 1977 these two little spaceships...  Two spacecraft Voyager 1 and 2...  ...Went racing away from Earth snapping pictures.  And so every time Voyager would reach another planet you know all of the Voyager people would get together go into the imaging room and see the pictures come from the outer solar system.  Do you remember seeing them?  I remember as a child seeing Life magazine. You know I was 7 when the Voyager was launched. So...  This is Merav.  I am Merav Opher professor at Boston University.  As a grown-up she became part of the Voyager team.  All the pictures that you know as a kid you look at the books and just see what - how Neptune looked how Jupiter looked...  ...You know just a complete revelation...  Saturn...  The image of Saturn...  Technicolor...  Like pink and...  Like reddish...  ...Turquoise colors.  Yellow and...  And those rings - just spectacular.  They could see active volcanoes on one of the moons of Jupiter.  Finally that vision of Neptune this like blue jewel.  Really blue.  It all came from Voyager. We had no idea how they looked like before Voyager.  Neptune was the last big cool planet and it was the last thing they were supposed to photograph. After that...  The cameras were going to be shut off to save energy. But Carl Sagan convinced them to turn Voyager back to Earth and take a final picture.  So on Valentine's Day 1990 one of the ships slowly rotated so it was facing back to Earth. And it snapped a picture.  One last picture.  Describe it.  So it is mostly empty.   It is pretty dark. You can see sort of streaks of light coming from the sun. And then you honestly would not notice it if it was not pointed out to you. But down in one corner...  Kind of suspended in a sunbeam...  There is a very small dot blue.  ...A pale blue dot. That was us.  In Carl Sagan's words...  Everyone you ever knew everyone you ever loved every superstar every corrupt politician - just everyone in all of history everything the sum total. Think of the rivers of blood that have run so that one indistinguishable group could have momentary domination over a fraction of that pixel.  It was one of those really rare images.  Every single day I hear from people who take that pale blue dot so deeply to heart.  It was a complete reframing.  After that the cameras were turned off.  But here's the thing. The ships kept going - going going going - drifting through the darkness - going going going. Even though they were not taking pictures anymore they were using like their other senses little instruments that detect like how many particles are around what the temperature is. So they were hurdling through this empty space really fast measuring sending that data back. And scientists like Merav were there listening and waiting.  For what?  It was not clear.  But they knew at some point these capsules would get to the edge.  The edge of what?  The solar system.  The solar system has an edge? I thought it was just a big spiral.  It has an edge. It is a - it is like a bubble.  See the sun has a wind.   Every star has a wind but the sun has its own wind.  ...That blows out through the solar system.  It is very fast. It can be between 400 to 800 kilometers per second.  Anyway it blows out from the sun past all the planets and it keeps everything else out.  Oh so it is like blowing up a balloon?  Yeah exactly.  The wind gives it a shape.  Right. So these little things are cruising out towards this edge wherever it is. Scientists do not quite know where it is or what it is. The guys in the control room are like pinging the ships like hey what is up? What do you see? And the ships are like nothing. Well how about now? Not much. Now? Nothing.  And how long before they actually see something?  Fourteen years.  Oh man. That is like driving through Kansas but like a million times worse.  But there comes a day...  ...End of 2004...  ...Where they have stopped listening for a little while because the antenna - NASA only has so many antennas and they have to use them to listen to everything. So for a little while the Voyager team's like OK you guys over there can use the antennas. We are going to lunch.  Yeah. I mean it is not like anything's happening.  Nothing's happening anyway. It is been 14 goddamn years.  Knock yourself out.  You guys it is cool. And they come back a few hours later start listening again and...  It is happened very sudden.  ...Everything is totally changed.  Really?  All of a sudden...  Boom. The speed of the wind dropped from around 380 kilometers per second...   ...To 100.   Instantly. Like just all at once.  Instantly.  And then everything out there started to get messy.  Very turbulent.   Much more turbulent than before. Particles are also behaving a very different way.   And the fields are very weird.  The fields?  The magnetic field.  So just like the sun has a wind...  ...The sun has a magnetic field as well.  The field starts at the sun and then curves out in this kind of graceful arc through the solar system.  And how the sun rotates it create what people call ballerina skirt.  You know how like a skirt will flare if you spin around real fast?  Uh huh.  That is apparently kind of what this field looks like. But way out there it seemed like this skirt had started to fray maybe tear a little. Threads had broken off and seemed to be floating around on their own not connected to anything.  So what does this all mean? I mean if the fields are breaking down and the wind is dying down - you said the wind is what actually creates the space of the solar system. Does this mean we are out?  No. I kind of thought that was what was happening but no. It is not out and it is not quite in. It is in the edge of the bubble.  It is in the edge?  Yeah. But it is not like a little thin edge. It is a thick edge.  So the edge is not just a little line that you cross. It is a place.  Yeah. And while we listened the two Voyager ships moved through this edge for several years.  Then something very interesting happened - that the wind on Voyager 1 stopped.  Like completely stopped?  Yeah.  So now we are out?  No.  No.  I mean...  This is what people thought but the other measurements...  ...Like temperature the number of particles the magnetic field...  ...Does not tell us that we are out of the bubble. Nature surprised us again.  So now we think there is a place at the edge of our solar system...  ...Right at the edge...  ...The edge of the edge that is utterly still - no wind at all - a pause.  People are calling it a stagnation layer. And there is a big discussion why this layer exists and how thick it is.  And by how thick it is she means when will it end? Because once we get past this... So has anything ever cross this boundary before?  No. This will be the first manmade object to leave any star. And Voyager is like right there smelling touching that boundary.  You know you only do those things first once.  Like your first kiss your first taste of alcohol your first time driving a car the first time you see the ocean. These things open up a whole new world. First time out of the solar system.  So when is it going to freaking happen?  It might have happened while we were talking.  Ah.  We are thinking from now any moment now next couple of months or three years from now four years from now. It is close.   Every day I open my Google alert for Voyager and I look and see did it happen today?  Do you really?  Because if it happens before the show goes out I am going to be pissed. Yeah.  Every day?  Yeah.  It is the first thing you do in the morning?  No.  All right good.  Like the third thing.   This is Lulu now. So it is been nine years since that piece first aired. And Merav did it cross over? Did it...  It did. It did. It was 25 of August 2012 that Voyager 1 crossed.  Wow. So it was just a few months...  So it was just after...  ...After that.  It was really really close.  And what did it find?  So its still.  It is still.  Yeah. All the particles that come from the sun disappeared. It is really like an edge. And then you are entering to the realm of interstellar medium that is you know the stuff that come from other stars. If you could put it in sound you would see a lot of turbulence and then when you cross the edge it is much quieter.  Oh so it did find an even deeper quiet.  Right right. Yeah.   I do really like to just think about and imagine that little spacecraft out there floating in the stillness and that silence while we here on the pale blue dot all try to carve out our own little escapes.   Hi. My name is Catherine  and I am from the wet and rainy Seattle Wash. And my place to escape is running.  I am surrounded by a blanket of snow that is so glittery and bright.  Some winter ice swimming.   Andrea  what are we doing?  Lazy river-ing.  Oh there is kayakers coming.  I am standing in a stream. If I get really close I can hear the water bubbling under the ice.  I am at the car wash.  I always like the sound of the water.  I have actually found it to be very relaxing.  Soothing white noise. I am in Rock Creek Park in Washington D.C.  I am sitting on a rock in Toronto. And this is where I come with my 1-year-old daughter to look for streetcars. Anything coming Frankie ?  .  There is two.   .  I am out here with the chickens to escape the chaos inside my house.  I do feel at peace at home.  I am in a kind of den that I have made for me and my newborn baby.  It is almost very safe to just be in the confines of your home.  She is asleep next to me.   I am sitting on the floor of my living room surrounded by my three best friends - my dogs Benjamin  Bear  and Brodie . My old boy Benjamin snores on the floor beside me.  I am sitting in my home office which is where my aquarium is...  I will just watch my little betta fish...  ...Full of plants bright blue shrimp.  ...And listen to the hum of his water filter.  It is kind of like a void noise almost. I am not sure if that makes sense. But it is kind of just like this buzzing. You know the car's going back and forth.  As you can hear...   ...There is some birds.  Looking out into the garden.  The smell of the Earth.  The sun is setting.  The smell of trees.  There is actually a rainbow out. I can see.  I am escaping...  I am currently walking...  Doom-scrolling.  ...Up and down the street.  ...My family.  I have escape here.  I am escaping...  We are escaping.  ...Life.  I am escaping the fact that I am currently ghosting my own therapist.  What am I trying to escape?  I am escaping my mind.  Like I am in my own little bubble.  I do not have to think about anything.  Take a deep breath. Look around.  It helps you realize you do not have to be a part of everything that is going on around you.   All right. Hands are getting cold.   That'ill do it friends. Thank you to all the people who took time to take us to their place of escape. Even if your peace did not make it in I promise you we listened we salivated we felt gratitude. This episode was produced by Matthew Kielty with production support from Jonny Moens and Suzie Lechtenberg. Big shoutout to Lynn Levy - we miss you Lynn - for production and reporting on the Voyager piece. Special thanks to A.J. Dungo Quieta F. Johnson  Ravenna Koenig Diana Sugg and Alan Gavinsky . Bye.   Hi. This is Spencer  calling from beautiful Barre Vt. RADIOLAB was created by Jad Abumrad and is edited by Soren Wheeler. Lulu Miller and Latif Nasser are our co-hosts. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Matt Kielty Annie McEwen Sarah Qari Arianna Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Carin Leong. Our fact-checkers are Diane Kelly and Emily Krieger. Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 