 Jad Abumrad               Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich          I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad               This is Radiolab. Robert Krulwich          And today we will start with a prelude. Annie McEwen            Hello hello England are you there? Jad Abumrad               From our producer Annie McEwen. Rupert P.R.                  Hello. Annie McEwen            Oh hi yeah. Rupert P.R.                  Is that Annie? Annie McEwen            It is. Is this Rupert? Rupert P.R.                  Well done. Yes. Well done. Annie McEwen            This is Rupert Pennant-Rae. Rupert P.R.                  Right. Hello. Annie McEwen            He is 71 and he is had a very busy very successful career. Rupert P.R.                  Yes. Perhaps the two most prominent things I have done I was on the staff of The Economist for many years and editor. I then went from there to the Bank of England where I was deputy governor. Annie McEwen            So you can imagine Rupert is a very knowledgeable guy. Rupert P.R.                  Absolutely. Annie McEwen            Especially when it comes to things like. Rupert P.R.                  Interest rates or exchange rates or commodity prices and ha ha. Annie McEwen            He knows all about that stuff. Annie McEwen            This whole time he is been this super successful guy he is been living with this one big- Rupert P.R.                  Big. Annie McEwen            Cavernous. Rupert P.R.                  Gap in my life. Yeah. Annie McEwen            Until very recently Rupert knew absolutely nothing about science and when I say nothing I mean like he had no clue about how the natural world around him worked in any way. Rupert P.R.                  Literally. Annie McEwen            For instance ... Rupert P.R.                  The periodic table. I never heard of the periodic table. Annie McEwen            Until last year and when one day his wife told him he was a mammal. Rupert P.R.                  Well that was a shocker. Annie McEwen            He had no idea. Rupert P.R.                  I said No no of course I am not a mammal. Annie McEwen            What? Rupert P.R.                  I thought she was using it as a term of abuse. Annie McEwen            He would use words like fiber optic cable. Rupert P.R.                  Many many times. Annie McEwen            And say things like ... Rupert P.R.                  Oh that is radioactive. Annie McEwen            When describing something he felt was bad or dangerous. Rupert P.R.                  Without a clue of what I meant by that phrase. Annie McEwen            I guess like what was it like to be a very important person in very important circles but have this gap? Rupert P.R.                  Well I will tell you what I became good at bluffing. I was on the board of a number of mining companies and I hope none of my colleagues from those companies are listening. Annie McEwen            Part of being on the board meant he had to read all these geologist reports. Rupert P.R.                  Yeah. Annie McEwen            And  reports. Rupert P.R.                  Yeah. Annie McEwen            A blah. Rupert P.R.                  And then we would have board discussions about all this and I would sit there stroking my chin in a way I hoped would look like a wise chap but I did not really have a clue what people were talking about. Annie McEwen            What was your schooling like that you did not have ... Rupert P.R.                  Well this is where it all began of course. I come from Zimbabwe and I went to school there. Annie McEwen            It was a boarding school. The kind of school where you wear uniforms you play cricket and for some reason if you are extra clever instead of studying any science at all you study Greek. Rupert P.R.                  Of course the irony today is that I remember virtually no Greek at all. So it is not as though it did me a huge amount of favors. Annie McEwen            So he always thought ... Rupert P.R.                  As soon as I have time. Annie McEwen            He would right this wrong. Rupert P.R.                  That is what I am doing now. I am studying science for the first time at the age of 71. Annie McEwen            And he is really going for it. He is got a tutor. Rupert P.R.                  Who I see for three hours a week. Annie McEwen            Studying physics biology and his favorite. Rupert P.R.                  Chemistry. I have been really absorbed by chemistry. Annie McEwen            I guess you are married to a scientist. Is that correct? Rupert P.R.                  I am. I am. Annie McEwen            Okay so what is that influencing your studies at all or ... Rupert P.R.                  Yeah we had an agreement that at some point I would put this right coupled with another agreement that she would be a very helpful tutor to me which indeed she is proving to be. I think there is a danger now that is she is going to rather wish that she never encouraged me to do this because I- Annie McEwen            Oh really. Rupert P.R.                  I never stop saying Wow have you noticed this? Annie McEwen            What are the wows? What are the wows? Rupert P.R.                  I mean all sorts of things. It was partly the periodic table. When I first discovered this I could not believe how elegant it was how compressed and how beautifully defined it all was. I am very very devoted to it and have a copy of it close by most of the day. Annie McEwen            Oh really. Rupert P.R.                  Oh yes. Annie McEwen            Oh my gosh you are very committed. This is amazing. Rupert P.R.                  Then there are other things. Annie McEwen            Okay. Rupert P.R.                  The whole principle of electricity and how it lights up bulbs and how it then moves on and goes all around the house and comes out at the other end. Things like speed and velocity and acceleration and cells and then you are talking about plants you are talking about animals. Rupert P.R.                  Something as simple as a glass of water I have got on the table by me now. I now look at it with a huge amount of respect. Annie McEwen            Oh. Rupert P.R.                  I think my God if only I could have a look with microscope eyes and see those little molecules of hydrogen and the single atoms of oxygen and how they will all join together it would be such a delight. Annie McEwen            I can see why your wife is like rolling her eyes a little bit. Rupert P.R.                  Oh yeah. This is getting tedious I think you know. Annie McEwen            Rupert go to bed. Yeah. It sounds very much to me like you have fallen in love. Rupert P.R.                  Yeah it does it feels like that. It is all fresh and wonderful and exciting and you cannot really believe it. It is like one day having a miracle laser surgery on your eyes and they turn from being colorblind to being fully functional and seeing the richness of the world around you. Thinking my God and there I was in that one dimensional color and now I have got all of this to revel in. Annie McEwen            I picture you in a musical sort of like swinging your briefcases about as you jump home from work and dance around lamp posts and stuff like that. Rupert P.R.                  Well that would be nice. I would not recommend my dancing but- Annie McEwen            Oh no. Rupert P.R.                  I do like the image. Jad Abumrad               Thanks Annie. Annie McEwen            Sure. Robert Krulwich          Speaking of reveling and reveling in. Jad Abumrad               Reveling in the one or getting back to basics. Like asking the questions you never got a chance to ask. Robert Krulwich          That is what we are going to do. Jad Abumrad               That is what we are going to do. This is one in a series of shows we have been doing. Robert Krulwich          All of us are curious about this that and the other and some of the this and the that and the others will not go away. Jad Abumrad               They will not go into the show either. Robert Krulwich          No they will not go into the show either. Jad Abumrad               This show increasingly has these big investigative things. Robert Krulwich          Right. Jad Abumrad               Feels like okay lets make a space for the this that and the others. Robert Krulwich          So we did. We decided to just devote a few shows to small questions asked by our people that would not go away so what the heck we will just answer them. Jad Abumrad               Yeah and maybe in the process you get back to that  state of renewal of wonder. Robert Krulwich          Yeah. Jad Abumrad               Alright so you ready Bobby K. Robert Krulwich          I am. Jad Abumrad               We are going to start things off with ... Molly Webster            Hello hello. Oriana Aragon             Hello. Arianne Wack              Hello. Molly Webster            Yeah. Jad Abumrad               An interrogatory duet. Robert Krulwich          Ooh. Jad Abumrad               From producers Molly Webster. Molly Webster            This is Molly. Oriana Aragon             Hi Molly. Jad Abumrad               And ... Arianne Wack              Arianne. Jad Abumrad               Arianne Wack. Oriana Aragon             Arianne. Arianne Wack              Hi. Oriana Aragon             Hi Arianne. Arianne Wack              Nice to meet you. Oriana Aragon             Nice to meet you too. Molly Webster            So we are going to jump right in to the conversation that we had with this researcher. Oriana Aragon             Alright. Well my name is Oriana Aragon and I am an assistant professor here at Clemson University. Molly Webster            Okay. Arianne Wack              She studies human behavior and emotion. Molly Webster            So maybe you can you just tell me what made you first run into this question? Oriana Aragon             Well it was a summer- Molly Webster            2011. Molly Webster            Oriana was a grad student at Yale at the time and one night she was just sitting around ... Oriana Aragon             Watching late night television. Announcer                  It is Conan. Oriana Aragon             Conan O'Brien and ... Conan O'Brien             We have talked about this before. Oriana Aragon             Leslie Bibb. Conan O'Brien             Very beautiful talented woman. Leslie Bibb                  Thank you. Oriana Aragon             It is a very talented and lovely actress is on and she was talking about having encountered this cute puppy. Leslie Bibb                  Yeah I mean there was this woman. I was just at the hair salon. Conan O'Brien             Mm-hmm . Leslie Bibb                  She had this little dog it was kind of an ugly dog. It was like a Maltese it looked real janky. She took this little curly hair and she must have straightened it with a flatiron and then she put one ponytail holder and then another ponytail holder so it kind of looked like a water ox. Conan O'Brien             Yeah. Molly Webster            And then Oriana says Leslie did something that just sort of struck her. Oriana Aragon             She started like gritting her teeth scrunching her face squeezing her hands. Leslie Bibb                  I just walked up to her and I was like This dog is making me so mad I am going to punch it. It is so cute. Oriana Aragon             You know she is like it is so cute you just want to smash it. Leslie Bibb                  She is so cute but it is cute right. Conan O'Brien             So when you say I want to punch you you make me so mad it means that you- Leslie Bibb                  Like I love it. Conan O'Brien             You see that would- Leslie Bibb                  I never say like- Molly Webster            Oriana was just sitting there watching this show and she was like huh. Oriana Aragon             Wow that is a strange reaction. Molly Webster            Like Leslie saw this cute sweet thing. Oriana Aragon             And she just wanted to kick in the head. Molly Webster            Which might seem odd but as Oriana kept thinking about this moment she was like Oh yeah. Oriana Aragon             We do this. Molly Webster            We do this sort of thing all the time. Arianne Wack              I do this. I totally do this. Molly Webster            Side note Arianne is a new mom. Arianne Wack              Every single day when I see my baby. When I see his like little body my joints tense up and my hands my fingers start to curl and my teeth start to clench. Ah I just I just need to eat his face. Oriana Aragon             I need to figure out what is going on here this sort of like ah feeling with cuteness. What is it that we are doing and why do we do that? So anyhow ... Molly Webster            Back in 2011 Oriana set out to answer those questions and the conventional thinking at the time was that ... Oriana Aragon             You know if there is an aggressive expression. Molly Webster            Like gritting teeth or clenched fists or wanting to squeeze something. Oriana Aragon             Then it must be representing some sort of aggression. Molly Webster            Underneath that there is a little bit of violence. You want to hurt that thing. Oriana Aragon             Yes. Molly Webster            Which sort of makes sense to me because I think my first thought is duh we were all cannibals at some point and there is something in there coming through and it is not good in polite society and that arg is just the urge sneaking out in some way. Oriana Aragon             Mm that is interesting. So work has continued for the last six years on this. I have found a lot I have understood a lot now about what these expressions communicate and what they represent. Molly Webster            When Oriana first started researching this one of things she had to figure out was when we see something cute. Oriana Aragon             Do we actually want to squeeze or is this just an expression a figure of speech I want to squeeze you? Molly Webster            She started doing these experiments where she would bring people into the lab and she would show them these pictures. Oriana Aragon             Like a little baby duckling. Molly Webster            Oh a duckling. Oriana Aragon             A little baby fluffy puppy. Molly Webster            Then give them bubble wrap. Oriana Aragon             It was funny because it was in this really quiet hall and throughout the entire semester you could hear pop pop pop pop. Molly Webster            And for the really cute pics like baby ducklings. Oriana Aragon             You hear this like it would just be ringing out sheets of bubble wrap. Arianne Wack              I identify with that because I was like bubble rap would not cut it for me. Molly Webster            So Oriana was like okay it looks like there is real aggression here. Arianne Wack              Yeah. Molly Webster            Maybe this is not much of a shocker at the same time she found there is actually nothing negative going on inside these people. Jad Abumrad               Mm-hmm . Molly Webster            They were actually full of joy and happiness while they were tearing bubble wrap apart. Oriana Aragon             So it is not about an actual latent aggression we are just arg you know. We are just sort of expressing it this way but we do not mean that we are aggressive at all. Jad Abumrad               That is so strange to have this sort of weird schism where you are happy on the inside but aggressive on the outside. Molly Webster            Well it is actually not as weird as you would think. Oriana Aragon             No mm-mm no. Molly Webster            Oriana pointed out that in some ways it is so common we do not even notice it. Oriana Aragon             It happens all the time. You see athletes... Clip                             Whew. Molly Webster            Or sports fans. Oriana Aragon             In what looks like absolute fury. Clip                             Oh oh my God. Arianne Wack              Punching the air screaming. Clip                             Oh my God. Molly Webster            Or weeping ... Clip                             Yes they won. Molly Webster            When something great happens and that is another thing. Oriana Aragon             Think about you know ... Clip                             Are you serious. Molly Webster            Tears of joy. Oriana Aragon             You see brides and you see ... Clip                             You are the two million dollar winner. Clip                             I apparently am the 2- Molly Webster            Lottery winners or ... Clip                             Oh my God. Molly Webster            You see people weeping at the awe of nature. Clip                             A complete rainbow. Oriana Aragon             Think about all the times when what happens on the outside the display does not match what is going on the inside. Jad Abumrad               I still feel like I am at why. Why would you want to punch the cute puppy or weep at the rainbow? Molly Webster            So Oriana started to look at all this stuff. Oriana Aragon             And having tested everything that I can think of everything that is in the literature there is a thru line to what these expressions represent and communicate. Molly Webster            According to Oriana. Oriana Aragon             When you see tears. Molly Webster            Like all kinds of tears. Oriana Aragon             Whether they are for winning the medal whether they are for looking at the beautiful sunset. Molly Webster            It is the same as tears at a funeral or tears of grief. Oriana Aragon             It communicates wanting to stop wanting to be still. Molly Webster            Oh. Oriana Aragon             Wanting to pause. Molly Webster            Oriana said that when it comes to these like ... Oriana Aragon             Sort of aggressive arg expressions. Molly Webster            You know you see a cute puppy or you scored a goal or you actually want to fight somebody. Oriana Aragon             That is about wanting to go wanting to move wanting to approach wanting to get close to. It is about moving forward or momentum. Arianne Wack              That is funny because when I see my baby at four oclock in the morning when he gets up and wants to nurse I am exhausted. It is not until I see him and his face lights up like he is so excited to see me and it ooh I want to like smush him and bite him. Right? Like that is the thing that gets me going. I feel like in those moments. Oriana Aragon             Right because that is definitely it. It is an elicitor of those care behaviors. Arianne Wack              It is just nice to know that in situations where we may not know what is going on. We may not be able to read our own emotions or know how to respond to the world. Our most basic bodily instincts they like boil down to this really simple set of choices. Oriana Aragon             Yeah. Arianne Wack              Or like urges. Oriana Aragon             Mm-hmm. Molly Webster            You know what I think is I find myself thinking in a way that I appreciate is you know I am not even going to get all these right but do you remember when humans used to think of themselves as composed of fire water wind. Oriana Aragon             The humors. Molly Webster            Yeah that is exactly it. Oriana Aragon             Yeah yeah. Molly Webster            Somehow in this conversation I feel like oh we were right all along. It might not have been fire but it could have just been go. Arianne Wack              Yeah. Oriana Aragon             Yeah. Molly Webster            Maybe it was not water but it was stop. Arianne Wack              Yeah that is what I am telling you we need a self help out of this. Oriana Aragon             Okay Arianne I will get right on that. Clip                             Split. Robert Krulwich          Thank you Molly Webster thank you Arianne Wack. Molly is here by the way. Molly Webster            I was like you are welcome Robert. I am now disclaimer Molly. Robert Krulwich          Oh okay. Molly Webster            Which is just to say that Leslie Bibb has actually been on Conan a number of times talking about how she wants to punch dogs and punch babies and in one she wants to slash Angelica Houston's face. Are All motivated by the same acute aggression reason. Jad Abumrad               Slash her face. Molly Webster            Slash her face. That was how she introduced herself to Angelica Houston. Jad Abumrad               Oh my god. Molly Webster            That is just to say that at the top of the piece- Robert Krulwich          What happened after that just I am curious? Molly Webster            I think Angelica Houston abruptly turned around and walked away. Robert Krulwich          Yeah as one might. Jad Abumrad               As one might. Molly Webster            That is just to say that at the top of the piece while Oriana was inspired in 2011 by a Leslie appearance we used a scene from 2018. Jad Abumrad               Okay. Robert Krulwich          Oh okay. Molly Webster            There was a black outfit in one and a red outfit in another. Jad Abumrad               Got it. Got it. Alright well thanks Molly. Molly Webster            Oh your welcome guys. Robert Krulwich          Thank you. Molly Webster            Yeah sure. Okay have fun. Jad Abumrad               Hey Tracie. Tracie Hunte               Hey. Jad Abumrad               Should we ask you how you got the idea to do this? Tracie Hunte               Right. Jad Abumrad               Is that the right question to start us off. Tracie Hunte               It is a question and it will do for right now. Jad Abumrad               Okay. Robert Krulwich          So Tracie facing the challenge of a completely blank page. Tracie Hunte               Uh huh. Robert Krulwich          Where any question at all might be legitimate. Tracie Hunte               Correct. Robert Krulwich          How did you land upon this one? Tracie Hunte               One of my friends- Kat Chow                     Am I here? Tracie Hunte               Her name is Kat Chow. Kat Chow                     I am a reporter with Code Switch a team at NPR that covers race and culture. Tracie Hunte               I saw her tweeting one day because this is how I keep up with all my friends. I just look at what they are tweeting. She was feeling very vulnerable right now because she is working on a story that was going to involve Sampson. Kat Chow                     Yes. Tracie Hunte               I want to know a little bit about how did you meet Sampson. Kat Chow                     I got Sampson in 2015 and in 2015 this weird thing happened where all of a sudden I became obsessed with just wanting a dog. All of a sudden all I could do was browse these dog adoption websites in the D.C. area. Tracie Hunte               There was a lot of going to shelters and going to rescue groups and finally this rescue group that I think she had been in contact with emailed her and said Why do not you come and meet Sampson. Kat Chow                     I clicked on his profile and he was this really really adorable beagle mix. They had this cute video on YouTube where he is jumping around and he looks so happy and he is romping in a field playing with other dogs. The profile did not really say much about him just that he was a little shy he was a stray in South Carolina. Kat Chow                     I arranged to got meet him at this adoption event. When my partner and I go to the event we find Sampson and he is just as cute in person except we notice that he is super super scared. Tracie Hunte               Oh. Kat Chow                     Where he is like shaking. Tracie Hunte               Oh. Kat Chow                     He cannot even stand on his own and the people at the adoption event had to have him in his lap. I do not know maybe that should have been a red flag for anyone who knows dogs but for me I was like Oh he is going to come out of his shell. I am going to be the one that brings him out of his shell. We cannot bring him home. Tracie Hunte               Sampson was living with a foster family. Kat Chow                     They wanted to do a home visit so ... Tracie Hunte               The foster came over with Sampson. Kat Chow                     To my apartment my little basement apartment in D.C. and we go on this walk. Tracie Hunte               A little exploratory walk around the neighborhood and while they are walking ... Kat Chow                     We pass by a man who is black and he is wearing a sweatshirt. The foster turns to me and goes Oh he does not like men in hoodies. Tracie Hunte               Huh. So Kat is thinking and I am thinking it when she is telling me this. Are you saying he is scared of guys in hoodies or are you saying that he is afraid of black men? Kat Chow                     Right but Sampson was also afraid of me and I still really badly wanted a dog and Sampson seemed just like he needed me. I do not know maybe this is the patronizing human adopt a dog thing. I do not know. I do not know. We decided my partner and I decided to adopt him. We loved him so much and we love him we love him present tense so much. Tracie Hunte               So Kat and her partner takes Sampson in and ... Kat Chow                     Almost immediately. Tracie Hunte               Kat would have a friend over who was black. Kat Chow                     He was just bark at them. Tracie Hunte               Bark at her friends who were brown. Kat Chow                     For a long time. He especially did not like on of my Korean American friends. Tracie Hunte               When they would go outside. Kat Chow                     He was just afraid of anybody who was African American or like Latinesc. Tracie Hunte               He would growl at them. Kat Chow                     It was just very obvious but then it became this- Tracie Hunte               Well yeah lets slow down. To clarify this one thing you yourself are not white. Kat Chow                     I am Asian American. Tracie Hunte               Okay. Kat Chow                     Yes I am Chinese American. Tracie Hunte               Did you think that Sampson maybe because you said he was a little afraid of you at first. Do you think that he maybe was afraid of you because you were not white? Kat Chow                     I do not know. He did like my partner more and my partner is white. Tracie Hunte               Oh no. Kat did put Sampson in training but that did not seem to work so we was just left looking at this adorable little that she had just taken in thinking ... Kat Chow                     Is he racist? Robert Krulwich          Mm. Tracie Hunte               I should say quick. This is a question that a lot of people have. Larry David                  I am really sorry. Wanda Sykes               You know what is going on. Larry David                  Huh. Wanda Sykes               You have a racist dog. Tracie Hunte               You know this is not the first time I have heard ...                   Like this morning my mom called me- Tracie Hunte               This idea that dogs can be racists.                   She thinks her dog is racist.                   Whoa whoa. Tracie Hunte               It comes up in TV shows all the time.                   He seems to get really aggressive towards people with darker color skin. I am so sorry. Tracie Hunte               There is articles about it in Huffington Post and Psychology Today and actually-                   Okay mostly-                   Can I be on the news? Tracie Hunte               Went around to some dog parks and asked some fellow dog owners. Have you ever heard of this idea that a dog can be racist? Tracie Hunte               There were a bunch of people who were like ...                   I have. Tracie Hunte               Oh yeah.                   Totally.                   Once a long time ago.                   Yeah yeah.                   I do not know what you are talking about. Tracie Hunte               You know I heard stories about.                   I will walk by somebody and they are like He does not like white girls. Tracie Hunte               Dogs that maybe did not like white woman.                   You would be by them and just- Tracie Hunte               Black woman. Black men I guess all of this is just a long way of saying that this is definitely you know a thing. Tracie Hunte               So my question is is it actually a thing? Okay now I am rolling. This is going to be a fun conversation about race but also dogs. To try to answer this question Kat and I sat down with this woman. Alexandra H.                Sure sure. I am Alexandra Horowitz. I study at the Dog Cognition lab in Barnard. Tracie Hunte               Does researching dogs thinks about dogs writes about dogs. Alexandra H.                All things dogs. Kat Chow                     Okay so- Tracie Hunte               To jump in Kat told Alexandra about how she had taken Sampson in. Kat Chow                     He barked at- Tracie Hunte               He seems to be kind of racist. Is that even possible? Kat Chow                     I do not know can a dog be racist? Alexandra H.                Um. Tracie Hunte               She was like well obviously dogs are not racist the way humans are racist. I mean racism is rooted in our history. Alexandra H.                The history of our country and how we have dealt with different groups of people but dogs do not know about that. What a dog knows about comes from its own life that dog's own life. Robert Krulwich          Yeah. Tracie Hunte               But. Alexandra H.                Dogs are- Tracie Hunte               As we were talking through what dogs can do. We ended up having this conversation about the most basic elements of being a racist. Jad Abumrad               Mm a racist anything. Tracie Hunte               Yeah so think about it. Step one is just putting people in these different groups in your head. Kat Chow                     I was trying to think about this too though. Can dogs remember types of people or just- Alexandra H.                Well I do think that dogs are sensitive to new things and differences. Tracie Hunte               One thing that Alexandra told us that she is seen in her work is that ... Alexandra H.                Dogs do seem to play differently with different breeds for instance. They play better with ones that look like them. Jad Abumrad               Wait so dogs have a bias like they are prejudice for their own kind. Alexandra H.                Maybe. Tracie Hunte               Dogs have cliques at the dog park? Alexandra H.                Yeah they do and partly it might be because they have the same kind of equipment. The same length tail the same kind of ear shape the same body size so they understand each other's cues a little better. Tracie Hunte               It might just be easier. Alexandra H.                That is what I am saying is dogs notice differences in the world. Tracie Hunte               When it comes to noticing differences between people there are some at least anecdotal evidence that dogs can see can tell men and woman apart. Robert Krulwich          Mm. Jad Abumrad               They cannot see differences in skin color right because are not dogs colorblind? Alexandra H.                They absolutely can see color differences. Jad Abumrad               Oh they can. Alexandra H.                Yes. Jad Abumrad               What does the world look like to a dog? Alexandra H.                The best approximation is that they are probably seeing something like the color spectrum when it is dusk and it feels like yellows and so forth and oranges have disappeared or have been muted. Jad Abumrad               Okay so the dog can see color. Tracie Hunte               Yeah so it seems like it is possible that maybe dogs can tell the difference between skin tones. Jad Abumrad               Mm-hmm . Tracie Hunte               Then the next question is can a dog then make associations? You know like light skin people are like this and dark skin people are like this and then carry that forward in all its other interactions whenever it meets another person like that person. Jad Abumrad               Yeah group bias I guess. Tracie Hunte               Right yeah. Jad Abumrad               Yeah. Tracie Hunte               Can it do that with dark skin people? Jad Abumrad               That is an interesting question. Tracie Hunte               You know then do this. Robert Krulwich          How would you ever test a thing like that? Tracie Hunte               Well so Kat actually did a story for Code Switch. Kat Chow                     Okay it is rainy. Tracie Hunte               And as part of that she found this woman named Lori. Kat Chow                     Hi. Lori Santos                  Oh hi. Tracie Hunte               Lori Santos. She is another dog cognition expert except this time she is at Yale. Kat Chow                     I give her a call and I am like Hi I think my dog is racist. Tracie Hunte               And she kind of said the same thing as Alexandra. Lori Santos                  I think the word racist has a lot in it you know the history of race in America and all these things. Tracie Hunte               In her work she has been trying to answer this very basic question. Lori Santos                  Can a dog show preferences for certain racial groups? Tracie Hunte               So Lori designed a study. Lori Santos                  A dog version of a very famous human study known as an IAT. Tracie Hunte               Which is the Implicit Association Test. I do not know if you guys ever heard of this test. Robert Krulwich          I do not know what it is. Tracie Hunte               Okay so the Implicit Association Test. It is put out by Harvard right? Kat Chow                     Right so basically that test you can take it online. It kind of feels like a computer game where- Tracie Hunte               Where you get these words and you have sort whether they are positive or negative and then you are also getting faces like just faces of people and you have to sort whether they are black or white. Tracie Hunte               Basically they are trying to test to see if you associate certain groups of people with certain kind of negative or positive images or thoughts. Kat Chow                     Correct yes. Yes. Jad Abumrad               How on earth would you give this to a dog? Tracie Hunte               Well. Lori Santos                  I think our dog is here right now so we can- Tracie Hunte               Lori found with implicit bias research. Lori Santos                  Similar kinds of studies have been done with human babies. Robert Krulwich          Human babies. Jad Abumrad               Babies? Tracie Hunte               Yes to see if they have racial preferences and since they are babies and they cannot use computers with words researchers use photos. Lori Santos                  Photos of different human faces. Kat Chow                     So- Lori Santos                  Welcome Vader hello.                   Hi Vader. Kat Chow                     To do this for dogs ... Awe. Tracie Hunte               Lori had this pit bull mix named Vader come in. Kat Chow                     What she does is she brings the dog into this little room. Tracie Hunte               And they have the dog sit kind of near the center of the room where there is a research assistant. Lori Santos                  So we are going to start with another picture show that we have. Kat Chow                     She has this box and it kind of reminds of a little puppet theater where it is open on one side and you can slide in different images at the front that the dog will see. Tracie Hunte               So the research assistant gets this box ready. Kat Chow                     Okay. Tracie Hunte               Slides in a picture and then ... Lori Santos                  Vader look. Tracie Hunte               Pulls off this cover to show Vader a picture of a black person. Just a straight faced head shot and then they show the same picture to Vader. Kat Chow                     Over and over- Lori Santos                  Vader look. Kat Chow                     And over again. Lori Santos                  Vader. Tracie Hunte               The same straight faced black person. Kat Chow                     But then. Lori Santos                  Vader look. Tracie Hunte               The researcher shows Vader this picture of a smiling happy looking German Shepard and then a black person. Lori Santos                  Vader look. Tracie Hunte               Smiling German Shepard. Lori Santos                  Look. Tracie Hunte               It is all very randomized so sometimes it is black person black person then smiling dog and you know you get the idea. Lori Santos                  Good job.                   Good boy. Robert Krulwich          What is it that they are looking for here? Tracie Hunte               Well so that day with Vader they only showed black faces and happy dogs. When Vader comes in again they will likely show him another kinds of combinations white faces with angry dogs black faces with angry dogs and so on. Tracie Hunte               What they are looking for and this is the same thing they are looking for when they do this test on babies is to see whether the dog is attentive and focused or bored and unfocused. Basically how is a dog reacting to these two different pictures being put together. Kat Chow                     The way Lori put it was if a dog shows like a pro-white bias then they should find the categories of white faces with happy dogs easier to process and therefore more boring. So they might look away more or they might not be able to stay focused. Tracie Hunte               Boredom implies that that dog might have a preference for white people but then if they see a black face and a happy dog and they stay really focused on it and they are not bored that could possibly mean that maybe they are surprised that these two things go together and maybe that is evidence of a little bit of prejudice. Jad Abumrad               Mm. What has Lori learned? Tracie Hunte               Well Jad here it is the big news and it is too soon to tell. It is still too early to tell. Jad Abumrad               Oh. Lori Santos                  Yeah. I mean we are really at such early stages it is really hard to say. I guess one thing we have learned is that so many people are interested in the results of this study. People really want to know the answer to the question of how dogs see these categories and that is been really compelling just to realize how fascinated people are with this question. Tracie Hunte               How often do you get the is my dog racist question? Alexandra H.                I hear it regularly. Sure. Tracie Hunte               Again Alexandra Horowitz. Alexandra H.                You know because we see dogs as mirrors of ourselves. We see our dogs as mirrors of ourselves. Tracie Hunte               In many ways they are because regardless of what a dog can see or not see or whether they associate negative feelings with different faces. The one thing that dogs are very very good at and this is something that both Lori and Alexandra made a point of is paying attention to us and more specifically how we behave. Alexandra H.                For instance- Tracie Hunte               Remember this idea that a dog can tell men and woman apart. Robert Krulwich          Mm-hmm. Tracie Hunte               Well she was like it probably has nothing to do with what men and woman look like. Alexandra H.                But instead- Tracie Hunte               It is how we behave. Alexandra H.                Men and woman deal with dogs a little bit different on the whole. Kat Chow                     I should have brought some treats. Why did not I bring treats? I did not bring treats. Alexandra H.                Woman are more effusive. Kat Chow                     Oh you are so pretty. You are so pretty. Alexandra H.                Woman are more likely to talk to dogs in a- Kat Chow                     You pretty baby. Alexandra H.                Higher pitched voice. Woman might be more likely to crouch down to a dog instead of kind coming right up to a dog. These are obviously generalizations but I think a dog is very sensitive to those behavioral differences. Tracie Hunte               Alexandra says The person whose dogs are the most sensitive to whose response they are paying the closes amount of attention to is you. You the guardian you the owner. Alexandra H.                We have created a species to be sensitive when we feel tense. Kat Chow                     I wonder if I suspected this thing it became this sort of funny but not really funny thing that I always wondered and somehow confirmed it or made it happen just by the anxiety of oh my gosh is my dog is my dog actually is he racist quote unquote. Alexandra H.                If for instance and I do not want to put behaviors in your ... I do not want to say you are doing something when you are not. If you tense up when you see your dog starting to have a reaction to somebody and your dog is on the leash or they are at some level in your control then the dog will feed off of that. Tracie Hunte               Kat do you think that that is something you do? Do you think that you have almost this pre-reaction to Sampson's reaction that might tell Sampson to react? Kat Chow                     Yes and no. I do not know. This could be a situation where this has become such a running joke among our friends that our friends who you know many of our friends are people of color they come over and they are already like this stupid dog like this dog. He is going to bark at me he might bite me. I do not want to touch him really or maybe I do. So maybe a host of things reinforced to Sampson or maybe he is racist. There is a potential that I have created this world in which my dog now sees the constructive race through me just because I have taught that to him through my subtle non-verbal cues of a lot of stuff. If only we could talk to dogs and just understand. Tracie Hunte               If you had 5 minutes to talk to ... No I am going to make it harder. If you had two and a half minutes to talk to Sampson what would you get out of the way? What questions would you ask? Kat Chow                     Okay this would be so hard to do. I would want to know about his history but that would obviously take up way too much time. I feel like being a southern boy he would have a really hard time talking fast. Tracie Hunte               Right. Kat Chow                     I think I would just spend those two and a half minutes being like You are such a cute dog. Everybody in general regardless of race I do not even know if you can tell the difference between people they would love you. He loves attention so much and when he does get settled into a situation he can be such a cute diva where he always wants pets and scratches. I would say to him Sampson is you were this nice to every single person on the street and you just did not let fear dominate you people would love you so much. Tracie Hunte               Awe. Kat Chow                     I know I wish I could give him that pep talk every day. I wish someone would give me that pep talk too. Kat Chow                     Sampson come on let us go on a walk. Come here. Come here. Yes good boy. Okay. Okay. Sit. Good job. Jad Abumrad               Ms. Tracie Hunte thanks also to Kat Chow from NPR's Code Switch. You can find a link to her original story at Radiolab.org. Thanks also to Sampson and tolerant dogs everywhere. Rafil                        Natural waste canine companions and the lure of inattentively pooping in public. What a title. Robert Krulwich          Sticking with dogs for just another beat. Rafil here. Rafil                        Rafil Kroll-Zaidi. I write for Harper's Magazine. Robert Krulwich          Has had a long standing question one that was answered by a German scientist Matthias Gross in that scientific paper he just mentioned. Rafil                        So this began for the author of the paper much the same way that it began for me. It was an idle curiosity he was raising three kids. He would take them to park there are children and families around but there was also this sort crisis level of dog poop. He sees people letting their dogs poop and then just walk away. He starts to wonder how can you just leave the poop. How can you do something so specifically antisocial as leaving feces on the sidewalk? What is with these people? What going on in people's heads? Rafil                        On the way to work in the morning he would follow people at a certain distance without talking to them and take notes. Robert Krulwich          You have the study there in front of you? Rafil                        I have the study here in front of me. And I quote Neighbors watch poop falling out of the dog. What it means to poop in public? The huge pile of excrement on the ground and on the way back the dog owners look away from their pooping dog. In the afternoon he does the same thing through the medium of poop. Rafil                        The earlier science had my God the fact that there're previous studies which is kind of great. In the previous studies on this which he cites. The typical distinction is between people who pick up the poop and people who just leave the poop. Which they categorize as responsible and irresponsible dog ownership. Rafil                        After he is observed these people for a while he starts to recognize that there was something more complicated intriguing and subtle going on. One of the behaviors he observes is people bagging the poop going through that trouble and then just leaving it. Robert Krulwich          You mean scooping the poop up putting it into an envelope a plastic envelope of some kind and then they do not throw it away. Rafil                        Yes people will bag and abandon. Sometimes right next to garbage cans that are not overflowing. Robert Krulwich          Mm-hmm. Rafil                        The more intriguing version he observes is people bag it and then display it in some prominent place. Sometimes hung on a fence sometimes hanging in bushes or shit trees which is the actual vernacular term. Robert Krulwich          Oh my God. Rafil                        Yeah actually my favorite mysterious example that the paper points to is people hanging the bags of poop on a construction fencing with flashing lights on it so that at night it creates a kind of disco for the poop. That is how he describes it. Rafil                        What the author reads into this is that it is a kind of middle ground between responsible and irresponsible actions. Maybe you bag the poop to begin with because someone is watching you. You want to be seen as a good citizen but then later it switches to a form of rebellion against the unnatural constraints of civilization. Leaving the poop returns humans to nature in a way. Humans can no longer run around pooping freely in the wilderness so the dog becomes a proxy through which this aggressive mischievous atavistic desire can be played out. Robert Krulwich          Wow. I want to drop my pants and just poop on the street but my dog does it for me. Rafil                        Something like that yes. Robert Krulwich          Does that mean that when you see a man or woman with a dog who poops on the street what you should be thinking of is she is just pooped? Rafil                        Well at the very least if you decide to get into it and tell somebody pick up your poop the you is ambiguous. Jad Abumrad               It is so weird. I am honestly speechless by that Robert. I did not see that coming. Robert Krulwich          Well Rafil just walked in and left it there for us. Then it was picked up by our producer Simon Adler who bagged it and put it on display. Jad Abumrad               Okay. Robert Krulwich          As sometimes happens. Jad Abumrad               By which we mean of course that Simon produced it. That interlude. Robert Krulwich          I guess it is time to take- Jad Abumrad               Yes we should go take a break. We will be back with a few more questions and answers. Robert Krulwich          Coming up right after this. Chelsea Gibson            This is Chelsea Gibson calling from Dayton Ohio. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Enhancing understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.Sloan.org. Pat Walters                 Hey everybody Pat Walters here. I am a producer a Radiolab. I am here because I need your help. This summer I am hosting a series of stories on the show and I have a request for those of you who spend a lot of time with kids parents aunts and uncles teachers. We are looking for stories about what we are calling Tiny Moments of Childhood Brilliance. Pat Walters                 Basically I want to hear about those times when a kid you know did something that just made you lean back and say whoa how did they do that. Maybe it was the moment that a kid you have been reading to for months started reading back to you. Or maybe the kid was at piano lessons and you suddenly noticed they were doing advanced math on the margin of their musical score. Or maybe the kid was in math class and you noticed they are writing music in the margin of their geometry homework. Pat Walters                 We are interested in those small specific moments where a kid does something super smart but it does not have anything to do with a test. If you have a story please share it with us. Go to Radiolab.orgbrilliance and record a short audio message for us. Again that is Radiolab.orgbrilliance. Thank you so much. Robert Krulwich          Hi I am Robert Krulwich Radiolab is supported by Capital One. With a Capital One saver card you could earn 4 cash back on dining and entertainment. That means 4 on checking out that new French restaurant and 4 on bowling with your friends. You also earn 2 cashback at grocery stores and 1 on all other purchases. Now when you go out you cash in. Capital One. What is in your wallet? Terms apply. Robert Krulwich          Hi I am Robert Krulwich Radiolab is supported by Delta. Delta flies to 300 cities around the world. That is 300 cities where people miss someone in one of our other 299 cities. Where people think that they are the only ones who know about that 1 place. 300 cities where people sing in the car or in the shower or both poorly. Delta does not fly just merely to bring us together but to show us we are not that far apart in the first place. Delta. Keep climbing. Jad Abumrad               Jad. Robert Krulwich          Robert. Jad Abumrad               Radiolab. Robert Krulwich          So we are going to continue in our little cavalcade of questions and answers. Jad Abumrad               The next one up comes from producer Pat Walters. Pat Walters                 Hello Emily are you there? Emily                           I am here. Pat Walters                 Alright so a few months ago I called this tree scientist. Emily                           I am Emily Burns and I am the science director with Save the Redwoods League. Pat Walters                 Okay. I have so many questions about trees for you. Emily                           Alright awesome. Pat Walters                 But I really just had one question. Pat Walters                 I read this little tiny article in the spring I think which had a fact in it that really shocked me. The fact was that Redwood trees have 12 times as much DNA as humans. Is that true? Emily                           Well it looks like it is turning out to be about eight times bigger than the human genome. Pat Walters                 Okay eights times so 12 is close a little overestimated maybe this is not a reliable source. The idea though these trees would have so much more DNA than us just kind of twisted my brain up in seven different ways. Emily                           Yeah. It is pretty crazy. Robert Krulwich          You usually think of genes as having something to do with complexity. Pat Walters                 Exactly. Robert Krulwich          So if you are Mozart or you are a tall tree like who is going to have the most genes. Pat Walters                 Right like a Redwood tree is basically just a big pine tree. Robert Krulwich          Mm-hmm. Pat Walters                 What is all that extra DNA even doing? Emily                           Well I am not a geneticist. Pat Walters                 Yeah yeah yeah. Emily                           I am a forest conservationist. Pat Walters                 One thing Emily was able to tell me is that I was missing the forest for the trees sort of speak. Robert Krulwich          And why is that? Pat Walters                 Emily told me ... Emily                           That coast Redwood while it does have a very large genome. Pat Walters                 There are tons of things that have way more DNA than us. Emily                           It is kind of mind blowing. Pat Walters                 You have just got to know who to ask. Robert Krulwich          Mm-hmm. Pat Walters                 Can we just do like a run down. Ryan Gregory              Okay alright yep. I can do that. Pat Walters                 Cool. Ryan Gregory              So an onion has five times as much. Robert Krulwich          An onion. Pat Walters                 Yeah a boring little onion. Ryan Gregory              There are some salamanders with 40 times as much. Pat Walters                 40 times. Wow. I have got a list here. Ryan Gregory              Things like lungfishes. Pat Walters                 Lungfish. Ryan Gregory              Yep. Pat Walters                 A cockroach a newt bread wheat. Robert Krulwich          Really. Pat Walters                 A lobster. Robert Krulwich          A lobster just lies in the bottom of a cold sea and molts. Pat Walters                 It gets even worse because at the top of the list arguably the organism with the most DNA in the world with 50 times more DNA than a human is a tiny not so remarkable looking little Japanese flower. Robert Krulwich          That is deeply strange. Ryan Gregory              I know it is puzzling. Pat Walters                 This by the way is biologist Ryan Gregory. Ryan Gregory              Professor at the University of Guelph in Canada and my area of study is why certain salamanders have 40 times more than DNA then you and I do. Pat Walters                 Ryan told me no one knows exactly why that is the case. Ryan Gregory              Well that is why I still have a job is because this is something we are trying to figure out. Pat Walters                 According to Ryan here's what we do know. Ryan Gregory              So in your genome and I say yours and I mean that in mine too. Pat Walters                 Yeah. Ryan Gregory              I am not trying to single you out. Pat Walters                 Take the human genome. Ryan Gregory              Your genome is about one and a half to 2 genes. Pat Walters                 Only about one to 2 of your DNA is involved in making the stuff that makes up you. That is the stuff we call genes. Now there is another couple of percent that we now think are there to turn those genes on and off which is important. The vast majority of your DNA is ... Ryan Gregory              Kind of accumulated detritus. Pat Walters                 It could a gene that sort of ... Ryan Gregory              Mutates and degrades and no longer works. Pat Walters                 It might be random redundant copies of other DNA. Ryan Gregory              For example it might be ATATATAT a million times. Pat Walters                 Some of it is bits of virus. Ryan Gregory              That became essentially stuck in the genome and so now they are passed on from parent to offspring. Pat Walters                 Oh. The key thing is that all these little random bits of DNA they are just hanging around. They are not really doing anything. Which Ryan says is how you can end up with a huge genome even though you are just a tree or a frog or a worm or even a single cell. Ryan Gregory              That is right. Pat Walters                 If they are not doing anything to help me why? Ryan Gregory              Well they would be doing things to help themselves. Pat Walters                 Help themselves. Ryan Gregory              So it is a little bit like if you think about the bacteria in your gut. Most of them are probably just there because you are a nice warm bag of nutrients that is a great place to live if you are bacterium. That would be kind of the same sort of thing that might be happening in the genome which is- Pat Walters                 But they are not like alive right. Like their- Ryan Gregory              Well. Pat Walters                 Or are they? I do not- Ryan Gregory              Well I do not know. I think that depends a lot on your definition of alive. I mean a virus is alive. Pat Walters                 Mm-hmm. Ryan Gregory              That is a philosophical question that is pretty difficult. The shift that you have to make in thinking about the genome is less that it is basically the recipe for making you or the blueprint for a human or any of those kinds of the things. Think of it almost more like a little eco system a jungle with all kinds of different entities doing their own thing. Pat Walters                 The one thing that they all do is use us. Ryan Gregory              To make copies of themselves. Pat Walters                 In this vast eco system in some part of your DNA you will get some ancient virus that just keeps copying itself. A little further down the line another one doing the same thing. Then in some other part of your DNA you have got this weird junk just copying itself again and again and again and again. Almost everywhere you look you have these dumb bits of DNA just copying themselves over and over again. Filling up your cells with useless DNA. Ryan Gregory              It is like a hitchhiker that gets into your car and you turn around suddenly and instead of Fred there is now Fred and Fred. Pat Walters                 Yeah. Ryan Gregory              And then you turn around again and there is Fred and Fred and Fred. Pat Walters                 Right. Ryan Gregory              And then Fred and Fred and Fred and Fred. Pat Walters                 That is pretty much how you end up with these super huge genomes and sometimes that can be a problem. Ryan Gregory              Ah. Okay. Pat Walters                 Ryan told me about this particular salamander. Ryan Gregory              Certain groups of salamanders called Bolitoglossinae. Pat Walters                 Is part of a very large family of salamanders that live all over the western half of North America. Ryan Gregory              You can find them in they live in the U.S. Pat Walters                 At some point a long long time ago something happened in the environment that made the salamander's get littler which is fine except for this one problem. Ryan Gregory              They have big genomes and the more DNA there is the bigger the cell is. So more DNA bigger cell. Pat Walters                 All the DNA has to go in the nucleus of every single cell. So as the salamander is shrinking smaller and smaller and smaller their bodies are getting smaller and their heads are getting smaller but because they have these huge genomes. Ryan Gregory              They tend to have big neurons and now you are trying to cram a whole bunch of big neurons into a tiny little skull. Well you are not going to fit as many and so relative other salamanders that have not been miniaturized. Pat Walters                 Their vision starts to degrade slightly. Their ability to look around in the world and distinguish what is an insect and what is a leaf gets worse. Robert Krulwich          Oh dear. Ryan Gregory              They cannot do the kind of visual predation that you normally see in their closer relatives. Instead they have shifted to being lie and wait predators. Pat Walters                 Basically having a huge genome made these salamanders get dumb. I could not help but think about all the extra stuff that you accumulate. It is so full of stuff it is almost hard to get in and close door behind you. My partner and I have this storage closet that is just packed with crap. Pat's Partner               A watering can a broom. Pat Walters                 And a car battery. Pat's Partner               Pile of button down shirts. Pat Walters                 One is a little bit too small one is just kind of boring. Pat's Partner               Pat Walter is very uncomfortable getting rid of things. Pat Walters                 Yep a lot of it I do not even know why we have it in there. Pat Walters                 Also there is like a three and half foot tall row of brown paper. Pat's Partner               Several unfinished art projects. We are on a break period right now. Pat Walters                 On top of that there is a flower pot. Pat's Partner               Four air conditioners. Pat Walters                 Oh there is another backpack. Pat's Partner               A shoe box- Pat Walters                 I remember when I was in my 20s and everything I owned fit in a couple of suitcases. I was light agile free but now ... Tupperware bucket full of paint. Pat's Partner               Charcoal. Unused fabric. Pat Walters                 I have so much of this stuff. Robert Krulwich          At least you do not have a closet in which shoes replicate themselves over and over again. Pat Walters                 Honestly sometimes it feels that way. I do not want to complain I feel very lucky to have all of these possessions but sometimes the pile up starts to feel like a burden. Robert Krulwich          It does. It feels like a burden. Pat Walters                 I feel like I am going down the salamander road just getting bigger and dumber and slower and bigger and dumber and slower. Carl Zimmer                There are definitely surprises. Pat Walters                 But then I talked to science writer Carl Zimmer and he made me feel a little bit better about all the extra junk in my closet or in my cells. Carl Zimmer                Yeah literally none of us would be here if not for that one gene. Pat Walters                 He says there is one little bit of DNA that climbed out of the junk closet and made all of us possible. Robert Krulwich          Well what is it? Pat Walters                 Well you have actually heard about it before. Robert Krulwich          The thing that is really special about mammals is that ... David Quammen          Female mammals or at least placental mammals carry young around inside the body. Pat Walters                 David Quammen told us about it in a piece we did a while ago called infective heredity. It is basically this gene that makes a protein. Carl Zimmer                Which helps makes some cells. David Quammen          These very special layers of cells. Pat Walters                 In the placenta. Cells that let it ... Carl Zimmer                Grab on to the mother's uterus and pull nutrients in to feed the embryo. David Quammen          So it carries nutrients in it protects the fetus from the mother's immune system. Pat Walters                 Now when we talked to David about it. David Quammen          How did we get that good idea. Well we got that good idea from a virus. Pat Walters                 We were sort of amazed that this gene had come from a virus. What I learned from Carl is that this little gene sat in the junk closet of our DNA for millions of years doing nothing making little copies of itself not helping me at all until suddenly. Carl Zimmer                Millions of years later there is a mutation. Pat Walters                 And that little useless strip of DNA. Carl Zimmer                Got repurposed. Co-opted it took on a new job for us. Pat Walters                 That is amazing. Carl Zimmer                Now we evolved a dependence on it so that we have to have it. Pat Walters                 Or could not be us without it. Pat Walters                 A big box. I got a picture frame. Pat's Partner               Some notebooks. Pat Walters                 Guitar case. Pat's Partner               Fishing poles. Pat Walters                 You never know. Pat's Partner               You never know. Pat Walters                 You never know. That is like the motto of this room it is like you never know. Pat's Partner               Whatever the hell this is. What is this? Pat Walters                 It is a piece of the drafting table that ... Where is the drafting table? Pat's Partner               I do not know. Pat Walters                 Did we bring it back to Pennsylvania? Pat's Partner               No it must be in that extra room. Pat Walters                 Who knows. There is a drafting table somewhere that is missing. Pat's Partner               Maybe I do want this. Oh. Robert Krulwich          I know this feeling. Jad Abumrad               Mm. Robert Krulwich          I know this feeling completely. Jad Abumrad               What is that like rummaging around for the- Robert Krulwich          I just do not like to let things go because I think that they will always bounce back at some point. Jad Abumrad               They will have their placental revival at some point. Robert Krulwich          Placental- Jad Abumrad               Those old pants. The bike without the wheels. Robert Krulwich          Yes I have tight pants that are waiting for me to get skinnier. Sitting in the corner of the closet. This is about real optimism. That the weight you carry is actually one day going to come back and make you light and airy and beautiful. Jad Abumrad               That is a perfect segue to our next question Robert. Robert Krulwich          That is right. Jad Abumrad               Which is itself imbued with the spirit of optimism and hope and reconciliation. Robert Krulwich          In a very dark crowded and ugly place. Jad Abumrad               Yes. Robert Krulwich          Whoa. Jad Abumrad               Indeed. Robert Krulwich          Indeed. Jad Abumrad               It comes from producer Carter Hodge. Jad Abumrad               Hi Carter hi. Robert Krulwich          Hello Carter. Carter Hodge               Hi. Hi guys how are you. Robert Krulwich          Where are you calling us from? Carter Hodge               I am in the studio at WUNC in Chapel Hill. Robert Krulwich          This is a rare privilege to put Broadway . Carter Hodge               Yes. Robert Krulwich          In a territory which is usually choose it. Jad Abumrad               Oh what are you- Robert Krulwich          I am talking about your fervent hatred of American song book. Carter Hodge               Whoa. Jad Abumrad               I am not a fundamentalist about it. Robert Krulwich          Oh okay. Jad Abumrad               I thought we were talking about the subway noise. Is that true? Robert Krulwich          No no it is just a subway noise it has nothing to do with the subway. Carter Hodge               It is the subway noise. It has a little to do with Broadway. Jad Abumrad               Okay Carter maybe you should just begin by framing the question the deep mystery. Carter Hodge               Yeah. Oh sure. The deep mysteries around this sound that I have been hearing in the subway since I was a younger person. Probably since I was in middle school. The sound that you hear when you are standing on the platform and the train is just about to leave the station and you hear these three pure high tones. Doom ta ta. Robert Krulwich          Er pa pa. That is the one. Carter Hodge               Yeah that is the noise. Jad Abumrad               Oh my God that is the New York sound. Carter Hodge               Yeah. It is a very New Yorkie sound and if you are a fan of musicals you can only hear that sound as one thing. That is totally unmistakable as the opening note to the most famous song in West Side Story. Somewhere. Julie Talon                   I am pretty sure that it struck me the first few times that I heard it. Da da da. There is a place for us ... I mean just as soon as I heard it. Carter Hodge               In the course of reporting this story I talked to a bunch of different New Yorkers. Julie Talon                   My name is Julie Talon. I am a writer and director. Carter Hodge               Who are all curious about this sound. Is it supposed to be West Side Story is that intentional. Jamie Bernstein          I used to look around the subway car and wonder. Hey all you guys did you notice that that sounded just like Somewhere from West Side Story. I almost wanted to stand up and make an announcement. Carter Hodge               That is Jamie Bernstein. Her dad is Leonard Bernstein who wrote the music for West Side Story. Jamie Bernstein          I have talked to my brother and sister about it a lot. All kinds of friends would just randomly email me. Have you noticed that the subway plays the opening notes of Somewhere? People were really noticing it around New York City. Jad Abumrad               Okay so the question is there is a sound in the subway. Carter Hodge               Right. Jad Abumrad               How would you finish the sentence? Carter Hodge               There is a sound in the subway where does it originate from and is there anything interesting and beautiful about why it exists. Jad Abumrad               Mm. Carter Hodge               That is my question. Jad Abumrad               Do you have any a guess what makes that sound? Robert Krulwich          Is it the train that is singing this to me or is it the steel rails under the train. Jad Abumrad               That is what I thought it was. Robert Krulwich          That is singing it to me. I thought maybe it was- Jad Abumrad               I thought it was the steel. Robert Krulwich          Singing rails actually. Jad Abumrad               I thought it was the train coming rounding the corner as it is coming into the platform it is scrapping its side against the incoming thing and that is creating a squeal that just so happens to always hit that pitch. Carter Hodge               Uh no. That is not it. Jad Abumrad               Did you solve the mystery? Carter Hodge               Well you are just going to have to listen and find out. Jad Abumrad               Okay. Carter Hodge               So Sarah Qari the producer who had been helping me made a call to the MTA. Sarah Qari                   I do not think his crosswalk works. Carter Hodge               They told us that we were supposed to hop on a train A train and go way uptown to this warehouse this big train warehouse. We were just told to find a guy named Sheldon. Sarah Qari                   Hello. Sheldon                      Hi. How are you? Sarah Qari                   Hi it is so nice to meet you finally. Sheldon                      Hi. Carter Hodge               Hi I am Carter. Sarah Qari                   Hi sorry. Sheldon                      My name is Sheldon. Good to meet you. Sarah Qari                   Hi Sheldon. Carter Hodge               Nice to meet you Sheldon I am Carter. Sheldon is this engineer who works for the MTA. He is been there like 13 years. Sheldon                      Anytime we can be of help. Carter Hodge               And. Sarah Qari                   This is really exciting for us. Sheldon                      This building was built in 192. Carter Hodge               He took us into this massive train repair room. Whoa oh my goodness. Sarah Qari                   Wow. Carter Hodge               And there were all of these subway cars up on lifts. Sheldon                      We call these . Sarah Qari                   Wow. Carter Hodge               They just kind of look like these empty shells of train cars. We are walking into the electronic component shop and then Sheldon pulled us into this room off to the side through these heavy doors. Sheldon                      This is an electric component shop. Anything related to electric control is done by here. Carter Hodge               Are you bringing us here because part of what we are interested in has to do with an electric component. Sheldon                      Right. Carter Hodge               Cool. He took us over to a corner. Sheldon                      If you are interested the sound is generated by this. Carter Hodge               He pointed down at this rectangular piece of metal the size of a suitcase. Sheldon                      This we call a face module. A face module wanted to call face it changes DC to three face. Jad Abumrad               Wait what is this thing? This is a part of the train? Carter Hodge               Honestly it was a little hard to know because he just launched right into engineering language. Sheldon                      The module's power source back to the DC 600 bolt. Carter Hodge               Yes it is part of the train. It is this little box that sits next to the motor and from here on out I would like for it to be referred to as the singing box. Carter Hodge               As for why it sings? Sheldon                      The sound comes from ... It is hard to explain to you why it has the sound. Carter Hodge               Sheldon kind of punted and so we had to reach out to someone for some help. Jeff Hackner                Oh yeah I could tell you that. Absolutely. Carter Hodge               Sarah and I called up. Jeff Hackner                I am Jeff Hackner. Carter Hodge               Jeff Hackner. Jeff Hackner                I am an abject professor of electrical computer engineering at Cooper Union where I have taught for 25 years. Sarah Qari                   I came across somebody I think someone who works at the MTA and they referred to you as a legend in transit circles. Jeff Hackner                I am not sure who said and how much they had to drink when they said that but I have been involved for many years. Carter Hodge               Jeff broke down the singing box for us like this. He started by telling us how the box even got into the trains to begin with. Jeff Hackner                So what happened is in about the year 2000. Carter Hodge               Around the time America was obsessed with ... Clip                             Y2K. Carter Hodge               Computer bugs. Clip                             So called hanging chad. Carter Hodge               Stolen elections. Jeff Hackner                Transit authority decided they need to radically redesign the cars. Carter Hodge               The MTA was like we need a massive upgrade and so they brought in all of these new train cars. Jeff Hackner                Yes. R142s. We called them the new tech trains. New technology train. Carter Hodge               It was going to be a whole new era. These trains were going to be more energy efficient. Jeff Hackner                But. Carter Hodge               One big problem. Jeff Hackner                The newer trains those require alternating current. The system is a direct current system the third rail is direct current. Carter Hodge               In other words there was a power mismatch. The new trains ran on AC power the subway system could only provide BC power. Jad Abumrad               Wait they brought in trains that ran on the wrong kind of power? Carter Hodge               Yes. Jad Abumrad               One was AC and one was DC. Carter Hodge               Yeah. Jad Abumrad               What exactly is the difference between AC and DC again? Jeff Hackner                Well it is all based on the flow of invisible electricity. Carter Hodge               As Jeff explained it when you have DC power the flow is long smooth. Jeff Hackner                It is steady like a straight line. Carter Hodge               With AC it is like pulsing kind of. Jeff Hackner                It is right. It is known as a sine wave a sinusoidal wave. The same shape that governs the tides the phase of moon the angle of the sun. Jad Abumrad               So one is smooth and one is undulating. Carter Hodge               Exactly. Jad Abumrad               And AC and DC do not play well together? Carter Hodge               Definitely not. Jad Abumrad               And they knew this when they introduced the new cars? Carter Hodge               Yeah they knew. The tracks have been providing DC power for like 96 years so they were not going to remake the tracks because then you would have to shut down the whole subway for years. They needed to use AC for these new cars because it was so much more energy efficient and so it was a disconnect. Jad Abumrad               Oh like the Sharks and the Jets. Carter Hodge               Anyway the MTA had to figure out a way to take this kind of electricity and turn it into this and that is where the singing box comes in. Sheldon                      An all face module it changes DC to AC face. Carter Hodge               That box that Sheldon showed us that is what translate the electricity from one kind to the other. Basically what these boxes do is that when the train is cruising along drawing in DC power from the third rail. Power goes into that little box in the engine and inside that box are these little transistors. Jeff Hackner                You can think of these as switches like light switches. Carter Hodge               The switches goes on and off on and off on and off really fast and in the process take that DC current and I guess you could say like chop it up. Jad Abumrad               Where does the sound come in? Carter Hodge               Okay so this is the part that I do not fully in my soul understand. As Jeff explained it to us. Jeff Hackner                The flow of current in and out of these devices creates mechanical stresses within them. Carter Hodge               When you feed electricity into the box the transistors on the inside of the box and the inductors and the various things they get sort of jostled and when they do. Jeff Hackner                They act like little loudspeakers. Carter Hodge               Huh. Jeff Hackner                They are not designed as loudspeakers but any of these devices when you flow alternating current through them will have some tone admitted. Carter Hodge               And it is the current interacting with these physical parts? Jeff Hackner                Yeah that is what is making the sound. Carter Hodge               Okay. Jeff Hackner                Then a bunch of very complicated stuff happens. Carter Hodge               All you really need to know is that when you run current through the box the stuff on the inside of the box gets stressed it vibrates I guess and that creates a hum. Jeff Hackner                A high pitched whining sound. Carter Hodge               Yeah. Jeff Hackner                That changes in pitch depending on speed. Carter Hodge               That is the key to the melody. The transistors chop up the electricity at different rates depending on how fast the train is going. The train has three gears well you can think of them like gears. Gear one is when it starts out transistors are doing their thing and this is the sound that comes out. Then the train shifts to a higher gear as it accelerates and then this is the sound that comes out. Then as the train settles into a groove the transistors slow and then this is the sound that comes out which gives you that melody. Carter Hodge               Now we get to the real question which is is that a fluke or could that melody be intentional? We asked Sheldon from the MTA. Carter Hodge               Do you think that those notes are just coincidence like that is just the sound that it makes or could they have been selected. Sheldon                      No it is not. It is not on purpose to give you to let you hear that sound. Carter Hodge               It is not to let us hear West Side Story in the subway. Sheldon                      No no. Jad Abumrad               Boo. Carter Hodge               Then we talked to Jeff Hackner. Jeff Hackner                Every time that switch goes- Carter Hodge               He told us that when you are designing a system like the singing box with the three gears each gear does have its own setting its own frequency of electricity and if you are the engineer you are setting that for each of the three gears. Jeff Hackner                You are picking a frequency that is not going to overheat the equipment and at the same time is fast enough that it is going to average out to this nice smooth sine wave. Carter Hodge               I think it is interesting that you use the word pick. Sarah Qari                   Pick. Jeff Hackner                Well this is part of your conspiracy theory. Carter Hodge               Yes. Yes. Jeff Hackner                That somebody designed these three notes. Carter Hodge               Yes. Sarah Qari                   Yes. Carter Hodge               I guess what I want to know is that whether or not it is possible to have that kind of control and choose the frequencies? Jeff Hackner                Yes. I mean an engineer could say I could pick a frequency between 1500 and 3000. I am going to pick the A and the 6th octave because I think that is funny. Sarah Qari                   What? Carter Hodge               So that is totally possible? Jeff Hackner                Sure because you have a little bit of wiggle room within the design. Jad Abumrad               Interesting. So he is saying it is possible that the engineer who designed the singing box set the gears at just the right frequencies to make just the right sounds. Is that what he is saying? Carter Hodge               Yes. Jad Abumrad               Did you find the person who made the design choices? Carter Hodge               Well you know we made a lot of calls but yeah we totally did. Sarah Qari                   Hey Carter can you hear us? Carter Hodge               Yes hi. Yes. Sarah Qari                   Hello. Carter Hodge               Can you hear me. Sarah Qari                   Yes. Matthew Vanasse        Yeah of course. Carter Hodge               So Sarah and I manged to track down this guy. Matthew Vanasse        My name is   that is a very French name. Carter Hodge               We found him in Montreal. Matthew Vanasse        My friends call me Matt and my enemies call me Matt so just go for Matt. Carter Hodge               He works for this Canadian manufacturer. Matthew Vanasse        Bombardier Transportation which is the original equipment manufacturer for the so called R142. Carter Hodge               These days he is the head of vehicle architecture for all of the different kinds of subway trains that Bombardier makes. Jad Abumrad               Oh so he is the guy. Carter Hodge               One of the guys. Yeah. Back in about 2000 ... Matthew Vanasse        At the time I was a young and cocky design engineer for proposition and breaking. Carter Hodge               Matt told us he was part of the team that designed the R142 and all the stuff that goes inside it. Matthew Vanasse        There was a huge lab where we had all the proposition equipment set up including the motors. Carter Hodge               He say's they tested every single aspect of the design including the singing box and when we asked him about the sound. Matthew Vanasse        This is the very distinct sound that everybody talks about. Jad Abumrad               Wait he knew about it. Robert Krulwich          Yeah. Carter Hodge               Not only that he is a musician. Matthew Vanasse        Actually I was a musician way before I was an engineer. Carter Hodge               What? Matthew Vanasse        Funny enough in a couple of hours I am going to have to leave you if you are not bored to death by this story to practice with a band. We are giving a concert in a couple of days in Montreal. Carter Hodge               What is your band and what do you play? Matthew Vanasse        Actually we play very quirky bizarre funny French song that you would not understand but they are quite funny. Carter Hodge               This is his band playing ACDC in French. ACDC very appropriate and some of their other stuff is very musical theater. Which made us think what if this West Side Story stuff was intentional. Carter Hodge               Here you have this musician turned engineer slipping in a little Easter egg a little gift. To all the New Yorkers who ride the subway every single day. In fact Matthew told us that after the subways were unveiled and people began to notice the sound he even wrote a white paper where he came clean. Matthew Vanasse        Here's the spoiler alert. The punch of this white paper was the choice of notes is a pure coincidence. Carter Hodge               Uh. Matthew Vanasse        I know this is really spoiling your- Carter Hodge               Are you sure? Matthew Vanasse        I am totally sure. Carter Hodge               No. Jad Abumrad               So they did choose the notes but not for any musical reason? Carter Hodge               Right in fact just to sort of twist the knife a little bit he told us. Matthew Vanasse        The first time I watched West Side Story was probably a couple of days ago found it way too cheesy for me. Carter Hodge               What? Sarah Qari                   What? Matthew Vanasse        Yeah. Jad Abumrad               What about is it possible some of the other engineers had a ... Do you know? Carter Hodge               Do you think no one in that room recognized those intervals? Matthew Vanasse        I can assure that on my deathbed I will continue saying that no one at the time really cared or really knew. Carter Hodge               Darn. Even though my fantasy was not real I think what is real is the way it is received and so it is there whether by incident or on purpose. The way it is received is by all these people who are either unconsciously or consciously hearing this more pleasant melody in the horrible screeching of the subway. Robert Krulwich          That is true. Carter Hodge               There is this like lovely reminiscent melody that so many of us are familiar with and it is this romantic anthem to reconciling difference. Jad Abumrad               Wait remind me what is the story that they sing in that song Somewhere? Robert Krulwich          When at the end of the play when Tony and Maria have crossed the great barriers of culture and difference a love so supreme. Maria                          Stay with me. Tony                            Marie I love you so much. Maria                          Do not leave me. Tony                            Whatever you want I will do. Jamie Bernstein          Just when Tony and Maria are finally together in Marie's bedroom. Carter Hodge               That is Jamie Bernstein again. Jamie Bernstein          And yet- Maria                          It is everything around us. Jamie Bernstein          All this terrible stuff has just happened. They had the rumble and they are dealing with all this ghastly tragedy. Tony                            I will take you away where nothing can get to us. Jamie Bernstein          And trying to rise above it. Carter Hodge               And so they sing this song. Tony                            There is a place for us. Carter Hodge               They imagine this place that does not yet exist for them. Jamie Bernstein          They imagine this song that does in fact raise them all above the horror and the- Tony                            And open air- Jamie Bernstein          Tragedy and the violence. Tony                            And wait for us. Carter Hodge               Right it is the characters are all about reconciling difference and finding this geographical space for acceptance in finding love. I do not know it is a very romantic anthem for these horrible subways in such a lovely city. Jad Abumrad               Just to lead into that metaphor the subway platform is this democratizing space. Carter Hodge               Right. Jad Abumrad               Everybody is there. Carter Hodge               Right. Jad Abumrad               That is the place for all of us. Carter Hodge               You know not to belabor the point but to belabor the point there is also this third level. The generation of the noise itself it is sort of poetic that the noise itself is created by something that is reconciling and old system- Robert Krulwich          Yeah. Jad Abumrad               Yeah. Carter Hodge               Of wave into a new motor to be efficient. Something in that translation process is creating these sounds. Jad Abumrad               It is like a little West Side Story of electricity. Tony                            There is a place for us. Tony                            Somewhere. Tony                            Somewhere. Matthew Vanasse        Now a true story though true story. A couple of years after we were using the same technology for the Long Island Railroad. Carter Hodge               Mm-hmm . Matthew Vanasse        The M7 from Long Island the traction package is made by Mitsubishi Electronics and the guys from Mel called Mitsubishi Electronic Corporation had figured out that this thing could sing. The demonstration they always do with their inverter is that they make it sing the Ode to the Joy. You know na na na na na. Carter Hodge               Wow. Matthew Vanasse        Na na. Carter Hodge               That is pretty cool. Jad Abumrad               All right well thank you so much to Carter Hodge and to Sarah Qari for helping Carter produce and report that story. Robert Krulwich          And to Matt Kielty for putting the whole thing together. Jad Abumrad               Yes indeed. Robert Krulwich          And- Jad Abumrad               And to the folks at NPR's Code Switch who let us work with Kat Chow for her story about Sampson and Andrea Burman and Danny Brown. Robert Krulwich          Yes you say it to them before I say it to them. Jad Abumrad               Okay because I have the advantage of I will remember the email address which you will never do. Robert Krulwich          That is true. Jad Abumrad               In fact go ahead. Robert Krulwich          I should thank them and you can give the email address. Jad Abumrad               No no. Robert Krulwich          That would make sense. Jad Abumrad               Why do not you do the whole thing. Let us see where this goes. Robert Krulwich          Alright let me do the first part. Jad Abumrad               Yeah. Robert Krulwich          Listen everybody listening to this show has probably at some point thought I have a question too. Something has entered my head and I cannot get it out because I do not know the answer and I want to know the answer and I am a wee bit embarrassed to ask. Jad Abumrad               Mm-hmm . Robert Krulwich          But that embarrassment is no longer a problem just write us here at Radiolab- Jad Abumrad               At. Robert Krulwich          At. Yes. Jad Abumrad               W. Robert Krulwich          W. Jad Abumrad               N. Robert Krulwich          N Jad Abumrad               Oh my God. Robert Krulwich          YC. WNYC.org. I know that part. Jad Abumrad               RadiolabWNYC.org. Robert Krulwich          That is fine I said it chippingly off my tongue did not I. Jad Abumrad               Yes you did you got there eventually. Robert Krulwich          So that is it. So if you have the idea RadiolabWNYC.org. Jad Abumrad               Send us a question we will answer it or we will try to in our next- Robert Krulwich          Give you a slash thing like the Radiolab- Jad Abumrad               There're no slashes in email addresses. Robert Krulwich          Sometimes when you want to catch some particular questions you go to RadiolabWNYC.orgstupid questions or something like that and then we put them all in a little pile. Jad Abumrad               You do not do that with email addresses. Robert Krulwich          Oh. Jad Abumrad               That is a website. Robert Krulwich          That is a website. Yes I knew that. Jad Abumrad               Oh man. Robert Krulwich          Somewhere there is a place for me. Jad Abumrad               It is not the internet that is for sure. Jad Abumrad               Anyhow if you have a question send it to us RadiolabWNYC.org and maybe in our next go around who knows when that will be but we will try to answer. Robert Krulwich          Yes. Jad Abumrad               Till then. Robert Krulwich          Till then. Jad Abumrad               I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich          I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad               Thanks for listening. Phone                         To play the message press two. Start of message. Ryan Gregory              This is Ryan Gregory from the University of Guelph. Matthew Vanasse        Hi my name is Matthew Vanasse. I am calling from Lisbon Portugal. Kat Chow                     Kat Chow here to read the credits with Sampson. Okay. Ryan Gregory              Radiolab was created by Jad Abumrad and is produced by Soren Wheeler. Matthew Vanasse        Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Kat Chow                     Our staff includes Simon Adler Becca Bressler Rachel Cusick David Gebel. Matthew Vanasse        Bethel Habte or Habte. Ryan Gregory              Tracie Hunte Matte Kielte Robert Krulwich Julia Longoria Annie McEwen. Matthew Vanasse        Latif Nassar Melissa O'Donnell Kelly Prime. Kat Chow                     Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster. Matthew Vanasse        With help from Shima Oliaee Ryan Gregory              Audrey Quinn and Neel Dhanesha. Our fact checker is Michelle Harris. Matthew Vanasse        I wish you a very good night. Kat Chow                     Thank you. Bye. Oh Sampson speak. Speak. Sampson. Okay nevermind. The one time he does not speak. Bye thanks guys. Phone                         End of message. 