 From PRX and NPR welcome back to the SNAP JUDGMENT Proof episode. My name is Glynn Washington and today on the show we are following real people whose extraordinary claims require extraordinary proof. And we are jumping back in time to the 1950s and across the pond where the fate of the world rests on two suburban housewives - SNAP JUDGMENT.  My name is Gay Search and I was born in a suburb of London called Ruislip which is famed for having five different tube stations in it and nothing much else.  But on one humdrum Ruislip day...  I came home and my mom said oh we have got new neighbors - a Canadian couple.  Peter and Helen Kroger  - they just moved into the bungalow next door. But Peter - Gay's family rarely saw him. He spent all day running this rare antiquarian bookshop that sold books all over the world. But Helen she became like BFFs with the family.  Helen was something like we have never seen before really. She wore trousers which women simply did not in the '50s and very loud. Hi doll how is it going? It is something that I thought was terrific.  In a town where everyone was prim and proper Helen was risque and that is why Gay's mom liked her.  Helen would lend her a book called Marjorie Morningstar which was extremely soft soft porn of the '50s that my mother hid so I read this book sneakily.  Soon Gay's mom and Helen were raising pinkies together at tea parties and sometimes Helen would take this very fancy camera and be the party's photographer.  The photographs were really awful. You know heads missing at the edge of frames.  But as strange and Canadian as Helen was she became one of the girls. After tea parties she would come over and Gay's mom and Helen would share some drinks gossip and then gossip some more. For Gay having Helen around had its perks too.  I had a boyfriend at the time who had a motorbike and I was absolutely forbidden from going on this motorbike. And she did see me on the motorbike one day and later on just said quietly you know just be very careful. I will not tell your mother but just be very careful. She was the kind of adult that would not rat on you.  Gay at that point did you have any clue about who Helen actually was?  No absolutely not a clue not a - not a clue no.  OK so Peter and Helen Kroger were not really Peter and Helen Kroger.  They were - it was a November afternoon when I got home from school. And my mom said I had a phone call this afternoon from somebody at Scotland Yard. They are sending somebody to talk to us this evening. These two men arrived and my mom came and said can you come in a minute? They want to show you something.  One of the investigators takes out a photo from his pocket. It is a picture of a wanted man.  Have you ever seen this man? We looked at it and said no. And they said fine. Then one of the guys said could I just borrow your bike? I just want to go and check whether he is actually here.  The investigator takes Gay's bike out for a spin around the neighborhood. He pedals back and reports...  He is definitely here. His car is here. He is definitely around. So the men left and my parents said to us they have asked if they can station two agents in the house to see if they can find out where he is or where he is going.  So that weekend two male agents from the MI5 which is like the British FBI they come over. They do not say a word about their objective. They just camp out and wait.  My mom and one of the MI5 men was standing at the kitchen sink looking out through the window across at the Kroger's bungalow and suddenly they both saw the Kroger's front door open. And the man in the photograph hurry out quick look over his shoulder up the road and gone. Surely there must be some mistake. You know these are Peter and Helen Kroger. They are friends of ours. Maybe you know they do not know who he is.  But then the MI5 said...  Look these are the enemies of this country.   Russian Communism.  They fed my parents just enough information that Peter and Helen were not innocent dupes because this was at the height of the Cold War. We were frightened of the Russians.  But inside the notion that Helen was somehow involved in all of this seemed ludicrous.  Helen seemed so totally scatty. You know how could a woman who was always forgetting this or running out of that how could she possibly be doing this? It just did not add up.  Yet still the chief insisted that Gay's mom needed to help the MI5 gather intel about her friend. All she had to do was just play along.  My mom carrying on being completely normal with Helen while there were two women from MI5 watching them out of the window and that Helen should be given nothing to make her suspicious.  Every day from sunrise to sunset the MI5 sent two female agents to Gay's house to spy on the Krogers. And when Helen came over Gay's mom carried on with her just like old times laughing and drinking but...  It was very very stressful for her not somebody used to lying you know or living a lie with someone. One day one of the MI5 female agents was sitting at the kitchen table with my mom having a cup of coffee when they heard the back gate go which meant that Helen was on her way and they had about 10 seconds. So she dived into the downstairs loo - the agent - and as Helen walked through the back door my mom suddenly realized two cups of coffee on the table. And she said as Helen walked through the door oh God I feel really ropy today. I mean I have not even cleared away the breakfast things and picked up the cups and saucers and just you know slung them into the sink. My mother's heart no doubt racing at a hundred miles a minute.  For weeks Gay's mom was always on edge until one day...  My mom got a phone call in the morning from MI5 to say we think they are getting a bit nervy. We are going to arrest them all today.   There was a knock on the door. I went and opened the door and it was Helen. Mom's in the kitchen Auntie Helen. Helen just walked through and my mom knew that they were going to be arrested within an hour. That was an absolutely heart stopping moment for my mother and Helen was saying oh I am fed up with this weather. You know we are thinking we might take a vacation. And then she left.  And that is the last Gay's mom saw of Helen. That evening the special branch went to the Kroger's house to arrest the couple. Inside they uncovered a high-powered radio station wads of cash and a cigarette lighter that contained secret compartments to hold stolen documents. You see Helen was actually involved in a deep Soviet spy ring.  She was not Helen Kroger who grew up on a farm in Canada. She was Lona Cohen who grew up in upstate New York who was a colonel the KGB apparently. She was a senior.  Helen was stealing highly classified secrets about Britain's first nuclear submarine. She would photograph the documents with her very fancy camera hide them in antiquarian books which Peter then would ship all over the world namely Moscow. After hauling the spy couple off the MI5 chief went to Gay's house and broke all this news.  What? That was just like a bolt from the blue absolutely gobsmacking stunning. I certainly ran up to my bedroom and collected all the little things she would given me over the years - little bits of jewelry nail varnish - and threw it in the dustbin.  When Helen shows up in court she was both angry and sad that her neighbor her friend was working hand-in-hand with the MI5.  Helen said I was helping the children. I could not tell them but what I was doing was protecting the children. They were idealists. They were not traitors. They were not doing it for the money. They actually believed that the world will be a safer place if the Russians and the Americans had equal knowledge you know assured self-destruction would keep the world safer place. That is what motivated them.  But still Helen and her husband were sentenced to 20 years in separate prisons. And during this time Gay's mom never got over her role in the arrest.  Well I - this is - this is slightly difficult territory. My mother died very young. My feeling is that the strain she was under during that time played a part. It made her question - you know who else is lying to me? If I could be so taken in by this woman by everything that she told me I just believed who is to say that other people are not deceiving me? And I think it shook her to her foundations really. That sense of who the hell can you trust? But on the other hand she was sad on a human level. She said to me I never go to bed at night without thinking of those two. She said because of the life they have chosen they had no children they had no close family they had no one. They had each other. And the thought of them locked in separate prisons you know was hard. You know she did cry about it.  About a decade into their sentence Gay decided to visit Helen in prison for the first time since the arrest. Gay was now in her 20s and she was curious on what Auntie Helen had to say.  She was wearing a dress because she wore prison garb - very un-Helen. And we sat down. And it was strange and awkward. She said how was I and I said how I was. And she said how was my dad and he was fine. And did not ask about my mom. And we chatted about this and that. I was in a relationship with a much older man at the time. And she said bad idea get out of that. That will never work and then paused. And then the visiting time was up. And as I was getting up to go she said I will never forgive your mother for what she did to me. And I said what choice did she have Helen? She could have told me she said. I said oh come on. And on that note I left her and did not see her again. There is a famous quote from an English author called E.M. Forster and he said if I were called upon to betray my country or my friend I hope I would have the courage to betray my country. Well I think what makes my mother's situation very different was that the friend she thought she had was a complete fabrication. So what was the friendship? So what was there to betray in that sense?   Thank you so much Gay for sharing your mother's story. Now for more information on this Cold War spy thriller we will have a link on our webpage snapjudgment.org. That story was produced and scored by the Davey Kim. It is about that time but you are thinking where are the stories? I need more stories. We understand snappers. We have got the fix right here. Subscribe the amazing SNAP JUDGMENT story sharing podcast at snapjudgment.org. Join the SnapNation conversation - Facebook Twitter SNAP JUDGMENT. Did you ever show up for a meeting through a window that accidentally set off the building's sprinkler system? Well I want to apologize to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and assure them that NPR will be happy to cover any damages. Many thanks to the CPB. This just in NPR would not be happy to cover any damages. PRX the Public Radio Exchange not XRP the Exchange Radio Public - come one - PRX.org. And this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact you could find your uncle's old design for a perpetual motion machine build a working prototype in the basement only to wake up in a pool of blood after the NSA makes off with your invention just like you uncle said they would. And you would still not be as far away from the news as this is but this is NPR. 