 Now then we are going to kick off our Infamous episode in Scotland where one Gavin Bain spoke to our own Julia DeWitt. SNAP JUDGMENT.   Can I swear?  Yes . We will have to bleep it so do not overdo it. But yeah if you feel - you know if you feel so moved.  Oh OK bleep it. You are talking to a Scottish person . That is almost not in my control.  Do you want to just go ahead and introduce yourself Gavin?  Yeah. I am Gavin Bain also known as Brains McLoud. I am one half of Silibil N' Brains. I started rapping when I was a little kid. The first song I ever memorized was Snow's Informa.  Informa...  You know I do not even know how he says it. But I memorized that when I was like a real small kid. So I have always been in love with rap. The first day of college I see this kid at the gates. He is rocking the baggiest jeans Ramones T-shirt painted black fingernails. And his hair's braided. He is the coolest human that I have ever seen. And that was Bill who I would come to known as Silibil or Sili . We liked pretty much all the same things so we decided to form this rap group. We were not good. But we knew we were going to get good. And so we spent the next two years just mastering every discipline of rap developing our own style which was this humorous multi-syllable battle rap style.  SILIBIL N'  .  Then Eminem broke in '98. As Eminem's success grew everyone that heard us would start saying hey you guys sound like Eminem.    Hi my name is - what? My name is...  And after a while we kind of took that as a compliment.    Slim Shady.  We see this advertisement on this music site that just reads are you the next Eminem? I told the guys and we just smirked. And we were like we got this . You know we got this  'ecause everyone says we are. By that point my sister was living in London. So we took the 13-hour bus journey down to her place crashed on the floor. And when we got there man the place was packed. And there was a queue of Eminem impersonators going around the block like twice. We are seeing the faces of people coming out of the room just distraught. When we got in we approached the X-spot awkwardly and stood there in front of three ARs the guys who go out and scout the talent. They were just sitting there with blank faces. We must have been rapping for about 30 seconds before I noticed two of the ARs whispering to themselves. And it seemed like they were trying to hold back the laughter. And when one of them cracked...   Within seconds it felt like the room was filled with laughing gas. And one of the guys was like oh no please please stop. You are killing me. This is hilarious. You know are you serious? Like who put you up to this? Did Steve put you up to this? Did Steve put you up to this? Scottish rap man come on. This is ridiculous. The older AR who had been quiet to this point leans forward and says trust me. You will never make it. Come on man do not you watch MTV? Have you never listened to radio? They are never going to let Scottish rap on Radio One. I am sorry but you sound like the rapping Proclaimers to me. That was the blow that I will just never forget. And I was getting real desperate you know? I had been kicked out of art college.  I needed cash. Like I had a mountain of bills barricading the front door from debt collectors who were keen on coming in and taking all my money. One night I am just lying on my bed. I can hear the '80s film the Michael J. Fox film Secret Of My Success is on TV. What it is about - it is like a small-town boy goes to the city and makes his way to the top of a company by becoming someone else. I am just sitting listening there moving my lips along with the film. And I just thought that is it. If me being me is a problem I will just be not me. If they want another Eminem I will just give them that. So I had to become American. I got the accent good enough just to record. Bill took a little bit of convincing but when he heard the recorded American version of the song Shut Yo Mouth I could tell he just knew. It was like this sounds real now.  SILIBIL N'   All the ladies bow down.  This plan is gold.  SILIBIL N'   Now we as not foul-mouthed twins who dressed like we did not know what style's in. You know baggy pants  people stare like I am a UFO hair all up...  The plan was we would get a record deal. We would make a number one hit record. We would go on TV come clean about being Scottish the whole time and prove that the system's flawed and that only the pretty and only the crazy and only the marketable get a chance in this world. And we set about -  - we set about becoming - we set about becoming American.  SILIBIL N'   Shut yo mouth.  I would do everything in the American accent. I would talk to my girlfriend in the accent. And she thought that was insane especially when I spoke in the voice during sex . The voice in my head that I was hearing would be in the accent. I cannot really do all the voices now. But like  I mean you imagine the kind of doofus American cool character. So I was like - you talk out of the back of your throat like  yeah dude like totally like... You know like you talk like Keanu Reeves - like  no way.    No way.   Yes way.  We are sitting down in a bar in Dundee scribbling out a plan to become two bad-ass Californian rappers like Eminem - but more exaggerated blown out of proportion. We actually made ourselves a part of Eminem's Californian crew. We were the supremely confident cocky but lovable Californian wild boys Silibil N' Brains. And we were not going to take no for an answer. But it was not until we actually heard there was this massive showcase happening in Madame Jojo's in Soho in London...   We called up the promoter and let him know what was going down. It kind of went something like this.  Hello?  Yeah we are Eminem's boys. We are from Cali. We are in town for the weekend. You know we want to do a show. Now if you have got a prime slot then you are in luck Buddy 'ecause - well how much do you pay? And the guy's like...  Pay? This is an industry showcase.  OK no money OK. Well look here's what we are going to do. You put us on prime. You take care of our travel. And you make sure we have got free booze all night and you have got a deal OK? And this guy's just on the other end of the phone like...  What?  Yeah OK... Yeah OK we are on. See you Friday turkey. . I hung up on the guy you know. I was like I think we have a 9 p.m. slot. We just - and we just turned up. They called our names and we just fist-bumped each other. And that was it. We jumped into the characters. And we were like let us give these people something they have never seen before.  SILIBIL N'   I play with myself everywhere I go. Yeah I play with myself...  We stormed on stage. We started chasing each other around the stage with props fake knives one of us wearing a bra.  SILIBIL N'   Someone stop me. They say it is bad for your eyes. I am half-blind...  Each song just a crazy concept with an obscene stage show that kind of resembled like a night at the theater if you were on shrooms.  SILIBIL N'   Four three two. And yo I laugh I treat my face with a pen knife. Porno mag and a six-pack that is my sex life. Even deaf guys say I am very tight. And Stevie Wonder said I am one hell of sight.  We came off stage that night and that performance never stopped. The characters we were that night never stopped for two years. We went from actively seeking and chasing management to having the biggest guys in the industry calling us.  SILIBIL N'   Foul kids here to knock you out with so throw your hands up like you being surrounded. Yeah yeah yeah.  We signed to the biggest manager -- Jonathan Shalit. and I remember sitting there trying to sign like it is no big deal like I forgot who was on the line and I what is on the line. And I am just like look look Johnny John John John John McClane we do not get out of bed for less than 70 grand. And he just says deal. And I am like what? I dropped the phone. I am just freaking out. I am like why did I say 70? I could have said a hundred you know? I think at that point you realize that accents were not actually that good. They were OK. They were not actually that good. That is just how good at acting the part we were. Now we had financial backing from a real force in the industry. And this was on. All of a sudden our plan was not even looking crazy anymore. We started living the dream. We were recording every day doing shows touring building a fan base sleeping with the hottest women on the planet. One morning we were coming back off this hellish tour. And as soon as my head hit the pillow we get this phone call from our management. He was like dude good news and bad news. He is like the bad news is you are not coming off tour. And I am about to blow up at him. And he is like wait wait wait the good news is you are going on the road with your very best friends D12. You are going to get to hook up with Eminem and Proof. And he is so excited. I can tell he is like dying with excitement you know? I was like oh my God. I am dying you know? I am dying with anxiety here. And he is like the tour starts tonight - bus going to come pick you up in three hours. Get some rest. I just dropped the phone. I am just like we are done for. That is it. We get to the venue and we are trying to act all normal. But I have never been this nervous. As we got to the stage they were onstage sound checking.   And what our team's like dude there is your boy Proof man. You know how is it going? And they finished. And they were heading our way. We were right at the edge of the stage. And at that point we are at the mercy of the gods. And we had no other option but to do what we always did which was just improvise. We just get all loud and we are like oh what is up Proof? You know .  you know we are just like what is it be like what is it be like two years? Warped Tour right? San Diego yeah. Thank God they played along. Or they are maybe just nice people and you know did not want to turn around and be like who are you guys?  Well Gavin really quick can we stop really quick here? What about the people that you know could have potentially hurt? 'ecause the thing about lying is it can advance your career. But it also potentially puts other people's trust in you - it compromises that right? Like...  Come on man it is the survival of the fittest out here you know? And remember we were not trying to make it happen for fans or to release this act to the world and sell millions of records. We were trying to get into the industry make a big bang and then come clean you know and make a point. But we just got completely caught up with the whole fun of the life. To us everything had to be louder you know? We had to look like we were on personality steroids. You become like you with all the levels put up. It is almost like you can feel the inside of you going  you know? It is like you be . You become the monster all of a sudden. My girlfriend broke up with me because she came down and visited and she just did not like what she saw. She is was like I hate this guy. And I kind of had to break character after one night. And I was kind of like it is me it is me. I am still me you know? I am just playing the guy you know? And she could not get it. She was like no no no. You love that guy. You are like - you are him. You love this guy. I was not until that point. But I kind of started to lose my way after that. As it gradually went on it was just - it was constant paranoia. Like oh my God he knew. We are done for. We are done for. This is totally not going to work - so constantly breaking ourselves down. And when the fun dried up and we attempted to get down to business it became apparent that we were losing windows to release. Before long it is two years. And everyone's going why are these guys not in the charts? Why is this not released? Like what is - who is dropping the ball? So we had a meeting set up and this guy was no joke. He is got a little sticky note that someone's given him of negatives of reasons that we should be dropped right? And he starts reading them out. You guys have missed another release window. That is a few now. You refuse to censor your songs. You have a song called  which is banned. And his face is just wincing in disgust with everything he reads out. It was really funny that the things that we created that got us in there were the very things that slowly but surely Sony tried to change. That was it. We were just shelved with no apparent release date. Bill and I's relationship just got dangerous. And we blamed each other perennially. And that kind of pent-up frustration - that just boiled. One day we had this crazy crazy crazy fight - one of those fights that you know you just do not come back from. And the next morning he left. The things I went through after that were crazy. They were hellish. I was in the darkest point of my life. I would found confidence. And you would have thought wow OK this person should be able to walk through walls now. But then the bubble burst. And I start to believe that that only happened because I was playing the character. So all of a sudden I was scared to go back to the boy who was beaten at school and he was a fish at war. And I did not want to be that guy anymore. I did not want to go back and be that guy and then have the failure weighing me down. So I was still in the character because I did not know who to go and be again. Then my friend - a close friend Ivan - got a rare form of cancer. Ivan actually knew who I really was. Myself and a friend threw a benefit concert to raise money for his treatment. And it would be the return of Brains the Californian rapper you know? And I knew I could fill a room of fans and industry people and make some decent money for Ivan's treatment. And then it came at the night of the gig. My new band was just about to go on and do our first performance. And I remember hearing that Ivan - he was not going to make it. I had this real problem. My band had just walked on stage. And I am like - I cannot stop crying. And I am frozen at the side of the stage. My band members are playing a song. They are just going to improvise and like why is he not on stage? I turn my friend Rob and I am just like man dude who am I? Who am I going to be? And he said just be who Ivan knows. Just cut all this crap. Be you. I stepped on stage and I just said I am Gavin Bain. I am not Brains McLoud. I am Scottish. I felt like there was this unbelievable cage I was dragging around with me everywhere. And I just felt like at that point that I just dropped the cage. I did a kind of moment of silence for Ivan which was the dumbest thing to do. And I think someone shouted out talk again. Say something  Do you know what I mean? And I was like - when I came off stage some girls came up and slapped me. Some people came up and was like after everything we have been through you would do this to me? You have been in my mother's house. You know like stupid - like so? One of my close friends Dan who I loved from Sony came up and was like what? This is the greatest thing that I have ever been a part of. I was not really caring about the bad or the negative. I am glad it happened. If I am being told that we would never make it we have won.  But it sounds like that sort of pushed you over the edge a little bit.  It did. But you know you have experience the edge. You know I would never have got to this point if I did not.  And you had to lie extensively to do it you know which is not...  As soon as you hear the word lie you think we were lying to people. But that is not really - it really was not like that. We were not lying to people. Even the people that we lie straight to their faces never walked away thinking oh man I cannot believe I invested time in those - no it was not like that. It was like we are here to have the most fun. And you are going to love us. You are going to absolutely love us. We are going to entertain you nonstop.  But you are not American for example. That is like not an ambiguous fact.  Of course. But I would like to consider it like changing reality. Like so something where I would say something crazy that I wanted to achieve when I had not achieve it yet. And I would tell people I would achieved it because it would create the pressure that I had to then go and achievement it to the point where then I would just go an achieve it. I have done my things my whole life that way. Like you are going to tour with Eminem. And boom we end up touring with D12. You know it is like setting these big things that you need to - because you are going to look stupid if you do not.  But do not you want to just get famous on exactly what you are?  Well yeah. And that is kind of exactly what I did. Because I am a great actor.   Big thanks to Gavin for speaking with the SNAP. Now Gavin Bain -  he is still at it ladies and gentlemen. But he is back to rapping in a Scottish accent. You can find all 10 - yes 10 albums that he is released without any help from a big label but an Apple Store. And we will have a link at snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Julia DeWitt with sound design by Renzo Gorrio. Now in just a moment the strangest fashion advice you will ever hear and one family's shocking secret when SNAP JUDGMENT - the Infamous episode returns. Stay tuned. 