Intro Voices You are listening to Radiolab from WNYC.  Ryan Before we get started I had a couple of questions for you.  Abigail Yeah please. Fire away.  Ryan I have talked to a lot of people who you have attempted to contact. There is a lot of hesitation. People just do not have faith in media right now and considering our issues to be honest white-controlled media.  Ryan So I got a couple of questions for you.  Abigail Yeah.  Jad Quest away.  Ryan Why now?  Jad Why do we want to do this story now?  Ryan Yeah. It is been a couple of years.  Jad Well Abby just found the story. It was unknown to us until right now.  Robert This feels a little newsy-of-the-moment in its upside-down way.  Jad This is Robert by the way our other host.  Robert Hi.  Ryan So we have Robert we have...  Jad We have Robert we have Jad...  Abigail And we have Abigail.  Ryan Jad?  Robert J-A-D.  Ryan J-A-D. Yes.  Jad Did you have other questions?  Ryan Sure. We can wait. We can table those.  Jad No ask them. Ask them.  Robert Let us hear them.  Ryan So what is the end goal? What do you want the story to say?  Robert We never that at the beginning.  Jad Okay hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad This is Radiolab and today...  Robert Today we are going to tell you the story of a guy a guy named Ryan Wash.  Jad He is part of a movement of people who have taken this established corner of the academic world and they have reshaped it and reframed it.  Robert Into something even weirder and more different.  Ryan Weirder. Huh.  Jad No not weird bad. Weird interesting. Interesting. Let us replace the word weird with interesting.  Robert I do not know I will confess I find it...  Ryan I am just saying in debate lingo that is a link.  Robert That is a link?  Ryan Usually when you run a criticism the link is the thing that they have done bad.  Robert Oh okay.  Ryan The description of performance debate is problematic.  Jad Can I put a less...  Robert Less judgmentally?  Jad Okay so the world that we are talking about which is at the center of this whole story is debate.  Robert Yes.  Jad High school debate and college debate. Now I never did debate but from the outside it always seemed like this hyper-competitive brain sport.  Robert These guys with these accordion briefcases where they have all these files in there with all the research.  Jad Yeah. They go to these tournaments and they argue about some topic back and forth and back and forth and back and forth.  Jad Now the interesting about debate... I did not know this beforehand... is that the people who people who do this often go on to become hugely powerful people Supreme Court judges presidents leading thinkers scholars titans of industry.  Robert It is the farm team of the big folks for tomorrow. So Lee Iacocca from Chrysler he was a debater.  Jad Margaret Thatcher Ted Cruz Carl Rove Hillary Clinton.  Robert Oprah Winfrey.  Jad Richard Nixon.  Robert Malcolm X.  Jad They all were debaters.  Jad Today this is Ryan Wash's story of debate.  Abigail Actually it is Ryan's story debating debate.  Jad Yes. This story comes from reporter Abigail Keel. Before we get going I just want to let you know there is some language in this story some profane words. Skip it if you need to. Otherwise here we go.  Abigail Is it cool if we jump in Ryan?  Ryan Yeah.  Abigail I would love to know Ryan what was your life like before you were ever on a debate team?  Ryan Well Kansas City Missouri inner city public school. 99 black students. I was actually tricked into debating.  Jad Really? When was this that you are talking about?  Ryan Let me see. 2000... I am sorry I am old. 2005?  Jad When were you born if you are saying you are old?  Ryan 1990.  Jad Oh come on.  Ryan But yeah. I ended up getting tricked into debate. I am definitely more of an observant person which is why I like to play the game of chess because how people move their pieces... the time it takes them to move their pieces... all gives away something. There are tells.  Ryan So I was tricked into debate by playing chess and I ended up winning the school chess tournament that we had. This little short German redhead lady named Jane Reinhardt came to chess practice... I ended up being president of the chess club... one day and pulled me in the hallway and was like...  Jane I understand you were chess champion and that is a really good thing. We have this debate program and I think you would be really good at it.  Ryan Like Anybody who could critically think at chess could critically think at debate. Yadda yadda yadda. I did not even know what debate was.  Abigail So he told her...  Ryan No.  Jane No. Not for me. But I persist.  Abigail So over the next year...  Ryan She kept on telling me I thought I told you to join debate. I was like I thought I told you no.  Jane I can spot a debater at 20 paces.  Ryan She was just like Okay you think I am playing. One Monday I came to school. She handed me a piece of paper. It was a revised scheduled. She had my scheduled to where I had debate first hour.  Jane I just .  Ryan So here I am.  Jane Here you are. That is what is happens with a lot of my debaters. They just come in kind of dazed. Like Uh my schedule got changed. I am like Yeah okay that is fine. Take a seat.  Abigail Those first few classes Ryan is learning the basics of debate and this kind of debate that he is doing is called policy debate. There is two teams and two people on each team. Usually the debate is about some kind of national policy topic like The United States government should increase its economic engagement in China. One team at the beginning of the debate is randomly assigned to be affirmative. That means they are supporting that proposition. They are saying Yes the United States' federal government should do that. Here's why. The other team is the negative team and they are doing against the affirmative.  Abigail Both of those sides make their case and then at the end the judge decides who made the better arguments.  Jane I mean I get them up debating almost day one.  Ryan We ended up having mock-debates in class like Pepsi versus Coke Family Guy versus the Simpsons stuff like that. It was very fun. It made us learn how to do impact analysis.  Jad Impact analysis?  Robert What is that?  Ryan For instance...  Abigail Let us say you are debating apples versus oranges.  Ryan If I say the rinds of apples are necessary for the fertilizer to produce oranges so you must vote for apples.  Abigail That would be the impact of choosing apples over oranges.  Ryan You have to be able to compare the two and make argumentation. The traditional standard for argumentation...  Abigail And as Ryan started learning all of this.  Ryan Impact analysis...  Ryan Toulmin's model...  Ryan Argumentation...  Abigail He started to...  Ryan Ethos pathos logos...  Abigail Do really well.  Jane Yeah. Yeah he did.  Abigail Joined the team. Started going to tournaments.  Ryan Debate is one of those activities that affords you the possibility of traveling places. Where I grew up and went to school students did not leave a 40 block radius for their entire life.  Jane You are in control in that debate round and everybody is listening to you. I think it is important to feel that way even if it is only in a 60 90 minute debate round.  Jane Ryan needed those wins. He needed...  Ryan I was enjoying debate.  Jane That affirmation.  Ryan I was having a great time.  Ryan The thing that helped me out was that my first tournament was a Debate Kansas City tournament. Debate Kansas City is an urban debate league. So we were debating other kids from the same neighborhood just went to different schools. That environment of debate was to me very different. Like yeah we wanted to win but there was a lot more camaraderie in the debate I thought.  Ryan By the time I went to my first national competition I was very much committed to debate. But once I went to that national tournament for the first time I was like Okay I do not know about this.  Jane At national tournaments you are up against what I call name brand schools.  Abigail You know like predominately private schools.  Ryan We were real excited about that. Put our little dress clothes on. Got cute.  Abigail Got on the bus.  Ryan Nerves started kicking a little bit just about going to a debate tournament. Got off the bus went inside and then we went into the cafeteria. When we opened the door to walk into the cafeteria and began to walk in the room went silent. I mean when I tell you the talking stopped literally 300 other plus students stopped and stared at us because a bus of black kids had just arrived. They watched us the whole time that we were in the cafeteria. They was like What are they doing here? At least that is how I felt.  Ryan We walked over to our table and our coach was like Do not worry about them. Pull out your things. Get warmed up. Get ready for competition. So got our stuff pulled out and started to practice and then they started to whisper. Whether they were whispering about debate stuff or about us I do not know. I was not in their heads. But I can definitely explain to you what that felt like. It was real awkward and it was real uncomfortable.  Abigail And making things even more awkward and more uncomfortable is that when the debates actually got going... and this is particularly true at the national level... this is what debate sounds like.  Debaters This event also turns back  kids are sitting  global nuclear war and esclation if there is a backlash .  Debaters The plan US federal government through an act of Congress will substantially reform domestic transportation infrastructure by requiring that all federally founded road paving projects in the US use 15 to 22 ground rubber and asphalt and concrete mixes.  Debaters One  moving targets seven slots of .  Jad What is this? Is this sped up or something?  Abigail No. This is what debate sounds like today. They kind of speed read.  Ryan The goal of speed reading or spreading if you will is to get more arguments.  Debaters The US highway and road infrastructure has an urgent requirement for .  Debaters Hetero supremacy and white supremacy .  Abigail And apparently... and this is a quick digression... this kind of thing actually started in the 1960s and the students were actually the ones who were driving it.  Scott One of the things that makes debate such an interesting intellectual game is that it is much more of a bottom-up-driven activity than a top-down activity.  Abigail That is Scott Harris director of debate at the University of Kansas. In the case of speed reading...  Scott We developed a situation where one team decided I am going to present eight arguments and the other team talked slower and only answered six of them and the judge says Well you did not answer two of these arguments so you lost the debate because you did not answer those arguments. So the other team said We need to answer all eight of those arguments and they started to talk faster. And the other team said Well we will present 10 arguments and then they answered 12. It escalated to a point that in some instances has gone way too far.  Abigail Getting back to Ryan it is not as if he did not know how to do that style of debate.  Ryan That is the way I debated. I did try to speak fast.  Abigail But he says somewhere around the first national tournament all that stuff stopped making sense to him like the fast talking and the fact that he had to debate these super highfalutin topics.  Ryan I felt as if I could never take any of the stuff that I learned in debate and take it back to 304  which is where I lived.  Abigail This is not just unique to Ryan. What you see at this stage in debate is that a lot of kids especially inner city kids from public schools black students they just start to drop out of debate at a certain point. But Ryan did not do that.  Robert Now something big is going to happen. I have a feeling. Somebody's going to say...  Ryan No.  Robert No?  Ryan No. What happened was that a student from University Academy... she was a senior...  Abigail Her name was  and she went to a different school than Ryan.  Ryan She came over and asked Reinhardt. She needed a partner. There was about to be this tournament called KCKCC TLC Tournament.  Abigail It was a big high school debate tournament. Marshana she was a senior so she was older than Ryan but she needed a partner. She came to Jane Reinhardt and Jane said Well here Ryan. He is your guy.  Ryan So I met with Marshana. It was the Thursday before the tournament happened. And I pulled her into this room and I had three boxes of evidence and I was ready to go with my traditional stuff.  Abigail The topic was whether the US should increase participation in national service programs so like Peace Corp Armed Services stuff like that.  Ryan I am like This is the stuff that I have been working on. I showed her the Learn and Serve America stuff. I had this Peace Corp affirmative that I had not wrote yet.  Abigail He showed her note cards with statistics on them quotes from various experts.  Ryan And she was like Mm-hmm . Uh-huh . Yeah that is cute. So she handed me this expando was just like...  Abigail Take this folder go home study it.  Ryan So I go home and I open this expando and it was full of things. I stayed up literally all night studying this file. I mean it was not a lot of evidence. There was not a lot of pre-written out answers to arguments. There was not a lot. There was Ralph Ellison's...   I am an invisible man.  Ryan There was a clip from Ralph Ellison's Invisible Man in there. There was...  Angelou You may write me down in history with your bitter twisted lines.  Ryan A Maya Angelou poem in there.  Angelou You may trod me in the very dirt but still like dust I rise.  Ryan There was some original stuff that she wrote. And I did not get it. But she was the senior and Reinhardt kind of told me Let her drive the ship you just ride along. I was like okay.  Ryan So...  Abigail Next day.  Ryan We get to the first debate. I still was very unclear when we arrived at the tournament just what was going on.  Abigail He and Marshana get to the classroom and standing on the other side of the room are their two opponents.  Robert Are they white kids mostly?  Ryan Yeah. They were white guys in suits with Republican ties on if you want a vivid description.  Abigail The other team they are affirmative so they go first.  Ryan And they are like .  Abigail They lay out this whole argument about how the national service programs are good because they increase US power abroad. Then it was Marshana's turn.  Ryan So she gets up to give this speech and it starts with this like four minute long piece of spoken word.  Abigail It is like this performative speech kind of about her personal experience in debate.  Ryan And she had this way of speaking that was very passionately forceful. It made people stop. They stopped writing. They stopped talking.  Abigail And in the middle of this riff Marshana laid out this argument...  Ryan That the style of debate that they engaged in that fast paced form of debate was exclusionary because it demotivated minority students from participating.  Abigail Not only that it also creates this resource imbalance because if you are going to start debating with a ton of arguments then you have to research that many arguments and you need help researching those arguments so you pay people and you pay coaches to help you may those arguments and that clearly favors rich and affluent schools. And beyond that Marshana argued even the language itself sets up a norm of what counts as intelligent authoritative argumentation.  Ryan For instance like men's voice to be held up over women black people to always seem angry and rude when they are just being passionate as if they do not have feelings. It was a criticism of the auctioneer style of debate. It was a criticism of the insular lingo of debate. It was a criticism of the way in which debates were decided socially and politically as opposed to argumentatively.  Ryan I was like Okay I kind of get what she is .  Robert Were you shocked? Did this shock you?  Ryan No. I was not shocked. On the one hand I was like That was great. That was tight. Snaps like we was at the poetry slam. But I was sitting to myself thinking Okay how am I going to extend this?  Abigail When it got to be his turn what is left for him to say?  Ryan I do not know what other words I could use.  Ryan It was not until the second person from this team got up and he started to speak and he was like debating about The state is great! This is disrespectful to the state of debate. And he turned to her... it was this moment... and he said it like from his soul You should go down the hall because that is where poetryprose is held. This is academic debate.  Ryan I was like What? Basically his argument was that what we were doing was not debating. What we were having was a talent show is how he described it. And I was just like I get it. And maybe it was the studying I had done all night but everything kicked in in that moment. My passion came into the room and I was just like...  Jad What was it? You get it?  Ryan Like I get everything that she was trying to say... what she was saying about the structure of debate because I had felt those things before. I just did not know how to articulate them.  Jad Was it like permission?  Ryan I get what she is saying. Debate is fucked up. I am sorry.  Abigail No you are fine.  Ryan Let us just say we definitely went on to win that debate.  Robert You won this match?  Ryan Yeah we won the debate because...  Abigail Let me just explain what happened in this debate. Judges in this kind of situation have a choice they can hear the arguments that Ryan and Marshana are making and they can think Okay this is not really about the Peace Corp or about Armed Services so you lose or they can do what the judge in this debate did and they can say All right the topic has shifted but let us look at what we have in front of us. Let us look at the arguments that were made. You have Ryan and Marshana saying that the structure of debate is racist and then you have got the other team not really responding in any kind of counter-argumentative way.  Abigail Ryan in this debate points at that. He points at when this other team says Leave the room and he says Hey what they just did proves our point that we are excluded from debate. And the judge agreed.  Jad Oh so you used his You do not belong here as an argument against him.  Ryan That is what I was saying about our evidence. It came a lot from what happened in the debate itself.  Jad That is fascinating.  Robert But wait a second wait a second. Let me just take that guy's side. You are throwing huge bombs at them racism hegemony. What is he supposed to do? Say I am a racist? What is he supposed to do?  Ryan Stop.  Robert What do you mean stop?  Ryan First off he should stop. Second off you do not have to say you are racist. As not nobody going to want to admit that they are racist. But you can definitely admit that you have engaged in racist practices or you can have a debate about whether or not that was a racist practice. There is a healthy debate to be had about that. But instead what he said was that You all do not belong here.  Robert Leave the room. If you walk in and you say what you just said and you say it forcibly and eloquently... I mean the other side says Hey you are changing the rules here. You are breaking things down. Leave the room. And then in the Leave the room they leave themselves open to this counter-attack that you give. It still surprises me that you would win.  Ryan This is the thing. There is very few rules to debate but there is tons of norms and depending on the community of debate... the space of debate that you are in... those norms may differ. I only know of a few rules like there must be a winner and a loser time limits... and I have seen that be debatable at times... there must be an affirmative and a negative. Other than that how one approaches debate how one approaches the topic how one approaches themselves and their opposition all of that stuff is debatable and arguably should be debatable.  Jad There is no like Bible of debate? There is no book of...  Ryan No. They put out things like the NDT Rule Book which is like affirmative teams must be topical but in the world of debate what does it mean to be topical? What does it mean to be on topic? That has to be debatable in order for a debate to .  Jad This is getting very interesting.  Robert I am just curious if you are really good at this can you parse me what you would have said if you were the guy coming after you or before you?  Ryan One of the things that they needed to do in particular was to say that the debate itself should not be about debate. They were trying to say that but they said was You all should leave.  Jad That is interesting because the place where I have sympathy for the other side is where they are like I thought we were talking about the Peace Corp. Like they walked into the wrong room or something.  Robert But on the other hand...  Ryan But that was part of our argument was that how do you do debate how do you participate in an activity for hours and hours and hours... weeks upon weeks upon weeks and arguable years on years on years... and not every think about why you debate the way that you do. That is what we were pressing.  Abigail What was the other team's reaction?  Ryan They were really upset. They called us a n-word and shit like that.  Jad No. Really?  Ryan Yes. Like what do you mean no? Yes!  Jad That is... wow.  Jad We will be right back.  Jad Hey I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad This is Radiolab.  Robert And it is back to our story again from producer Abigail Keel.  Jad Which is a story about a guy named Ryan Wash and about debate. How we debate.  Abigail Just to pull back from that moment with Marshana and the poetry and all that this kind of thing was not just happening in a vacuum. It actually came from all kinds of different places all at once.  Abigail One particular interesting person who was influencing it was George Soros.  Jad The billionaire?  Abigail Yeah.  Shanara Soros was fascinated by debate.  Abigail That is Dr. Shanara Reid-Brinkley. She is a scholar and a big figure in the so-called black debate world.  Shanara Soros thought that debate was one of those kinds of activities that was incredibly important to the production of democracy.  Abigail So he started funding debate programs overseas...  Shanara In places like eastern Europe.  Abigail And here in the US he poured tons of money...  Shanara Like millions and millions and millions of dollars to start urban debate programs. First started with New York City.  Abigail 1977.  Shanara They literally went out to all these New York high schools talked to a bunch of administrators and Soros just pumped money into New York City to start an urban debate league.  Abigail Then it went to Baltimore then to Chicago Detroit. It went to Kansas City out to LA Newark.  Shanara And it just kept moving. We are almost up to maybe 23 or 24 cities.  Abigail If you take a step back and look at it all suddenly within a few years you have all of these new black debaters and many of those students she says would go through the exact same thing that Ryan went through.  Shanara At the regional level you can imagine you get a bunch of African American students a bunch of teachers who are supporting them in a very positive environment. They build relationships and friendships. So debate feels like home in that space.  Abigail But as soon as they go to that first national tournament...  Shanara Culture shock because there is a sea of white people.  Abigail And according to Dr. Reid-Brinkley this influx of black debaters into a primarily white space started to create some tension and pressure. That all built up and eventually resulted in something called the Louisville Project.  Ryan The Louisville Project started. Its goal was to increase meaningful participation of .  Jad .  Robert  happened in Louisville.  Ryan Let us go back.  Robert I know that there is a baseball bat associated with Louisville.  Ryan Jesus Christ.  Ryan So early 2000s...  Abigail Down at the University of Louisville there was a debate team.  Ryan A predominately African American team. They were having a hard time finding traction.  Abigail He says they would go to these national tournaments...  Ryan And no matter what they did if they tried to accommodate the more traditional style there was always something that they did wrong.  Abigail Apparently those students would try to make arguments about race inside the topics but usually it did not work.  Ryan And so...  Abigail At a certain point...  Ryan They decided that they were done with that.  Shanara They were like No we are unwilling to play your game in the way that you have defined it should be played.  Abigail So these debaters what they would basically do is they would show up and they would force a conversation about race basically saying We are not going to talk about China or global trade until we deal with this.  Shanara This is Louisville's famous phrase. They said We cannot change the state but we can change the state of debate.  Abigail They end up developing this whole new methodology which is actually a throwback to Aristotle. In his idea you need three things to persuade someone ethos pathos and logos. Logos is like logic so getting research and scholars and evidence and things like that. Pathos that is where emotion comes in so maybe a personal story or sharing something that will connect with the audience. And then ethos which is kind of hard to pin down. You can think of it as like credibility or speaking in tune with the spirit of your culture.  Shanara That is where you get the introduction of the use of hip hop.  Performers Some say the blacker the berry the sweeter the juice. I say the darker complexion the deeper the roots.  Shanara The use of spoken word.  Performers They say the niggers always already queer. That is exactly the point. It means that it is a case turned to the affirmative because we are saying that .  Shanara The use of what we call street scholars.  Performers Hands up do not shoot. Hands up do not shoot.  Jad What was the reaction when this first started?  Shanara They would say things to Louisville like This is not research this is me-search as if noted black scholars in their fields are not real experts right? They would say things like Hip hop does not belong here. Your argument style does not belong here. I am saying these things in really nice ways but there could be really angry screaming matches at tournaments.  Robert Would you have an objection to a prohibition... As a coach if you said Look for next year let us never talk about you and leave your gender your sex your background your family your religion behind and stay entirely in the brain. I doubt that you would do that but I am wondering why you would not.  Shanara I think that is anti-black. I think it is anti-black to...  Robert Well it is anti-everything. It would be anti-gay anti-Jew anti-everything.  Shanara Exactly. It would be anti all of those things. But particularly for our purposes it would anti-black. The reason that is important for me is because these students do not get to leave their blackness at the door when they enter for competition right? They can pretend that they are not black but that does not mean that everybody else is going to pretend that they are not black. Even when they speak what arguments they make... When they open their mouths to make an argument people are paying attention to the fact that it is coming out of a black body. They do not get to speak without race being a factor. Nobody gets to speak without race being a factor in a nation where race is a factor.  Abigail Now back to Ryan. He is 16 years old and he sees Marshana do this spoken word poetry thing. Starts to read more about Louisville and he is like I am in.  Ryan I dedicated my debate career to discussing debate. Every debate. Every single one.  Jad Every debate.  Ryan Every single one.  Abigail Fast forward. He graduates high school. Is not sure he is going to go to college.  Ryan I was a first generation college student so I really did not know much about the process.  Abigail But then early August 2008 he gets a message from a debate coach at a small in Kansas called Emporia State University.  Ryan And August 14 I was driving up to Emporia for college.  Abigail So Ryan gets there gets paired up with a sophomore Latoya Williams-Green.  Ryan Who is now the director of debate at Cal State  best friend.  Abigail The two of them start debating together and over the course of a couple years Ryan starts to get recognized.  Shanara He is winning speaker awards. He is making it into the outer rounds at tournaments. But it was an uphill battle.  Abigail She says that Ryan kept bumping into judges who were not really into the whole three-tier approach to debate.  Ryan Yes. I lost a lot of debates before I won any of them.  Abigail And at this point Latoya has graduated and he is debating a freshman on the team. He is halfway into senior year when his new debate partner flunked out of school.  Ryan At this point it was either find somebody to debate with or my debate career was over.  Shanara What happens is Ryan is also close to one of my best friends who is one of my contemporaries  Evans who was then a coach at Western Connecticut University. Basically Reshad had this bombshell idea.  Abigail One day they called Ryan up and they were like What if you partnered up with this guy from Rutgers Elijah Smith?  Shanara The reason why particularly Reshad thought this was a good idea first Elijah was an astoundingly good debater. He just had excellent skills and traditional skills. But the other reason was that both Ryan and Elijah were queer black men.  Abigail The thinking was that you have got two guys standing at the intersection of two marginalized groups and if they are going to try to make an argument about feeling excluded and invisible well they can own that argument better than almost anyone.  Ryan So I called him one night. It was 30 PM.  Abigail And he was like Hey do you want to come debate with me?  Ryan And he was like Dude this is a lot. I cannot really answer this right now. I was like I understand. I am asking you to come move to Kansas for a semester or what have you and live...  Jad From Newark.  Ryan From Newark New Jersey.  Ryan He called me back the next morning. It was like 00 AM my time. He was like I have already applied and everything. The next couple weeks he was down in Emporia. Elijah and I debated four tournaments together.  Abigail First tournament they won two matches lost four.  Ryan I was very upset. I was heartbroken because I was senior and I was like I do not really do 2-4. But it is fine. It is okay.  Abigail Dr. Reid-Brinkley was actually at that tournament and she said that watching Ryan and Elijah debate...  Shanara Was a hot mess.  Abigail They just did not have any chemistry.  Shanara There was nothing persuasive about it. Nothing popped about it. It did not really speak to the judges.  Abigail She remembers a time when Ryan came over to her apartment to talk to her and Reshad.  Shanara He was just like I do not know what we are doing wrong. He just did not know why things were not clicking. What is not working? I do not know what is happening.  Abigail So the three of them were all talking and Reshad... Ryan really looks up to Reshad because Reshad is also a queer black guy but he is also like a really great debater.  Shanara And it was Reshad who said You are not being a queer black man. You are being a debater. Reshad would say things like You need to butch it out. You need to fem it up sometimes. Sometimes you need to duck walk on them. Sometimes you are going to have to vogue. He is saying be black. You will always be black and queer in these spaces so rather than attempting to hide parts of yourself instead you should be fully you.  Abigail Ryan with this in his head went back to Elijah. And within a few weeks things started to click.  Ryan We were just like Here's what our roles are this is what you do this is what I do.  Ryan This debate is about debate that  exclusions perpetuated by the negative...  Ryan I would start the debate...  Ryan This is our argument about how it is to  the strategy that allows for us to not even be those niggers that you say we are supposed to be.  Abigail Ryan would preach.  Ryan I could reign in the choir if you will.  Ryan That activity is effected by the same structural inequalities that allowed the hood to be segregated.  Abigail And then Elijah...  Elijah You as a competitor  offense your argument about how I...  Ryan He did the middle speeches.  Abigail He dealt with logic counter-arguments things like that.  Elijah It is not a question of black goals it is a question of new epistemologies.  Ryan He was better at the game of debate.  Abigail Ryan said they went from practicing ethos pathos logos to being it.  Ryan We embodied that methodology.  Ryan You tell me how their  literally deconstructs those that sacrificed inside this debate. You probably...  Ryan And then I would end the debates.  Ryan That is the shit that our  talks about. Now that is some real talk sweetheart.  Abigail In their second tournament they made it to the finals and they lost in a close decision. But their third tournament was actually a national tournament called  the Cross Examination Debate Association.  Ryan It is called the people's tournament.  Abigail And they won that tournament.  Ryan I was able to give a pretty good 2AR and we ended up squeaking the debate out.  Abigail And then their fourth tournament... their final tournament together... it is actually the whole reason we are telling this story. It is the NDT.  Ryan The National Debate Tournament. That was the tournament.  Debaters My decision not to go for a .  Abigail The NDT is this marathon of a debate tournament.  Debaters .  Abigail It is like March Madness or something. It is held every year.  Debaters .  Abigail It lasts for four whole days and there is 13 rounds of debates 78 teams.  Ryan The NDT is where Harvard is Northwestern...  Singers   Ryan Georgetown...  Debaters .  Ryan That is the tournament that they prepare for.  Abigail That is the tournament those sorts of teams usually win.  Ryan So we are definitely the underdogs. An all black team had never gotten past quarterfinals of this tournament.  Abigail Things kick off Friday morning at 00 AM. Emporia versus Idaho State. And they beat Idaho State. At 45 AM they take care of Puget Sound. 15 PM they go against Oklahoma. Oklahoma actually beats them but it is prelims so it is not like they are out or anything. Then the crazy thing is that after the loss to Oklahoma Ryan and Elijah go on a roll. They take USC they roll over Emory they beat not one but two different teams from Harvard. They beat Michigan State and then on the last day they beat another team from the University of Michigan then they go on to beat Wake Forest. That puts them in the semis which has never been done before by a black team. Then they are against Oklahoma who they beat and that puts them into the finals.  Ryan Everything is very surreal to me. We are in the finals of the NDT. Never happened before. We are also potentially about to unite the crowns and what that means is win CEDA and the NDT. No team in history had ever done that.  Jad And who were they up against?  Abigail They were going against a team that Ryan had already faced twice that year.  Ryan And lost every time.  Abigail The 14 time national debate champions Northwestern University.  Shanara When this round gets set up between Northwestern and Emporia one of the things that we have described it as is a clash of civilizations.  Abigail She says that about Northwestern because they have one of the biggest debate programs in the country.  Shanara They have got an entire hive mind with a hotel war room for them to strategize in.  Ryan And then it was us these two queer black guys from Emporia Kansas.  Shanara From a really small school with not a lot of resources. So it is like a David and Goliath story.  Ryan Let me explain the room to you all. This is the biggest room that I had ever debated in.  Shanara This hotel room that they have the debate happening in is a huge ballroom.   Welcome to the final round of the 2013 National Debate Tournament.  Shanara And this ballroom was packed.  Ryan The audience itself was segregated. One the right side of the room Northwestern's side it was packed full of their people. And then on our side it was...  Jad Was it like racially segregated too?  Ryan It was.  Abigail Just to round this out...   The judges for this evening's debate are...  Abigail Near the front of room at a table were the judges which included our guy Scott Harris.  Scott Yep.  Robert And how many judges were judging this debate?  Scott Five. Four men one woman. All of them were white.  Ryan And...   The affirmative team in tonight's debate will be Emporia State University.  Abigail Ryan and Elijah from Emporia they were one side of the stage. On the other side of the stage are the two Northwestern students.  Arjun Wearing our Northwestern jerseys.  Abigail One was this guy.  Arjun I am Arjun Vellayappan. I debated at Northwestern for four years.  Abigail The other was his partner a young woman named...   Peyton Lee.  Abigail Peyton Lee.  Ryan I do not know if she knew this but she was like my college debate nemesis.  Arjun My partner Peyton I was a sophomore whereas my partner and Ryan on the other side were seniors.  Ryan And that was the thing that really getting me. It was going to be my last debate. It was Peyton's last debate. It was my last debate. We were seniors. This was it. College debate is the pros. It is the NFL. It is it.  Abigail Since it is their last debate everybody gets up before their speeches to say thanks and bye.  Arjun I want to thank Northwestern for providing the opportunity to make debate a home.  Ryan And for myself...  Jad This is Ryan.  Ryan This is my last debate.  Abigail And...  Peyton This is going to be my goodbye so it might take a bit.  Abigail This is Peyton.  Peyton Debate has been my family and my friends. It is my hardest work and my most rewarding play. It is taught me more than I could have ever dreamed. For that I am indebted to all of you. Every part of this community and in particular a number of special people in my life.  Jad Wow.  Ryan It was a lot.  Arjun The topic for the year was whether or not the United States federal government should increase incentives for certain forms of alternative energies.  Ryan It was nuclear power solar power wind...  Arjun Or reduce restrictions on other forms of alternative energies.  Ryan Coal natural gas and oil.  Abigail So Ryan and Elijah were affirmative. They were supposed to argue something positive about how the US government should support solar energy production or should restrict coal usage and energy or whatever but they are not going to debate that.  Ryan We had figured out that we wanted to talk about the idea of home.  Abigail In other words energy is not the most important conversation that we need to have. The conversation we need to have is whether this community can include people like Ryan like Elijah.  Ryan Can we find home in debate?  Shanara Because that is how the community feels about itself that this is a home place for a lot of people. There are people who grew up in debate people who started debating when they were 12 and 13 went all the way through college. The people that you often develop that tightest friendships with the people that have some of your coolest memories because you all spent the summer together going to debate camp those people make up your family. There are people who make friends in debate when they are 13 that they keep until they die.  Abigail So Ryan is up first. To make his argument about his home...  Ryan Judy Garland references the great  of Kansas when she told audiences that there was no place like home in the Wizard of Oz...  Abigail He starts about a movie.  Ryan Have you all seen The Wiz?  Abigail I have.  Robert I have not.  Jad No sorry.  Abigail Real quick synopsis. It is a 1978 film and what it is it like an all black cast version of the Wizard of Oz. So Michael Jackson is playing the Scarecrow. Richard Pryor is the Wiz. And Diana Ross is Dorothy.  Ryan That movie was just like to me it was the fear that Dorothy felt...  Dorothy Where am I? Where am I?  Ryan At the beginning of arriving to Oz.   The indivisible land of Oz.  Dorothy Oz? I want to go home.  Abigail The point Ryan is making is that is how he felt too when he came into debate when he was walking into that cafeteria.  Ryan Yeah.  Abigail There is a line where you say... let me find it... When the Dorothys of this world think of energy they do not think of thorium reactors but the energy required to get out of bed and navigate the struggle.  Ryan Yep.  Abigail Is that how you were tying it?  Ryan Yeah. Energy for us meant what it meant to get out of bed in the morning what it meant to thrive in a world in which you were never meant to survive.  Abigail And for Dorothy...  Ryan She was able to reach a place of Oz.  Dorothy Please is there a way for me to get home?  Ryan Where you realize that all you ever needed in the first place was yourself.  Dorothy Home? Inside me?  Ryan And that you had the power all along. That is part of what our argument was and that was part of what I was trying to say was that I had been in debate for eight years at that point and I was so sick and tired of people telling me that what I had to say about debate and what I thought about debate was not legit when debate was a student-driven activity that I have just as much to say about this topic as you do and your claims are not any more valid than mine and vice-versa.  Abigail Ryan ended his eight and half minute speech on this hopeful appeal.  Ryan You know to never give up. We have to ease on down the road together. Dorothy cannot just go by herself.  Ryan Judy Garland might have much over the fabulous Diana Ross oh but honey she did have one thing right in that is there no place  no place like home.  Arjun And then...  Abigail After a few minutes Arjun the sophomore from Northwestern...  Arjun I got up and I gave the first negative speech.  Arjun .  Abigail He started to make his argument.  Ryan The one that they had beat us with every time.  Arjun Called topicality which basically says the topic has posited a question.  Abigail You know Should the US government alter its approach to energy policy?  Arjun And we think the affirmative should have to answer that...  Abigail Or this is not a real debate.  Ryan Well first of all I do not think the resolution is a question.  Abigail Second of all nowhere in the rules does it say that you have to be topical.  Arjun But...  Peyton This is a debate about .  Arjun Our position was that debate should be theoretically fair. Both sides should be able to win.  Abigail And if you are going to come out here and argue that...  Arjun Racism is bad debate is not a home...  Abigail We cannot argue against that.  Arjun I am not going to say debate is not a home for me. I love it.  Abigail It is not fair to have to argue against that.  Ryan Well...  Elijah We form ourselves as ourselves...  Ryan Is debate fair for now? Who is debate inclusive for now?  Abigail Is it actually fair if in order to win a debate you need to have a whole research team and debate camps that cost thousands of dollars to participate in...  Arjun But...  Arjun Also .  Arjun There is a topic that is democratically voted upon by all the schools at the beginning of the year. Something about the topic should be mentioned just to give the negative respect respect for the thousands of hours that my partner and I in the Northwestern debate team and other people in debate have spent researching energy and being prepared to talk about the intricacies of energy policy in the United States.  Abigail This went on for over an hour.  Ryan It was a lot happening.  Abigail And eventually Arjun and Peyton start to focus their argument on their version on debate the tradition version. This is how you actually change the world not by focusing on yourself but doing research. It is being able to argue the affirmative side of something and the negative side of it because people who learn those kinds of skills...  Arjun They can actually go and do things outside of debate.  Abigail Like deal in convoluted globalized trade negotiations or solve global warming.  Arjun Right.  Abigail So after two hours of this it is almost midnight. Ryan feels exhausted.  Ryan Yeah but I felt it in the room that people were like We are not out of the debate. We can still win.  Abigail At this point there is only one speech left and it is Ryan's.  Ryan I was nervous. I knew it was last speech. I knew everybody in the audience was waiting on me. I just felt pressured and I had maybe five sentences written on a piece of copy paper. I looked over at Elijah and was kind of like Well this is it. This is all I have got.  Abigail The audio quality of this speech is kind of terrible but we are just going to let it play.  Ryan  in this debate for you to both of teams that best performed  methodologically bring this debate back home I do not think they have really answered this  argument that  are not allowed in their debate. All of their evidence assumes the role of a good citizen or an engaged student in a democratic society. All of these assume an equal playing field for people but  discussion of the access or even the right to have a home in the first place. This leads to black  our job  in a moment of  to be self-reflective that enabled them to speak out as a way to engage and change our relationship to the world and also to ourselves which says that regardless of whether or not we are using the tools of the master or if we are just simply...  Abigail And Ryan says early that piece of paper he was holding...  Ryan I threw it. I start speaking from my soul or what I will call the .  Jad The shaunde.  Ryan The shaunde is the place that encapsulates your soul and your loins.  Jad Well all right.  Ryan It is always about something not fair. It is always about a  fucking  but the question then becomes how broad do we get? When does their research model ever access our portion of the library? When do we have a discussion about those individuals. Their method of debate has become foreclosed to those individuals who have already had access to homes now for what they are. Argument  black  bodies do not have a space that they can call home right now and we need to join the struggle together. We need to hold hands and be  Michael Jackson and ease on down the road together which is exactly what our affirmative is. It allows us  to raise the question of why is it that in debates it is a question of eitheror instead of hand-and-hand.  Ryan Their notions of fairness is one that is always  because debate is  for who now? Debate is equal for who now? It is still leaves us out! Why do I have to make a forced choice? Why do I got to relegate another team to the exclusion especially one that do not have another place to go when debate has been the place where I come to share my views perspectives and opinions about a given subject? This is all the  I got.  Ryan I do not know what the fuck I am going to do when this debate is over. I do not know how I am going to situate myself. But I know one thing that I am going to do I am going to make  that have never ever fucking had a right to speak and have a debate in their own fucking house! Nobody ask me about energy production! Nobody asked me what it means to get out of bed in the morning which is why  never ever fucking  me! We are the education that your model of debate bring  because we can you teach you some shit about yourself and how you are complacent with the strategies in debate that allow us to be exclusionary to other individuals. Our fucking job...  Ryan There was portions of the speech that I do not remember giving. Apparently there was a part where I almost took my shirt off. I almost ripped my shirt off. Like I do not remember that. I had to pause because I was trying to get out of that zone and come back to provide a voice of reason but as I kind of slowed down to do that the crowd started clapping. I had 50 seconds left. I still have to answer this last thing. I still have to extend this piece of evidence. Oh shit I did not say anything about warming. What do I do? What do I do? What do I do?  Ryan I just was like I do not know. This is reason enough to vote affirmative. Forget it.  Ryan I think that the judges should vote affirmative in this debate. Blessings on .  Ryan And then I walked over and shook their hands. I gave Elijah a hug. And then I walked out of the room and went and smoked a cigarette.  Scott At that point as a judge I took a deep breath packed up my notes. I put noise-canceling headphones on my head. I found a room where there was no one else around and I could have total quiet and think about what had been said.  Abigail Now Scott says that he felt like the debate was close like it was going to be a tight vote.  Scott So I sit down and I look at my notes. I relisten to the last couple of speeches that I had recorded several times.  Abigail On one hand Northwestern presented a lot a good research and a lot of it he agreed with. On the other hand Peyton and Arjun are saying If you have these skills then you are going to be better prepared to go talk in front of Congress or something. But Scott says If you just listen to Ryan and Elijah they sound more persuasive. You cannot convince that somebody who sounds like that is not actually also prepared to do those things. Ryan and Elijah's whole presentation is actually proof that Peyton and Arjun's argument is invalid.  Abigail At the same time he thought There have to be things that we all just agree on as our starting point.  Scott And if the alternative is a world in which the affirmative can come into a debate and talk about anything they want to talk about then the ability to make that a fair competitive environment seems a little problematic.  Abigail I think Scott was torn.  Scott It took me about 45 minutes to an hour to decide who I thought won the debate.   Are you all ready?  Abigail Ryan says that when he was sitting there waiting for the decision to be announced...  Ryan I was very convinced that we lost.  Abigail And eventually...  Ryan They announced the decision...  Scott The three-two decision. Three judges voted for Emporia and two for Northwestern.  Ryan He was like It is a 3-2 for the affirmative from Emporia.  Ryan My partner Elijah jumped up. He was like Yeah! People were crying.  Shanara I mean if you could have seen this room erupt into joy... I was in tears watching this historic moment happen because I had been around for so long and I would watched so many black debaters fail to make it to that top point.  Ryan I stood there and I was like Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. I said it like a million times. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god.  Jad What swayed Scott in the end?  Abigail He actually published this 11 page essay all about his decision explaining why he voted the way he did. There is a lot in there but what I take away from it is that while maybe he did not like that there was a disregard for the topic he would have liked it a whole lot less if Ryan and Elijah had not been in the room.  Scott I mean debate itself is incredibly important to me. Debate has been the greatest influence in shaping who I am as a person. In many ways I view debate as my home and given that it was a debate that challenged and criticized the activity that I have made a home for the last 40 years that pointed out weaknesses it caused me to reflect.  Jad Wow. So their argument really worked.  Robert I find this kind of like it is either a segregating or an integrating event. My sense is that it is integrating. In a racially chilly world this is a strangely warm spot.  Ryan No.  Robert Are you saying no?  Ryan No.  Abigail When asked about how he felt about winning this tournament I expected him to be really celebratory and tell me that it changed his life. He was the first black student to win this tournament and it seemed important to me. But he did not really go there.  Ryan No.  Abigail You do not seem as proud as I want you to seem. Why do not you?  Ryan You know it was a good thing for history and it was a good thing to motivate people. I just want to stay focused.  Shanara It was an important win. It was significant. It was powerful. It was beautiful. But it was very clear to us very early on that not much had changed by the time we got into the next year.  Abigail Shanara Reid-Brinkley says that since Ryan's win there is a backlash. The next year another black team broke through. It was two black women this time and that caused this big controversy and people were saying that the state of debate was ruined. In that same year you even had a group of schools breaking off to form their own tournament where performance styles would not be invited.  Abigail I think all of this makes Ryan not really know how to feel about his win. Maybe sometimes for him it can feel like an anomaly.  Ryan Yeah.  Robert It sort of seems like there is a series of accidents here. You are in school where accidentally you have a teacher who pushes you... pretty much forces you... into something which suddenly takes you over. You turn out to be peculiarly good at it almost by accident. Then you are thrown into this sequence of events where you get to meet Elijah and then almost by accident you become a champion and then suddenly it is over.  Robert The whole thing feels strangely lonely. Lonely but beautiful. I wonder how it feels to you.  Ryan Ironically the same.  Jad That is the first time that you have agreed with Robert this entire interview.  Ryan Oh stop. I just got to give him a hard time and vice-versa.  Singers   Jad Huge thanks to Abigail Keel for reporting that piece. Abigail works for an amazing podcast called the Longest Shortest Time. You should definitely check them out. Thank you Hillary Frank for letting us borrow Abigail. This piece was produced by Mr. Matthew Kielty.  Jad We also had original music from Matt and from Dylan Keefe.  Robert And special thanks to Will Baker...  Jad ...  Robert John Delimore...  Jad Sam ...  Robert Tiffany Dillard-Knox and Mary Mudd...  Jad Daren Chief Elliot...  Robert And Jody Hobb...  Jad And Reshad Evans.  Jad Okay I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Thanks for listening.   Start of message.  Arjun Hi this Arjun Vellayappan from the debate story. I am just calling to read out the text for the credits so here goes nothing.  Arjun Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad. Dylan Keefe is the director. Sound design is Lauren Wheeler. Senior editor  and Molly Webster with help from Alexandria Lee Young Tracie Hunte Stefanie  and Michael . Our fact checkers are Eva Astrid and Michelle Harris.  Arjun Thanks. Looking forward to the story. Bye.   End of message.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 