   Cool. Do we have everybody?   Okay.   I do not see Dylan.   Oh Dylan. Are you out there?   Oh Latif.   We do not have Tad. Oh no there is Tad.   It does not feel like enough people. Our Brady Bunch does not feel bunchy enough.   No it seems too small.   Did Jad just disappear? Oh Jad says his Audio Hijack short-circuited everything. There is -- there is decay. I am sure Jad'ill be back in a sec. All right well while we wait for Jad to log back on just ...   Hey it is Jad. I am here. It is funny like at the beginning of all of this I -- I think we all felt a little robbed. Not we specifically but I think all of us felt like we had all of these plans for our lives and now they had to be put on hold. But then as the sort of gravity of things has kind of set in that feeling has thankfully given way to I think just a lot of other feelings. Worry anxiety but also gratitude for the people that we get to worry about. Now there is been a lot of change here at Radiolab even before this. Robert retired we launched a whole series about Guantanamo Bay where Latif Nasser took the helm and meanwhile we were preparing all of these stories that were gonna feature the rest of the team. And we were getting ready to say a thing which I think you probably know that over the years this show has shifted from being just about the two guys hosting it and talking to being really a collective of these incredibly talented producers and reporters. And we wanted to say that and show it really in the stories we were gonna put out. And then -- and then this happened.   And now did we lose Dylan too?   And so you know every day I guess like everybody it is all about Zoom we get together at twelve oclock a giant Zoom meeting and we ...   Can we all do a common motion and make the grid like do fun things?   Kind of hang out a little bit in a Brady Bunch grid of video windows.   You want to do a wave?   Yeah!   Oh yeah wait. But in my wave David I am -- I am right next to you.   We need lots of -- a whole screen of jazz hands right now. Let us go for it. Yeah!   So partly it is just about trying to keep some sense of community going. But also it is about like trying to figure out what -- what do we do for you right now? I mean like how do we balance the need to stare directly at this global crisis that is unfolding and report on it while at the same time giving you moments where you can escape that? Which also feels important right now.   I do not know. Like obviously like things are changing for us in terms of like even how we think about stories or what stories to make.   Soren Wheeler.   I mean first things first partly just so we can share with each other because we care about each other but also maybe as fodder for like what is in our heads right now. Like I remember -- I remember like -- I remember talking to David a little bit about like you are just like suddenly you just have this window to look out on.   Mm-hmm.   Like what are the possible things that could like -- that could ...   Yeah. And I have one -- I have one tree in front of me.   David Gebel.   I did a different angle today. And one is blooming and covered with blossoms and one is not. I do not know why. And then I did wonder whether there is a blossom for every single bud or do they all make it? I do not know. I do not know enough botany.   I am thinking a lot about people that are on the frontlines that have to go to work.   Suzie Lechtenberg.   That cannot stay home. My sister's an ER doctor and just thinking about the increase of patients coming in and then like thinking to myself that I have no idea how many patients come in on a regular day versus a day like now and what that level of stress like how that goes up based on the more people that are coming in.   So much of the -- so much of the coverage like is ...   Latif Nasser.   For good reasons is like about these like life-and-death human stories but I just like find myself wondering about all these objects. Like you have the masks or you have the -- like the toilet paper and the supply chain. Or like I also wonder like a lot about the virus itself. Like -- like from its perspective. Like is it alive? What does it want? Like what is its internal monologue like right now?   Totally unrelated to all the important things people are saying.   Simon Adler.   I had to put in a press request with Corona. The -- the beer company.   Did you get any response?   Not yet.   They might be busy thinking of a new name yeah.    W. Harry Fortuna.   How we got that from the Black Plague and how ...   I have been talking to my parents a lot.   Annie McEwen.   And my dad's like Man I am just like logging onto Wikipedia every day checking out that corona page. So interesting see all the numbers all the different countries like moving up and down you know? Like first Taiwan was doing well but then like South Korea's really pulling ahead. And I was like Dad you are only doing this because the NHL is canceled and you are like going through stats withdrawal. And so he is like Oh man. Like Italy is struggling it is falling behind. But like I am so -- he is like -- and mom's like Yeah he is checking it every single day.   Like his way of talking sounds like hockey talk?   Yeah!   A bunch of stuff is coming out of these meetings and we are putting feelers out in a lot of different directions while at the same time doubling down on some bigger projects that we already had in motion. But in the next week or so I want to put out a couple of short dispatches of stuff that is been bubbling up at these meetings that we are all sort of learning about and reporting out as we are siloed away in our separate closets. And just to start with this particular Zoom meeting ...   I do keep thinking about like Annie's dad. I do keep thinking about numbers in like ...   That is Molly Webster.   At some level like I am sort of obsessed with all the numbers that are like coming out every day. Then they terrify me and then I do not understand how to understand them. Like ...   One of the things that just kept coming up was what do we do with all of the numbers that are swirling around this pandemic?   The number I am thinking about is like six.   Sarah Qari.   The six feet like social distancing rule. Like okay like can I go see my friend and like stand six feet away from them and that is okay? Like even if in theory if one of us was carrying the virus? Like would that be fine?   I am just wondering how the hell Facebook just donated 720000 masks to the government. I am like Okay.   Becca Bressler.   What they just had them in a closet somewhere?   Yeah they had a stockpile of them that they just forked over to the government.   Yeah so in this Zoom meeting there is a lot talk about these numbers these public health numbers economic impact numbers and how do we process them how do we understand them how do we wrap our heads around them? And we might go deeper on some of this stuff in future weeks but for the moment I just want to pull out two number-focused riffs from two different producers that happened organically in the meeting. But in both cases I called them up after the meeting and we talked a little bit more.   Okay here we are.   Yeah.   First up Soren Wheeler.   I dont know quite how to prompt you with this because I -- I just kind of want to pull the string and ...   Yeah I dont know. I mean I dont know how to prompt me with this either. I mean like its that nerd part of me that I dont talk about very much that used to actually like math.   Oh we all see it.   And sometimes still does. Although I always kind of like pretend to not. But I dont know somehow I mean Ill say that I ran across -- one of the first things that happened is that I ran across this set of numbers that CNN had published and it was like on March 1st there was this many cases March 2nd this many. Blah blah blah down the line.   Yeah.   The number's doubling like every two or three days.   Right.   And I think then I was like Oh right. Because of course because everything in the news has been this is an exponential curve. Like theres that word throwing around exponential which I sort of know but I hadnt thought about much and then I looked at this and Im like Oh its doubling every two days. And I was like Thats right! This is this thing that like I think people really dont absorb what that means. I mean theyre sort of like Oh exponential growth. Like but I dont think like you know the sort of visceral sense of what that -- what it can do ...   Yeah. Yeah its funny. It is like I dont actually ...   When it comes across.   What do I think of? I just think its growing fast.   I just think like its growing more and more and more. Like so like let me -- and I remembered this old -- and my dad was like a physicist and he was like a super like teach the world about -- you know he wanted like everybody in the world to understand be literate in like math and science. So he -- he would say things to me like Okay I want you to mow the lawn every day for the next month.   Okay.   And Ill either give you a million dollars to do that or Ill give you a penny today and then Ill give you two pennies tomorrow and then Ill give you four pennies the next day. Were going to do this for a month. I mean like I do not know.   Oh so it was a choice between like a million dollars now ...   Yeah hes like You could either have this or that. Right.   In my soul Im like a million dollars. Give me a million dollars. Yeah.   Yeah exactly. Exactly. So the -- so if you do the pennies you end up pretty close to 20-million by the end of the month.   Whoa! Wow!   Starting with a penny. And the -- and this is the thing about this curve is like halfway through the month you are like I have got 50 bucks or whatever. But it is the last two days of the month where its like kabam!   Interesting. Well when you were a young boy and your dad was telling you this like did it make any kind of sense to you?   I mean I think at that point -- and maybe still now it just like made me always like one always -- whenever anybody says anything about doubling pennies take that one.      You know? It just gave me a trick for dealing with the world which is to say I knew then that this thing that seems like not a big deal could be a big deal. And I just used -- you know like I just -- it is not like I intuitively understood exponential curves from then on but I just knew that things turn out bigger than you think. Like way bigger than you think. And so that was the feeling I got when I was looking at the CNN numbers. Like Oh this is the penny thing. This is gonna go like that.   Hmm.   Or it could go like that really if we dont -- you know like theres a whole big thing here about we step in we can change this. So I started thinking about like how -- like my main thing is like I dont think people get this. And even after I talk for a while I dont think people get it. What they get if they are -- the only thing you really get is like I got when I was a kid which was like look out or be worried or this is tricky you know?   Yeah. Yeah.   But you dont actually -- you know? So I started thinking like Oh are there things you could do to actually feel it?   Yeah like feel it in your bones.   So I was thinking like I -- you know I work in this little shed that I built in my backyard in Wisconsin.   Yep.   Where Ive quarantined myself. Not -- I dont mean that quite literally but its 10' by 10' or so.   Its like the size of a rich persons bathroom.   Yeah you would -- this would -- wow. Now Im looking around like yeah this would be a luxurious bathroom. But it does not feel like a luxurious office. I mean its 10' by 10' its not that much.   No. Its slightly bigger than a cubicle basically.   Yeah. But anyway this is my little office. Its nice because its 100 square feet. Its an easy bit of number to deal with. So Im like Oh what if I was just doubling the size of my office every day? Well do the same thing with the pennies. Like every day for a month right? Today its 100 tomorrow its 200 third day of the month its 400 800 all that. But like the fifth day of the month its about the size of my house. I think by day 12 its like an average city block.   Whoa.   At the end of the month its New Jersey.   Wow!   Yeah.   Dang.   Actually wait. No I think day 32. It is the first day of the next month it is Jersey. But whatever. But you know the weird thing is that like for most of the month I was like Yeah its getting big. But then all of a sudden youre just at Jersey. And like if you go like -- go a couple more days lets go into the next month. By the 10th day of the next month youre bigger than the United States. And by the lets see -- is it the 13th 14th of the next month? Maybe the 15th? Its the surface area of the Earth. So ...   Whoa. A month gets you half ...   So a month gets you to Jersey. And another half month gets you to the Earth. And then also I just kept thinking about like what are all the different ways that you could -- that you could do this to almost like literally sense the curve? Like you know could I do it with touch? And I tried that with air pressure but it got weird and it didnt really work. And then I was like Oh! I mean we could do it -- we could do it sonically right? I do not know. Music is frequencies right? We can hear 20 hertz. Thats as low as we can go as humans. And we can hear up to about 20k hertz.   Right.   So 20000 hertz. And so if you did -- you just doubled that once a second 20 hertz 40 hertz 80 hertz you just go smooth up.     Its about 10 seconds or so before youre out of hearing range.   Okay.   I dont know how impressive that is but maybe more -- more immediate than that is like -- and the thing that everybody has experienced is like feedback ...     ... with a microphone and a speaker. Like when the speaker comes up to speak like that horrible awful -- everybody goes Ow! Thats an exponential growth situation.   I mean youre right. Its like if youre feeding the speaker back through the mic and into the speaker then the speaker has doubled and then its being doubled again and then its being doubled again.   Right.   Its exactly like the penny but in sound.     Right.   But you know the interesting -- the fun thing to do with feedback which Ive done many times is you can slowly move the mic back from the speakers.     And modulate how much ...   Exactly my friend. You flatten the curve.   You flatten the curve so you ...   Thats literally what youre doing with feedback when you want to mess with it and put it on the edge of musicality instead of just ear-splitting annoyance is you flatten the curve. Thats -- like you are sitting in your studio right now not shaking hands with people on the street is that.     You know its like the thing I keep wrestling with pretty much every time Cuomo opens his mouth and he says these numbers. Things like we will very much -- we will very likely see 100000 cases within X weeks or whatever it is. I mean they make these numbers which seem compared to the moment astronomical.   Right.   And ...   And so you sort of seem like Oh man. They must be talking worst-case scenario or theyre just trying to scare us.   Yeah and its like hearing you go through these exercises it makes me think maybe were only on day eight or nine of the growth. And so theyre already looking mathematically at day 20 and then day 40.   I mean it all depends exactly what number you start with. And honestly the totally messed up thing is it doesnt even matter. Like I could list the numbers I saw on CNN but theyre irrelevant because theyre just cases that have been tested. We dont really know the total number of cases.   Yeah.   But regardless of all that theyre all following this kind of curve.   Yeah.   And then like what I think about is like if my shed just started growing doubling every day and I was sort of like Uh hey everybody? This thing seems to be growing and Im kind of worried about it. And if I just went out there its like -- what was it? What did I say? On day eight -- day five its the size of my house and who even cares about whether it took over my house or not. And Im going Yeah but I did the math and in about 40 days its gonna be the whole Earth.  People are gonna be like What are you talking about dude? The thing is the size of your house. Im like Yeah but 40 days from now its gonna -- my shed is gonna be the whole Earth and everybodys -- you know like its just ridiculous to try to be a -- to try to communicate that. And so the question is like -- I think about a lot and maybe scientists are thinking about this too when -- when should I talk? At a time when its not too late to do something about it but people wont think Im saying the sky is falling.   When will you be able to say it in a way where people will get it and not think youre crazy?   Yeah. Yeah. And you dont -- really dont -- and also you want to take the math pretty far out to just be like This is what happens. But on the other hand our responses are real and China has flattened the curve and South Korea has flattened the curve and you know its not gonna go the distance of like all these crazy things that I was saying about covering the Earth or whatever because we can flatten it. But not unless we know -- we act like we know what this thing is.   We will be back after a quick break.       This is Radiolab. I am Jad Abumrad.   The number that I keep thinking about is just the fatality rate. You know whether it is one percent or is it gonna be like four percent? And you know ...   Tracie Hunte.   Thinking about all the people losing their jobs a lot.   Pat Walters.   22 people here and 500 people there and 600 people here. And there is like projections of three million by June.   With numbers in general like I kind of feel like ...   Rachael Cusick.   ... I personally like short-circuit when I hear a number like if it is a death or something because it just like loses all of the depth and like hues of what is going on. So I feel like I am numb to numbers.   All right. Great.   Second riff extended riff comes from Molly Webster.   Yes that is going. You are going. We are all going.   Yeah we are so going.   We are so going.   Do you want me to prompt you with what I remember of what you were saying?   I do not -- I mean I know what we both remember. We remember that I keep thinking about like what does it mean to wake up with numbers flashing at us and like a ticker tape of coronavirus like curling on every digital screen that I am looking at every day like beating a drumbeat of like This is a thing that is happening. There is something about just like seeing headlines where it is like 400 more people got this overnight and then the next day it is like 523 people got this overnight and it is like largest caseload yet. And then it is like 21000 people have it in the United States. And it is just this state that we are in right now but I also think about because numbers carry such weight I keep wondering about like the psychological effects of that drumbeat every day. I just wonder what it would be like if -- if all of the time in our lives we had numbers just assaulting us repeatedly every day. And the first thing I thought about was the flu and knowing that you know at least at this point in time that we are talking there are more cases of the flu and more deaths from the flu than from coronavirus.   Is that this year? Or is that in general?   I mean that would be this flu season. So it would be you know the end of 2019 to now.   Really? So there is been more flu deaths from non-COVID-19-related flus than from this one?   Yes.   I did not know that.   And like -- and just like thinking about like what if I woke up every day and they told me like how many people went to the hospital with the flu? Or like how many people died because of the flu. Like -- and then so I just kind of started poking around like just to see. And it was like this week for the flu you know they are still counting the death toll but it is like 347 people died which is like 49 deaths per day. The week before that 487 people died ...   Wow! Of ...   ... of the flu.   And this is no COVID involved at all?   No these are just -- this is just the flu. And there is so many things that is wrong -- that are wrong with this metaphor. Overall coronavirus has a higher death-rate than the flu so we just are not there yet.   Right. Right.   Essentially. Like if the death-rate plays out it will be higher. But it is not really about like the direct comparison it is just like what would my emotional reaction to like the flu be if every morning I woke up and they told me how many people died of the flu?   Yeah. And it is like in 28-point font right there on the front page.   Yes. Yeah and it is like this interesting thing where -- where Im like dancing this fine line where it is like coronavirus is scary we should all pay attention to it it is worse than the flu. But at the same time like I just think about like what it is doing to me like emotionally and to the rest of the country and to like the world to have this like ticker tape going off you know?   Yeah.   That is -- that is in a 24-hour news cycle literally updated how many times a day? Like every hour.   Yeah. I mean it is like when I talked to you last time you were like Oh my God can I handle more numbers? There is too many numbers coming at me right now!   Well it was -- there were so many numbers and it is like you start getting lost in it where you are like Oh should I care about the hospitalization rate? Or should I care about the death rate or should I care about how many people are getting sick? And I guess I care about all of them. And then all of a sudden I am like Wait do I know what the latest numbers are? And like how many people have them? And then I am like Is there really a difference between 400 and 5 -- like for me? And there is. It is bigger it is 100 bigger you know? I do not know. I do not know. I probably need to know that. Because you are just like Okay I andor people I know are gonna get coronavirus. Good chance someone I know will probably die from it.   Yeah.   And so I am not trying to be like trite.   Sure sure.   This is a super serious thing. I guess I just wonder though like would I take cancer more seriously if like every day there was a thing on the front page of the New York Times that said like 1600 people died yesterday from all cancer? Like that is a real thing that is happening.   Wow. Yeah if we took the amount of intensity and anxiety that is -- that these numbers are generating and actually transposed it onto cancer how would we how would that ...   Well it is like suddenly would we actually care about cancer and like be super-conscious of it and trying in 18 months to find a cure you know? It is like -- like I was looking at the CDC websites and like different like health websites just to stay in like medicine-land for a little though my brain has gone many places with this. You know basically it is like 890 cases of breast cancer will be diagnosed each day in 2020. And so like what if every morning I woke up and it was like 890 women were diagnosed with breast cancer. Or like 9500 people they think will be diagnosed with skin cancer each day.   Wow.   You know and then it is like oh will I suddenly start wearing sunscreen?   Hmm.   What would it be like to live in a world where every day they told me how many polar bears died?   Roughly two a day 666 a year.   Or like how many flowers bloomed? Because that is like happier than all the bad stuff. Like it does not have to be ...   Yeah I was like Go there go there!   It does not have to be bad things.   Trees blooming on the first day of spring roughly 1.5 billion trees flowering first day of spring.   Like what if every day I had a ticker tape of like how many jars of peanut butter had been sold you know?   How many jars of peanut -- do you know that number?   Wait.   Knowing you you probably know that number.   I do. I do know that number. It is two hundred -- this is the estimate 246575 per day of a single brand.   Wow. That is ...   Or like what if there was like the number of babies born? Which is something like 360000 per day at this point.   Wow okay. That is like 1.2 babies per jar of peanut butter.   I know!    Keep going!   18 million Uber rides a day.   Wow.   That is worldwide.   That is insane.   There is like 172800000 gallons of wine drunk a day.   Wow!   Six million tons of garbage made each day.   Oh my God. If that were the number we saw in the papers everyday wed definitely want to bring that number down.   How many rocks were skipped on a lake?   Ballparking it? 102614.   How many bonfires were made?   Maybe 32017.   The number of baby seals that died? I do not know. I just saw a baby seal for like the first time a year ago. I think I like them.    Who does not like a baby seal?   I do not know!   They are like little puppies.   I feel like a great affinity for them.   They are adorable!   And so I was like I wonder how many baby seals died?   If you just look at harbor seal numbers a few hundred thousand each year are lost each year to predators. Lets say 240000. Divide that by 365. You get 667 lost day which frankly seems like a huge number.   How many girls got their periods?   Roughly two million.   How many houses were built?   1.6 million a year. Thats a real number.   Or number of iPhones bought? How much bitcoin was made? How many people danced that day?   I mean that is a really good one actually right now. That one I want to hold -- hold in my consciousness. The reason I really like this idea a lot of the stuff youre playing with is because for me theres a -- there is a kind of myopia that sets in with these numbers. I mean and for good reason. Like this is absolutely serious. And its happening. And we all need to pay attention to it really focus on it. But it does remind me that when you do the peanut butters and you do the purple flowers it just reminds me that like even in this intensely anxious moment where we have this tendency to fixate on these horrible ever-fluctuating numbers we can though through an act of will remember that there are other stuff -- theres other stuff happening in the world that we should -- thats still worth paying attention to.   Its like perspective. Like the onslaught for me has been really intense so Ive started only reading the news once a day. Like Im almost forcing the old system like of a newspaper lands on my doorstep in the morning.   Yeah.   Because its just like -- its such an onslaught.   Yeah yeah yeah yeah.   I dont know. It is like I cannot -- I cannot almost focus on anything else. And then today I turned off my phone from like 30 to right before we talked and I went to the park. And then I came back and I like read and made dinner and it was just like oh theres still a world out there.   Yeah.   Regard -- like this thing is coming. Its gonna blow through here. I dont know what its gonna do to me and everyone I love and people I dont know but still love from afar. But theres still like a park and a flower and that person and their dog.   Totally. Yeah.   Just like life.   You know the number that I -- that is just occurring to me is the number 100. I think that number 100 days like the first 100 days comes from -- from I believe from F.D.R. who in the wake of the 1929 crash like in a hundred days basically reformatted America you know? I mean you had all of these social safety programs coming in and passed one after another after another because things were so so dire at that moment that everybody just sort of stood in lockstep basically said This is the -- this is the country we want and let us just do it. I wonder what happens in the hundred days after this?   I see so many people were like -- when you were talking were like shaking their head. No we are not gonna change. We are not gonna ...   Or you know we are but it is gonna change in -- in a direction that is just opposite of F.D.R. ideologically. Like you know that everything will shift just you know away from social support and toward something else. More capitalism. It feels like a tipping point.   Yeah like speeding up the future in a way just because it is this -- yeah.   Oh my God I just want to jump in and say I have a little bit of hope. I am starting to get really really depressed and I just need to say I feel like -- no I feel like this -- there is a real -- I think there is gonna be a lot of shitty outcomes but it also feels like a real moment where could like take a deep breath and like reassess and like take forward even as individuals like what do we want to take forward like from this time? Like we are gonna see a lot of places in our lives where like things are lost and we might actually be like -- or things are changed and you might actually be like Oh that -- maybe that change is okay.   I am on Team Hope. I will raise my hand for hope too.   Yeah I will third that.   Wait can I ask a technical question with everyone here? Or I am gonna send an email I can do either.   Let us -- let us find -- I do need to off -- I need to bolt so let us find a way to offline it and get an email out. But I can join you in the conversation or whatever to set the parameters you think make sense but yeah let us feed it back some other way. Okay kids.   Thanks everybody!   Jad are we staying on? Oh I guess not. Oh yeah there you are!   Still here. Before we close I just want to thank -- you know in Molly's riff a lot of those numbers especially some of the more guess-y ones we had help from a professional guesstimator of sorts. Hat tip to physicist Larry Weinstein. And yeah I guess that is it. I am Jad Abumrad. Thank you guys for listening. I hope you are healthy and I hope you are coping. Please stay safe and stay inside. We will have another dispatch for you in a couple days.    Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 