 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR - the infamous episode. My name is Glynn Washington. And today on the show we are digging into stories from people whose fame precedes them and our next story never happened. At least it has not happened yet. Join me if you would at the biggest baddest box store in the land in the middle of the night. SNAP JUDGMENT.   Here at Worldmart we put your shopping experience first.   There is a finger in housewares.   I do not ask what she means. I cannot think of anything funny to say. I can never think of anything when I am talking to Janine because I am in love with her. I will check it out stat. Stat? Come on man. None of this really matters since I do not have a chance in hell with her anyway. We worked the graveyard shift at Worldmart biggest store in the human world. We are open 24 hours a day 365 days a year. For eight hours every night there are two of us in here minding the store which is roughly the size of three city blocks.   Did you know here at World Mart...   Take a left at the towel racks. It is right by the slow cookers.   You were not kidding. That is definitely a finger.   I told you.   We should tell HQ.   I do not know. You call headquarters if you want to. I just want it to go away.   OK. I go back to where the finger is. I pick it up and put it in my vest pocket.  Sign your family up for a family plan.   Where did it go?   In my pocket.   Ew.   Sounds like it is in toiletries.    .   Oh my God. Do you - do you see that? Is that a woman - a zombie woman? Janine? But Janine's gone. I turn and see her flat out sprinting toward power tools and now I am alone face-to-face with this woman - zombie woman.   .   She is older than Janine closer to my age - maybe early twenties - missing a bit of her face but otherwise sort of pretty in a melancholy way.   .   Pretty Zombie Lady holds up two different tubes of lipstick - one blood red and one that is more of an earth tone.   .   And then I understand. She wants my opinion. I step back look at her skin which I guess is sort of a grayish bologna color and point to the earth tone tube.   .   That one - matches your blouse better.   .   She is holding the lipstick in her right hand which has a hole where the ring finger should be. I pull her digit out of my pocket and offer it to her. She takes it and jams it into the hole and then sort of nods as if to say thanks.   .   I am in firearms. Stay low.   She is - she is not going to hurt us.   What are you talking about? She is going to eat us. She is going to eat our brains.   No I do not - I do not think so. That is not what she is doing here.   Then what is she doing here?   I think she is getting ready for a date.   What?   She is - wait she is heading over to video games.   Reload.   What is happening? What is happening?   Our friend just discovered Red Dead Redemption Undead Nightmare. Got to go.   OK hang on. I am on my way.   Reload.   .   Hey it is OK. It is OK. Hey calm down. It is just a video game.   .    I will shoot you.   Janine stop.   She is a zombie you idiot. She is going to bite you and infect you or something. Is not that how it works?   No look I know this sounds crazy but she is not going to do that.   How do you know that?   I just know. Just put the gun down and we can figure this out. I put my hand on top of Janine's and slowly lower the gun. Her hand is warm and full of blood. Hey would you like to see a movie on Thursday?   Are you asking her or me?   Looks like she is already seeing someone. I am asking you.   Well then yeah I would like to see a movie on Thursday.   Cool. Whatever flicker of awareness I might have seen behind Pretty Zombie Lady's eyes a moment ago is not there anymore. She turns and drags herself toward the exit and then with a whoosh of the automatic double doors she is gone.   Thank you Pretty Zombie Lady for helping our man find the courage to ask Janine out. Justin Carder was our narrator Melissa Burnias was the Pretty Zombie Lady and our own Eliza Smith played Janine. That story comes from Charles Yu's collection Sorry Please Thank You. And for more information about Charlie and his amazing writing visit us at snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Eliza Smith with sound design by Pat Mesiti-Miller.   It is about that time but do not you worry. Just subscribe to the amazing SNAP JUDGMENT story-rific podcast and get your fix any time any place your way - snapjudgment.org. Hit up Snap on Facebook or Twitter and get the story behind the story. Snap was produced by myself and the team that will live in infamy. The guy who would drive my Bronco down the freeway the uber-producer Mr. Mark Ristich. Pat Mesiti-Miller Anna Sussman Joe Rosenberg Julia DeWitt and Nancy Lopez hate the paparazzi. But Davey Kim Renzo Gorrio Eliza Smith Ana Adlerstein Leon Morimoto and Matt Ducat think they are cool. Jazmin Aguilera breaks the tie. Now did you ever convince someone to steal a cop's gun? If they did it it is their own fault not mine. I am talking to you Corporation for Public Broadcasting but much love to the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange - we convinced them that tightrope walking was really easy if you did it blindfolded - prx.org. And surely you are aware that this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact you could wake up to a zombie apocalypse run about trying to save the neighbors before realizing the neighbors that the neighbors - oh no the neighbors look delicious. And you would still not be as far away from the news as this is but this is NPR. 