 OK so every single LA story starts the same way. I know this. But here it goes. Back in the day I am with my boy Paulie . And yes we are heading up to someone's fancy fancy party up in the hills right? We get there...   And our hostess - she is LA famous - knows all these former celebrities from the '70s and '80s and such. And I am not going to expose anyone's business but everybody you think everyone that just popped into your head they are all there. Hanging out by the pool cocktail in hand it feels like we are on The Love Boat or maybe Fantasy Island or something. And Paulie and I are trying to play it cool. But we are from the Midwest so we cannot help ourselves. We go around - hey hey hey - are not you so and so? Were not you in that movie with that guy? People from LA would never do this because they are too cool. But the celebrities at the party - they do not seem to mind because maybe they have been out of the spotlight for a while. We are having a great time. And finally it is late. People are still coming in but it is time for us to go. We walk out. This guy nods past us. And my boy Paulie freezes. Dude you know who that was? Huh? That was the guy who drove the Bronco. What Bronco? Paulie looks at me like I have lost my mind. O.J.'s Bronco. Right now the second most famous man in the world right there. And I do not ask who the first is because I figured that part out by now. This is pre-selfie stuff but we have an actual camera in the car. I run and get it. And Paulie asks the dude if he would not mind a photo. You can kind of tell that actually he would mind. But he is a good sport the kind of guy that would do anything for you even drive you around town with half the known universe watching. So he puts down his drink. He puts his arm around Paulie and he does a real smile - a genuine smile. And I click the picture of the second most famous man in the world.   Today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR Infamous - amazing stories from real people with their name in lights for all the wrong reasons. My name is Glynn Washington. Please no flash photography because this is SNAP JUDGMENT.  