A quick warning-- there are curse words that are unbeeped in today's episode of this show. If you prefer a beeped version you can find that at our website thisamericanlife.org. OK before you can understand how Bob's sister became the talk of the third grade and the big day that that led to that people still remember I need to explain first that Bob's sister is a drawing. The teacher in this third grade class Mr. Ablao spotted it one day while teaching math. He saw one of the students Antonio working on a picture. I went over to him and said put the picture away. I probably did that two or three times. And then the fourth time I went over and I just took the picture and said pay attention. It is math class. And I put it on my desk. He came up right before recess and is like can I have my picture back? And I was like what is this picture of anyways? And he said it is Bob's sister. And I am like who is Bob sister? It turns out Bob's sister is a minion which I do not even think Bob's sister exists in the minion world. You are saying the minions from the movie Despicable Me? Yes exactly. And he had just invented a sister character for Bob? Yeah apparently. Mr. Ablao taped the drawing to the bookshelf behind his desk near a photo of a wolf that was already there. Because it was clear if Antonio kept the drawing it would continue to be a distraction to him and a couple of his friends who at that point were the only ones in class who really cared about Bob's sister. I was like do not worry. She is not going anywhere. She will be right here. Any time you want to see her she will be behind me. Because the kids were into the picture of Bob's sister. Yeah and I did not really quite understand why. I never investigated why this picture was such a big deal. But yeah they would talk about it. They would go up and look at it. And yeah it was a thing. Why were you guys so excited about Bob's sister do you think? I think it is because it was another distraction in class that people could talk about. That is straightforward enough. This is Dylan one of Antonio's friends who was into Bob's sister from the start. Describe the drawing. It is just like an octopus. And then it had two eyes and then tentacles coming out of it. I did not realize Bob's sister was an octopus? Bob's sister was an octopus. But Bob's a minion. Well it did not really have anything to do with that. And was he referring to the minion Bob or am I just-- No he was not. I see. Was it a good drawing? It was like an eight-year-old's OK drawing. It was not amazing but it was like you knew what it was. This whole question-- is it an octopus is it a minion-- I asked Antonio who drew Bob's sister about that. He tended to see Bob's sister as a Pac-Man ghost with big eyes but he said-- and I thought this was surprisingly mature for somebody in elementary school. He thought part of the appeal of Bob's sister was that it was open to interpretation. I really do not know what it is. It is a thing. I do not know what it-- it is lots of different things. You could think of it as a minion that looks weird. You could think of it as Fly Guy with no legs. You could think of it as Pac-Man ghost with big eyes. Bob's sister was different to everybody. We never went with one of them. We did not say anything. Anyone could believe what they want. But the thing that was key to Bob's sister was Bob's sister was not actually anyone's sister. Its name was just Bobsister no space. That is really funny. And we did not come up with a gender either. So Bobsister gender unspecified lived on the bookshelf near the photo of a wolf until one week when Mr. Ablao went on vacation and the kids had a substitute. When Mr. Ablao came back Bobsister was gone vanished disappeared and was all the kids wanted to talk about. This is the point where everybody in class gets very very interested in Bobsister. There is kind of all this speculation about what happened to Bobsister. Was she stolen? Was she murdered? Did she die? And so I go and I look a little bit. I looked under the desk. I looked behind the bookshelf and-- Did you ask the substitute? I did actually. He had no idea what I was talking about which was good enough for me. Oh really? For me that makes him suspect number one.  Interesting. There is your guy. Do you not watch any crime drama at all? There are all kinds of theories about what happened to Bobsister. Antonio and Dylan said it was really fun to talk about-- various abductors including animals from an alternate universe. But Dylan says the prime suspect for his classmates? That other picture on the bookshelf. They just decided that the wolf ate it because it was right above the wolf. Like the wolf was jealous or something. They did not really know why. They just-- that is what they said. Who said that? Basically everybody. I mean he is a wolf. Yeah. The chatter about Bobsister does not go away which is funny but also Mr. Ablao's got a curriculum to get through. And I am kind of vaguely annoyed because there is a lot going on in the school day and I do not have much time to think about a picture of Bobsister. But they are kind of pestering me about it. And then one other student-- Dylan actually. --pipes in and says can we have a funeral for Bobsister? And I am like what are you talking about? And they are like well she died. Something happened. And I am like a funeral for Bobsister a picture? And I say yes. Probably just to get them to stop talking about Bobsister. But also this is the kind of teacher he is. He says sometimes it is smart to take some detours follow things the way they lead. And they are like when? I am like uh I do not know when. I do not know when this funeral is going to happen. And they are like when? When is it going to happen? When is it going to happen? We are going to have a funeral for Bobsister. And so then finally I am like after the recess on Friday. That was Monday. The rest of the week goes pretty normally. Mr. Ablao sort of hoped that they would forget about the funeral by the end of the week but no way. They were murmuring about it preparing for it-- which he has no part of. The eight-year-olds are the ones organizing this and thinking it through. Finally Friday arrives the big day the day of the funeral. The kids come back into the room from recess. They are pretty giddy and pretty excited so finally I am like OK game on let us go. Funeral. I have no idea what is about to transpire. All of a sudden boom the tables kind of move out of the way. The leader of the funeral comes up with the stool. Two other students bring two tables and grab the flowers. Apparently a bunch of girls had been making posters. They write Bobsister's Funeral on the board. Dylan's the leader of the funeral. And he prepared a eulogy. So did his friend Theo. Dylan gets in front of the class holding a microphone Mr. Ablao keeps in the room. The rest of the class is totally on the edge of their seats just waiting for this kid to start the funeral like paying more attention to him than they ever paid to me. And they were just ready for it. He starts out kind of ad-libbing about welcoming everyone thanking everyone for coming to celebrate the life of Bobsister. Now how did you know what to say in the eulogy? We did not. We just said some things that sounded about right like something that you might say at a funeral that might make someone cry. Do you have your eulogy there? Yeah. Take it out? Could you read it? OK one sec. And then it sort of-- mine also says sort of back and forth she and he so. Because I did not really know. Bobsister was a great person. People thought that Bob was just a drawing on a piece of paper but I knew he was anything but that. But she is still in here. She made me think I could do things in school. If she was here today she would say keep on trying. That is really nice. It sounds like you were trying to be sort of inspiring. Yeah. Had you seen a eulogy in a movie or something that you knew what to do? Nope never. Whoa. The other eulogy that Theo wrote was also really good. I just want to say something about the special person here Bobsister. She was such a good friend to all the potatoes and especially Mr. Potato Head. Potatoes were another fascination in Mr. Ablao's class that year. What an honor it was to have her with us. God bless her. And then from the back of the room Mr. Ablao hears a boy crying. I would say almost wailing but it was like a real cry. And at first I am thinking oh my God now they are just turning this into a joke. And then I realized that he is actually seriously crying. Like this is not a joke cry. And I walk back there. And everyone kind of turns back. Everyone's looking at both of us. And so I ask him. I was like what is wrong? What is going on? Why are you crying? And he is like it is because Bobsister died. And I was like it is not about anything else? Maybe? And he is like no it is Bobsister has died and it is just so sad. Mr. Ablao thinks maybe it was really about his dog. The dog that boy had grown up with had died just two weeks before. His mom had sent an email to let him know. But Mr. Ablao is really not sure. At eight you are old enough to catch a glimpse of what death means. And then I look up and then the whole kind of feel of the classroom has changed. It is gone from kind of giddy excitement this is a fun thing to half the class is nervously laughing. And the other half looks like they are on the verge of tears. There is about three girls that are kind of really sad. And I was like oh no what have I created? This was reaching an emotional level that I actually had never experienced before. And I have been teaching for about 15 years. And I had never felt kind of this-- not that it was getting out of control but it was it was leading to something that I did not know how it was going to end honestly. I do not know what is going to happen next. If three other kids start crying I do not know how to handle the situation. Right. I had never experienced that in a classroom. It is so interesting. It is like they were playing around with-- I do not know-- a Ouija board and joking around. And suddenly they accidentally summoned a demon into the room. Yeah in a way. And for me I was right there on the Ouija board with them. And so this monster's in the room. You have unleashed this really kind of a primal force this grief right? Yeah grief death. Mm-hmm. And I mean one of the really neat things about third grade is it is-- I mean there is a saying they stop learning to read and are reading to learn. So it is an age where their world gets a lot bigger. They kind of are experiencing real things. And I think a funeral is one of those things. They probably all heard of a funeral. They read them in books but most of them probably had not been to one and did not know what that felt like. And Mr. Ablao felt responsible to help them through this new experience like he had lots of others that year. So he took control of the room back from the kids and addressed them all. I was like well funerals are kind of serious. Sometimes when you go to a funeral it is very sad because you are missing the person that is moved on. And sometimes it reminds you of other people who have moved on. And it is important to remember those people. And it is important to be sad. And this is the end of the funeral. Which worked. Everybody snapped out of it. The demon left the room. Next was free time which they all enjoy and everything was fine. But at the end of the school year when the class stood in a circle and each kid named something that they remembered and liked from third grade a couple of the kids said Bobsister's funeral. It was a moment for Mr. Ablao too. Sometimes you are joking around and it is all light and fun and trying something you have never done before. And some bigger subterranean force gets unleashed. That is what our show is going to be about today those moments when you get a glimpse of all that feeling that is there down below hidden from sight. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Through the Eye of a Needle. So let us move now from young people contemplating death to the exact opposite-- older people realizing that their lives are saved and feeling great about it. And one place where people are feeling that feeling lately-- when they get the coronavirus vaccine. All over our great nation over a million people a day are now getting the vaccine which still leaves most of us-- speaking for myself-- jealous and wondering what happens in those little rooms. Nurses are coming out of retirement sometimes without pay to volunteer and give us shots and try to save us all. Tobin Low one of our editors here his mom is one of those nurses-- has been doing vaccinations in California. I want to ask you about the first person that you gave the vaccine to. Can you tell me that story? Remind me a little bit because I have been doing this now for-- Mom it was dad. Oh oh! You gave dad--  You are right. So um.  Boy. So tell me about vaccinating dad. OK. I had not given a vaccine in 15 years. And so he was my first vaccine after 15 years. He was a good sport about it. And it all went well. Was there a kiss afterwards or is that unprofessional? You know we were in a work setting. And so it was all business. It is not always all business. Feelings do bubble up to the surface. One of our producers David Kestenbaum was curious about what happens when people get the shots. He talked to nurses who have been administering the vaccine sometimes going through this kind of intense moment with total strangers one after another. Here's David. Iris Sanchez heard they were looking for nurses to volunteer in Texas in an email. I do not think she even finished reading it. Oh my God I got so excited because I know that these spots fill up really fast. So I just kept looking and my hands were shaking. Like where is the link? Where is the link? I want to beat everybody to it. I do not want to get left out so. That is how people describe signing up to get the vaccine. You know what? Yeah you are right. The spots fill up pretty fast so there is this rush of I want to be the first one to sign up for it. Iris sits at vaccination station number 2 or number 10. It varies wherever they put her that day. She is in the Alamodome in San Antonio this huge stadium where the Spurs used to play. I imagine them down on the court but she is like no no we are up in the hallway where you get your beer and nachos. That is where they are giving the vaccines. Though somehow the word vaccine seems inadequate. I call it the precious. You call it the precious? I call it the precious. So let me tell you about the precious if everybody wants to know about the precious. I call it the precious because it is just so precious. So you have people in the drawing room in what we call the pharmacy. And there is this black curtain and it says Pharmacy. And you cannot go in there. It is like the Wizard of Oz. And they have people actually drawing up the vaccines. And they put them on a little tray and then they are covered with this drape. And then they lift up the little drape and you have all these little precious vaccines on there. And you get to pick one and then you have to put it underneath the drape on your table. And so people would say why are you hiding the vaccine? Why do not you want me to see it? And it is like no it is just it is very light sensitive so we have to keep it covered so it can be asleep until it is ready and then I will give you your vaccine. I said but look it is here. It is right there. You are getting a vaccine today. Pfizer for the record says that once the vial has been thawed it is OK to expose the vaccine to room light. People are nervous about getting vaccinated not because they do not want to be protected against the deadly disease. It is so much simpler. They do not like needles. Iris has a whole strategy for dealing with that. You just tell them do not look. Just do not look. And I talk to them. I am like a little chatterbox. I am like blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. And I am like OK we are done. And they are like oh! Because I am distracting them so they are like this woman will not shut up. But there is a reason for my madness. You just talk and you are distracting them because they are like she is going to shut up when she is ready to give me the shot so they are not expecting it. And then bam there you go. It is done. Iris volunteered to do this. She is not getting paid. Her full-time job is in endocrinology so a lot of patients with diabetes. It is been a rough year. One of her favorite patients died from COVID. In this moment when people get the shot it can be intense. She only spends a few minutes with each person but people tell you stuff. I had this young man. He was in his 40s and he came in for the vaccine. And this was on a Tuesday. And he said my parents are really happy that I am here because my brother just died on Friday from COVID. He did not make it. So my parents were just so sad and they are just happy that I am here because they do not want to lose their second child. Because if I die then they do not have any more children. That was sad. That was really sad. Oh my god. In the 40s gosh yeah. The man told Iris it was his parents who had actually gone online to sign up but they could only get one appointment. And they decided he should have it. They thought it was more important that he get the shot. He qualified because he had an underlying medical condition. The guy showed a picture of him and his brother. He would made it the home screen on his phone. Tobin's mom who you heard earlier Vivian Low told this story about a different family. So I had this woman who came in who brought her mom in. And I looked at her health questionnaire and she had answered no to everything that she never had an allergic reaction. She was not on any immunosuppressants. All the answers were no and so I said great let us give you your shot. And so I actually delivered the vaccine. And as I was already injecting it into her mom's arm her mom said well I am glad that is over because man I had a really bad reaction to that flu vaccine. Oh no. And I said you had an allergic an anaphylactic reaction? I said were you hospitalized? Oh yeah. And then the daughter just jumped right in and said mom it is fine. You were fine. This is irrelevant information. You needed this vaccine. You got this vaccine. The daughter was so intent on protecting her mom. Iris has had uncomfortable situations too. Like this one guy had gone online managed to get an appointment but he was not diabetic. He did not have a heart condition. He was not over 65. If there is any reason she can find to legitimately give someone a shot she wants to. And sometimes she gets people in by asking their height and weight to see if their BMI is 30 or over. His was 29.5. She rounded up. So in his case he was obese. He was an overweight. He was obese so that is why I qualified him for the vaccine. And I like to say I am not trying to offend you but you qualify. And they are like it is OK. For once I am happy to be overweight because that means I can get the vaccine. There can be an intimacy to this moment of getting the shot I think because there is a way in which getting the shot is like passing through a portal-- out of this awful year. This other nurse Amy Caramore in New York told me she feels that way with every single shot. I say are you ready? I always say are you ready which is a little bit-- which is not just about are you ready for me to put a needle in your arm but is more about are you ready for this? It is like are you ready for the new world? Yeah. Is that what you mean? Yeah are you ready for something different? And here we go. We actually have a recording of someone getting a shot that kind of captures this. We put a mic on Tobin's mom out in California. This man James gets sent to her. He would gotten there way before his appointment. They go over the paperwork. Date of birth-- he is 82. Old he says. All right just relax this arm. There you go. You are great. You have gotten flu shots before? Oh yeah. Yeah so this is just like that. Uh-huh. That is it. You glad it is over?  Woo-hoo! Oh boy. I had a young woman and as I was going over the instructions as I was going over the consent she just burst into tears. Again Amy in New York. And I put my hand on her shoulder and I said are you OK? And she just said I just am having a lot of feelings. I have just been so worried. It is like the tension has been so taut. It is been so tight and everybody's been surviving with that. And then we sit down in this moment together. And it is like snap. But it is a big force. It is like if you let go before then everything was going to fall apart. The whole world was going to fall apart. And if you let go right now in this room maybe not. All the vaccinations end the same way she says. After people get their shot they have to go to an observation area just to make sure they do not have an allergic reaction. It is funny because you are walking in-- I walk my person right? Because I am not going to just send them down the hall and say good luck now. We just did this big thing. So I walk my person to there and they go-- usually a big smiley person at this point right? Because they are like they survived the moment you know? And they go walk into a room and then the room is just a bunch of people sitting six feet apart texting on their phones. Welcome to the afterlife.  Yeah it is exactly as you remember it-- a bunch of people sitting. On their phones. On their phones texting. We really should change that she says. Fill the room with balloons-- something. David Kestenbaum is senior editor of our show. Act Two Penny for Your Non-Thoughts. We were talking here at the show about the theme of today's program-- what lies beneath the surface. One of our producers Lilly Sullivan mentioned something that a bunch of us know quite well-- that she wonders what happens beneath the surface in the mind of one of her friends who also works here at the radio show. Over the years she has talked to a number of us on staff about this. She is read articles trying to better understand. And finally just this past week once and for all she tried to get to the bottom of it. Here's Lilly. Diane and I have worked together for four years. We started at the show at the same time. We were the junior staffers. And we became the kind of work friends where we had neighboring offices so we would overhear everything through the walls. We would go into each other's offices close the doors pull down the blinds and talk. We would always sit on the ground because-- I do not know-- chairs felt weirdly formal. And then one day she told me this thing. She said I do not introspect hardly ever hardly at all-- meaning she spends almost no time looking inward. She does not really think about herself her thoughts her feelings about the world almost ever. This got so deep in my head. To not introspect-- I did not even know that was possible as if there is a menu somewhere of ways to be. An introspection is just an option that one could choose or not choose. I did not even know there was a menu. And how could it be true? I would watch her confounded. Diane says insightful things. She is considerate-- always considerate by the way exceedingly. And I would think how did she anticipate those needs? How did she have that insight? She does not look inside. I assumed we were misunderstanding each other that she must introspect. She must reflect on all sorts of things. She just does not use the word introspection to describe it. We are probably doing the same thing. We just do not categorize it the same way. Diane says no. Well since you started asking me about this I have been thinking about it you know? And I knew we were going to talk about this. So walking into the grocery store the other night I was walking in and I was just like what would I be thinking about if I were introspecting right now? And I had no idea. I was like what could you possibly think about besides there is some red shopping baskets. I am going to take a red shopping basket. Oh this is a spinach mix. Is it just spinach or is there kale? That is literally all that is going on in my head. I cannot imagine what else you could be thinking about. But I was like I feel like I know if you are an introspective person you could be like lost in your thoughts. But I just cannot be in the grocery store. Here's what I think about at the grocery store. I think there is a red shopping basket. Should I get a basket or a cart? I do not like the rickety ones. I cannot imagine shopping for a big family. I wonder if I will ever have a big family. That ship has probably sailed. It must be expensive. Why did my mom always ask the person bagging groceries to help her to her car? Whatever happened to Volvos? I bit that hole in the headrest of her Volvo when I was five. Or was I four? She was so sad. Why was I like that? Is that guy looking at me? Is he mad? What is he mad about? I wonder how much that cashier makes? Are people nice to her? It must take a long time to memorize all the codes to the produce so you do not need that sheet anymore. I would be bad at it. Do people ask her if it is hard? Would she like that question or find it rude? A lot of my thoughts are just imagining other people's thoughts and feelings all tangled up with my own. It is probably like 95 of what I think about. Diane says she does not do that-- at all. And one of the reasons I believe her is that she remembers the moment that she first realized that her brain works this way. She told me that thinking about one's thoughts or not thinking about them-- she was 24 before she realized it was a thing at all. She was reading a book of essays by a doctor. There was a story about a girl or young woman who almost died of flesh-eating bacteria from walking on some grass. And I immediately started panicking that I was going to get a flesh-eating bacteria also which is not how I usually operate at all ever. And I burst into tears and was really upset about it.  And my ex was like what is going on? Are you OK? And I was like I just am worried that I am going to die from flesh-eating bacteria. And also my parents are going to die one day. It all just came rushing out. And I was really upset about it and he was like oh wow you do not spend any time at all thinking about this usually do you? And I was like no it is just something that reading this book made me realize that I am going to die one day and so are my parents. And I do not feel good about it. And he was like oh well maybe if you were more introspective like you took a couple of minutes every now and then you would not end up bursting in tears. After that Diane would occasionally try to force herself to sit down and introspect. It always felt hard she says. Kind of fake and boring. And let us just dispel this categorically-- Diane is no dummy. She is incredibly focused. You can go to her with a big complicated story and she can hold the whole thing in her head immediately get how everything's connected. She also happens to have a PhD in inorganic chemistry from Stanford. So she is not one to name drop. I asked Diane if we could try to do a rapid response game. I wrote up some of my burning questions. Just answer quickly yes or no. Oh fun. OK I am ready. OK. OK here goes. If you see something does it pull up other random associations and memories? Sometimes. Rarely. And then does that memory lead to other random memories that then start coursing through your head? No just if I have one it will just be the one. It will hang out there for a little bit. OK. Do you spend a lot of time feeling just mildly guilty or mildly regretful about a thing you said a few minutes ago? No I do not. Hmm. Do you think about your opinions and why you have those opinions and whether you actually should have those opinions? Oh wow. I feel like I do not really-- this is not going to sound good but I do not think I have that many opinions. Or if I do they are not strongly held. This did not help me get it. It confirmed for me that she does not think about all the things I think about. But I still did not get what she thinks about instead. What is going through her head? And I understand how stonery this all sounds. We tried to describe to each other our experiences of consciousness. Sorry everyone. First me. I think it feels more like a washing machine of thoughts jumbled up and I am jumping from one thing to another but it is just all in there mixed together going and going all the time. Does that feel familiar? Not at all. I think it sounds like you. But I do not think it sounds like me. OK I feel like-- so can we like-- could you try to think? And like if you had to describe what it is like-- because when I was thinking about this I was like oh I wonder what appliance Diane would be. If you were to think for a second about-- Of what it feels like inside my head? Yeah. Do you have any sense of-- I mean the first thing that comes to mind is I feel like a video camera that is just pointing to different things in the world. And it goes in. Most of it does not stay very long and goes right back out. Wow OK. And the thing that it is pointing at is it pointing at thoughts in your head or is it pointing at actual things in the world? The actual things in the world-- very literally like if my eyes were a camera. Yeah. So the video-- so do you just mean your eyes? It is like-- yeah I think it is like I spend 90 of my brain just taking in the inputs and-- Wow. It is really-- I mean even in quiet moments which I feel like I have had a ton of lately I just end up staring out the window. And I am not thinking about anything. I am just observing the world around me. Huh. Is it nice? What does it feel like? I think before we started talking about all of this I thought it was bad. I thought there was too much space in my head that was going to waste or something. But now that we have been talking about it it is nice to have room. I feel like it lets me-- I feel generally sensitive to the world around me and to other people. And I think it is actually kind of nice that there is room to let the world in. It was like I had thought all humans were land creatures and that I kind of more or less understood our species. And then I found out that there are people who live in the ocean instead. And I know that I will never live in the ocean. But now that Diane's explained it to me put what is in her head into mine I can imagine it. I spent the weekend just moving my eyes around my apartment landing on different objects just blinking. Lilly Sullivan and Diane Wu are both producers on our show. Coming up what lurks beneath the surface of a sunny California afternoon if you had the kind of job that lets you see it. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program What Lies Beneath. We have stories of stuff that is usually hidden from view coming to the surface. We have arrived at act three of our show. Act Three One if By Land Three if By Sea. So it is a conceit of a certain kind of story that in one day you can glimpse the entire world. This next story is kind of like that. Somebody catches a glimpse of something bigger in just three hours of a typical workday. Producer Dana Chivvis tells the story. A few weeks ago I was calling around talking to paramedics and EMTs in California. At the time COVID cases had skyrocketed and I wanted to see how the first responders were doing. I talked to this one guy Sam Gebler. He is a firefighter and paramedic in San Francisco. And he told me the story. It actually happened back in August all in one day one of those perfect sunny days. Tons of people were outside that afternoon enjoying the weather. And Sam was looking down at a woman who was caught on a cliff. Where was the woman? She was probably 250 feet down the cliff. And it was kind of one of those things where she was standing-- it was not super steep. She could stand in balance but there is no way to get down there. Honestly to this day I do not know how she made it down that far in that spot. It just did not make any sense. And she had some scrapes and bruises on her so I am assuming she fell at some point and just happened instead of rolling down the cliff into the water she rolled on to this fairly flat spot with a rock to hold onto which-- Wow. --was incredibly lucky because with her in that state there is no way she would have