From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Step one you are currently in the custody of the US department of Homeland Security Customs and Border Protection. You have been charged with the crime of illegal entry into the United States. Step two-- So Kevin who is this and what is she reading? This is Rachelle Garza. She is an immigration attorney in Brownsville Texas and she is reading a flyer that was handed to some parents after they were separated from their children. Kevin Sieff is correspondent for The Washington Post. And on the flyer there is a phone number basically which is really the only lifeline they have to their children-- the only way they can get information from the government about where their children are how their children are doing. And explain what she is trying to do. She is trying to locate her client's child. So she represents a man who is detained in an immigration detention center who basically minutes after crossing the border was separated from his daughter. How old is his daughter? She is 12 OK so let us figure out how we are supposed to do this. So action one call ICE. If you are in a detention facility call this way. OK let us call the ORR parent hotline. What is that the ORR parent hotline? So that is the phone number that you are supposed to call either as a parent or as an attorney to try to locate your child. I mean it is really the most-- when you look at this flyer it is the most useful piece of information on it. So yeah this is the number that Rochelle's about to call.   So it starts in Spanish and then it switches to English. You have reached the ORR national call center open 24 hours a day seven days a week. If you are calling about a person travelling to the United States who is 18 years of age or older please press one. If you have a case manager's extension please press two. For all other calls please press three or remain on the line and you will be connected with a case manager. Your call will be monitored for quality assurance.  OK so there is hold music and there is a phone tree. This all feels very like-- the most normal thing in the world. Exactly. It is like you are trying to fix your cable. So on this recording you made an operator picks up after six minutes-- not that long really. Please wait as we connect-- ?  Yes of course. OK how are you doing Alan? Pretty good. So my name is Rochelle Garza. I am an attorney. OK. I am looking for my client's daughter. I called last week on the 11th of June and I was told that I would be contacted by the shelter. The shelter? Yeah. And I have not been contacted and neither has my client. OK. What is the name of the minor? So she gives the name of this girl to the operator and he looks her up and finds her in the system. What I can do is to try to do-- try to send the shelter inquiry again. I mean because they usually do contact. But right now with the high volume of minors that are entering the United States it is a little complicated for them. Hey Kevin when he says the high volume of minors entering the United States is that what is happening? No. I mean there is no surge of minors crossing the border. In fact there are fewer people crossing the border than almost any time in the last decade. What there is a surge of is a surge of families being separated and that is what is changed. And that is why he is getting so many calls. Right. There are children and parents who cannot find each other. Maybe there is a better way for us to do this. Can I send a letter to you or to the shelter somehow saying that I am representing her father? That way I can at least confirm you know where she is and so I can go ahead and start working on her case. OK. For that-- so basically we do not release that information of the shelter. We cannot release that information to the public. We do not release the information saying what shelter she is in is what he is saying right? Right. Due to safety concerns safety purposes. But I mean I can type out a little bit of like whatever you want to tell them tell the shelter and I can make sure they get the message if that'ill work for you. Yeah no. I guess I am just trying to figure out a way that I can explain that I am an attorney and that I am the attorney assisting the parent. And the parent has asked me to locate the child. So that way I can speak with her. Is there any email address that I can maybe send a letter of representation to? Even if it is to someone at your office. Give me one second. I think that is one of the fundamental problems here is that they are making it really hard for her to establish that she is in fact representing a child. And is the parent in the detention center? Yes. I think you can probably see that in your system right? I can try to find them. But-- Do you want me to-- I was just asking so that-- Do you want me to confirm his name? Huh? Do you want me to confirm the dad's name? I can give that to you. No it is OK. No I only have the information for the minors. I do not have the-- for the adults. I mean I cannot go to the ICE locator and find them but-- This surprised me. Is he saying that his database lists the child and where the child is but does not have the parent's name attached to that? Yeah. I mean he is telling Rochelle that he has no record of even that parent's name let alone where that parent's located. I mean and this I think is the biggest concern that lawyers have right now is is there even a record in a government database of which child belongs to which parent? We do not know the answer to that question. But there are a lot of reasons including this exchange that would make us think that they do not. They do not know. So again so in the recording he then heads off to try to answer her question about how can she get through to the daughter. OK I mean just give me one second so I can speak to my supervisor about this. Let me ask what else I can do for you. OK. Thank you I appreciate that. Do you mind holding on-- I do not mind. --for a little bit? Thank you.  Kevin so on his computer screen he actually has the information that she wants of where this girl is? Yeah that is basically what he is saying that he has it. He knows where she is but he cannot give it to her. Now eventually as this call goes on the guy gives her an email address. But then it is just the same email address that is on the form that she has right? Yeah. Yeah and I mean I kind of saw her just entirely deflated after he gave that address. Right so having had it how do you feel about that call? Not very good. Why? I mean they are not really trying to help. Yeah. Sorry it is rough. I just do not know how we are going to track down these kids. That is not helpful. I mean I can still go through the motions of sending an email to that email address but I just do not have any faith that it is going to go anywhere. Sorry I am getting emotional. But it is very frustrating. And I can only imagine what is going on on her end.  OK so that was a week ago. What is happened since? So Rochelle reached out to one of the legal service providers who work with children who are detained after crossing the border. And these are organizations that represent children through their deportation proceedings through their asylum hearings. And these organizations keep track of the kids that they are working with. They each have a list of the kids. And Rochelle kind of got lucky and the person she reached out to did actually have a record of this girl and was able to tell Rochelle where the girl was being held. She found the name of the shelter? She found the shelter yeah. So then the next step was for her to get to the shelter to try to set up basically an appointment. So on Thursday afternoon she drove to the shelter. And she walked in and there the girl was. I talked to her right afterwards. She looked like her dad so I recognized her right away. I felt-- I felt really emotional about it actually when I saw her just because I could see her dad's face in her face. I had to-- obviously any time you go and you introduce yourself to a child like they do not know who you are. I obviously explained my relationship to her dad and to her and that I have been looking for her. And her eyes turned really red when I mentioned her dad. And I asked her if she wanted to write him a letter and she was like yes. And so she frantically wrote this letter and I gave her the time to do that. And so this girl she is 12 years old. What did Rochelle say? Is she doing OK? Yeah the girl's doing OK. Rochelle said she looks healthy. She is wearing a uniform given to her a sort of polo shirt given to her by the shelter. And she was wearing a bunch of friendship bracelets that I guess she is learned to make there. And then Rochelle had to do this thing which is explain that this girl probably is not going to see her dad any time soon and she might not even talk to him any time soon. The way you explain it is like you kind of have to explain what is going on in the national realm right? You have to say there was this executive order and there was this decision out of the courts and put it in that kind of context so that-- I mean the thing is I do not have an answer for her Kevin. Like I cannot tell her you are for sure going to get a phone call this day. You are for sure going to be reunited with him on this day. All I can say is I do not know. Kevin I thought the policy had changed. Like the president announced that we are no longer separating families from children. And in fact the government announced that they had reunited over 500 children. Yeah I mean the government has made these announcements about their plans to reunify families. But when you talk to the lawyers who are representing the parents nothing has changed at all. And in many cases not only are the families not reunified but these lawyers still cannot figure out where the children are being held. And what do we know about the 500-plus kids who the government says they reunited? I mean the government has said that they have reunited these families. When I talk to lawyers who are representing hundreds of parents-- I mean there is one organization that is representing 376 another that is representing I think over 400 now. I have not heard of a single-- at least as of a few days ago I have not heard of a single reunification. So I mean I think in the absence of concrete information about who these families were how they were reunified lawyers are really wondering if these kids were among the 2300 who were separated from their parents. If maybe they were from a different pool of children. It is possible that the government numbers are accurate but there are just so many questions about them because there is really no documentation that goes along with it.  We reached out to the Department of Homeland Security for clarification about all of this and a spokesperson told us that the 539 children they have said were reunited with parents were all apprehended since May as part of the administration's zero tolerance policy and they all were in border patrol custody before being returned to their families. Presumably being in border patrol custody means they were only in the country a short time and had never been transferred to other agencies shelters and foster homes. The spokesperson declined to provide any names of these families or any information about what countries they were from. But this kind of situation where somebody-- in this case the President of the United States-- declares that he is changed-- it is all different he is moving on no longer separating kids from their parents but the result is not so clear. That situation that is what our show is about today. Something happens maybe you would like to believe it is true but you do not know if you should. We have a bunch of different stories that do not involve the current administration or any previous ones. One of the stories in fact takes us into a noisy world of half-clad soap opera stars and daytime TV hosts none of whom I bet you have ever heard of. Stay with us.  Act One The All Too Real Housewives of Argentina. There is an old saying do not believe everything you see. But there is a corollary of course-- do not believe everything you see on TV especially daytime TV. And it does not matter what country you are in. Jasmine Garsd grew up in Argentina and has this story. Quick warning before we start-- the stories in today's show have some curse words that we have un-beeped here in the podcast version of the show. If you want a version with beeps maybe you are listening with kids go to our website. And here's Jasmine. I watched a lot of television when I was a kid. My grandmother Iaia would pick me up at school and bring me back to her place. Her apartment was dark and humid. It smelled like French bread and the exhaust from the buses on the avenue down below. My grandfather was never around. Iaia would make tea and then we would go to her bedroom and turn the TV on. And suddenly colors sound and sex would pour into the world. It was the early afternoon. It was time for the talk shows.   Argentine talk shows are extreme even for Latin American television. The women are pumped up with silicone and Botox and sometimes show up wearing almost nothing. The conversation is not just double entendres but straight up entendres full-on vulgar language. When I was growing up it was a parade of pasties stilettos feather boas. One of the most popular shows back then was hosted by a guy named Jorge Rial. He is still on TV. He is kind of the Argentine everyman-- charming and a little bit of a hustler. These days his TV show is called Intrusos or Intruders. It takes place on a set that is just seizure inducing-- neon colors walls lined with giant video screens. Jorge Rial likes to stir up fights among his voluptuous guests. Every time something shocking is said ominous music rolls out.    Once in a while a woman is so sexy that Jorge Rial bites his lower lip and mugs for the camera. This has been Rial's style for years. Back in the day Iaia would bring the tea and cookies and lie down next to me in her patent leather platform shoes which she never took off not even in bed. My grandmother was the target audience for Rial's show what is commonly known as doa rosa a housewife. She loved to hate the show to look disapprovingly at the women and comment how much surgery she is had. Una prostituta a prostitute. una loca. And they give her expensive gifts-- cars vacations. And I would look around me my grandmother's lonely apartment and think to myself wow. That sounds pretty amazing. I knew I did not want to be a doa rosa when I grew up.  When I was a teenager I moved to the US and eventually became a journalist. I have lived here for 15 years. Sometimes when I get homesick I stream Intrusos on YouTube. I leave it on when I cook and clean. When I watch it I am not 5000 miles away. Iaia is alive nothing has changed much. Nothing ever changes on Argentine daytime TV. Until suddenly a few months ago it did.    One night in February I was at home in New York cleaning my kitchen. Intrusos was on in the background and I heard this woman with a raspy Lauren Bacall voice. I turned around soapy sponge in hand and squinted at the screen-- a tattooed heavyset woman wearing sneakers. I recognized this woman a comedian named Senorita Bimbo. The stage name Bimbo is ironic. She is anything but. In fact the very next thing she did was look directly into the camera and offer a statistic about illegal abortions.   500000 women in Argentina have illegal abortions every year she said. She was wearing a bright green handkerchief around her neck a provocative symbol everyone in Argentina knows-- the symbol of the fight to legalize abortion. For years activists have been pushing to get Congress to vote on it. When I was growing up abortion was something you just did not talk about in Argentina a Catholic country. It is still not something that comes up on daytime TV. Reproductive rights? That is just not Intrusos material. Though here was Jorge Rial the host looking intently at Senorita Bimbo.  A few hours later one of my best friends texted me Did you watch Intrusos today? I sat down at my laptop and started scrolling through the descriptions of the last few episodes. The guests were names I knew-- academics writers comedians. What they had in common was they were all feminists people who have been on the fringes for years criticizing sexism in Argentina and demanding women's rights. I started binge watching. In each episode there was a nuanced conversation about feminism. Rial looked kind of meek but not in his usual I have been overpowered by sexy ladies way. He kept delivering these really impassioned monologues saying I do not want to be a misogynist a machista. I am a recovering machista.   The Argentine everyman now appeared to be an earnest feminist. This was not the Rial I grew up with. This was not the TV I grew up with. What happened? Could this possibly be sincere? I flew to Argentina to find out.  As soon as I got there I went to the studios where Intrusos is taped. I met Ana Laura Guevara one of the show is executive producers.  Being live involves a lot of adrenalin. I really really love the adrenalin. To be honest I was not expecting an Intrusos executive producer to be a woman especially not one like Ana Laura a self-proclaimed feminist. I had a really hard time wrapping my head around the fact that for 18 years she had been behind this totally trashy and objectifying show. Ana Laura told me it is just a job one she is good at. It is intensely competitive.    In the control room her face shines from the light of the monitor she is hunched over like in a casino-- a monitor that minute by minute tracks the ratings for Intrusos and every other show that is on the air at the same time. I had no idea this was possible. Right now on Intrusos there is a fight between a former cabaret dancer and a potential candidate for president. This like skyrocketed. The ratings are going up with this segment. It is like four points-- it went from 4.0 to 4.6. This is doing better than the news. Next segment a fashion model from the '80s says she has her suspicions about a designer's recent death. It dipped to 3.4. The ratings plummet. Nobody cares. Ana Laura orders them to end the segment early. Interest lags for an instant and Intrusos moves on.  The story of how the feminists intruded into Intrusos is its own soap opera. There are a gazillion gossip shows in Argentina. It is like this whole universe. Back in January one of the shows interviewed this famous singer a leathery guy in a tropical shirt. In the middle of the interview the singer casually repeats this awful saying I used to hear as a kid-- if someone wants to rape you relax and enjoy it.  The first time I heard that was when I was nine years old. I was in the locker room and a girl blurted it out. I thought it was advice. A lot of my friends did too. So the singer says this offensive thing. A few days later on another talk show a soap opera star blows up about it. Her name is Araceli Gonzales. When I was a kid her soap opera was huge. She played a mute. A hunk with feathered hair would talk at her while she listened tearfully. But now she was not mute. She said the singer's remark made her sick.  It was kind of beautiful seeing her get angry after so many years of playing a character literally defined by silence. Ana Laura from Intrusos saw the fight happening on TV and she wanted to get a piece of it. She booked Araceli to come on the show.  It was a typical day on Intrusos. Jorge Rial talked about how much granny panties used to turn him on as a kid. Two former showgirls argued. And then it was Araceli's turn. And just because Araceli had gotten mad about the rape comment one of the panelists introduces her as a feminist. As soon as Araceli got a chance she corrected him.  She says I heard you refer to me as a feminist just now and I am not a feminist. She is vehemently wagging her finger as she says this.  I have a wonderful husband and a lovely son whom I love very much and I respect men. This set off another firestorm. Here's Ana Laura.  So people started tweeting about it. And we saw that feminists started to respond. So everything exploded. There were the kinds of tweets you would expect like quote What the fuck does loving your husband and son have to do with being a feminist you moron? And here it was feminists versus the soap opera star a fight made for daytime television. And Ana Laura knew it. And she also knew Jorge Rial the host of the show-- something had been changing with him lately. Like he would been saying to anyone who would listen--  I am a machista in recovery. I am trying to find myself. So she approached him in the dressing room and they started talking. Maybe we should have a feminist on the show to explain what feminism is.  We had not discussed that beforehand. But this day on the dressing room I think that he was really into it. They decided on a well-known feminist academic Flor Freijo. And even she will tell you she is a safe bet for a show like Intrusos. She is thin and blonde. So Flor gets invited to Intrusos and the very first question Jorge Rial asks her is what is feminism?   I did not prepare anything. I did not prepare a speech. I did not have time. So I went open to listen to the questions and explain things just as I do to my students in a class.  Of all the strange things I would seen on Argentine TV this might be one of the oddest. Against a neon fizz background Flor Freijo does a feminism 101. At the bottom of the screen a banner in bold letters reads Feminism-- it is a movement for women's rights. Flor starts explaining feminism is a movement for women's rights. It started in the 19th century. It has to do with the division of labor child rearing. Jorge Rial is listening completely mesmerized his little eyebrows furrowed scratching his beard. And while all this is happening Ana Laura is sitting in the control room upstairs watching everything of course-- and also keeping her eye on the ratings monitor. The control room is usually a chaotic mess of yelling but now with Flor speaking--   And when we were watching her talking Flor the control room went quiet. We were all paying attention to what she was saying. But we were all quiet. We were really like silently watching and learning from her. And then the spell is broken because the phone rings in the control room. It is Araceli the soap opera star who is the whole reason Flora's here. She wants to talk to Flor live right now. Everyone in the control room is geared up for a good old-fashioed Intrusos spat.  Flor was kind of shocked.  I did not know that Araceli was going to call. I had no idea of what was going to happen. But it was not an ambush. Araceli was not calling to fight. Instead she tells Flor I have been listening really well to what you are saying. And she wanted the audience to know that she did not know what feminism was until just now when she was watching TV and saw Flor explain it. She starts telling the story of her life through various generations of women her own single mother and herself. She talks about how she had been sexually abused as a child and emotionally abused as an adult. And Araceli told Flor I know what you are talking about and I agree with you. If this means being a feminist then I am a feminist.  Flor nods and gives a thumbs up. By the way this is never how Intrusos finishes. People do not just listen to each other and change their minds. And the ratings-- Ana Laura says the ratings were great strong enough that she decided let us do this again tomorrow. And so it began.  Over the next few days some of the most famous feminists in Argentina came onto Intrusos. Comedians authors professors-- audiences were stunned. Someone tweeted My ideology is starting to converge with Jorge Rial's and that terrifies me. It was pretty strange for everyone. This very misogynistic show had suddenly become like the public town hall on feminism in Argentina. And the ratings were not just good. Ana Laura says they were higher than normal. She was delighted that she could keep this going.  There is a journalist called Luciana Baker. She is also very important in feminism and she is an old friend from college. And she came to our show. And when we met backstage we were like not even in our wildest dreams we could have dreamt about this you being here in this type of show. Midway through all of this is when I tuned in when I started streaming in New York. The show was like going through hundreds of years of feminism in a couple of days. They passed through topics like LGBT rights workplace harassment income inequality. And then the most taboo thing of all-- abortion. Jorge Rial tied the green handkerchief around his wrist the one activists who want to legalize abortion wear. And then he invited the large woman with the gravelly voice who I saw at home in New York City Senorita Bimbo. Right off the bat she said the fact that there is a fat girl on Argentine TV is already a victory.  She told me she was actually pretty nervous.  The first thing I thought was what they are all going to say is like what is this fat girl doing here this fat girl feminazi? But she powered through. She had a mission.  I knew I wanted to talk about abortion. My plan was to at least mention it. And I just sat down and started talking. I felt like I was going to battle where I had to use words as arrows because abortion is something that you do not say. It is something that you talk about in hushed tones if you have one.  On Intrusos Senorita Bimbo talked about how abortion is so taboo you do not even talk about it in fiction. In Argentine TV and film unwanted pregnancy is solved by a villain pushing you down the stairs and causing you to miscarry.  And then about 30 seconds before they cut to commercial and moved to the next guest Senorita Bimbo said something about abortion that surprised even her.  Misoprostol-- she says I want girls to know about misoprostol. This is a really big deal. Officially misoprostol is a drug used to treat stomach ulcers but it can also be used to induce labor. So in a continent where abortion is mostly banned women take it if they want to miscarry. People call it the DIY abortion. She is talking about doing something illegal on one of the most popular daytime talk shows watched by housewives. That same day misoprostol was one of the most Googled words in the country. I think you are underestimating your audience Senorita Bimbo said on the show. Doa rosa is dead-- doa rosa that stereotypical Argentine housewife.  So the woman that is in front of the TV and who needs her world to be explained to her through daytime TV she just does not exist anymore. Of course none of this would have happened on Intrusos if the ratings had been bad. And the ratings were great for reasons that Jorge Rial and Ana Laura can claim no credit for at all. Feminism has been gaining critical mass in Argentina for the last couple of years. The movement was triggered by these brutal murders of young women often by boyfriends husbands and fathers. Women started protesting. A whole crusade was born. It was called Ni Una Menos not one less woman. And since 2015 this has grown to the point where it is impossible to ignore and has expanded to abortion rights street harassment and equal pay. It is young people on social media comedians on YouTube pop stars on Instagram gigantic demonstrations. It just was not a topic for daytime talk shows until Jorge Ana Laura and Intrusos. During that week on Intrusos there was this explosion of tweets from young girls perplexed but ecstatic to see feminism on daytime TV. This one girl Anita Ocampo tweeted I showed my dad the Intrusos episode with Senorita Bimbo. I dropped by her house and she told me these feminists were explaining to Jorge Rial all the things she would tried to explain but could not get her parents to understand. So one night she approached her dad.  And she told him if you watch this episode of Intrusos on YouTube with me I will massage your feet. She ended up getting the whole family to watch. She showed them Senorita Bimbo. She pointed to Jorge Rial wearing the same green handkerchief she wears and said look it is just like mine.   It opened up a conversation which she says they have been having ever since. Anita's mom says she saw Jorge Rial talk about how he is a recovering chauvinist and she says so is she.  I am at like 70 feminism she says. I still have 30 left to go.   During my week in Argentina I kept trying to talk to Jorge Rial and he kept blowing me off. Had he really converted to feminism? Everyone I asked rolled their eyes and pointed to the last few decades of his career. They pointed to his recent vicious public fight with one of his daughters. They pointed to how late he is to the whole feminism thing. He is a Johnny come lately. He is only doing this because it will make him more popular. After days of giving me the runaround he told me to just send my questions. And finally on my very last night in Argentina my phone lit up. It was voice memos from Jorge Rial.  What happened to me? Rial says. What made me bring all these feminists onto Intrusos?  He talks about his 18-year-old daughter Rosio and how she is a feminist. We have these very interesting talks over dinner he says And she started opening this world up to me. I am 56 years old. I was raised in a completely sexist culture and I did not get it. That is why I say I am a recovering chauvinist thanks to my daughter. My daughter made me change.  Jorge Rial knows that I think Intrusos is stupid. He knows most people do. That is the show is superpower.  Frvolo-- we are frivolous. We are a show about showbiz. No one suspected that this is where feminism could win. We eluded the firewalls that kept feminism off of TV. There was this wall you could not talk about these things on TV. And suddenly it happened on Intrusos. But to be honest he said it is all because of feminists. They knew any place is good if you have a strong message.  After the week of feminism Intrusos was left with a split personality. These days it is a mix of fighting starlets and women's rights activists. Jorge Rial's social media is a mix of World Cup woes celebrity gossip and then these really earnest feminist tweets. Like this one a few weeks ago-- They came to make things better for the coming generations for our daughters and their daughters and also for men. The men who come after us must be better than us. We did everything wrong.   The day after he tweeted that on June 14 Argentina's lower house of Congress approved a bill to legalize abortion. After an all-night debate it barely passed by only four votes. And it yet has to pass the upper house. Still outside Congress thousands of women and activists who'd gathered to wait for the results celebrated wildly. Every time I spoke to those women about what role television like Intrusos played in all this they got uncomfortable. On my last day in Argentina I grabbed a coffee with an old friend from high school Jordana Timerman. She recently wrote an op-ed for the New York Times about the push to legalize abortion in Argentina and we talked about the role pop culture played in that. You need to have people like Rial or pop culture doa rosa understanding that this is a necessary right. Because if not it is not going to happen. In other words the message needs to go into homes in the most remote locations of the country. And TV is one of the only ways to do that. Jordana was saying Intrusos helped. But when I asked her about whether we should thank Jorge Rial she just laughs. I am not going on record with that. Are you crazy? I have a name. I know what she means. After so many years of awful television and this guy's shenanigans I just do not want to tip my hat to him. And maybe that is part of his penance. He did something good and no one will ever thank him for it.  Jasmine Garsd she is an NPR reporter. This story was co-produced with Marianne McCune as part of a collaboration with the NPR podcast Rough Translation. If you have not heard that show the premise is they look at how things we talk about here in the United States get talked about elsewhere around the world. This leads into all kinds of stories that take you deep into other cultures and countries in this way. This is very unusual. Rough Translation find it at Apple podcasts or the nine million other places you can get a podcast these days.   Coming up OK you have heard about good cop bad cop. But what about a bad cop who now says he is a good cop an