OK. First a warning. I am going to talk about math. Do not worry it will not be bad. 1644 a monk named Marin Mersenne gets obsessed for a while with prime numbers. You remember prime numbers? They are like the atoms of math indivisible. They cannot be divided by any other number than themselves. So 3 is a prime number. You can only divide it by 3. Versus 4 which you can divide by 2 and you can get 2. Remember? OK. So Mersenne. So he had a formula that he thought could predict prime numbers OK? This is Paul Hoffman who wrote about this in his book The Man Who Loved Only Numbers. He says that mathematicians had been searching for a formula like this to find prime numbers for nearly 2000 years at that point. Euclid way way back 2300 years ago had proved that there is an infinite number of prime numbers. But he gave no formula for how to find them. I mean they are easy at small numbers. We can do the math in our head. 7's prime. Nothing divides into it. 11's prime. If I give you a really big number now you are going to have to start calculating OK? So this monk came up with a formula. Mersenne creates this formula. And he uses it to spit out prime numbers. And one of the prime numbers that he said that he discovered was-- and this is going to sound a little bit technical-- 2 raised to the 67th power-- that is 2 times 2 times 2 times 2 67 times-- minus 1. And if that was confusing all you need to know is this number of Mersenne's 2 raised to the 67th minus 1 was famous among mathematicians. That is how his paper ended. He said it was a prime number. This is 1644. So 250 years later we are into the 20th century. I think it is 1903. And you have this mathematician that shows up at a mathematical conference-- And who is this? What is the conference? Where are we? It is here in the United States. His name is Frank Nelson Cole. And he gave his talk a very unassuming title. He titled his talk On the Factorization of Large Numbers. And he went to a blackboard. And he wrote 2 to the 67th minus 1-- Wait wait. Does he say anything? He says nothing. He says not a word. He just walks over to the blackboard and just like-- He writes that. And of course everybody in the audience knows that that is the famous Mersenne prime. And he writes equals and then he writes out a 21-digit number-- Oh in other words when you take 2 and then multiply it by 2 67 times and then subtract 1 that is this number 21 digits long. OK. Exactly exactly. Equals this number. Then he moved over to a blank piece of blackboard. And he wrote down two numbers. One is a nine-digit number times a 12-digit number. He writes those two numbers out. OK so that is two numbers that were sitting there on the board multiplication problem and? And then he did the multiplication just like the way they taught us back in second grade to do it. 7 times 1 he put down the 7. He went through the whole steps-- Just long multiplication. Does he say anything? Says not a word. Everybody sits there silently. Now remember the whole idea of a prime number is you should not be able to take two numbers and then multiply them together and get a prime number as a result. It is supposed to be indivisible. If you multiplied two numbers together and you got this 21-digit number as a result then that 21-digit number is not prime. And if Mersenne thought it was prime-- which he did-- his formula supposedly spits out prime numbers this one of them then his formula 250 years old is just wrong. So picture it. There is Frank Nelson Cole at the blackboard slowly doing long multiplication these two huge numbers. It takes a while. They are big numbers. It takes minutes as this room full of mathematicians just watches him lots of them I am sure scrutinizing him for any math errors. He still has not said a word. And then he gets to his result. And indeed it ends up being that 21-digit number. Now the whole place erupts into applause. Legend has it this is the first time at a math conference that people got up and applauded. And he just returns to his seat without a word. And then later someone asked him How long did it actually take you to figure out that Mersenne was wrong that indeed this number has two factors? And he said that he spent three years of Sundays working on this. Three years of Sundays. Paul says these three years of Sundays were probably spent solving the problem by trying every possible solution-- dividing that huge number 2 to the 67th power minus 1 by one number and then the next number and then the next. Three years of Sundays is 156 Sundays. For 155 of them Frank Nelson Cole failed. Until finally on the 156th Sunday Frank Nelson Cole found a number that would divide it evenly which Paul says is par for the course. That is what science is about. It is real people banging their heads against walls and years of false starts. That is the other thing. We do not talk about the researcher who spent two years trying to find what this gene did and then gave up or spent three years trying to find a planet outside the solar system and gave up and someone else eventually did. It is more a combination of insight and hard work because-- Failure. And failure. Because people who think outside the box and achieve things outside the box often entertain a lot of wacky ideas that do not turn out to be true in the science world. Isaac Newton had lots of weird ideas. Charles Darwin had weird ideas. They happened to be right about what they are known for. Isaac Newton got a little interested in ghosts and all sorts of occult stuff. Really? Yeah. Wait wait. And did he believe in ghosts or did he just think we gotta investigate this. Maybe there is some data here. No he started believing in them. He-- Isaac Newton? Yeah. Wow. So they are known for their out-of-the-box thinking on something that turns out to be true and is wonderful. But they have also entertained a lot of other stuff. Well today on our radio program we have two stories of people who face impossible-seeming situations. And in each of those stories it is like a bad action film. These two people each decide that the stakes are high enough that their best shot is to try something crazy so crazy it just might work. The first story is about a scientist. The second story is about somebody employing this technique in his personal life which is really something to see. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am hoping that all this sounds so crazy you just might stay with us. Act One Mr. Holland's Opus. OK true story. A guy goes to college on a music scholarship. And then afterwards he ends up going into science. And he becomes a cancer researcher. His name is Jon Brody. And 19 years after graduating Jon is invited back to his old college to give a talk about his work. And the speech he gives is mainly about how important it is been in his research to think outside the box to use an overused phrase. To think outside the box to be ready to turn away from what is familiar and try some new idea. And then after his speech Jon is approached by his old orchestra teacher a guy named Anthony Holland. And Professor Holland to Jon's great surprise says Speaking of thinking outside the box I have actually been working on an experiment for a few years that I would like to show you. Come look at this video. I think you will find it very interesting. So what could Jon do? He would just actually given a whole talk about keeping an open mind. What resulted from this was the kind of scientific collaboration that almost never ever happens-- a serious cancer researcher teaming up with an amateur to try to make a breakthrough. Gabriel Rhodes is a documentary filmmaker. And he is been following the story from the beginning back when Jon watched that video. Here's Gabriel. I have seen the video that Anthony the orchestra teacher showed Jon. And it amazed me. I saw single-cell organisms basically round and oblong and pear-shaped blobs swimming around under a microscope. Anthony narrates this as he goes along. And suddenly the cells stop and just self-destruct. Look what happened just now. He suddenly and dramatically disintegrated-- Some burst into tiny fragments. And some look like a plastic bag that is been punctured and their contents leak out. As Anthony explained to Jon the theory behind what he was doing was simple. You know how a singer if they hit the right frequency can shatter a crystal glass? Well Anthony was basically doing the same thing directing specific frequencies at microorganisms like bacteria and protozoa to try and shatter them. And after a year and a half of experimentation suddenly it worked. So Anthony showed this to Jon. And he and Jon each remember the conversation that followed a little differently in a way that says a lot about their later collaboration. Anthony's version was entirely optimistic. He immediately jumped right to the main thing that I was interested in. And he just said Do you think you can shatter cancer cells like that? And here's Jon. You know when I first heard about it it is in the arena of UFOs for sure. He was putting words in my mouth already. He was saying things like Do you think this would work? And I would say Well it is a possibility and I am willing to try anything. And so Anthony would in his voice he would would say So you are saying that I could maybe cure cancer. And I was like Well so could the oboe player downstairs. But Jon was willing to talk more in part because he is so frustrated with cancer research. He thinks it is stalled. Lots of people going over the same familiar ideas endlessly refining the same concepts because the familiar is more likely to get funded. I do think it is much like being out in Hollywood where you might go out to Hollywood thinking that you are going to be Kafka. And you might end up writing the worst hackiest sitcom in the world because you want to survive. So what happens in this country when the same thing happens with science? I have known Jon Brody for 20 years. He is a good friend of mine. And before this encounter Anthony was just a professor who drove him really hard back when he went to college on a percussion scholarship. They were not close or anything. But Jon definitely remembered Professor Holland as he would always known him. He probably would not say this but I sort of remember him as-- I think he was disappointed in me as a musician in the orchestra because I remember him wanting to have like extra sessions with me. And I think when we had a guest composer come in I hate to say it I think he relegated me to playing the triangle. And I am not kidding. I seriously remember having to count like 67 bars to hit that one quarter note on the triangle. So when Anthony came up to him after his speech Jon was flattered that this teacher he would always respected was interested in his work. They started emailing back and forth about Anthony's video and his experiments until finally Jon decided that he could not tell whether Anthony had something serious that could be researched unless he drove up to see him. So he went. And he invited me along just as a fun road trip. And why not film the conversation while I am there? Is there enough light? I am worried about the light. Oh yeah. We are up as Skidmore College in Saratoga Springs New York where Anthony teaches. Anthony's in his early '50s but he is got a boyish vibe. He bounces a little when he walks. Full head of brown hair goatee glasses corduroys. Your basic professor. Jon's in his late '30s balding but in that stylish close-cropped way. He stays in shape even though he works like a maniac. And over the course of their long conversation Jon was surprised and impressed by how much Anthony knew how much he would read how dogged he would been in his experiments. And one thing in particular caught Jon's attention. In Anthony's experiments particular frequencies seemed to target particular organisms and left others untouched meaning there might be frequencies that could destroy cancer cells while leaving normal healthy cells alone-- a potential solution Jon said to the biggest problem with most cancer treatments. So if we can find a frequency specific to cancer cells we could put someone in a room and you hit that frequency and it is not affecting normal cells. I mean that is the actual perfect paradigm in which to treat someone for this disease. Because what kills a patient is not the primary tumor. It is the tumors that have left the site and gone off into neighborhoods that the surgeon cannot take out. So if you could walk into a room and you can get completely zapped like a complete CAT scan-- Right. And it only hits the cancer. It does not hurt healthy cells. Yeah that would be the-- Home run. That is the dream. Yeah. That is the dream because chemotherapy and radiation are so flawed. Both devastate healthy cells. Anthony's machine works by pulsing the cells with electromagnetic waves at specific frequencies. And there are other scientists out there - published in peer-reviewed journals - who are also using electromagnetic waves to attack cancer cells. There is an FDA clinical trial going on right now using this method. The whole field is still very new just a handful of people - and Anthony's system is different from others - but using electromagnetic waves to target cancer cells is not just a fantasy dreamed up by a music professor. Then Jon asked Anthony how he would gotten into these experiments in the first place. I read an interesting book called Lost Science. And I am very interested in hidden information in secret stuff we are not supposed to know and things maybe that were known a long time ago or forgotten or something. And in that book-- now this is where it probably gets very kind of controversial-- but I read about a guy named Royal Raymond Rife. And the book says that in the 1930s he built an electromagnetic frequency device a radio frequency device which cured cancer. I got the device. I developed a special custom-built frequency synthesis program because that is what I teach digital audio synthesis. And I have been studying sound and physics and acoustics for a long time. And I began to run frequencies through this device. Now Royal Rife for lots of people who have even heard of him is a name synonymous with bogus cancer cures. He was an inventor in the 1930s. And the legend is that he cured a bunch of people with cancer using an electromagnetic wave device before he was destroyed by a greedy mainstream medical establishment. It is a staple of conspiracy theory websites. Google him. He is everywhere. If Jon wanted out of the box Anthony and the Rife machine were way outside. And Jon and Anthony were just an unlikely pair. Jon was the head of his own lab by the age of 40. He gets hundreds of thousands of dollars from the National Institutes of Health and other very mainstream medical research organizations. Anthony meanwhile is a composer electronics whiz a self-taught expert in several fields and a deep skeptic of all things mainstream especially in medicine. He pulled me aside more than once to warn me I would better be careful my life might be in danger. Because big pharmaceutical companies would try to hush up any story about a possible cancer treatment alternative. But they decided to work together. And it was just as much a personal decision as anything else. Each of them saw something in the other. They liked each other. And Jon thought who cares where the electromagnetic wave theory came from? It is a potentially game-changing treatment. Why not at least test it? So he invited Anthony to come down to his lab in Philadelphia with the device. And they agreed to keep everything as low stakes as possible half-serious half a lark. Anthony would come for only two weeks. And they would see what happened. This is the miracle amplifier the secret weapon. Anthony is in a room at Jon's lab at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia unpacking his equipment. And the plan for the next two weeks is that Anthony will work at night after everyone else leaves so he is not taking time or space away from other experiments. And he has to pay his own way. No tax dollars or grant money will be spent on this. Jon will supervise. So here Anthony is surrounded by amplifiers cables all sorts of equipment none of which is in special cases or anything. It is all coming out of luggage wrapped in bubble wrap and into this room where they do molecular cloning. It is got microscopes a big medical-grade incubator a special sterile area called the Tissue Culture Hood. It is high-tech. Jon's watching Anthony assembling his gear. It looks like you literally made this in your garage. Jon said It looks like you literally made this in your garage. To me the setup looks like it was designed by Dr. Seuss for some sci-fi movie in the '60s. There is some high-tech gear like a big glass helium-filled tube with electrodes that glows pink when it is turned on and then this whole mess of consumer electronics. This is a power supply that came from an electronics house in Cleveland. And then this little 100-watt magical amp I picked up from some company that sells CB radios to truckers or something on the internet. There is also two laptops. And on one Anthony's written a program that generates frequencies to send into the device. It sounds like this--  It is not a really fabulous sound. It is kind of ugly and annoying. Yeah. And then a transmitter transposes the frequencies way up out of the audible range. And then what we will do is we will set the cancer cells right here. And with any luck if we get the right frequency the cancer cells may in fact start dying. For the next two weeks Anthony works all night every night running experiments taking cancer cells that have been prepared for him out of the incubator. And he pulses the cells with frequencies for hours trying one frequency after another. Jon checks in on the experiments every day. There is a lot of trial and error and problems. Some of the equipment blows out and has to be replaced. And Jon and Anthony are not sure what they have got until Anthony's last day when Jon comes to look at the latest experiments. Let us see. They are going to be labeled 720. They are sitting in front of a microscope looking down at pancreatic cancer cells. The cells are in what looks like a tiny plastic egg carton. Jon looks down into the microscope and he starts to get excited. This is pretty surprising to me. Really? Yeah. A huge percentage of the pancreatic cells that Anthony pulsed with his device are dead. They combined the pulsing with a tiny bit of chemo. And of the cancer cells that Anthony pulsed only 10 are still alive. A separate group of cells that he did not pulse has 60 alive. And this comparison is the key to the whole thing. In any experiment you have the cells that you treat and the ones that you do not treat which are called the control group. Comparing the treated cells to the control is the only way you can tell if something's working. Again here only 10 of the pulsed cells survived versus 60 of the control cells. It is a dramatic result. And Jon gives everything to the lab tech Christina to count up the cells in a precise way do the quantitative analysis. I mean when she quantitates these we are going to have a beautiful graph. Really? Yeah. I mean a beautiful graph. A beautiful graph. That is code for Jon is thrilled. Pancreatic cancer is his specialty. And it is practically invincible harder to kill than other cancers. So tough that even chemo which is poison often barely works at all. Over the last 25 years the biggest treatment breakthrough only added about four months to a patient's life. Jon starts going through his mental checklist of potential problems with the experiment. This is what he does when he is excited about new results. And he checks with Anthony about the controls. That is all you did to these things. And you took these out of the incubator the others out? The controls did you take out? No. The controls I left in the incubator. I know I probably should take them out for the six or seven hours that I am treating them. But um-- Yeah I thought you were doing that. That is why that first day I was asking you to do that. Right. Jon's expression does not change much. But the experiment is now a wash. The cells that Anthony was pulsing sat outside the incubator for hours at a time while he was pulsing them. Therefore the control plates also had to sit outside the incubator for the exact same amount of time. Otherwise they do not count as controls. It was an amateur's mistake. And of course Anthony is an amateur. But getting the controls exactly right turns out to be one of the hardest parts of any experiment. So even though Anthony's two weeks are up-- he has to leave today-- they have got to do the experiments again. The first chance Anthony has to go back to Jon's lab is six months later. It is a whole day's drive. He is on a sabbatical so he can be here for five weeks this time. I visit him about three weeks in. You ask me how it is going. It is like the Tale of Two Cities. It is going really great on one hand and it is going really badly on the other hand. It is going really great because we have absolute proof-- and we will see what Jon says later today when we see him. But we are blowing cancer cells away. This is how Anthony sees it because night after night he is watching cancer cells die and taking thousands of time-lapse photos and videos as it happens like the video that he first showed Jon. The problem is these photos are not absolute proof at all not to any scientist not to Jon. Cancer cells die for all kinds of reasons. Absolute proof means only one thing-- counting the cells in the experiments the treated ones and the control groups and comparing them. So while Anthony might think they have proof Jon would never say that. In these last three weeks Anthony's had a series of setbacks. Basically the photos are all he is got from a bunch of experiments that had to be thrown out. But finally he starts to get incredible results. Jon gave him leukemia cells for the first time. And the pulsing seems to have killed 30 more of the cancer cells compared with the controls. You are doing something to these. You are doing something here. Well yeah I have video. We can get quantitation on this. Really? Hey if we can get quantitative numbers out of this I will keep hammering these guys. Jon turns to Anthony and starts going through his mental checklist. Again he is excited. He is thinking that maybe if everything's right these results are good enough to publish in a paper. Now Anthony I am serious about this. You need to think about for me like anything I have done for you you need to think about is there any-- these plates just sit out here and then you bring the other plate in there. And there is nothing different that you do to those plates. Nope. Except for the-- Just electronic pulsing. Because if we publish this your name will go first. My name will go last. It is our names on the line. We are married together. Yeah I understand that. So our reputation is married. I think I should be a technical footnote at the end Thanks to Anthony Holland for assistance. I think that is absurd. It would not bother me. That is one of the most absurd comments you have made since I have known you. And you have made a few. That is OK with me. I mean that. Careful here. A couple days later I talk to Jon up on the roof of his apartment building. They are still waiting for the numbers the analysis. But now they have got both leukemia and pancreatic experiments that they are fired up about. I mean they are astounding results and sort of unprecedented. There could be a lot of reasons behind it besides the pulsing. And that is why we need to reproduce it. What makes me nervous and anxious is if I am truly the only cancer researcher using this apparatus since Royal Rife because again that puts even more pressure on me to publish something that is real. And of course I want it to work. It is potentially something very exciting. But it is still very much up in the air. Anthony's in a very different place.  Somewhere over the rainbow. I kind of feel like that. We are living in Oz right now because we are doing the impossible. What was Oz all about? Oz was all about Dorothy goes to a wonderful place where miracles happen. That is where I am because we are proving the impossible. We are proving that a Rife machine kills cancer. We are not proving. It is been proven. The question is how much proof can we pile up now for other people? As Jon said no one's going to believe it. Well the rest of my life no matter what anybody says I know it works. By the end of August a year since they started this process Anthony's done two rounds of experiments. And he is about to finish a final round. The plan is for Anthony to reproduce the great leukemia and pancreatic results one more time with perfect controls including a special kind of control called a sham. Jon has asked Anthony to start writing up a paper to submit for publication while he is finishing the experiments. And he is more confident about the project than I have ever seen him. Just to let you know where I am at I am excited about finishing this paper putting my name on the paper. I am willing to put my name out there so much that I will be the senior author the last author. And I am willing to send in an NIH grant-- I do not know if we will get it together-- for October. So this will be a six-page 250000 grant to pursue this work with Anthony. And I believe it so much that we are starting to administratively think about it and move this forward. If these controls work out well his therapy's working at this stage of the game. And I would not have predicted that. I mean I know I am going to get criticism about it. I know they are like what are you doing? What is this? Do you really believe this stuff? I am very serious about my reputation. And some scientists do not have an open mind. I am definitely nervous about that aspect. Hello Jonathan. How you doing? I am doing OK. How are you? Very good. And then bad news. Really bad news. I am up at Skidmore with Anthony when Jon calls with the data about the final round of experiments. At first they talk about the Excel spreadsheet with data from the control experiment called a sham. There was a bit of a strange result there. But the real bad news comes when Jon asks Anthony to open up the PowerPoint presentation and look at the data from the pancreatic experiments. PowerPoint. Let us see room temperature-- whoa. What is this a PowerPoint of? Well the pulsing basically caused the cells to become resistant to the drugs. And they grew better. This is really weird because it is very opposite of what we saw in previous experiments. Yeah. It is a disaster. It is a huge setback. It is shocking. The data show that in the plate of treated pancreatic cells the ones pulsed with electromagnetic waves and given a tiny dose of chemo 100 of the cancer cells were alive after treatment. Meaning not only did the pulsing not kill any cancer cells but somehow the pulsing seemed to protect the cancer cells from being killed by the chemo. Anthony is stunned. He keeps saying the same thing again and again. All the other experiments show completely different results. I do not understand that. It does not make any sense to me. It is a slap in the face is not it? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I will go through stepwise OK? Because there is some things we definitely need to discuss here. They talk for 45 minutes going over every aspect of the experiment. Anthony had used a different microscope this time. Maybe that was a problem. The microscope light that Anthony used when he took time-lapsed photos of the experiments was the light heating the cells? And the amp for the device had been outputting less power than usual. Maybe some of the components were damaged. But the upshot of these last experiments is different for Jon and Anthony. Anthony sees these results as a fluke an outlier. The other results still seem valid to him. But for Jon there is only one truth. If they want to publish they have got to do more experiments. Anthony has to reproduce and confirm those great earlier results with controls. For me doing this for 20-some-odd years or whatever it is it does not surprise me that it is going to be this complicated. But I am in it for the long haul as far as the collaboration is to try to figure this out. And we will just keep at it OK? OK. But that was not what happened. In fact for an entire year Jon was not sure what was going on. And neither was I. He offered to go up to Skidmore to set up a lab for Anthony there if he could not come back down to Philadelphia. But that did not happen. And then Anthony became very hard to reach. And a couple of weeks after Jon talked to Anthony by phone for the first time in several months I go and see Jon. He is decided to go up to Saratoga the following week to talk to Anthony face to face about the experiment. In the last year Jon's become more of a skeptic partly about the device itself but also about the collaboration with Anthony. Why would Anthony just drop out like this? If he really believes in it and he really believes those results let us do it again. If you cured cancer cells let us do it again. My lab is open. My lab is open. My expertise is open. I am happy-- you do not want to do it in Philadelphia? Let us do it in Saratoga. Ask him why has not he taken me up on that? Let me ask you a question. If you knew you had something that killed cancer cells and you believed in it you really believed in it you could wait a year to try to prove that because one set of experiments did not work? I mean come on. This is one of the big differences between Jon and Anthony between scientist and non-scientist. For Jon having a year's worth of work suddenly thrown into question is a normal day at the office. But for Anthony that is not normal. And it is not OK. The time in Jon's lab was a year of his life where he felt like Jon kept moving the goal posts. I felt that way too sometimes as I was watching. Jon kept saying he was amazed at what he was seeing and just about convinced. But then he would wake up in the middle of the night with another experiment or control that he wanted to run. And there was no telling when it would end which for him again is normal. But now Anthony wants to know before he starts turning his life upside down again what will count as proof enough for Jon? How many experiments? So let us say I do three weeks of experiment and I only concentrate on these leukemia cells. And if I can kill at least 20 every single time every week will that do it? Would that be enough? Or do you want to see pancreatic die or do you want to see-- I mean what exact buttons do I have to hit? When Jon gets to Saratoga he and Anthony embrace and smile. And they are clearly glad to see each other. But as soon as they start talking about the experiments they start arguing. And they do not understand each other. Jon keeps coming back to the same point. Why cannot you accept that we have not proven anything? In the court of scientific law we have not proven anything. But we have very intriguing results. That is fine. I mean if you want to leave it at that you could say that. But there is a big difference between intriguing and promising results and actually showing and demonstrating that something works. There is a huge difference. So 10 years from now would you still walk around campus and be like you know what? I killed those cancer cells. I actually did that. I actually proved that this worked. Do you think deep down that is the way you feel? That is what I want to know. We are not just talking about the last experiment right? We are talking about the whole thing. In general? Are you kidding? I would frame this chart showing 43 of the leukemia cells dead. And I would say we nailed them. Let me ask you a question. Let me ask you a question. If you are sitting on the cure for cancer why are not we doing the experiments? I cannot afford it. So you are telling me you are willing to say to the world that you think you have the cure for cancer but you cannot afford it. Yeah. Anthony says he is run out of money. He spent six years including the time he worked on his own with protozoa putting his own money into these experiments. Equipment travel living expenses while he was at Jon's lab many many thousands of dollars. He will not say exactly how much. And then after he got back from the last round of experiments at Jon's lab it was like he was looking up from the microscope at his lif