A quick warning there are curse words that are unbeeped in today's episode of this show. If you prefer a beeped version you can find that at our website thisamericanlife.org. From WBEZ Chicago This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Raise your hand if you are in Georgia ready to start curing ballots and fight for every vote. 100 PM Wednesday the day after the election-- Democrat volunteer Kim Hood runs a training on Zoom for 500 other Democrat volunteers who are going to go out and cure ballots in Georgia. Cure means tracking down voters whose mail-in ballots had a problem with the signature or whatever and they have been rejected so they do not count. Curing is the word they use for fixing the ballots. Another word you hear a lot-- rescuing. All eyes in this country are on Georgia right now. Everybody shake it off. Get rid of that excess energy and all those nerves. We are about to channel it. Normally this is a super polished training but it is-- I have not been to sleep. You can see how they could feel like all of this could come down to them. In Georgia it was so close-- so close all week-- between the president and Joe Biden. Out of nearly 5 million votes cast at times the candidates were just 1100 votes apart. And the trainers explain to the group that there are over 5000 votes out there that they can cure mail-in ballots and provisional ballots. So after the training people fan out get on phones knock on doors. Hi. Is Trevor home? Trevor is at college the woman says. It is Wednesday night in the Atlanta suburbs. Marla Cureton is the volunteer who stopped by to find Trevor. Oh OK. He came up on a rejected absentee ballot list. And so we are just tracking down and seeing that people are able to resolve their-- So his vote's not counted? the woman at the door says. Well it is not over yet. He has until Friday at 600 to cure his ballot. Marla gives her a packet of materials and explains he basically just has to sign an affidavit and photograph that and his photo ID and email them into the county. Back in the car Marla describes how she ended up deciding to volunteer for this after seeing President Trump win so many voters state after state just the night before on election night. A lot of us women of color African-American women like myself had a lot of anger to express this morning. Even when we realized we were like we think Biden is going to pull this out. We believe this. But my god it should not have been this close. And what does that say? And there is a lot of anger to get out about that. And a lot of the women who are white allies also it is just like we were just in our hearts we realized we never thought it would be this close. But by the time noon and 100 PM came around it is like OK we will come back to that later. We have got to get these votes. It is tedious work. A volunteer named Erika Meyer who is doing this by phone told me that in her three-hour shift on Wednesday she reached maybe one person for every 10 calls she made. It is definitely mostly voicemails. How many ballots did you fix? Five. In three hours? Yeah. It is not a very big return on investment. How do you feel about that? Does it feel like just a drop in the ocean? Do you feel like-- does it feel important? I kind of swing back and forth on a pendulum of political despair.  Sometimes it feels like-- especially if I have a successful conversation with a voter then you are like yes! That was so great. Then you kind of ride that high for a little while. But when I look at the clock and see how much time all these calls have taken and this-- yeah as you say a drop in the ocean. So there is a big Zoom training that the Democrats did in Georgia today for volunteers curing votes. And during that training they said that before you help the voter be sure the voter is voting for the Democrats. Were you told that in your training? I do not recall hearing that. But I do know that in our script one of the first questions is were you supporting Democrats on your ballot? And if they say no are you supposed to hang up? Thank them for their time and hang up yeah. Would you be able to do it? You know what I mean? It is like-- really there is no pretense that this is about democracy and counting every ballot. At that point it is just about winning. I mean if somebody said I voted for Trump but I am really disappointed that my vote is not going to count I could not sleep at night if I knew that I had suppressed their vote. So you would help them. Yeah. Yeah? We cannot say we want it and then not do it. Have you had to do that? Well I had one person yell at me Trump 2020 and then hang up so I did not have to do it.  Well today on our program-- after an election week full of uncertainty even after news organizations looked at the results and called the election for Joe Biden there is still MORE uncertainty. President Trump has not conceded he is called the vote counts fraudulent so today we have stories of people all over the country living through this weird-- I do not know what to call it-- gravityless limbo of uncertainty that we have all been floating through since Tuesday. Speaking for myself checking the news compulsively. The Washington Post called the day after the election this Wednesday a hump day for the ages. All of us wondering how is this going to end? Our fellow citizens going through that. Stay with us. Act One Virginia. So Mike Giglio is a reporter who is been following militia groups for the last year interviewing the men in them including lots of guys who have been bracing for civil war. Over the last few weeks when President Trump repeatedly encouraged his supporters to go to polling stations and quote watch very carefully on Election Day Mike wondered if any of these groups and those guys he knew would heed the call. Here's Mike. When I called Joe Klemm the leader of a militia in Virginia called the Ridge Runners he told me that is exactly what they were getting ready to do. So I joined them for a pre-election training session in the Appalachian Mountains one chilly Saturday morning three weeks ago. Joe would not tell me the location over the phone so I met him and about a dozen other guys in camo at a McDonald's and followed them to a large farm. They start the day standing at attention behind an abandoned building with their AR-15s. Parade rest! Morning gents. Glad to see you all here. Thank you all for coming out. Just real quick we are going to go over a couple of things today. That is Joe. He is a muscular 29-year-old who looks exactly like the former Marine sergeant he tells me he is. Just want to kind of bring this all to the forefront of all of your minds with the election on the way. We will need to stay vigilant. Right now we are all-- I have been collaborating with a lot of the other group commanders in the area. Each group is going to have a set number of polling sites that we are going to be responsible for. Each polling site is going to have two hopefully three gray men operating at that site. Gray men-- that means men in plainclothes trying to blend into the crowds at the polling stations. Joe tells me what they are looking for is groups like Black Lives Matter and Antifa who they believe could disrupt the election intimidate voters or commit fraud. They get this from the president. Trump and right-wing media have been raising these fears without evidence for months. Everyone in Joe's militia is white. The question of whether militias are synonymous with white nationalists always comes up with groups like this and they almost always reject that label. All of the places that Joe imagines might be hotspots on Election Day are nearby cities with lots of people of color. But he and his members insist they are not racist. Before January when Joe started the group most of these guys did not know each other. Joe's one the most intense people I have met in the militias. And when he talks people tend to snap to attention. He tells me stories about fighting as a black ops soldier and losing friends and killing enemies. I check with the Marines and they tell me they have no record of his service. Joe claims that is because it is classified. When I ask people what drew them to the group they talk about Joe his charisma. Here's a member called Savage. I went to a muster in Whitesville for a group. And that group just basically wanted to stand around and talk. And there is nothing wrong with that. But do not call yourself a militia if you just want to stand around and talk politics. Joe's group when he came up and delivered his thing they talked about training. And I mean who do not want to get out and shoot rounds downrange for fun? You know? Who does not want to train and be a part of something? A lot of the day it seems like the guys are just here to bond and have fun. Joe leads the men through six hours of drills starting with the PT and then moving to shooting positions and room clearing. So it is initial contact. So contact front 200 meters. Contact front 200 meters. Bang bang bang. Bang. Bang. Bang. Bang. Moving! Move! They are running a drill here where the idea is that they learn how to cover each other. When I spend time with these groups I am always wondering how seriously they take the idea that they might really engage in violence. On the one hand they are giving each other nicknames slapping each other on the back and saying bang. But at the same time they really do believe the country's in danger that they might need to turn their guns on their fellow citizens one day. And they buy into all the unsupported claims Trump makes about liberals bent on election fraud and violence and the need to stop them. And they think they are the ones to do it. Nearly all the militiamen I have spoken to this year believe that Democrats committed massive voter fraud in 2016 and they have been doing it again this year with mail-in ballots and early voting. Joe is worried the 2020 election could be stolen. Did it matter to you that Trump said that? Well yeah of course it did. Because considering all the access to information that he has that we do not if he is dropping these little tidbits there is something that people like me need to pay attention to. So you think that he is basing that on real information? I do. You think it is possible that he is playing politics? I do not think so. He seems like more of a straightforward kind of guy. I think that he is not the type of person to play politics. Sometimes I wish the people in these militia groups could hear how much they sound like people I have covered in countries that have come undone. I spent a lot of time in Eastern Ukraine in early 2013 with the pro-Russian activists who eventually plunged the region into a war. They would go on social media and tune into Russian propaganda and convince themselves that their countrymen were out to destroy them. They would tell me that bands of Nazis were coming from Kiev to kill them. I was struck by the way people had to convince themselves that the other side was absolutely out to get them was bent on their destruction in order to take that step into real violence. It is not that I think that what happened in Ukraine will happen in America. But talk of violence can become a self-fulfilling prophecy. So the stakes for you-- are the stakes just an election? Like if Trump loses OK maybe we can win again in four years? No I really believe that anybody who gets in after Trump if they are liberal is going to be the downfall of America for sure. This election is going to be some sort of a turning point for good or bad. It is going to be a turning point. Let us roll out. Calling in. It is Tuesday morning Election Day. Joe and some of his guys are split between two pickup trucks. I am in the backseat of Joe's. Everyone with me is dressed in battle gear and they are armed to the teeth. Joe's wearing a bulletproof vest with four or five ammo clips strapped to it and a pistol in a holster. In the passenger seat Matt a lanky guy in his 30s has a big knife strapped to his own body armor in addition to all the ammo clips. And he is wearing a pair of noise-canceling headphones with skulls on them. Both of them have loaded AR-15s in their laps. The plan is to do as the president suggested-- drive to every polling station in their county in Virginia and look for problems. Joe leads the way. So we are just looking for any signs of people up to no good possibly trying to deter people or intimidate anybody. I would asked earlier what kind of people they were looking for and Joe said thugs. When I asked what that meant he said people from Black Lives Matter from Antifa. I was not sure how he would know whether a person was a member of a group like that or whether there were even that many of them in this part of the country. Well first of all Antifa would be dressed in all black probably. BLM would be just-- they would have all kinds of BLM signage and things like that. We pull up to a polling station and sit in a parking lot. Just out there in the open there are people milling around and then a bunch of guys with guns just watching them. You want to pull and change location to right over here by that white vehicle and the picnic shelter? Yeah I was just thinking that. Sounds good. Go ahead and move. Doug the gray man gets ready to go in. He is in his 40s with a beard. He also has an easy demeanor which is probably the reason they picked him for the job. He is wearing jeans a fleece and sunglasses. And you would have to look closely to notice that there is a wire running down from the back of his hat which is connected to a radio so he can be in touch with the guys. We hang back in the pickup while Doug goes in. After a few minutes he casually walks back to us. So what did you see there? Just people talking. There is probably 40 voters in there. More people showing up all the time. Everybody was in a good mood cheerful. Just looked around come back out made a 360 sweep of the building outside of the building. Nothing at all that was suspicious? Nothing no. And we are back on the road with Joe leading the way. At pretty much every polling station when Doug walks in this is how it goes. Howdy howdy. How are you all? Come on over this way guys. I have already voted earlier today. Oh OK. I am just here checking everything out. Oh OK. Thank you all. You are welcome. Most of the day is driving driving and waiting waiting and driving. It is a big county spread across winding mountain roads. We drop in and out of cell service and sometimes Joe gets turned around when his Google Maps goes on the fritz. Matt the guy in the passenger seat is good at filling the idle time. He is ready to sound off on just about anything. I do not know if you all have watched The Sopranos but Tony used this-- I mean the definition of a narcissist. He talks about cars. If I had to pick one muscle car I would probably go with either '69 Charger RT or the '71 Hemi 'Cuda. The good old days. Like we used to argue about like football talk shit about sport. People do not even do that anymore. They are arguing about this or that or whatever. His love handles. Even as skinny as I am they like to pop out outside. Yeah they do not freaking want to go away either. No dude it is just like-- Man I have been working out like crazy. I eat right. I do not do a lot of sugar and nothing like that but. The confrontation they suited up for never happens. We do not see Antifa or Black Lives Matter or anyone blocking the polls or intimidating voters or committing fraud. At our last stop we do see someone lingering outside a polling station. I walk up to the entrance with Doug and see a woman sitting nearby. She is an older white woman with a bag that has a blue sticker for Mark Warner a Democratic senator. Doug walks right by her with a polite hello and then we are inside having another awkward conversation with the poll workers. Hello how are you all? Nice to meet you. You all had a pretty good turnout today? There is been a huge turnout evidently everywhere which is great. Good deal. Yeah people should vote right? Yes madam. Absolutely. When we walk back outside the woman is still there. And I notice her eyeing Doug a little suspicious that he walked in and out so quickly. She asks him if he needs help. I have already voted. I was just talking to some people.  Doug goes back to the car and I decide to go and talk with the woman. She is Janet Tate a die-hard local Democrat. She says she comes here every election to hand out campaign literature. She is allowed to do that just outside the white line on the pavement. Like a lot of people Janet had been anxious about being out on Election Day. I am pleasantly surprised. My daughter was worried about me a little bit but I am like-- I am old and I just-- I think it is important. I mentioned that I saw her watching Doug. But he was a little odd when he comes kind of zooming in and out. But he was nice. This group is a militia group actually. Oh they were pretty nice.  I said they were nice. Joe and the heavily-armed guys in the car are probably exactly the kind of people her daughter was worried about. But Janet tells me she is not going to be intimidated. I am like what are they going to do? Shoot me? My daughter really was worried. Like do not do it. So. She thought maybe a group like that would-- Well she just did not know what to think so-- but I-- I do not know. I am not going to live in a country that I feel uncomfortable going to my polling place and doing normal democratic things. It is like I could bring my bear spray.  It just seems ridiculous. I head back to the truck. I tell Joe that the woman I was talking to is a local Democrat and that she told me Doug seemed like a nice guy. He is really struck by that. He jumps out of the truck still in his full battle gear and suddenly determined to meet her. So I just want to come and shake your hand. I really appreciate you being out here and helping these people that come out here. Oh thank you. And I mean obviously we are like two opposite sides. But I think it is great that people who have differing views can be civil and just get along. Right! I mean I have been doing this since 2007. Yeah. Cool. And there is usually-- If Janet's intimidated by Joe with his body armor and ammo clips and pistol she does not show it. Well yeah we have been kind of patrolling around all day so. I think it is a little excessive but--  They talk for a few minutes. He is so big but Janet just smiles and looks him in the eyes. She even picks an argument with him about the electoral college. At the end they do a little high five. A little off. I will do better. Let us do better. There you go. That is better. All right. Good deal. All right we are going to head out of here. You enjoy the rest of your night. Oh thank you. When Joe gets back to the car I notice that he is energized by the encounter. It was the only time of the day I saw him drop his warrior persona. Great day he tells me. Not long afterwards the guys packed it up and went home. They had found no evidence of fraud no intimidation or disruption. And they never got a chance to protect the vote or engage the enemy. And it was a relief to see that this was totally fine with them. The next day I called Joe. It was Wednesday. The news was moving towards a Biden victory and President Trump was already crying fraud. Joe was too. Up till right now I am not very happy with what I am seeing. Honestly I think the other side is trying to introduce false ballots into the system. And then they are just going to try to rig it and make it so that Biden wins. What makes you think that they are doing that? There is some fishy stuff going on up there in Michigan and a couple other places that they should have already called for Trump but they have not. The president has been pushing unsubstantiated claims of election rigging in Michigan and other crucial states. So if it ends up being that Biden is declared the winner do you think there could be a way that you could just say yeah that is probably what happened and believe it? Absolutely not. No chance? Yes no chance. From everything that we saw and experienced leading up to the election there is no way that Trump would lose a fair election. There is no way. Your own experience yesterday was that you guys checked on the polling stations and everything was running smoothly and you did not see any fraud. No honestly. Because the fact that people were able to go and cast their vote unimpeded does not really have anything to do with what goes on with those ballots and stuff after the people go and cast them. Joe tells me he is sure that if Biden wins some kind of violence is inevitable. He says they will end up fighting someone. Black Lives Matter Antifa-- he is not sure. What if at some point Trump were to concede and say he accepts that Biden is the president now? Could he change your mind? Absolutely not. Mike Giglio-- he wrote about his experiences covering civil wars overseas in his book Shatter the Nations. Act Two New York and Germany. So four years ago the day after Donald Trump won that election reporter Stephanie Foo met two army officers at a diner to talk to them about their new boss. Those guys were in the same unit close friends. But they did not agree on politics at all. Why do you like each other? I do not know. Why do we like each other? We disagree on almost everything. You know why? Because I know that he will have my back and I will have his. Regardless of what he believes-- although it is ill founded most of it-- yeah he is awesome. I would give my life for him. I would save my own life. No.  He knows we are good. At the time they went back and forth about what they thought the next four years were going to be like with President Trump as commander in chief. Whether it meant they were more likely to be deployed to a conflict zone how it would affect morale and the possibility that Donald Trump might start a nuclear war. He will be fine. He is not going to drop nukes on people. I do not know. I think he is incredibly uneducated about it. So here's the thing about the codes that people do not realize. It is not like he has a piece of paper in his pocket. It is like oh here are the nuclear codes. It does not work that way. The guy who liked President Trump said the officer with the nuclear football would prevent Donald Trump from randomly nuking somebody. The Hillary Clinton supporter was not so sure. Anyway Stephanie checked in with two of them again earlier this week. One of them is in the States. One of them is stationed in Germany. The biggest thing that happened to these guys in the last four years actually had nothing to do with Trump. They both had babies. This is actually better. I can hear you guys pretty good. Sorry I am late. Somebody decided to take off their diaper and chew on it. So we were dealing with that. And now we are terrible parents. He is crying hysterically because how dare we not let him eat his own feces. So.  God he reminds me of you so much already.  I know. Well do not worry. Your daughter's not too far behind uh Tom. These are not their real names but Chet and Tom voted exactly how I expected them to in this election. Tom voted for Biden. Chet again voted for Trump. But in 2016 Chet had been a really hardcore Trump supporter. He really wanted an outsider. But now that the outsider is an insider he feels more agnostic. And maybe a little part of his indifference is because of Trump's role as their boss. Like the time Trump made the comment saying why are we having all these people from shithole countries coming here? Chet was not crazy about that. Neither was Tom the Biden supporter who was deployed in Africa when that went down. His comments about shithole countries definitely impacted my job. The US military has training exercises across the world with partners. I happened to be in a position at the time where I was running a group of teams that were in African countries. And as you are sitting there planning for these training events these comments come out. And it is just like your partners are kind of like is this what you guys think about us? So it is-- What did you have to tell them? I basically talked through it. That does not represent US military's position on our partnerships. And honestly sometimes it comes down to just bullshitting and having friendly relations with folks. Yeah I have had similar experiences too. I am a Trump supporter right? MAGA 2020. But yes it does make your job more difficult. I am not going to defend the fact that when he says something it is like OK it is time to brace. They were not totally unhappy with his performance. Both Chet and Tom agreed that Trump's strongman personality did come in handy sometimes. They liked that he engaged with North Korea and supported the assassination of Iranian general Qassem Soleimani. But the thing that is affected them the most during the last four years is the same thing we have all dealt with-- the thing that is not going to magically go away no matter who wins. I feel like the thing that is very clear to me is that it really feels like there are two Americas right now. Yeah sure. Does it feel that way in the military? Yes. Oh yeah. That is Chet. I have colleagues on both sides. And it is awkward. Like you used to talk about it more and now people do not want to talk about politics at all? Yeah when I went to Iraq in 2008 it was like-- people would be like I am voting for Obama or people were like I am going to vote for McCain. But there was not any charged racism attached to it. Like you were not a racist if you voted for McCain. You could talk about it and nobody would get offended. And now it is just like-- you know. Apparently I am a supremacist because I vote for Trump according to some people. You know what I mean? So I am just very much like whatever man. I am voting for who I want to vote for. You can do the same. I do not want to talk about it you know? One of the moments that bugs Chet the most is from his last deployment. One of his friends was a Black woman who absolutely hated Trump. And she hated all of the white Trump supporting soldiers around her too. She did hang out with Chet. He thinks it is because he is Asian-American. And it just put me in an awkward position all the time. And I would always get asked by both sides like why are you hanging out with them? And I would be like really man? We are all on the same team. Who cares? Tom agrees. He says that in the military the mindset should be that there is an enemy and it is out there hiding in a cave in Afghanistan somewhere not in the next aisle at the Stop and Shop. When I was watching the stuff on the news with the Black Lives Matter protest and National Guard troops were getting called in I kept thinking-- I am like that is the worst fucking job. I would never ever want to do that right? These are people from your community and you are getting called in to do something. No one in the military wants to do this. No. Unless again when it comes to emergency situations I think everybody's all for volunteering to do that in the case of say a hurricane. But nobody wants to go in and try and be a policeman. That is not our job. No. I do not know. I follow some military Instagrams and one of them is like I killed people in Afghanistan. I will kill these people today you know? I mean-- I think those people are full of shit. Idiots. Those people probably failed their psych exam. A lot of international relationships have been tested by the Trump presidency but not Chet and Tom's. You guys are still friends. Yeah. I mean-- but to be totally honest that is because we have a toxic friendship where we just make fun of each other the whole time. So this is just one more thing we can-- Yeah we have-- We can do. Yeah. We hated each other long before Trump even decided to run for president. So I mean we just built on top of that hatred. And now we have this hate mountain over the friendship bridge. It is really a beautiful thing.  OK guys. Tom says that the military creates an environment where people have to trust and communicate with each other even if you do not like each other which is not an attitude America seems to have these days about our democracy. I talked to them Wednesday the day after the election. Tom said he would be pretty horrified if Trump won. Chet just shrugged. If Biden wins he said basically whatever. Both said they would respect either outcome. Stephanie Foo-- she used to be a producer on our program. She is now writing a memoir about healing from complex PTSD. Coming up somebody who thought his life was going to change a lot depending on who becomes president though now it is not so clear. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Squeaker. I do not know if I should admit here how many minutes today we spent arguing over whether to call the episode Electile Dysfunction. Squeaker was our classy choice. Anyway our show this week is stories from all over about this strange week we have all just lived through waiting for election results. Of course for some people the outcome of the presidential election might have a very direct effect on their lives. Take for instance the people living in the tent camp that is just over the border from Texas in Matamoros Mexico. A camp filled with people seeking asylum in the United States who'd been sent there under the president's remain-in-Mexico policy. On election night they held a vigil all night long until 500 in the morning. Apparently the pastors who put this together tried to keep it apolitical stick with prayers and songs. But by the end of the vigil in the early morning hours the last pastor who took the stage said the thing that apparently lots of them had been thinking all night. He said I hope Joe Biden wins. And somebody who was there said it was like everybody finally had a chance to let out their feelings. They cheered. They danced. They have heard Joe Biden promise to reform immigration in his first 100 days in office. Which brings us to Act Three. Act Three Louisiana. Ben Calhoun has this story of somebody else who is not from this country who is been following the election as closely as he can. Jonathan who was in an ICE detention center in Louisiana told me that this year's presidential race actually solved the problem in the detention centers he is been in. He is been moved around to a few. Jonathan told me the recurring problem was with the TVs. Take the ICE detention center I called him in. It was this small triangular room he said. Yeah it is a small triangle room attached to the dorm that if you want to watch TV get into that room and watch TV. The problem with the detention center TVs though-- well sort of the same with any TV in America-- people cannot agree what to watch. Should we watch English TV? Should we watch Spanish TV? Should there be time for news? Should there be time for music? Should there be time for football? Should there be time for fun program? So it is another conflict that problem. Jonathan told me during the 18 months he is been in ICE detention one of the few times this was not an issue at all was the presidential debates this fall. Everyone Jonathan said wanted to see those. I called Jonathan the week before the election because I wanted to talk to someone in our immigration system whose case could potentially be affected by it. I wondered how the election looked from where they were. Jonathan said he would talked to other detainees about the election. He would been talking to guards too. Most of them he told me were Biden supporters. But yeah lots of people were wondering how the election might change their cases including him. Jonathan's 30. He is from Cameroon. And he came to the US in 2019 seeking asylum. He is been stuck in detention ever since. I think all that boils down to the administration of the foreign government. So based on the information and what I am seeing personal-- from my own personal point of view-- if Biden could win hopefully I think it will be better. Under President Trump asylum seekers like Jonathan are getting deported even ones with strong evidence that they are political refugees who will be tortured or killed if they return to their home countries. Jonathan-- I should tell you that is not his real name. I am calling him that because he has family back in Cameroon and he has good reason to worry about their safety. Jonathan is part of an English-speaking minority that is been persecuted by Cameroon's French-speaking majority and its longtime autocratic president Paul Biya. That 