Back in December of 2007 Terry Engelder who is a geologist at Penn State University put a piece of scrap paper from the recycling bin under his desk and made a calculation. What you see here are numbers for thickness and then aerial extent and porosity is part of this calculation. Ah porosity. Engelder was trying to figure out the answer to a very very basic question something somebody had asked him just in passing. He said oh by the way how much gas is there in the Marcellus? And I had not actually thought of that. Exactly how much natural gas was trapped in the Marcellus which is a giant rock formation a kind of rock called shale that runs underneath Pennsylvania where Engelder was actually sitting and New York and into Ohio and New Jersey and West Virginia and Maryland. Which now we know thanks to Engelder is the second largest natural gas field in the world. Largest outside the Mideast. And it just so happened that no one at least in the public domain up to that particular point in time had actually sat down and done the calculation. And so I found out and was astounded by the number. His result? 50 trillion cubic feet of natural gas. It sounded impossible. Engelder went online to see what the US Geological Survey was estimating for the Marcellus. Their number was less than 2 trillion cubic feet. Engelder's was 50 50 trillion cubic feet conservatively. So he crumbled up his scrap paper. And said boy you know  into the trash bin. And first of all I did not believe it. Engelder wanted a second opinion so he sent the problem to a colleague at another university. Did not tell him what he would come up with just let him have at it over the evening. Then he called me back the next morning in great excitement and said gee this is huge. What does this mean? What 50 trillion cubic feet of natural gas means he says is that America was about to have a revolution in how it powers itself. Right now natural gas makes up about 25 of our nation's energy supply. It is used for heating over half the nation's homes for making electricity for all kinds of stuff and we import lots of it. But the country was suddenly getting access to all sorts of domestic shale deposits full of gas the Marcellus chief among them that could make it so that we do not have to import natural gas for decades. This would make energy cheaper create jobs in America conceivably natural gas could replace some of the coal and oil we use. It could change everything. This realization and the fact that he alone knew it and the entire country would soon know it Engelder says that as he was driving home that day it was like an out of body experience. It was like falling in love. It really was like walking on air. The car was driving 10 feet off the ground as it was driving home with this music from Strauss in the 19th century who had written this piece for the emperor of the Austro-Hungarian Empire. Do you know the piece? It was late December right before Christmas and the thought came to him. And the thought was merry Christmas America. You are in for a real treat. It is a line Engelder has used elsewhere. It is been published in National Geographic and in Time magazine. By the time our show had talked to him Engelder had talked to 208 reporters. Yes he counted. He gets multiple messages every week asking for interviews. Hi Dr. Engelder I wanted to see if I could chat with you a little bit more-- He is been offered jobs by oil and gas companies. He is constantly flying around giving speeches. He was up to 198. And yes he counted that too. He started a consulting company and a research group. He is testified before Congress. In May the president of Penn State University called Engelder a rock star-- get it rock star-- at a trustees meeting. The message of his work? That there are huge gas reserves in Pennsylvania and that a lot of people can make a lot of money from homeowners leasing their land for drilling to all the jobs and side businesses that support the industry that Pennsylvania could become Texas. That message squared perfectly with what the oil and gas industry and what politicians in the state of Pennsylvania wanted to hear. But travel with me now across the state another university the University of Pittsburgh. Another professor did an entirely different calculation. He came up with numbers that pretty much nobody-- at least nobody with any real power-- wanted to hear. Now he is unemployed. SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ This Marcellus issue probably has more political capital associated with it than any other issue I have been around. Dan Volz is director of the Center for Healthy Environments and Communities of the University of Pittsburgh's Graduate School of Public Health. Or he was until about a month ago. SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ Everybody believes that this issue is going to save us from economic ruin that we are going to generate all kinds of jobs from this. I have a completely different view from that. But that is the prevailing political mood. Today on our radio program what happened when the big institutions of a state the universities industry government all joined forces to push for natural gas. That is what happened in Pennsylvania. Other states have been far more cautious. The people involved called the discovery of all this gas in the United States a game changer. But the only reason that any of this matters at all is that in the last decade technology was developed that can extract the gas from these rocks. The process is called the full name-- get ready-- horizontal high-volume slick water hydraulic fracturing or fracking. You may have heard of fracking which basically means they drill a hole into the earth they pump a huge volume of water millions of gallons mixed with sand and chemicals down into that well into the rock. It pushes out the gas that is trapped in the shale which then surges back up the well and lots of that chemically treated water comes back up too now mixed with other stuff that is been a mile underground for eons like huge amounts of salt. How to handle that waste water is actually one of the tricky things about all this. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program what happens to a state when it is hit with a game changer like natural gas has hit Pennsylvania. One of our producers Sarah Koenig lives in Pennsylvania and has been looking into this for months. Our show in two acts the first in the state universities the second in a small town. Let us begin at the universities which people of course turn to for objective neutral unbiased analysis. That is Act One of our show You have Got Shale. Here's Sarah. The story of that second guy's calculation Dan Volz's calculation at first sounds an awful lot like Terry Engelder's. A couple of years after drilling had started in Pennsylvania he also figured out something no one else had bothered to calculate how much toxic crap-- chemicals and other pollution from gas drilling-- was getting into water supplies. Treatment plants were taking in the waste supposedly cleaning it up and then releasing it into bodies of water like the Monongahela River in Pittsburgh which actually runs right in back of Volz's office building. SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ I essentially did a calculation looking at these 13 or so wastewater facilities. Every day if these wastewater treatment plants were accepting their total allotment of oil and gas waste they would be putting something on the order of 800000 pounds of solids into the river a day. And this would include tons and tons of things like strontium and bromide and barium. High levels of strontium and bromide can cause cancer and birth defects. Barium is a heavy metal which can be poisonous if you ingest enough of it. SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ That is just like backing up a dump truck full of powdered barium and having about 16 of them just dump that right into the Monongahela River. There is no difference. I shocked myself. I said to myself oh this cannot be. And I went to my wife actually and I said you had better look at my calculations for me. Is she also a scientist? SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ She is a physician but she is a better mathematician than I am. So she looked at it and she said well Dan I think your calculations are correct. So Volz told the outside world about his calculation the 800000 pounds talked to community groups gave seminars on it told the Pennsylvania Department of Environmental Protection put it on his center's website. And of course he told his boss. SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ I did bring this to the dean's attention about this time last year and gave him a presentation on it. And he is concerned and he was concerned. But deans and administrators and department heads are busy people looking at lots of different things and-- OK so we will come back to Volz in a bit but compare this reaction that Dan Volz gets from the higher ups at Pitt to the one that the first guy Terry Engelder gets back at Penn State when he tells his dean about his calculation. Here's Engelder. And the dean's reaction Dean Easterling's reaction was immediately boy the president of the university needs to know about this. So the dean tells the provost and the president and within 24 hours word comes down from the president's office that they would like Engelder to sit on this discovery not tell anyone for about a month. The president wants to announce it at the next trustees meeting. A discovery like this helps Penn State's president with one of the most important parts of his job which is to be constantly reminding lawmakers and donors why they should keep supporting the university. They can say see your investment in us does pay off. For every dollar you invest you will get back 10 or 100 whatever the number is. Well the upcoming board of trustees meeting was the 17th of January. So that same day the 17th of January 2008 Penn State issued a press release on the Marcellus. He quoted Engelder as saying the discovery could be worth 1 trillion. With that Penn State positioned itself as an early booster of gas drilling in the state. Now I want to be clear here that Penn State is not monolithic and that there are other people at the university who are doing Marcellus work on its effects on well water and songbirds on the chemicals in frack water on how industry money is being spread around on how communities are being affected. But in the early days of this gas boom in Pennsylvania it is fair to say the university quickly got a reputation of not really questioning whether this whole venture was necessarily a good idea. Myron Arnowitt runs an environmental group in Pennsylvania called Clean Water Action and he is gone to dozens of panels around the state talking to residents about gas drilling. He said the panels usually had someone representing the gas industry someone from government and often someone from Penn State. Very often on these panels the industry side will speak and say there is never been a problem with gas drilling ever. No one has anything to worry about. And we will get up and say you know here all the problems that can happen. Here are some things that have happened. This is why we are worried about it. And then the guy from Penn State will get up and say you can make a lot of money off of gas drilling. Pennsylvania is in an economic wonderland because there is all this drilling that can happen in our state. And then someone from the audience will ask the Penn State person who they kind of thought was a more at least impartial or even knowing something about the environment will say well what about some of the environmental risks? And the Penn state person-- and I have been in multiple times where this has happened. The Penn State person would say you know I do not really know a lot about that. You should ask Clean Water Action. And it was just like a bizarre moment because I think people were obviously asking them because they wanted someone like an institution like Penn State to speak to what the environmental risks might be. And they just would not do it. I heard this over and over again from all kinds of people that they do not trust Penn State on this issue. A researcher doing field surveys in rural towns about the gas industry told me it was sometimes hard to get people to talk or answer questions once they found out the research was being conducted by Penn State. Another scientist looking at water quality told me when he does public presentations around the state he sometimes gets booed and heckled and yelled at. He is had a finger poked at his chest by people who assume that because he is from Penn State he is in industry's pocket. Besides Engelder's announcement the other piece of Penn State research that got a lot of attention was an economics report put out by the College of Earth and Mineral Sciences in 2009. It concluded that gas production could be generating 13.5 billion in value added and almost 175000 jobs by 2020. Later that was revised upward to 212000 jobs vastly higher than what the State Department of Labor and Industry was estimating. Furthermore the study said taxing natural gas production would be a bad idea. Keep in mind whether to impose a tax was and is a big debate in Pennsylvania. It is the only state that does not tax gas production and companies would like to keep it that way. So no do not tax it the Penn State report said. And not only that do not regulate it either. Quote proposals to regulate hydraulic fracturing under the federal Safe Drinking Water Act pose yet another serious threat to the development of the Marcellus shale. Industry could not have paid for better advertising. And it turned out when an activist made a stink about this industry had paid for it. A group of gas and energy companies had sponsored the thing had asked Penn State to create it using data the industry provided. But the numbers did as numbers do they took on a life of their own as evidence in the case for drilling. Literally thousands and thousands of jobs out there. I have seen some estimates that go as high as 200000 jobs over the next 10 years. So obviously there is a lot of potential there. That is former Pennsylvania Governor Tom Ridge who is now working for the industry's Marcellus Shale Coalition talking to small business owners in April. And here's Senator James Inhofe of Oklahoma at a committee hearing citing Penn State to support the idea that there should be no federal regulation of fracking. I would also like to submit for the record two studies from Penn State University. The studies found that Marcellus activity-- I am quoting now this is Penn State University. By 2020 employment would expand by 200000 jobs. Additionally Penn State University-- I am still quoting-- also concluded that federal regulation was a serious threat to Marcellus development. People critical of gas drilling have called Terry Engelder an industry shill. And while it is true that his Marcellus talking points line up exactly with those of industry I got the impression that Engelder sincerely believes these talking points. He believes industry wants to do shale drilling right that it is figuring out how to minimize the environmental and health hazards. And his job his responsibility in fact is to help. He believes he is had an opportunity only a handful of scientists get to influence the course of history. He compared himself to Louis Pasteur and Jonas Salk. And so back in 2007 for instance when he was invited by a major investment bank to participate in a conference call for about 130 investors looking to put money into drilling in the Marcellus Shale Engelder felt it was almost his duty to do so. In a very real sense this was my one opportunity to repay the faith that the federal government has had in me and the industry has had in me. I could not get tape from the call but I did get a transcript. During the presentation Engelder does not just talk up the Marcellus Shale. I have to make a bit of a sales pitch for Penn State he says. He repeatedly points out the quote symbiosis between the gas industry and Penn State and asked them to invest in research at Penn State quote The type of research that is necessary to answer some of these questions that are going to be so critical to the future of Marcellus development the type of research that he himself will be doing. Since that call Engelder has started a research project. 10 oil and gas companies are paying about 40000 each so students can map the Appalachian Basin showing companies where best to drill. Engelder also has a multimillion dollar project to help engineers figure out among other things how much pressure they need to frack wells. Penn State depends hugely on industry money and not just on the oil and gas industry on pharmaceutical companies and on weapons manufacturers and on the government. All major research universities do not just Penn State. But Penn State's got one of the oldest and best gas and petroleum engineering schools in the country. Without industry money the school might not survive. Flip through this year's awards banquet program for the Energy and Mineral Engineering students and it is an industry roster. They are getting money from Chesapeake Energy Consol Energy Chevron BP ConocoPhillips Marathon Oil. Some of these students will go on to work for these companies and make lots of money and give it back to Penn State which is great for the university. But if you take a close look at how some of these donations work you can see how entwined the university is not just with the gas industry but also with state government and how all three of them are united on the topic of drilling. Take the biggest private donation in Penn State's history. In September an oil and gas engineering alum named Terry Pegula gave 88 million to create a Division I ice hockey program. Pegula and his oil and gas company East Resources which by the way had the third highest number of gas well violations in the state between 2008 and 2010 were top donors to Pennsylvania's new republican Governor Tom Corbett who is a great friend to the gas industry. Corbett has said repeatedly he does not think gas production should be taxed. The Marcellus is a resource a source of potential wealth the foundation of a new economy not just something new to tax. That was Corbett's first budget address in March when he also announced his new Marcellus Shale Commission which will advise him on all matters of Marcellus development and regulation. Who sits on the commission? Terry Pegula the ice hockey guy plus 12 other business and industry representatives four representatives from environmental groups and one academic Terry Engelder. And I was surprised how frank Engelder was with me about his role in the commission how baldly political. He says he is there to push for one or two controversial topics one of which is forced pooling. It is a policy that lets drillers extract gas from under your property whether you like it or not. Engelder thinks it is a good idea industry wants it. But Governor Corbett has opposed it. I suspect that if the commission were to word their recommendations for pooling in a clever enough way this would provide political cover for the governor himself. Now the reason this is important that it come from me for example is that it has no credibility if someone from industry proposes this. In fact as the commission has been criticized a great deal anyway for being top-heavy with industry types. There is nothing necessarily sinister about Penn State being friendly with industry or taking industry money unless that money skews research or tamps down dissent. The problem is it can. A retired mining engineer from Penn State told me that faculty in his department knew very well that publicly criticizing the mining industry would be a risky career move. He knew of instances when companies got upset about something a faculty member said. And quote In some cases their discomfort was expressed as we are not going to support you any longer if this goes on. He said mining faculty at Penn State generally will not act as expert witnesses in lawsuits against mining companies for the same reason. Likewise for petroleum and natural gas engineering faculty he said it would really take an earth-shattering event for them to feel free to take an active role in questioning industry motives or any aspect of industry behavior. I have tape of this interview but I agreed not to use it because two days after we spoke this professor a nice man who is been retired for a decade told me he had an anxiety attack his first ever. He said he felt like a whistleblower and he could not go public. At the University of Pittsburgh Dan Volz did go public. He works in public health he felt it was his duty to go public. A couple of years ago people started calling in to the Center for Healthy Environments  Communities where Volz worked. At first three or four people a week then as many as 25 a week. The callers lived near gas wells or compressor stations and they had health complaints. SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ People complaining of bloody noses of tingling in their distal portions of their fingers and their toes of problems sometimes remembering things getting headaches. And the same problems are being reported in Colorado and Wyoming and in Texas. And there is just no investigation on the part of the Environmental Protection Agency or the state DEPs. So we started investigating this. Volz was pretty new to academia. He came to Pitt in 2004. But before that he had his own successful consulting firm. He also worked for the government at OSHA and for industry and National Steel. What he was hearing in the phone calls reminded him of solvent exposures he would investigated before in factories. It was worrisome. Also around this time in late 2009 people started noticing that fish were dying in Dunkard Creek which runs for 35 miles along the Pennsylvania-West Virginia border. Not just fish but salamanders and shellfish. In fact all the aquatic life had turned belly up. The cause was said to be golden algae. SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ What was puzzling about this was that golden algae only grows in salty water. So where is all the salt coming from? So I got very interested after that in the issue of what is adding all of this total dissolved solids to rivers like the Monongahela? Why are we seeing problems associated with high bromide levels in finished drinking water? What is going on here? So Volz and his students decided the next thing to do was physically test the water themselves. The lab results from one brine treatment facility known as the Josephine Plant were so alarming that Volz testified at a US Senate hearing about them. SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ And we found that coming out of the effluent pipe of that plant was discharge of nine pollutants essentially all in excess of nationally recognized human and or aquatic health standards. Meanwhile people at Pitt were getting annoyed with Volz. He is not your typical academic. He does not soften things so industry can save face. And he was not just critical of the gas industry. At Pitt he had taken on coal mining pollution and toxic dumping by a plate glass manufacturer. SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ So I have talked about many things that I was told well maybe you should moderate what you say a little bit and to kind of pull my punches and talk about things with words such as potential like potential public health problems instead of public health problems. I can see why they might want him to do that. He can be a loud mouth when he is riled up. Like when I asked him about methane leaks from gas operations which some people like Terry Engelder say can just be plugged. SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ Let us get a grip on what we are doing here. We are making the ground into Swiss cheese. And how often are we going to go back to these hundreds of thousands and millions of wells over the next 20 to 30 to 100 years to keep plugging them to keep them plugged for the next generation and then the next generation and then the next generation? Do we have to plug it in-- I feel like you are yelling at me. SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ I am yelling at you. So we have to plug this damn thing in perpetuity? Come on. Volz was also warning community groups about all the compressor stations and refineries that would inevitably follow the drilling in Pennsylvania and about evidence of cancer clusters among people who live near these operations in Texas and Louisiana. He says he was specifically told not to talk about that to cool it. SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ I certainly have had conversations with researchers here who were direct with me and said you know you are going to ruin our chances to get funding from the industry. You have got to not talk about this anymore. We are not going to get any funding from the drillers from Chesapeake or Range Resources or any of these companies. And these conversations were not like razzing you around the coffee maker like people were actually coming to you seriously and saying--? SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ These were department heads and these are people with power in the university. It was all administrators. Can you please--? SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ No you need to keep your mouth shut. You are on this team. The team includes 18 people on Pitt's board of trustees connected to the oil and gas industry including the chairman of Marathon Oil the CEO of Consol Energy a director of Dominion Resources. When Volz got his results about pollution coming out of the Josephine Brine Treatment Plant he was told not to release them until they were published in a peer reviewed journal which can take months or even years sometimes. He refused and handed the results over to the EPA. All this came to a head in April. How was it communicated to you that do not be talking about compressors and pipeline and cancer clusters and do not be handing out your Josephine Plant data to the EPA or to the public before it is peer reviewed? How is this communicated to you? SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ Directly. What do you mean how was it commun--? Did someone knock on your-- SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ Do not do it. An email. It was an email? SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ Yes. From? SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ From the dean of the Graduate School of Public Health that you have crossed a line to advocacy. You are now an advocate. You are not a scientist. As soon as I read that I quit immediately. I just said I am a 60-year-old man that is had a complete career in environment and I do not need to work for this university. I spoke to Volz's dean Dr. Donald Burke. He and Dan Volz like and respect each other. He told me the school's differences with Volz were not political or financial they were philosophical. They fundamentally disagreed about when it is OK to be an advocate and when it is not. Is advocacy in an academic institution appropriate? When there is a strong evidence base the answer is by all means. But if there is not a strong evidence base then advocacy is probably not appropriate for a university. For Dr. Burke lab results from the Josephine Plant is not strong enough evidence not like a peer reviewed study. Dr. Burke also said the research that Dan Volz and his students were doing would continue at Penn. Interestingly just after Volz quit the Pennsylvania DEP asked all drilling companies to stop bringing their waste to treatment facilities that could not handle them. Volz's work was not mentioned but most people following this topic in Pennsylvania credit him in large part for making that happen. Do you know of other people not even necessarily here at Pitt but just at other universities who have run into this similar thing as you have? Maybe not to this degree maybe they have not been as outspoken but who have sort of gotten the message from their institutions like can you please dial it down? SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ Have I heard of this? Yeah or do you know? SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ Yes absolutely. Sure. You do not have to tell me who they are now but can you--? SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ I am not going to ever tell you who they are. Oh you are not? Because they will not talk to me? SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ Again turn that thing off. And they are not going to talk to me? SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ They will not talk to you. I guarantee you they will not talk to you. I will not even give you their names. And why will not they talk to me? SUBJECT CONRAD DAN VOLZ They will not talk to you because this is such a huge political question and they risk their job or their grant funding or their career over this. That is why. New York's politics surrounding gas are different from Pennsylvania's. For starters there is been a moratorium on drilling there. And so the politics within a university like Cornell at least are different enough that a professor named Tony Ingraffea has been speaking out without any repercussions. Ingraffea's one of the people who helped invent fracking. He is a structural engineer and he is taken gas industry money in the past. He is friendly with both Dan Volz and Terry Engelder. He even wrote a paper with Engelder. But when he started seeing op-eds and industry spokesman saying how fracking was no big deal how the chemicals it released into the environment were perfectly safe he started giving talks about how that was not true. In May he came to Penn State Terry Engelder's turf to deliver a talk that threw into question everything that Terry Engelder believes to be true about natural gas development. Penn States also the home of the Nittany Lions and the first slide Ingraffea showed was a picture of an open-mouthed lion with a guy's head stuck inside. And you are right this is not the right kind of lion but I could not find anywhere on the web a Nittany Lion to stick my head into. That is how I feel right now. So I hope over the next few minutes I can overcome my anxieties and my knee knocking and fear that when I leave here I am going to find all my tires slashed. Ingraffea recently co-authored a study that said all the hype about natural gas from shale being a clear alternative to coal or oil is not really true. He questions the very idea that extracting natural gas from shale formations is good energy policy. Ingraffea says it is not. It is a sop a temporary band-aid for our energy problems that is going to make some people very rich but that will ultimately make global climate change worse and put off for decades development of better sustainable energy solutions. Ingraffea and Engelder and Volz all believe that they are practicing good science and that that good science has led them to advocate for very different policies. Each of them sees what he is doing as a moral obligation. The difference is there is plenty of money around to do the science Engelder wants to do. It is harder to find the money to do the kind of science that Volz and Ingraffea want to do to answer huge questions about what shale gas extraction can mean for human health and the environment. Here's Ingraffea. There is so much inertia. Wrong word. So much momentum in the gas industry right now to develop shale resources and there is so much bipartisan support in Washington for it to happen and there is so little resistance to slow it down to ask these big questions that take a long time to answer. What are the cumulative environmental and health impacts of a large-scale development of 100000 wells in a region? How do you get a handle on that? That research is harder to find not just in Pennsylvania but everywhere. Sarah Koenig. Coming up there will be crud. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today on our program we are devoting the entire hour to Sarah Koenig's stories of what happens in a state when a huge game-changing economic boom arrives in this case trillions of cubic feet of natural gas being discovered underneath Pennsylvania. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two Ground War. One of the biggest drilling operators in Pennsylvania is called Range Resources which has 80 of its capital budget over 1 billion invested in the southwestern part of the state. And one of the places that they are most active is a little township south of Pittsburgh called Mount Pleasant. Because Mount Pleasant with it is hilly old farms and windy main streets and a handful of restaurants is according to Credit Suisse and Morgan Stanley smack in the middle of the quote highest rate of return spot for gas exploration in the United States. That is why Range has leased 95 of Mount Pleasant's land for mineral