Ann Marie                          Hi. This is Ann Marie Woodward from Royal Grande California. Radiolab is supported by What the Constitution Means To Me the boundary breaking new play named the number one play of the year by the New Yorker and New York Magazine. Starting March 14th for twelve weeks only. Get tickets now at constitutionbroadway.com. Craig                                      Hi everybody this is Craig from Washington DC. Radiolab is supported by HSS the number one hospital in the country for orthopedics for nine straight years according to US News and World Report. With locations in Nassau West Chester Bergen and Fairfield Counties the best is now near by. Learn more at hss.edu. Radio Recording            You are listening to Radio Radiolab on New York Public Radio ... Public Radio ... WNYC ... WNYC. Jad Abumrad                   You know this music. Trust me you have heard it your entire life. The reason you cannot recognize it now is because the composer born in 1770 intended for this moment the one you are hearing to last two seconds. Like that. Jad Abumrad                   However had he been a whale Beethoven might have written his ninth symphony this way. Changes that for us would take an instant would transpire over minutes. A movement might last six hours. That is in fact what this is Beethoven's ninth symphony digitally stretched from its normal 60 some odd minutes to last an entire day 24 hours.If you sit for the entire 24 hour duration of the piece as people do from time to time you realize that this music is not simply slower. The slowness unlocks something in the original. Maybe it was there all along and we could not hear it. But played with the meter ... the music is mostly about meter after all ... then the music has a different story to tell a secret perhaps locked up inside the routine. Change the routine you make new discoveries. That is what we will do this hour. We will look at time so closely we will discover new things about it. Jad Abumrad                   This is Radiolab I am Jad Abumrad. My guest tonight for the next hour to help me wrestle with time is the science corespondent Robert Krulwich of ABC News and NOVA and Nightline. How are you sir? Robert Krulwich            I am very well. I like this bathing in Beethoven thing you have got goin on here. Jad Abumrad                   It is cool right? Robert Krulwich            Yeah. Jad Abumrad                   Yeah. Actually at the end of the program we will be dropping in on a performance that happened recently in San Francisco where people listen to it over the course of an entire day. Robert Krulwich            A day? Jad Abumrad                   A day. So where first? Robert Krulwich            Let us begin with a guy who I think you will find ... well he thinks very deeply about time. In fact in a very gentle kind of way you could say he is time obsessed. You have heard of the neurologist Oliver Sacks? Jad Abumrad                   Sure the man who mistook his wife for a hat? Robert Krulwich            Yeah right. Jad Abumrad                   And . Robert Krulwich            That is right. So I was over at his house ... this was me actually over at his house right now. Jad Abumrad                   Key turning. Robert Krulwich            And he told me this story ... Oliver Sacks                      I do not know whether this is relevant. I had an odd experience some years ago. In fact in 1993 when I got a message from my publisher which they had sent out to various other authors for their 21st birthday their jubilee asking if we would like to select a year from the previous 21 years and write about it. When I got this message I thought well why do not I choose 1972 which was the first of the years. It is a year which is very vivid and important for me. Partly because it was the year in which my mother died partly it was the year in which I completed Awakenings. These two events were coupled in some ways. Oliver Sacks                      I was actually in the car when I got this message. I picked it up on a car phone. I was driving up to Canada. I had a tape recorder with me. I spoke 1972 aloud. By that time I thought well why stop? Why do not I do 1973 as well. Robert Krulwich            How long did '72 take? Did you get to Montreal or were you still ... Oliver Sacks                      No '72 probably took about half an hour. By the time I got to the Canadian boarder I was up to 1987. I did in fact make an extra loop so that I could complete things. However it turned out that the most recent years the late '80s and the '90s I did not apparently have such detailed memories of. They seemed subjectively shorter. Robert Krulwich            So time I guess we all know this is a very plastic thing. It is very swollen and rich some of the time and then it is flacid and eh other times. But because Oliver is so inquisitive such an investigator at heart all his life he is looked inside things. Beginning when he was 10 11 12 he wanted to get inside time. Oliver Sacks                      I had lots of boyish interests. You know these pre-adolescent interests. They all took a beating when I became an adolescent. But one of theme was chemicals. I had a chemistry laboratory. One of them was photography and I had a dark room and cameras. One of them was plants. In particular my mother was very fond of ferns. The garden was full of ferns. Oliver Sacks                      I love the way in which the curled up fiddle heads or  of ferns would unfurl. It was almost as if time was sort of rolled up inside them as if time itself unfurled. But one could not actually see this. They would perhaps take a day or two to do this. I wanted to see it. It made me think of these Christmas things one would blow and these paper trumpets which would unfold. I set up my camera on a tripod. At least in the day time I could not take pictures at night. I did not have a flash then. I took a series of pictures every hour or so of the fern and then showed these rapidly by putting them together in a flip book. This way then what took a day or two or several hours to happen was compressed into several seconds. The compression of time photographically fascinated me. Jad Abumrad                   Us too. If Oliver Sax could make a baby fern unfurl ... Robert how about this ... radio producer Tony  can do the same thing with his baby niece. Robert Krulwich            What? Jad Abumrad                   Except in sound. Robert Krulwich            Oh. Jad Abumrad                   Here sped up for your appreciation is Nancy Schwartz from birth to age 12 in two minutes 12 seconds exactly. Nancy Schwarts              la la la ... here come ...  ... Tony Schwartz                 Jack and Jill went up the ... Nancy Schwarts             Hill. Tony Schwartz                 To fetch a pale of ... Nancy Schwarts             Water. Tony Schwartz                 Jack fell down and broke ... Nancy Schwarts             Crown. Tony Schwartz                 And Jill came tumbling ... Nancy Schwarts             After. Happy birthday daddy. Happy birthday. Happy birthday to you. Nancy Schwarts             If you call a toy store up and you say I want a puppy and a whistle and a horn and a hat and a dress and a ballerina costume that is what you get. But Santa Clause cannot bring it you can cry. Nancy Schwarts             Tony if the dog likes  if you have to make him house broken if he makes wee wee in the apartment have to slap him with a news paper. Then if he does not do it again he is house broken. Tony Schwartz                 What do you think of the Russians sending a dog up in the satellite? Nancy Schwarts             Well I hope he does not get hurt but if he does I am sure they will send up a medical satellite. Nancy Schwarts             In school we each had to do a report on some place. I am doing a report on Hawaii. We are taking notes and doing research. This summer we are going camping in the month of July this summer. But for the whole month of July this summer I am going to go to brownie sleep away camp. It is all girls. Nancy Schwarts             You will miss my hair and it is very special for tonight. It is just so I wanted a page boy with a high top and that is the way I like it. Nancy Schwarts             I am taking guitar lessons and that is fun. I take drama lessons after school and that is great. I have been working on the school news paper. I might be editor next year. I have been discovering boys. Robert Krulwich            You know what that is? Jad Abumrad                   What is that? Robert Krulwich            That is if you were a parent what you have just heard is a parent clock. Jad Abumrad                   A parent clock? That is kind of cool. Robert Krulwich            Because the kid gets older. You cannot deny the fact that you must be getting older too. When your son has hair on his legs ... I thought oh man I am getting old. But this is true. This is how the whole world works I think. Jad Abumrad                   Everything is a clock I guess. Robert Krulwich            Yeah. Jad Abumrad                   By the way that was Nancy Grows Up an audio flip book recorded and arranged by the great radio producer Tony Schwartz. Thanks to him and to Smithsonian  Recordings and also to you Mr. Robert Krulwich for joining me today on our program to talk about time. Jad Abumrad                   So here's my question. If we have got an example of what you just called a parent clock. We have got other kinds of time like you know personal time getting out of bed time  Robert Krulwich            Yeah like most of assistance really time was measured by oh it is lunch time it is wake up time ... Jad Abumrad                   Right. Robert Krulwich            It is time to milk to cow time ... events or task times. Jad Abumrad                   Tasks times. How did we get from task and personal time to clock time? Robert Krulwich            Ah now that is interesting. Let us go back to the 1800s. Imagine a guy we will call him Zolton Chaboigon. Jad Abumrad                   Zultol Chaboigon? Robert Krulwich            Yes. Living in Sandusky Ohio. Jad Abumrad                   Interesting. Robert Krulwich            Suppose Zulton wants to know what time it is. Jad Abumrad                   Okay. Robert Krulwich            So if Zulton walked into say Biggsby's Tavern and asked ... Zulton Chaboigo            I am Biggsby could I trouble you for the time? Mr. Biggsby                       It is right in front of you. You see this clock here. It is built by my nephew. Not the smartest boy in the world. It says 33 minutes past the hour. Zulton Chaboigo            Is that right? Mr. Biggsby                       Of course it is right. Robert Krulwich            However if Zulton instead of going into the tavern had he gone at that exact same time into the bank building ... Bank Teller                        How can I help you sir? Zulton Chaboigo            I wondered if you could show me the time? Bank Teller                        Three minutes after the hour. Zulton Chaboigo            Is it right though? Bank Teller                        Yes it is right. Robert Krulwich            Or at that very same moment suppose instead of going to the tavern or the bank he would gone to the hotel. Hotel Clerk                        Can I help you? Mr. Biggsby                       Could you tell me the time please? Hotel Clerk                        Yes of course. My time piece here says ... Mr. Biggsby                       Oh is that silver? Hotel Clerk                        Silver style actually. It is 19 passed the hour. Robert Krulwich            So at the tavern it is 33 passed the hour at the hotel 19 passed the hour the bank three past what time is it really in Sandusky? That is the question. The answer is there was no official time in Sandusky. Jad Abumrad                   Huh? What do you mean there is no official time in Sandusky? Robert Krulwich            There was not any not in 1850. The government did not have a time. Jad Abumrad                   Really? Robert Krulwich            All there were were clocks. So in Ohio in the 1850s you would have as many times as there were clocks in the town. Jad Abumrad                   Huh. Robert Krulwich            So there was no reason when you think about it to synchronize. If your clock and my clock were four minutes or ten minutes different in Sandusky in the 1850s who cares? Until ... the railroad changed everything. Once the railroad came in if Zulton wanted to take I do not know ... Jad Abumrad                   How about the 03 to Cleveland. Robert Krulwich            Okay. If he wanted to take the 03 to Cleveland how would he know when it was 03? Jad Abumrad                   Oh I see where you are goin with this. Robert Krulwich            If you went by the bank's clock he would arrive a half hour ahead of time. If he went by the hotel clock he would arrive in the nick of time. Train Conducter            All Aboard. Zulton Chaboigo            Wait wait wait ... Robert Krulwich            And if you went by the tavern's clock ... Zulton Chaboigo            Oh no. Wait. Robert Krulwich            So for the sake of the business really railroads created railroad time and began putting up clocks of their own. Jad Abumrad                   That makes sense. Robert Krulwich            Because the railroads were so important I mean the tavern would have to get its beer deliveries from the railroad. Jad Abumrad                   I guess the banks would have to get their cash from the railroad and the hotel would have to get their guests from the railroad. Robert Krulwich            So it gradually railroad time becomes everybody's time. Jad Abumrad                   So what happened to local time? Robert Krulwich            Well local time disappeared. Jad Abumrad                   Really? Robert Krulwich            Yeah. If local time means that when it is noon in Sandusky the sun is directly over your head by 1880 that was not true anymore. Jad Abumrad                   Oh. Robert Krulwich            The railroad had instructed Sandusky that from now on it is noon would be 20 minutes later so that it could fit into the railroad schedule. Jad Abumrad                   Wait so they moved noon over 20 minutes? Robert Krulwich            Yeah and there were protests about this. Protester                        I put it to you ladies and gentleman who owns noon in Sandusky? Protester                        We do we do. Sandusky ... Railroad ... Jad Abumrad                   So in all seriousness people fought against this? They rebelled against this? Robert Krulwich            Oh yeah. Jad Abumrad                   They rebelled against the railroad? Robert Krulwich            Oh there were time wars in certain towns where part of the town would go to railroad time but the other part would determinately stick with what used to be local times and they would have different times in the town. Jad Abumrad                   Wow it is almost like it was a personal freedom issue. Robert Krulwich            Yeah. Because time in a way represents your own identity. They did not wanna give up their identity to the railroad not at first. In the end Sandusky and then every other town eventually conformed to railroad time. That is how time became standardized time became zoned time became clock referenced. When you asked somebody what time is it? They do not say oh it is bed time or it is lunch time. They do not look up at the sun. They look at a clock a standard clock. The railroads did that. Recording                          Every tick of a clock is time won or lost. Every 60 minute sweep every 12 hour tour of those relentless hands are turning our car load lots of times. Jad Abumrad                   There is an interesting connection to explore here. It has to do with horses. Robert Krulwich            Horses? Jad Abumrad                   Horses. You mentioned railroad companies. It just so happens that the owner of the biggest railroad company Leeland Stanford you know as in Stanford University? Robert Krulwich            Oh from Stanford University yeah.' Jad Abumrad                   Right. He was really into speed. He owned a really fast horse. The horse's name was . Robert Krulwich            Oxoden I remember that. Jad Abumrad                   The story goes this horse was the subject of a gentleman's bet. Rebecca Solnet              Well there was no gentleman's bet. It is a myth. Stanford as far as we know was not a betting man. Jad Abumrad                   That is Rebecca . She would know. She wrote a book about this called River of Shadows. The focus of her book is the solver of the bet or whatever it was. Rebecca Solnet              It was an argument. There is no evidence that there was money on it. Jad Abumrad                   In any case this argument among Stanford and his railroad buddies centered around the following question when a horse gallops do all four of its feet leave the ground at once? What do you think? Robert Krulwich            I do not know. I mean it is not a question that I would frankly ever ask someone but ... Jad Abumrad                   Well at the time it was a big question because they had no way of knowing because horses moved faster than eye balls could see. Rebecca Solnet              So Leeland Stanford wanted to prove that a horse had all four feet off the ground at one time. He was recommended to try  as the photographer to capture this. Jad Abumrad                   Along comes Edward Moybridge the photographer. If he could take a picture of the horse at exactly the right instant you could see whether all four feet were off the ground and solve the bet. Here's the problem cameras in those days were very slow. Rebecca Solnet              A fast exposure would be maybe a second or several seconds. Moybridge was going to push photography to suddenly be able to capture motion in a 500th of a second. Otherwise you just got blur. Jad Abumrad                   Blur. Imagine that first step out of the world of a blur. Moybridge had stretched a wire across the race track and attached it to the shutter mechanism on his camera. Oxoden the horse gallops by trips the wire which freezes the horse mid gallop steels him right out of the flow of time. Except Moybridge does not take one photo he takes 24. See he placed 24 cameras in a line one after the other with 24 trip wires stretching across the race track. The horse tripped every one. 24 frozen unblurry running horses. Robert Krulwich            So what did they see? Jad Abumrad                   Well the pictures formed a series of a horse running. Some of those photos showed Oxoden yes with all four feet off the ground. Robert Krulwich            So the camera here unlocks a secret. It let us us see something you could never see before because this camera essentially it stops time. Jad Abumrad                   Exactly. Meanwhile so as Rebecca Moybridge became fascinated learning more secrets of time secrets locked inside basic human movements. Rebecca Solnet              A leap a splash a walk a pirouette. Jad Abumrad                   Wow how mundane. Rebecca Solnet              But they are so enchanted when you really pay attention to them. Jad Abumrad                   Yeah. Rebecca Solnet              Moybridge had photographed rushing water. He was obsessed with water in his landscape pictures. So he obsessively has people pour water splash water pour water over themselves pour pitchers of water or pour water into glasses splash water out of basins bathe in water ... you can see all these droplets frozen in mid air. Jad Abumrad                   There is one particular photo Robert where you see a sheet of water suspended in the air hovering over the splasher kind of like a ghost. Robert Krulwich            Hmm ... oh wow. Jad Abumrad                   Anyhow take all those frozen moments and line them one after the other and play them back and you have got flow again. Albeit artificial flow which we call movies. Robert Krulwich            Movies are good. Jad Abumrad                   Yeah yeah. But the next time you are feeling stressed out and you say to yourself I am stressed. I need to go to a movie to relax. Well you should know that the technology that made the movies is exactly the thing which sped up the phase of modern life which stressed you out which led you to go to the movies. Robert Krulwich            I do not ... what does that mean? What do you mean by that? Jad Abumrad                   Well one of the first ways movies were used was to film factory workers doing repetitive tasks. Then find out how to make those task more efficient. Robert Krulwich            So if I were pushing the levels maybe too slowly is this how ... Jad Abumrad                   Right. They would find the guy who did it the right way film him slow the film down and then use that to teach everyone else. Robert Krulwich            And then when World War II came this was not just now in the cause of efficiency this was a life or death matter because this is how you beat Nazis. Recorded Voice             All the scientific devices of chronology our machines manufacturing time that pulls it in our hands means victory. Our hands must be as relentless as the hands of our . Robert Krulwich            Or there is a whole nother way to think about this. Time can be a weapon in battle. Jad Abumrad                   Mm-hmm  Robert Krulwich            Or it can be the most sensuous and subtle and natural thing of the world. I learned about this from a book by Jay Griffith called A Sideways Look At Time. Let me just take a stop here at the clocks even though you do not like clocks because there is so many cool clocks in your book. Jay Griffeth                       Cool clocks. Robert Krulwich            First of all there is a spice clock. Jay Griffeth                       Yes. We use the clocks as you can see when it is really dark. You can see that you have just woken up at 45 and you really did not want to wake up at 45. But of course for a long time you know in the night you do not have a way of seeing what the time is. So somebody invented a spice clock so you could taste your way through the night. There would be maybe kind of cinnamon for about 00 and tumeric for 00. Robert Krulwich            So you are sitting there in bed and you sniff the time? Jay Griffeth                       Or you could taste it. Robert Krulwich            But how about the clock of birds? This is the  people. Jay Griffeth                       Oh yes. Now this is lovely. The Kalooly people of Papau New Guinea they have what they call a clock of birds ... that certain birds like the New Guinea Frier Bird and the Hooden Bush Bird when they sing in the mornings the children are taught to understand that that is a signal to get up and leave and you know get out of the house. When those birds sing their late afternoon calls that is a signal to the children to go back home. The forest in Centra Hinds in Papau New Guinea I have been there. It is a very very difficult place to be once it is dark. Children would need to know at what time to start heading for home. Robert Krulwich            Now how about it is 1751 and Carl  famous categorizer of everything in Sweden. Jay Griffeth                       Yes made a flower clock. Robert Krulwich            What'd he make? Jay Griffeth                       A flower clock so that you could see by the blooming of different flowers what time it was. Robert Krulwich            Something that blooms in the morning and then folds up like a Morning Glory would be there in the morning and then in the evening an Evening Prim Rose would come out? Jay Griffeth                       Yes. Robert Krulwich            These are all plants that open for an hour or two and then close. So if you are walking by and you see a blush of let us say pink then you know oh it must be the morning. Or if you see a blush of purple you go oh it must be lunch time or whatever it is. Jay Griffeth                       Yes exactly. Exactly. Robert Krulwich            That is by the way very good gardening to be able to do that. Jay Griffeth                       Yes is not it? Is not it? And connected to that there is also in the  Forest in the Adnomin Islands in the Indian Ocean ... people have a scent calendar which I find the most beautiful idea. What it was is a way of describing the months by the scents of certain fruits and flowers. Jay Griffeth                       Time is everywhere in nature. One of the things I wanted to do with the whole book was to say you know we think of time going to do with clocks. In fact for most of the world for most of history time has been absolutely impeded in nature in some beautiful ways. Jad Abumrad                   We will hear more from author Jay Griffith later in the program. Thanks Robert. Robert Krulwich            No thank you. Jad Abumrad                   I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich and I will be back in a moment. Radio Recording            You are listening to Radio Lab ... Radio Lab on New York Public Radio ... Public Radio WNYC. Matt Boushca                 This is Matt Boushca ... Alysssa Oldcrow            And Alyssa  ... Matt Boushca                 ... in Gainsville Florida. Radio Lab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. Alysssa Oldcrow            More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Thanks. Robert Krulwich            Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radio lab is supported by Zip Recruiter. I do not know if you know anything about Zip Recruiter. Let us suppose you need to recruit somebody for your business for your office. You could I guess ask friends. You could put an ad out for everybody in the world to read. Zip Recruiter's idea is they have what they call a matching technology that presumably finds the right people for you and then goes and gets them to apply. Right now Radio Lab listeners can try Zip Recruiter for free at ziprecruiter.comradiolab. Once again that is ziprecruiter.comradiolab. Robert Krulwich            Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radio Lab is supported by wix.com. Use Wix artificial design intelligence to create a professional website right from your phone. Just tell Wix's ADI about yourself or your business. It will create the perfect site for your needs based on billions of combinations. Just go to wix.comradiolab to get 10 off when you are ready to update. That is wix.comradiolab Jad Abumrad                   I am Jad Abumrad. This is Radio Lab. Our program today is about time all the different flavors of time. Here with me to show us a taste of flavors is Robert Krulwich corespondent for ABC News and Nightline. Robert Krulwich            Yep hi. Jad Abumrad                   Robert we have been talking about clocks for the last 20 minutes. Robert Krulwich            Mm-hmm  Jad Abumrad                   If you took all the clocks ... Robert Krulwich            Ooo you have been counting. 20 minutes exactly. Jad Abumrad                   If you took away all the clocks we have been talking about the bird clock and the spice clock and the clock on the wall ... Robert Krulwich            Yeah. Jad Abumrad                   Then you had to talk about time without mentioning a clock what are we left with? How would you do it? Robert Krulwich            That is actually a pretty tough question. What is time essentially? Jad Abumrad                   Yeah. Robert Krulwich            I have a neighbor Brian Green is a best selling author at  Universe Fabric of the Cosmos most recently professor of math at Columbia professor of Physics at Columbia ... pretty much does Columbia. I asked him your question. I asked him what is time? Brian Green                      If you really pushed me and said what is time? I would say time is that which allows us to see that something has changed. When you see the second hand on your clock goin around it is changing position. That is the simplest version of a change corresponding to time elapsing. Jad Abumrad                   Okay Robert I am looking at the clock here on the wall. Robert Krulwich            Mm-hmm  Jad Abumrad                   I am watching the second hand and it is changing positions just as he says. Now imagine all the clocks in the world agree on what a second is but what if we were to take the clocks away? Is there ... I mean I still in my bones believe that somewhere there is a clock ticking that says what a second is and it is always the same. Robert Krulwich            A second is the same in Mars and in ... yeah. Jad Abumrad                   Right. Robert Krulwich            Everybody thinks that because it is so sensible that time is universally the same for everyone. Now here's the big secret. Apparently that is not true. Time is not universal. This is Brian is part of Einstein's Theory of Relativity. Brian Green                      When we move relative to each other a very basic lesson of relativity is that our watches will tick off time at different rates. If you have a good watch ... I do not know what a good watch is to tell you. I do not own one but if you had a Rolex ... Robert Krulwich            You do not own a watch do you? Brian Green                      I never have owned a watch. Robert Krulwich            Is that right? You have never owned a watch? Brian Green                      I have never owned a watch. Robert Krulwich            What? Brian Green                      I have never liked the idea of a time piece sort of ticking away on my arm. It really always bothered me. But anyway if you had a Rolex and I had a Rolex say and we synchronize them perfectly then we move relative to one another and then we rejoin and compare our watches they will not agree. Robert Krulwich            Well to demonstrate what Brian was talking about we are now in the Central Park. We have got the area entirely roped off because we are going to demonstrate one of Einstein's famous thought experiments. Jad Abumrad                   All right. Robert Krulwich            Which suggests that the subject ... if you will I would be the subject Jad. Jad Abumrad                   By all means. Robert Krulwich            The subject must take a trip at an extraordinarily high speed. That is required here. So if you could help me by giving me whatever you have got over there. Jad Abumrad                   Sure. Here is a jet pack a turbo charge jet pack. Put it on. Robert Krulwich            Back. Yeah. Jad Abumrad                   Okay. Now take these roller blades ... Robert Krulwich            Oh okay. Jad Abumrad                   Put one on your right foot ... Robert Krulwich            I will put one on my right foot and ... Jad Abumrad                   On your left. Robert Krulwich            ... on the left. Right. Jad Abumrad                   Set the target speed dial on your jet back to 669 million miles an hour. Robert Krulwich            That is a little fast. 669 million miles an hour. Okay. Jad Abumrad                   Yep. What time does your watch say? Robert Krulwich            24. Jad Abumrad                   So does mine. We are synchronized. Robert Krulwich            Exactly synchronized. Okay. Jad Abumrad                   Now when it gets to 25 in three two one ... push the red button. Robert Krulwich            Hitting the red button and ... this is really fast. I am not on planet Earth and I see a galaxy on this side. I see another one coming up over there. Whoo ... another galaxy going by there. Now by the way my watch is absolutely quite perfectly. I am having a lovely time. I am coming around. I am back in. Comin in now comin in now ... coming closer coming closer and landed. That was very bracing. Jad Abumrad                   Now Robert. Robert Krulwich            Yes mm-hmm  ... Jad Abumrad                   Look at your watch. Robert Krulwich            All right. Jad Abumrad                   What time does it say? Robert Krulwich            It says 26. What time is on your watch? Jad Abumrad                   33. Robert Krulwich            That is a seven minute difference. Is your watch broken? Jad Abumrad                   No no no ... Robert Krulwich            Because my watch is working pretty well. Jad Abumrad                   Time for you is different than time for me. Robert Krulwich            You mean literally? Jad Abumrad                   Literally it is not that my watch somehow was shooken up and was not functioning properly no. Time itself is not some universal concept. Time is held by the individual by the observer so that if I am moving relative to you time for me elapses at a different rate than it does for you. Robert Krulwich            So relativity says that time and speed are mysteriously coupled so that when I go fast my time goes slow. Jad Abumrad                   Which explains why our watches do not agree. Robert Krulwich            Exactly. So this whole notion that we all have that time kind of applies the same to everybody on Earth and Mars Jupiter the entire cosmos that we can see is totally wrong. Jad Abumrad                   But let me ask you this when you were rushing through space before your time was apparently going slower but did you feel slower? Robert Krulwich            If I had looked at my watch everything was perfectly normal to me. My clock was ticking perfectly normal for me. Jad Abumrad                   Well so was mine at Central Park so what gives? Robert Krulwich            But if somehow you could have peered in on me up in outer space going real real fast I would have seemed slower to you. Not only would my watch be ticking slower for you everything about me would be behaving slower to you. Jad Abumrad                   So what do you do with this information? Robert Krulwich            What do you mean? Jad Abumrad                   Well physics teaches us that if I am say running down the street and my time is ticking infinitesimally slower than that guy's time over there. Robert Krulwich            Why? Jad Abumrad                   Because he is standing still. Robert Krulwich            And you are running. Jad Abumrad                   Right. Robert Krulwich            So you are in different time capsule kind of yes. Jad Abumrad                   Apparently so. I know this is what science tells me but my common sense tells me that is completely wrong. Robert Krulwich            I know. Jad Abumrad                   Nothing in my experience tells me this is the case. Robert Krulwich            This is like one of the great conundrums it seems to me. That what you learn in science is so different to what you feel in your regular life. How do you live between those two worlds where what you know and what you feel are so different? Robert Krulwich            Brian do you learn to trust your mind over your senses? Is that what you do? Brian Green                      Well I learn to trust my senses but see them within a much larger framework. I love to walk down the street. Imagine that because I am walking I am kind of shattering the time around me. I am causing time to elapse at a different rate than it would if I were standing still. I love that idea. It is not that I do not trust experience ... Robert Krulwich            So you are hitting Time Square and you are wondering so you think oh boy I am really changing the universe of all these other people. Brian Green                      Well I really consider it totally personal so I am not changing their time. Robert Krulwich            Oh so what is going on? Brian Green                      I am changing the rate at which time elapses for me. So I have power. Robert Krulwich            So when you run to catch a bus do you think hey I gotta get on this bus. Also I am slowing down time for myself. Brian Green                      I do sometimes. Not always but it is there. When I look at the tabletop I delight in the fact that I can in my mind picture the atoms and molecules and the interactions between them ... and the mostly empty space that is in there ... that when my hand touches the table top I see the electrons in the outer surface of my hand pushing against the electrons in the outer surface of the table. I am not really touching the table. My hand never comes in contact with the table. What is happening is the electrons are getting really close together and they are repelling each other. I love the fact that I am in essence deforming the surface of the table by making my electrons come really close to it. That enriches my experience. It does not ... Robert Krulwich            Do you share this with others? Brian Green                      Rarely. Radio Recording            You are listening to Radio Lab on New York Public Radio ... Public Radio WNYC. Jad Abumrad                   This is Radio Lab. I am Jab Abumrad. We are talking about time today and here to help me do that is Robert Krulwich ABC News and blah blah blah ... Robert Krulwich            Blah blah blah? Jad Abumrad                   Yeah. Robert Krulwich            Blah blah blah is my specialty. Jad Abumrad                   We just heard from Brian Green physicist tell us about a frankly troubling idea that there is no such thing as a standard time which I am still having trouble believing frankly. In any case it makes me think of this do you know when you see a tortoise wondering through the garden ... Robert Krulwich            Sure. Jad Abumrad                   And it is going so slow. Robert Krulwich            Uh-huh  Jad Abumrad                   And then you see a humming bird wiz by. Clearly they are moving at different tempos but perhaps they are also experiencing entirely different universes of time. Do you ever wonder about that? Robert Krulwich            I think everybody wonders that. But of course unless you are a hummingbird or a tortoise you could never really know whether what is going on in your head is different. Jad Abumrad                   True. Robert Krulwich            But Oliver Sax the neurologist we met before he found a different tempo ... a radically different tempos ... in human beings. Jad Abumrad                   Really? Robert Krulwich            He is a neurologist and he works at a hospital in the Bronx still does at Beth Abraham where he once had patients who seemed so slow they were almost frozen. He told me about one of those patients named Myron V. Oliver Sacks                      For long periods of the day Myron would be apparently motionless although when I looked at him I would see his frozen figure in different positions in which his right hand would be raised. A lot of these patients would be frozen in odd positions which I am illustrating now. Robert Krulwich            A little dialectic poses hand in the air. But just stuck stuck in space? Oliver Sacks                      Stuck. People would be stuck in odd poses. I thought Myron was one of those. I commented on this that I had often seen him stuck in these frozen poses. He got indigent and said what do you mean frozen poses? He said I was just wiping my nose. I said you are joking? You are putting me on. He said I am not. He was as puzzled by what I said as what I was by what he had said. But then after he had told me this I thought well hell I must watch this and I must record it. Robert Krulwich            Now he said he was just what? He was just wiping his nose? Oliver Sacks                      He said I was just wiping my nose. Robert Krulwich            Okay now that is something that takes me about two seconds roughly. Oliver Sacks                      Exactly. Whereas apparently this movement of the arm if this is what he was doing was taking about two hours. So I took a series of photographs at intervals of a few minutes each. Robert Krulwich            Of still Myron with his arms gently going up to ... Oliver Sacks                      Of apparently still Myron. Robert Krulwich            How many photographs did you take? Oliver Sacks                      I have about 20 photographs or so in two hours. Then I put them together in a little flip pack. You know the way one used to do as a kid. Robert Krulwich            Right. Oliver Sacks                      And then one could in fact see with this that the 20 or so photos covering two hours in fact showed a smooth movement to wipe his nose a movement which normally takes two seconds but which in him was taking two hours. Although this left open the profound puzzle of how come he was not only taking two hours to do so but did not realize he was taking two hours to do so? The movement which to us was glacially slow was not slow to him was normal. Robert Krulwich            Did you ever show Myron the pictures that you had made? Oliver Sacks                      Yes. Robert Krulwich            And did you say so Myron look at this. It took you two hours to do this. If you did that then what did he say? Oliver Sacks                      Yes. He was astonished. That is too mild a word. He was thunder struck. Jad Abumrad                   Wow. So Myron had no idea that he was experiencing the world a bit slower ... Robert Krulwich            He had no idea. Jad Abumrad                   ... than the rest of us. Robert Krulwich            Not until Oliver stapled all the pictures into a flip book and goes ... then sped up time. Then Myron can see what it was that he was doing. But you know does a turtle know that he is processing slowly? Does a humming bird know that it is processing fast? Jad Abumrad                   No. Robert Krulwich            I do not think so. But in this case we now know that this is a human being absorbing and performing at drastically different tempos from the rest of humanity. Oliver has another patient he likes to talk about. Her name is Hester Y. Oliver Sacks                      Hester she would have the opposite of the slow or glaciation. She would move with extreme speed. This came out very very clearly sometimes when I had the students play ball with Hester. Robert Krulwich            What does that mean? They play catch? Oliver Sacks                      Yeah they would play catch. Is that the wrong word? Play ball? Robert Krulwich            Yeah yeah play catch is right. Yeah. Oliver Sacks                      But one of the striking things when people are  is when people may appear unable to initiate any action. They can reciprocate. If you suddenly slow a ball to someone with  even if they appear absolutely frozen they will catch it. Often I would demonstrate this to the students. I would usually have seven or eight students. We would usually sit in a semicircle around the patients. So Hester would be in her chair with a semicircle of students facing her. She was so quick. The ball came back and hit the student on his throwing hand. Robert Krulwich            Wow. So the guy throws the ball at Hester she catches the ball and throws it back before he is even put his hand back in place? Oliver Sacks                      Just so. Robert Krulwich            How many times faster is Hester moving than the student? Oliver Sacks                      Well let me put it in general terms. Her reaction time is a 10th of a second or less. Usually the best reaction times of Olympic athletes is about a seventh of a second. Anyhow the ball came back very very fast. I would say to Hester slow down. You are too quick for them. Why do not you count up to 10 pause before you throw the ball back. Count up to 10. Robert Krulwich            And she is still in her very speedy mode. Oliver Sacks                      And she will say okay okay. And the ball would come back scarcely slower. And I would say I asked you to count up to 10. In a voice which I really cannot imitate but this is the crushed voice ... the technical term is  rapid speech. The crushed voice of extreme  she would say I did. I did count up to 10. I cannot speak quick enough for that. Robert Krulwich            In her brain was she thinking that she was giving normal speech? Oliver Sacks                      Yeah. She was no more conscious of her speed than Myron was of his slowness. Jad Abumrad                   Huh. So Myron has somehow slipped into whale time or turtle time because of the disease which sent Hester in the opposite direction into a kind of humming bird tempo. Do you think there is a limit to this how fast she can go or how slow he can go? Robert Krulwich            Well I guess there must be some kind of physical limits. If she wanted to say 20 thousand words in a second and could even get her brain to do so her mouth would not work that fast or tongue would not work that fast. Jad Abumrad                   Right. Robert Krulwich            So there is constraints like gravity energy the nature of your body. We are ... Jad Abumrad                   What about the rest of us? What kind of range is available to you or I? Oliver Sacks                      I am not sure that such radical slowings or speedings occur in the rest of us except perhaps in every unusual circumstances. Perhaps in sports and perhaps in situations of mortal danger. People who are in the zone they may give descriptions of what appears to be a baseball comes towards one at 100 miles an hour. But some batters ... are they called batters? Robert Krulwich            Yeah. Oliver Sacks                      Okay. Robert Krulwich            Or people at bat. Oliver Sacks                      Okay. But people at bat may say that the ball seemed to come to them more slowly and that they could see the seams on the ball. Jad Abumrad                   In the zone. Robert I just so happen to have something here which is a perfect illustration of what he is talking about. Robert Krulwich            Uh-huh  Jad Abumrad                   Except it is not baseball. It has to do with track. Robert Krulwich            Track's good. Jad Abumrad                   He is the short exert. Track Star                        When I am up they call my name. I step up on the runway usually it is just relax you are the best plant. I do not think anything else after that. Track Star                        I want that adrenaline coming when he says runners take your mark because I only got 10 seconds or 9 seconds at that point. You know? But if it is pumpin pumpin pumpin pumpin then they say take your mark well I am exhausted. You know once I get on them blocks and it is like ... I do not wanna be exhausted. I wanna be on fire at that moment. Track Star                        So I am like I am ready I am ready. Temperature's 52 degrees 52 degrees out here. My body's warmed up sittin in the blocks. I am like the cold aint even ... it aint even phasing me. I do not even feel no cold because I got so much adrenaline goin through my body. I am just ready put it to 'em today put it to everybody. Track Star                        If you are not ready it does not matter at this point because you have to be ready. Track Star                        And when he says set ... Track Star                        Set ... sittin there thinkin it is gonna go off ... you breahin give it all you got. Just take it out from the gun and just hold on. You gonna feel a strength after you hear it. You will slow down no fatigue or nothin gonna come over. Whoever's in the lane behind me they gonna get it. I am just listenin ... get in tune get in tune listen to the whole hush of the crowd as they get quite for the gun. Track Star                        And that moment when they say take your mark set I become the gun. So when that gun fires it is almost like I am the bullet being fired out of the pistol. That is my reaction. When I hear that sound it is almost like there is a firing pin smackin me in my butt and pushin me. It is not that I sound out everything around me I have all ready sounded out everything because I am the bullet and it is only me in the chamber. Track Star                        You line up you hear the gun they say set. At that point you become blind and deaf because you do not go off of what you think you have heard because if you do that you have just lost a race. You have to be one with the gun. Track Star                        When he says set I just breath all the air in. I take a deep inhale ... Track Star                        Take one last look at my competitors in the lane now I am focused just thinkin drive and go drive and go. Track Star                        And then I hold my breath and then ... Track Star                        Sweet sweet sweet ... drive drive drive ... pick 'em up pick 'em up pick 'em up ... Track Star                        I let all the air out and that is when I start runnin as fast as I can. Track Star                        When you are running and you are so relaxed in what you are doin to where a song can just pop into your mind about 30 meters that is the ultimate point I think an athlete wants to be because that is when you get that peak performance. It is almost like everything is moving in slow motion and you watchin the birds kind of slowly fly by. You hear that song just whistling in your ear. Track Star                        When I take off and I start to climb and the air it all goes pretty fast. But once I hit that apex of the jump and my hips are up over the bar time really slows down. I mean you can just feel this rotation. It feels like someone's grabbed a hold of your hips and really given you a push a boost up in the air. For this moment that you are sort of suspended on top of the bar it is really serene. It is really almost peaceful. It just seems like it lasts an eternity. Track Star                        Comin up the turn I am in the front I am in the front. Track Star                        They comin for me. They just stocking me like . Track Star                        I am in the front I am in the front. Track Star                        So I am just thinkin just get away just get away just get away ... turn out the burn. Track Star                        Hold on hold on. Just stretch it out start goin. Track Star                        Get to the top tone out the burn. Track Star                        Hold on hold on ... Track Star                        Powering down powering down like a . See him come up beside me out the peripheral . Track Star                        Gotta hold on. This is always happenin. They just tryin to get you at the end but you just fight 'em off. You just fight 'em off. Track Star                        At the end it is just compete compete compete ... and  to the tape. Track Star                        Reach and go reach and go. Track Star                        Cut them off cut them off baby. Cut them off. Track Star                        Get across the line just smile at 'em smile at 'em. Track Star                        And we get down to the tape. Track Star                        Got here in like a half of a step. That is the kind of stuff I live for. I live for those intense moments like that right there. Track Star                        It is hard to accept the facts sometimes that you are human but it is true. I have had a heart surgery in the year 2000. But as athletes and you can ask almost any athlete they will tell you we believe we are insensible. If we go in there with any other thought there is no chance of us accomplishing our goal. Because we have to believe we have to confuse ourselves into believing that no matter what is wrong with you or what you are dealing with it is not gonna be a factor to what you are trying to accomplish. We believe we are insensible. Jad Abumrad                   Thanks to The Next Big Thing and sound artist Ben Reuben for that. A piece he produced for the National Track and Field Hall of Fame. You can visit them on the web at trackhall.com. So Robert what do you think? Robert Krulwich            This was a case I think of athletes showing you how we contest with time get power by mastering time shaving it slightly. Jad Abumrad                   Time and power have a long history. That is what we will look at shortly. I am Jad Abumrad Robert Krulwich will be back in a moment. Radio Recording            You are listening to ... you are listening to to two ... you are listening to Radio Lab. Bill Schiller                        Hi I am Bill Schiller from Oak Harbor Washington. Radio Lab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Jad Abumrad                   This is Radio Lab. I am Jad Abumrad. My guest today Is Robert Krulwich the science correspondent for ABC News NOVA and Nightline. We are talking about time. The freezing of the speeding up of the slowing down of the bizarre science of and now the politics of time. Robert Krulwich            Speaking of which my interview with ... remember Jay Griffith from when we heard in the previous whatever section? Jad Abumrad                   Mm-hmm  Robert Krulwich            She began her interview with me with a strange declaration which she read off a piece of paper. Jay Griffeth                       This is the independent free state of . We have no allegiance to the government. We do not recognize history patriarchy matriarchy politics communists fascists or lollypop men or ladies. We have a hierarchy based on dog worship. Our currency is to be based on the core barter system. We do not recognize the Gregorian calendar. By doing so this day shall be known as one. Be afraid be afraid all ye that hear. Respect this state. Robert Krulwich            What was that? Jay Griffeth                       That was the manifesto of British anti-road protests in the mid '90s. Robert Krulwich            The British anti-road protesters? Jay Griffeth                       Yes. Robert Krulwich            These people do not like roads? Jay Griffeth                       Yes environmentalists who are protesting against the building of roads. One of the things that they chose to do was to write this self governing manifesto pointing out that for them they were not gonna recognize Greenwich Mean Time. Recorded Voice             At the tone three hours 24 minutes  universal time. Jay Griffeth                       Time is a highly political subject. It initially was the British sense of time which was transported all over the world. Britain's ruled their empire through ruling the oceans. They ruled the oceans because they discovered chronometers have sufficient accuracy to discover longitude. What the British did in their empires was to insist on GMT Greenwich Mean Time ... you know that other countries were sort of Greenwich Mean Time retarded a bit or advanced a bit. But essentially ours was the norm. Robert Krulwich            The real time was in London. Jay Griffeth                       Ours was the real time in London. Robert Krulwich            Yeah. What is true of course is the British do not own the seas anymore but we all still use Greenwich Mean Time. Jay Griffeth                       Absolutely absolutely. We are very used to thinking that empires are to do with land. What I am arguing is that actually there have been empires of time. Robert Krulwich            There is one story you tell about the rulers ... this is the ruler of Turkmenistan the current ruler of Turkmenistan a guy named President . Now the month of January in Turkmenistan is called Turkmembashi and the month of April is called Gerbensutan. Jay Griffeth                       Yes. Robert Krulwich            Why are they called that? Jay Griffeth                       Well he named one after himself and one after his mother. Robert Krulwich            You mean everybody there in January calls it president of our country month? Whatever ... Jay Griffeth                       Well I do not actually know whether you know that is it is taken off in the street as it were. Robert Krulwich            I see. Jay Griffeth                       I rather suspect it probably has not. But what he wanted to do was what in fact many rulers have wanted to do is to ally themselves with the clock and the calendar. I mean like  decided that 1975 would be year zero. Robert Krulwich            Polpot says all right everything starts with me? Is that what that means? Jay Griffeth                       Yes exactly. Everything starts with me now when I say it does. This is year zero. Robert Krulwich            And to you I guess the joy of time the deepest most ecstatic version of it is when you lose it completely? Jay Griffeth                       I think that is absolutely right. I think that is something that in prayer in meditation in art and in love actually is that people lose that very fretful ticking off kind of sense of clock time. What you fall into is something transcendent. You know all that you have to have done is loved somebody to know that and to hold them for half an hour and you can know that that half an hour has lasted an eternity. Robert Krulwich            Time standing still in the moment like that is a really swollen now. Jay Griffeth                       Yes exactly exactly. And that in a sense that is when the moment meets the eternal. That is all that matters is just this moment that you are holding in your hand. Jad Abumrad                   Thanks Robert that was great. Robert Krulwich            Thank you. Jad Abumrad                   Jay Griffith is the author of A Sideways Look At Time. You can find out more about her on our website radiolab.org. We will close our program today on time the way we started with an excerpt of a performance of Beethoven's ninth symphony. Robert Krulwich            Uh-huh  Jad Abumrad                   Except this is not the way Beethoven would have intended it to be performed. The piece he wrote to last 70 minutes has been stretched to 24 hours. Robert Krulwich            24 hours. Jad Abumrad                   Yep bringing it even closer to eternity. Recently a group of San Franciscans spent an entire weekend in a gallery in a trance listening to all 24 hours. It began on a Friday evening. San Fran Group              It is 02 in the morning ... Jad Abumrad                   And went all night. San Fran Group              So it is about 45 in the morning. San Fran Group              It is 55 in the morning. San Fran Group              It is 00 in the morning. Jad Abumrad                   Sound artist Aaron Zen was there otherwise known as the quite American. The performance was at his gallery in fact. To close our show today we asked him to give us a taste of what it sounded like. Aaron Zen                          It starts with this verse dun dun dun ... dun dun dun dun ... and then da dun da dun da dun da dun ... but you know here it is like ... even though it is a very simple thing to do to say okay it is not gonna be 90 minutes it is gonna be a day it still gives you that sense of floating time or hanging time ... a time that takes a long time to pass ... that you have in certain places in your life where a major thing happens. It evokes that somehow. Aaron Zen                          You know how people report that your life flashes before your eyes in a car crash or something like that? Time seems to slow down for people it is like these really intense moments. What if you happen to be playing Beethoven's ninth symphony on your car stereo while you were going into some car crash or something? Would it slow down and sound like this? Man                                       The idea was to stretch something to 24 hours. By stretching Beethoven's ninth I  only retro piece of music a stretch music history. San Fran Group              Oh God Beethoven for 24 hours. San Fran Group              I am just wondering if Beethoven is slowly spinning in his grave. San Fran Group               that is my name. I am here in San Francisco this weekend. This is the second full 24 hour performance. San Fran Group              Upstairs where the performance is going on has a good vibe. Everything seems very gentle. San Fran Group              The floor is completely covered with bean bags or pillows. San Fran Group              The space has really amazing acoustics. San Fran Group              Sounds system here is really good. San Fran Group              What can I say? It is deigned to be . San Fran Group              Why would I do this? I have no idea why I am doing it. Will I do it again? I do not know. San Fran Group              I want to see how I feel being exposed to a one unit piece of ... San Fran Group              My first response was a very calming response. When I walked in it was overwhelming. San Fran Group              And then I came in. I wanted to stretch and you know just open up and expand. San Fran Group              It was peaceful. Aaron Zen                          So I had this thought that different animals based on probably their size and their heart rate might have different senses of time. Like you see a humming bird zipping around in this manic way. You think we humans must seem very slow to that humming bird. Everything we do must almost be in slow motion to something that can just deal with things that quickly. To a whale or some huge animal with a heart rate that is like once every few minutes we must seem really fast. This piece is kind of like that. Suddenly I felt like I was moving at humming bird speed. San Fran Group              It is growing. San Fran Group              It is getting louder. San Fran Group              It is growing and growing and growing. You are just wanting it to climax and it is not going to. Or it is rather. It is climaxing but it is just taking place over such a long time that to us in our little small human time it does not feel like it is climaxing. San Fran Group              That is true it does not really climax. San Fran Group              The climax never happens. San Fran Group              It is just stretching out. San Fran Group              Oh God Beethoven for 24 hours. San Fran Group              It is like euphoria for me I do not know. San Fran Group              It made people smile. San Fran Group              Maybe someone else ran out screaming. San Fran Group              I am really buzzed. San Fran Group              Oh it is like an ecstatic apocalypses. San Fran Group              The other thing I felt when I came in and continued to feel was that I was being lifted up. It was just a constant lifting lifting. There was no end just a constant lifting lifting. San Fran Group              It just got quiet. It sounded like it was just supposed to go quiet there. San Fran Group              Yeah it will be a stretched out quiet. San Fran Group              Yeah it is probably just like a rest. San Fran Group              Yeah but it will be however many times ... fuck. Here it comes again. Jad Abumrad                   That was produced by sound artist Aaron Zen with help from Bronwin Zen and Jeremiah Moore. You can find more of Aaron's work on our website radiolab.org. Robert Krulwich            Jeb that was actually going to be the long A vow the all dimension sequence but I was unable to make it to San Francisco. I guess we gotta get outta here. Jad Abumrad                   Yeah we should close the show. Jason Pirite                      This week's show was produced by myself and Ellen Horn. With help from Robert Kurlwig Max Dot Brenda Farrel Muigel Gomez-Estern Salley Hershits Miuki Iack Herod Ronta Iniolery-Pokanonso and Trent Moldy. Special thanks to Andy Lanset and Jenna Dare. Very special thanks to all the track and field athletes featured in this show Shawn Crawford Amy Accuff Brenda Caws Derek Atkins John Drummins and Mary White. I am Jason Pirite. All right hope that works for ya. 