Robert Krulwich Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radiolab is supported by Audible.  Robert Krulwich As we explore this story of obsession creativity and symmetry check out This Is Your Brain on Music both a cutting-edge study and a tribute to the beauty of music. Go to audible.comradiolab or text radiolab to 500500 for a free 30-day trial and a free audio book.  Robert Krulwich Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radiolab is supported by Casper. As we continue this episode on creativity and symmetry check out the Casper or the Wave mattress with a support system that mirrors your body shape. Get 50 towards select mattresses by visiting casper.comradiolab and using code radiolab at checkout. Terms and conditions apply.  Jad Abumrad This is Jad. Before we start I would like to let you know about a new podcast that is out there in the world that is aimed at drum roll please kids.  Jad Abumrad I must say I am particularly excited about this 'ecause my kids just discovered podcasting. It is this thing that we can do together. This particular one which is called This Podcast Has Fleas tells the story of a dog and a cat who live in the same house and have competing podcasts.  Waffles the Dog Hi everybody. I am Waffles. This is Dog Talk a podcast by a dog.  Jad Abumrad They both have podcasts. Everybody has podcasts this days. Why why would pets be any different? Let me  you a tease a small soupcon of what you can expect from this series. This is a moment when Waffles the dog walks into the mud room-  Waffles the Dog All right we have arrived at the mud room.  the door.  Jad Abumrad ... And discovers that she is not the only pet in the house with a podcast.  Jones the Cat One two three   Waffles the Dog Loyal listeners the cat is sitting in his litter box. He has a microphone and headphones and a big electronic thingy with a lot of buttons on it. He is doing a podcast! Well  I do not care. I am sure it will not be any good.  Jones the Cat Live from the Litter Box.   Jones the Cat Cat lovers this is Live from the Litter Box and I am Jones the cat coming at you with a show so hot it just might explode. Thanks to all you cat lovers who downloaded my hit new single featured in last week's episode. Let us hear a little bit of it now.  Jones the Cat   Jad Abumrad Jay Pharoah Saturday Night Live alum plays the cat. Emily Lynne plays the dog. Alec Baldwin plays a goldfish.  Jad Abumrad If you have kids if you do not do not check it out. It is called This Podcast Has Fleas from WNYC studios. You can get it wherever you get your podcasts.  Jones the Cat Hey! You are pretty good at that Jaddy McDaddy.  Jad Abumrad Thank you.  Jones the Cat And I gotta say I just love your show. It is an inspiration! You sure you are not a cat?  Jad Abumrad Yeah.   Oh wait you are listening .   Okay.   All right.   Okay.   All right.   You are listen-   ... listening-   ... to Radiolab. From-   WNYC.   C?   Yeah.  Jad Abumrad I am Jad Abumrad.  Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich.  Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab.  Jad Abumrad So okay so this one this one I think you were not around for the first time I did it.  Robert Krulwich I was not. I was gone for... But I but then I listened afterwards.  Jad Abumrad You hate-listened.  Robert Krulwich I hate-listened is not that great? I hate-listened. And then as is often the case I sort of reluctantly became your like-listener.  Jad Abumrad Aw that is the nicest thing you have ever said to me.  Robert Krulwich  Thanks.  Jad Abumrad No so this one is a uh it is a you know I... Me I am a music nerd right?  Robert Krulwich Yeah. You are.  Jad Abumrad This is a story about um the weirdness of creativity and a piece of music that frankly I had studied in school but which unites two people across space and time in a really bizarre way. It is a kind of rhyme.      Okay so um I can bring in another chair-     Jad Abumrad First story begins in the 1980s in Vancouver British Columbia with a woman named Anne Adams.    thereafter-  Jad Abumrad Who by all accounts was a brilliant cell biologist.  Robert Adams Oh yes and was highly articulate.  Jad Abumrad That is her husband Robert Adams.  Robert Adams You know extremely capable with language. She did cancer research. She actually developed a cell line that I believe still exists.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Robert Adams So she was very sharp.  Jad Abumrad He says that as a scientist she was a natural but then rather suddenly at the age of 46...    and uh about-  Jad Abumrad Anne kinda did a 180.  Robert Adams Something happened in '86 which changed the course of her life.   Jad Abumrad It all started when their third son Alex gets into a really bad car accident.  Robert Adams And we were told that he would probably never ever walk again.  Jad Abumrad Anne decides she is going to take some time off to help him recover and he does. He does learn to walk again but while at home she just decides to quit. To quit science and become a painter.  Robert Adams Yeah. Anne made up her mind then and there that she was gonna take up art full-time.  Jad Abumrad Had she ever painted before?  Robert Adams Well she did a fair amount of it when she was in high school.  Jad Abumrad Which was a very long time ago so the whole thing struck him as kind of out of the blue. But he rolled with it and uh within a short period of time she would converted a room in their house into a studio and she was painting-  Robert Adams Houses and buildings little churches.  Jad Abumrad Simple at first but then after that-  Robert Adams Brightly colored versions of what you see when you look down the barrel of a microscope.  Jad Abumrad You know cells bacteria. After that-  Robert Adams Strawberries.  Jad Abumrad A series of paintings involving these blazing red strawberries.  Robert Adams For instance a water faucet and out of it would be coming a stream of strawberries.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Robert Adams There was things called strawberry universe where the strawberries had rings around them like Saturn and so on.  Jad Abumrad Oh wow.  Robert Adams And I think there were something like 35 or 36 strawberry paintings.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Robert Adams But then she would switch to something else.  Jad Abumrad Even after their son had fully recovered-  Robert Adams Even threw away his crutches and went back to school.  Jad Abumrad ... Anne kept on painting.  Robert Adams And she would work all day long.  Jad Abumrad 10 hours a day making these paintings that got bigger and bigger and more abstract. And there were times he says when he was like-  Robert Adams Wow .  Jad Abumrad Because for someone who had not painted since high school she was suddenly-  Robert Adams So prolific.  Robert Adams And uh it is entirely possible that something was happening to her even then.  Jad Abumrad Way below the surface. I mean on the surface she was just painting and it was working. People were buying the paintings. She was having solo shows. She was becoming a successful artist.  Jad Abumrad But then in 1994-  Robert Adams She decided... I do not know what gave her this idea ... I never knew what gave her any of her ideas. But um she decided she was going to do-  Jad Abumrad A painting of well this.  Robert Adams Bolero.  Jad Abumrad Bolero.  Robert Adams Yes yeah. Bolero.   Jad Abumrad Robert says he is not quite sure how it happened but at some point that year Anne heard this famous piece by Maurice Ravel became obsessed could not stop listening to it. Then playing it on the piano. Then deconstructing it mapping every pitch in the melody in the bass to a color.  Robert Adams Here's uh here's one page which is not very long.  Jad Abumrad This is from her notes.  Robert Adams She is got A silver. A-flat copper. B leaf green. B-flat metallic green. C   Jad Abumrad Eventually the painting.  Robert Adams It was quite a large work. Two panels side-by-side. Very electric colors.  Jad Abumrad A blizzard of symbols and triangles and little tooth-type things with marks on them that all mean something and rectangles marching-  Robert Adams Back and forth across the first panel.  Robert Adams There was a triangle in the bottom of each one of the rectangles and the height of the rectangle represented the loudness.  Jad Abumrad It is an incredibly obsessive translation of the music into visual language. And just like the melody in Bolero the symbols repeat and repeat and repeat obsessively getting bigger and bigger and bigger until at the very end of the second panel things unravel.  Robert Adams By the way her title for the painting was Unraveling Bolero.  Jad Abumrad And that unraveling turns out it happened before.  Robert Krulwich When we come back we are going to um we are going to explain what we mean by a rhyme. Will not have to explain it. It will just rhyme.  Emily Villani Hello. This is  from Austin Texas. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  Robert Krulwich Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radiolab is supported by Audible. As we explore this story of obsession creativity and strange symmetry between a biologist and the composer check out This is Your Brain on Music The Science of a Human Obsession available on Audible.  Robert Krulwich Both a cutting-edge study and a tribute to the beauty of music itself This is Your Brain on Music unravels a host of mysteries that affect everything from pop culture to our understanding of human nature. Go to audible.comradiolab or text Radiolab to 500500 for a free 30-day trial and a free audiobook.  Robert Krulwich Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radiolab is supported by Casper. As we continue listening to this Unraveling Bolero episode on creativity and symmetry check out the Wave mattress with a premium support system that mirrors your body shape or the Casper with a breathable design and supportive memory foam.  Robert Krulwich Get your Casper mattress delivered to your door in a small how-did-they-do-that-sized box. You can be sure of your purchase with Casper's 100 night risk-free sleep-on-it trial. Right now get 50 towards select mattresses by visiting casper.comradiolab and using code radiolab at checkout. Terms and conditions apply.  Jad Abumrad Jad Robert Radiolab. Getting back to our story. Uh we heard Anne's story uh about painting the strawberries and then painting the painting of that piece of music.  Robert Krulwich And now we are going to tell you a different story.  Jad Abumrad Different time different place different person...  Robert Krulwich But strangely rhymed.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. Story number two. Well okay should we jump in?  Arbie Orenstein Yeah please.  Jad Abumrad This is Arbie Orenstein.  Arbie Orenstein Professor of music at the Aaron Copland School of Music at Queens College.  Jad Abumrad He is written about Ravel performed Ravel talked to anyone who ever knew Ravel.  Arbie Orenstein Uh he kind of is a what shall I say a kind of a living presence inside my head.  Jad Abumrad So okay Maurice Ravel is a composer obviously one of the greats.  Arbie Orenstein Born in 1875. Papa was an engineer. Mother was from an old Bosque family.  Jad Abumrad As in she was Spanish?  Arbie Orenstein Yes.  Jad Abumrad Which is why uh some of his music like Bolero does sound a bit Spanish.  Jad Abumrad In any case mom encourages him to study music. He goes off to Paris in the 1890s meets Claude Debussy and together they sort of invent this style of music which we now call Impressionism which was this kind of-  Arbie Orenstein Free-floating almost dreamlike sensuous a lot of colors.  Jad Abumrad Very flowery.  Arbie Orenstein Yes.  Jad Abumrad But then like Anne  Ravel makes a kind of shift.  Arbie Orenstein 1928-  Jad Abumrad When he was 53 about the same age Anne was when she did the painting-  Arbie Orenstein Ravel is having an absolutely phenomenal year.  Jad Abumrad Just toured the United States performed for thousands.  Arbie Orenstein He is at the zenith of his creativity.  Jad Abumrad And he is back in France at a beach house-  Arbie Orenstein Wearing a pink bathing suit.  Jad Abumrad And story goes right before he steps out onto the beach this melody swoops into his head. He runs over to the piano-  Arbie Orenstein Takes his index finger and he goes da dun-dun-di-dun-di-dun dun dun-dun-dun. There it was.  Jad Abumrad It just came to him fully-formed?  Arbie Orenstein Well he... I do not know if he played the whole melody but he at least started it off.  Jad Abumrad But here's the shift. When he sat down to flesh the whole thing out instead of developing the melody making it super flowery like his other stuff he decided No I am not going to do that. I am gonna take this melody and repeat it again and again and again. And then again some more. And then some more.  Arbie Orenstein The theme never changes one note.  Jad Abumrad The only thing that does change is the orchestration which grows around the melody.  Arbie Orenstein Very slowly.  Jad Abumrad Bit by bit it gets bigger bigger.  Arbie Orenstein More accompaniment. More instruments play the melody.  Jad Abumrad But the melody itself for 340 bars never varies to the point he says where the performers-  Arbie Orenstein They are ready to see a psychiatrist by the time they are done playing this piece. And Ravel at the first performance in Paris some woman screamed out He is crazy!  Jad Abumrad Which turned out to be well not exactly true but in the neighborhood. Six years after he wrote Bolero this is 1933 Ravel begins to forget words. He would always been forgetful so no one really noticed at first. But then one day at dinner he grabs the knife by the wrong side.  Arbie Orenstein And he does not realize it.  Jad Abumrad And he continues to try to eat.  Arbie Orenstein Holding the sharp side of the knife and trying to cut with the handle.  Jad Abumrad Then he visits a friend leaves-  Arbie Orenstein Not two hours go by knock on the door it is Ravel again. He did not remember that he would been there before.  Jad Abumrad Just two hours earlier.  Arbie Orenstein Eventually-  Jad Abumrad By 1935-  Arbie Orenstein He could not write any more.  Jad Abumrad Or speak. His language had evaporated. Arbie says there are documents where you can see Ravel desperately trying to relearn the alphabet.  Arbie Orenstein A... A... A... A... Over and over again.  Jad Abumrad Wow.  Arbie Orenstein B... B... With a kind of a shaking hand very small. It is very very painful to see.  Robert Adams Whatever it was that was wrong was getting worse. And uh   Jad Abumrad Here's the weird symmetry. Just like Ravel six years after finishing her Bolero...  Robert Adams By 2000 I would say she was becoming   Jad Abumrad Anne also begins to forget words.  Robert Adams She would try to say things and could not. She would try to find words and could not.   So how are you today?  Anne Adams Fine .  Jad Abumrad Eventually Anne ends up at the University of California San Francisco.  Robert Adams And this was in 2002. And they gave her a bunch of tests.   Can you tell me your your full name please?  Anne Adams Anne  Adams  Jad Abumrad There is a video of one of these tests and in it you can see Anne sitting at a table in a black sweater gray hair glasses very composed.   And can you tell me your address?  Jad Abumrad Like someone who is used to knowing the answers to questions that people ask her.  Anne Adams 4 um 23...   Which town?  Anne Adams Um which town?   Mm-hmm .  Anne Adams Vancouver.   Great.  Anne Adams Mm-hmm .  Bruce Miller By the time Anne had come to see us her communication abilities were markedly diminished.  Jad Abumrad That is Dr. Bruce Miller. He is a neurologist. He runs the Memory and Aging Center at UCSF.  Bruce Miller Example we asked her uh to describe uh-   Okay Anne I would like you to take a look at this picture.  Bruce Miller A very complex rich picture with-   Take your time.  Bruce Miller Children with a kite with a sailboat on the ocean.   And please tell me what you see. And if you can please try to speak in sentences.  Bruce Miller Anne would be able to say single words with no grammar. She would go sailboat.  Anne Adams Tree.  Bruce Miller Boy.  Anne Adams Um...  Bruce Miller Water.  Anne Adams People.  Bruce Miller Kite.  Anne Adams Kite. Flag.  Bruce Miller And uh that four or five words would come out over about a minute's time. She was very frustrated.  Jad Abumrad Both Anne Adams and Maurice Ravel were unraveling in the exact same way at the exact same speed to the same soundtrack you might say. But just roughly 60 years apart.  Bruce Miller We think he and Anne down to the very molecular process had the exact same disease.  Jad Abumrad And he thinks Bolero the music and then the painting in both their cases was the first symptom of that disease.  Jad Abumrad This takes a couple of steps to explain. Bear with me.  Jad Abumrad But to start the disease is called frontotemporal dementia and it is... It begins when certain cells in your frontal cortex which is sort of above your forehead begin to wither away in some cases literally leaving holes in your frontal cortex. And we know this about Anne from tests and brain scans. We suspect it about Ravel because according to Arbie just before he died-  Arbie Orenstein On December 28th 1937-  Jad Abumrad A French surgeon opened up his skull and saw...  Arbie Orenstein That one of the lobes of the two lobes of the brain had sunk.  Jad Abumrad Because it was disintegrating.  Jad Abumrad Now in both of their cases the part of their brain the part of their cortex that got hit was on the left. It was the part of the brain that does a lot of things has a lot to do with memory but most importantly for our story this is the part of your brain that largely governs language. And what you see is that people who suffer from frontotemporal dementia they lose their words. They can no longer string words together.  Jad Abumrad And here's the thing about losing something like language. It has all kinds of other effects in the brain because according to Bruce our brain is a series of interconnected circuits. And when in a normal brain a dominant circuit like language turns on it is basically wired to turn a bunch of other circuits off. It basically goes Shh to other parts of the brain.  Bruce Miller  We have this constant dance where one circuit or many circuits turn on and then they are obligatorily turning off other circuits.  Jad Abumrad So language acts as a kind of brake on other things that the brain can be doing like daydreaming thinking in pictures.  Jad Abumrad But when the language is no longer there to hold things back often what happens is that those other parts like say the visual parts can rush forward. And suddenly the mind is just flooded with images and you hear reports of people having these intensely visual experiences they- they have just got to express.  Bruce Miller This is very common. We see a number of patients who become visually-obsessed.  Jad Abumrad He says he sees you know investment bankers who have never shown any interest in art-  Bruce Miller Never even walked into an art museum.  Jad Abumrad All of a sudden they decide in their 50s Well I am going to move into a loft take up painting.  Bruce Miller That is right.  Jad Abumrad How many of these cases have you seen?  Bruce Miller 50 60. Uh some of them have sculpted some of them have painted.   Jad Abumrad He is said he is seen people talk up gardening graphic design and what so many of the cases have in common is that the sort of visual creativity that bursts forth it is not the free-flowing kind. It is very mechanical.  Bruce Miller The repetition the obsession.  Jad Abumrad They get stuck in a kind of loop taking one visual idea and doing it again and again and again like an Anne Adams painting or...  Jad Abumrad Bolero.  Bruce Miller This uh drive to repeat happens very early in the course of this illness.  Jad Abumrad So he says what can seem like a simple creative choice to repeat a melody may actually be driven by a condition that you will not even know you have for six years.  Bruce Miller We think that this had something to do with the very unusual rhythmic repetitive sorts of music that Ravel produced.  Jad Abumrad I asked Bruce so why the repetition? Where does... Where does that come from?  Bruce Miller Um...  Jad Abumrad And um-  Bruce Miller I think this is the release of uh of   Jad Abumrad He says that we do not really know.  Bruce Miller ... programs so I I think that   Jad Abumrad But he offered up a theory which I find fascinating which may get to the root of creative obsession of any kind.  Jad Abumrad He says there might be several parts of the brain that are held back by the language circuit and one of them is this very ancient part of the brain.  Bruce Miller The basal ganglia the part of the brain we move with   Jad Abumrad You can call it our reptile brain. This is the part of us that uh governs you know basic behaviors like eating running.  Bruce Miller Motor programs that uh we uh do repetitively every day.  Jad Abumrad It is all it does. It send commands saying Move move eat eat run run. Birds and snakes get by with basically just this part of the brain. It keeps them alive.  Jad Abumrad Now normally he thinks the language part of us-  Bruce Miller Inhibits these habits these repetitive motor programs that   Jad Abumrad But when the language part of the brain is not there to do the shushing these motor commands filter up too.  Jad Abumrad So imagine you are one of these people. Your mind is flooded with all of these images maybe sounds. It is also flooded with all of these kinetic repetitive instructions. Move move move do it again and in the early stages of the illness you still have enough brain to make sense of it all.  Bruce Miller There is still a lot of cortex that is still available to act upon this desire to repeat.   Jad Abumrad And so you get art that is obsessive and repetitive but also beautiful and abstract like Anne's painting Unraveling Bolero.  Jad Abumrad But then Bruce says as the disease progresses and more of that sort of cortex-y human-y part fades away-  Bruce Miller The repetition becomes much simpler.  Jad Abumrad In the latter stages of a disease he says you will often see patients-  Bruce Miller Pouring water into a cup 100 times in a day squishing ants over and over again. The complexity of the behaviors are diminishing as we are losing these uh parts of the brain that make us so human.  Jad Abumrad This is sort of what you see in Anne's work. Her paintings start off simple explode into abstraction and then get simple again.  Jad Abumrad But what is unusual compared to the other patients is that she kept painting almost all the way to the end.  Robert Adams Until literally it was not possible for her to to hold and direct a brush or a pen.  Jad Abumrad That is her husband Robert again.  Bruce Miller Anne became progressively paralyzed on the right side of her body.  Robert Adams She lost the ability to paint 2005 early. And that that that was sad.  Jad Abumrad Towards the end he says he would go into her studio.  Robert Adams And I would see her there-  Jad Abumrad In front of a blank canvas.  Robert Adams And she would not be doing anything. She would just be looking at it. And I would come back a couple of hours later and she would still would not have done anything.  Jad Abumrad Hmm.  Robert Adams She had lost the ability to do the art.  Jad Abumrad And that to me is one of the I dare say beautiful parts of Anne's story. That the drive to create is as primal as anything else in the body. That even after she could not eat after she could barely swallow she still sat there in her studio trying to paint.  Robert Adams She had gone downhill so far by that time that uh that uh she was hardly recognizable as as herself.  Jad Abumrad At some point in the disease and you can see that in this early tape painting was really all she had.  Anne Adams I I do not have the the memories of this.   Okay.  Jad Abumrad It was basically all she was.   Can you tell me what your job is? Are you are you still working?  Anne Adams Uh I do art.   Great.  Jad Abumrad She died in 2007?  Robert Adams Yes in January of 2007.  Jad Abumrad Almost exactly 60 years after Maurice Ravel.  Jad Abumrad Thanks to Robert Adams Bruce Miller at the University of California San Francisco and Arbie Orenstein at Queens College.  Robert Krulwich Well that is a song that is not... That is that is that is that is a piece that is not  gonna stay the same.  Jad Abumrad Mm-mm . It is funny I used to think of Bolero as like a happy jaunty tune and now I am like Oo it is kinda haunted.  Robert Krulwich It is an interesting sort of uh paradox that this thing ends on. She sits in front of her canvas ferociously stalls.  Jad Abumrad Hm.  Robert Krulwich Uh I mean both of... It is the ferocious part. Th- Th- That creativity comes from a kind of restlessness and the restlessness may be one of the things that leaves last.  Jad Abumrad Yeah. All right speaking of leaving we should go.  Robert Krulwich Yep.  Jad Abumrad Thanks for listening.  Mitch Letto Hi this is  from Kalamazoo Michigan. Radiolab was created by Jad Abumrad and is produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Maria Matasar-Padilla is our managing director.  Mitch Letto Our staff includes Simon Addler  Becca Bressler Rachel Cusick David Gebel Bethel Hobte Tracie Hunte Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Malissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Amanda Aronczyk Shima Oliaee Jake Arlow and Reed Canaan.  Mitch Letto Our fact checker is Michelle Harris.  Robert Krulwich Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radiolab is supported by Audible. Check out This is Your Brain on Music both a cutting-edge study and a tribute to the beauty of music. Go to audible.comradiolab or text Radiolab to 500500 for a free 30-day trial and a free audiobook.  Robert Krulwich Hi I am Robert Krulwich. Radiolab is supported by Casper. Check out the Casper or the Wave mattress with a support system that mirrors your body shape. Get a 50 towards select mattresses by visiting casper.comradiolab and using code radiolab at checkout. Terms and conditions apply.  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.