Back on one of the early episodes of our radio show I had my friend Vertamae Grosvenor come on. Verta was this amazing cook. She wrote a cookbook in 1970 Vibration Cooking that is still in print today. And Verta had this story that she would tell sometimes that back when her book was published she was interviewed on the Today show by Barbara Walters who was on the show back then. And the way Verta told this story she is on TV making fried chicken for Barbara Walters. And at some point Barbara Walters asked her how do you tell the chicken's done? And Verta says you can tell by the sound. And in Verta's telling Ms. Walters gives her this skeptical look like give me a break and cuts to commercial. Verta said that was always people's reaction. They say you are crazy Verta. That is not it. They said tell me something real like what is it? 15 minutes 20 minutes or whatever. And I say you have got to listen to the sound of the grease. Listen to the music. So for years Vertamae claimed that you can tell if a chicken's done purely by the sound. And to prove the point she agreed to come onto our radio show to conduct this little radio experiment where my co-workers and I fried a chicken. and we recorded it at four different stages of frying and then shuffled the order of the recordings to play for Verta to demonstrate once and for all was it true? Can somebody tell if a chicken's cooked without any visual clues without smell? OK and so here is me playing the four recordings for Verta and her trying to pick out which one is the chicken when it is finished. Let us roll. And our listeners at home can play along with us here. Let us roll the first little sample sound.   I would say-- Yeah? I would say that is something like the middle. OK. But that definitely is not towards the end you are saying. Yeah it is in the middle going toward the end. It is in the 34 part. OK let us hear sound number two please.   Number two is toward the end too. OK number three.   I think that is the beginning more toward the beginning. That is more toward the beginning. And number four?  That is an ender. That is toward the end. OK. When all those little balls are forming on the bottom those little nice crusty-- Now Verta if you would have to hazard a guess as to which one would be the very last one-- I would still say it is one or two that is toward the end. The answer is number two so Vertamae came reasonably close. But she was not totally certain. Telling if a chicken is done only by sound turned out to be harder than she thought it to be. Yes it was hard. You have to see it. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. Oh it is a serious-- it is a labor-intensive thing. You have got to stay on it. You just cannot be talking on the phone and watching TV. You got to stay on that chicken. I was asking your daughters today and they were saying how they can also tell if rice is done by the sound. Oh yeah that is true. Yeah I taught them that. Those are the kind of family values I taught my children. Listen to the sound of the chicken.  You know? Listen to the sound of the rice. Vertamae died four years ago. And so I have to say it got to me a little listening to this next part of the interview where she talks about her daughters and how happy it made her to hear what they said about her. You talked to both of them? I talked to both of them.  They were both really funny. One of them said Everything that she cooks is golden brown and perfect perfect perfect. Who said that? I believe it was Chandra. Really? But she said But just because we are her daughters that does not mean that she tells us the real recipes. We ask her for the recipes and she tells us recipes. But then when we cook them they are not the same and we know that she is holding back on ingredients. Well that is not quite true. But you know--   Well now I just tell them. But then they have to find out the rest for themselves. There you go. You see what I am saying? As with so many things in parenting. I say I put a little ginger in. Now I am not going-- then they have to figure out how much a little ginger is. Yeah. That is what they have to do. Food of course really is everything. It is family and it is culture and it is tradition. It is improvisation and it is art. And today on our show for Thanksgiving weekend we put together a show made of stories we have done over the years about food. In every one of these stories somebody heads out on a quest either to figure something out or to do something very differently with food than most of us do. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Dead Ringer. So a few years back one of our producers Ben Calhoun set out on a mission much more eccentric and labor-intensive than figuring out if a chicken is done by listening to the sound. Here he is. I first heard about this whole thing in an email. It came from a listener a woman named Emily Rancer. She works in the food industry. And the letter Emily wrote was about a story she would heard from a farmer. The farmer who told her this is apparently a person of some standing in the pork industry. And admittedly I do not know the first thing about the pork industry. But he is in charge of a pork-producing operation that spans several states. The story he told Emily went something like this. A while ago he was visiting a pork processing plant in Oklahoma. He is walking through it with a friend a guy who managed the plant actually. And at some point he saw boxes stacked on the floor labeled artificial calamari. He stood there wondering for a second. And then he asked his friend what is artificial calamari? Bung his friend replied. It is hog rectum rectum that would be sliced into rings deep fried and boom there you have it. OK if I can let me just narrate for you what this would mean. It would mean that in restaurants everywhere right this second people are squeezing lemon wedges over crispy golden rings and dipping the rings into marinara sauce and they are eating hog rectum. Now they are chewing satisfied and deeply clueless. It is payback. It is payback for our blissful ignorance about where our food comes from and how it gets to us. It is amazing and it is perfect. But it also seems like it could not possibly be true. So I called up the farmer to talk to him personally I wanted to hear it firsthand. And the farmer confirmed the story the entire thing-- the boxes the bung. But when I asked him to go on the record to tape an interview and give his name here on the radio he very politely declined which seems suspicious right? When I asked him why he said he would spoken with his girlfriend about it and she suggested that he should think about the words that he wanted to come up when somebody googled his name. This was all fine though because he referred me to the real expert the guy who gave him the tour of the hog processing plant. And that guy he agreed to talk.  Hello? Hi. Is this Ron? Yeah. Yeah this is Ron Meek meat processing plant manager presently residing in Mountain View Missouri where he runs an organic beef processing plant there called Beyond Organic. If the story really were true Ron would have been the guy who explained to the farmer what was in those boxes. The boxes are 10-pound boxes. And they were all-- they cut off so much like maybe a 10 or 12-inch piece of the bung. And you know what it looks like? This looks like-- after they are cleaned and washed and everything they just look like a bunch of big noodles in a box is all it looks like. But specifically the labels that said imitation calamari where did you personally see the imitation calamari labels? Oh I have never seen a label say that. That is all I was told by the people that told me that. The people I worked for they told me that. Oh the people that you worked for told you that it was used for imitation calamari? Right. And is there any possibility that you think that when they were explaining this to you that they were kind of having you on a little bit? Having me on? Yeah like-- Bull- me?  Yeah. Well I would not think that. But you know it could be 5. It could have been that you know? But I seriously doubt it. OK just to give a little better picture a pork bung-- and bung is the actual industry term for it-- is long and floppy and ugly. At one end it widens out into this more bulbous shape like a pink wrinkly pear. That is the rectum. At the other end it narrows into a soft pinkish-white tube. I know. It sounds gross. But also consider we are a nation that eats more than a billion pounds of sausage every year-- billion with a B. Maybe you like liverwurst or capicola or summer sausage with a natural casing. Then you like me have eaten bung-- stuffed dried bung. A lot of brats and Italian sausages are stuffed in intestine. So if you eat those regularly you pretty much live up the street from bung. So why does the idea of a fried ring of bung just feel grosser? Well partly it is the visual right? When you see that little ring of calamari you do not want to picture it in the context of a pig's behind. Then there are all the people who do not eat pork period. Ron said there is also another reason. Just because of the word bung probably. People do not just want to jump up and say man I am going to eat me some bung tonight. That is just the way it is. But the big question the question you have been thinking about since we got on this topic have you or I eaten imitation calamari bung dressed up as seafood? Well Ron did not know. He said his plant exported a lot of their bung to Asia. But he just did not know much about whatever happened after it left the door so he could only speculate. Anything he said would be a wild guess. So I turned to people who would know. Is pork bung being falsely peddled as calamari? I called the USDA. The USDA's food inspection service issued the following statement to me. Products we inspect including those derived from pork must be accurately labeled and cannot purport to be a product of another species. So it is against the rules but people break the rules. A recent study of seafood by a group called Oceana used DNA testing and found that all across the country fish is regularly being labeled as other species in restaurants and in grocery stores-- escolar sold as white tuna Pacific rockfish being fraudulently sold as snapper. In Miami more than 30 of fish was being sold as something it was not. In New York the number was 39. Boston 48. Los Angeles-- are you ready? 55. 55. That means if you order fish in LA you are most likely eating a species you did not order. In other words seafood substitution is rampant in this country. And depending on where you live from what I can tell you can get cleaned hog bung for about half the price of clean squid. So there would be money in it if you could pull off the switch. And as best as I can tell were you to do this you would not be caught. A lawyer who is familiar with this area of law and regulation told me once bung leaves the plant there is a variety of agencies and entities that would be in play-- USDA FDA state and local government. But ultimately he said the regulation we have is not designed to catch an offense like this. It is aimed mostly at sanitation and food safety. So bottom line the lawyer said if somebody wanted to do it chances are they would get away with it. So is someone out there doing this? Well for weeks I looked for an answer. The USDA says they have never heard of anyone trying to pass pork bung as squid or any other species.  I contacted the National Restaurant Association the National Pork Producers Council the National Pork Board-- Hello? --a squid fishermen's association-- Good afternoon National Pork Board. --Sysco and other big food and restaurant supply companies. It is hog what? Bung. Hog rectum. Oh my gosh. That is the executive director of the California Wetfish Producers Association. But the answer was pretty much always the same nobody had heard of it. But almost to a person they added that that does not mean it is not happening somewhere. Ron Meeks said a lot of the bung from his plant got exported. So my next call was to the US Meat Export Federation which confirmed that quote The main destinations for pork bungs are China Hong Kong Japan Taiwan Korea and the Philippines. They are mainly used for processing but we are aware of some uses in soups and certain entrees. We are not aware of them being used as a substitute for calamari but it is not impossible unquote. So over the past few weeks I have called Asian food suppliers people who live in work in and eat in those countries. I talked to a woman named Corinne Trang who is written an overarching compendium of Asian cuisines. I have talked to academics at NYU and Haverford and USC and Harvard. I have reached out to chefs who know Asian food. The answer again always similar-- never heard of it but it is possible partly because bung does not have such a complicated reputation in Asia where it has to be some kind of secret ingredient like it does here. On the other hand though people pointed out that in Korea and Japan you cannot get more than a few hours from the ocean. Squid is cheap and it is readily available. You would only eat a substitute if you wanted the substitute. Generally people said if the switch was happening somewhere they guessed China. Eventually I found my way to this guy who I was really excited about someone who I thought might have my answer. He was-- get this-- an anthropologist who lived and worked in China for 40 years where he studied food and specifically meat. When I talked to him though he made two points. Point one my question about this happening in Asia was racist. Even just asking the question was racist because it plays on ignorant stereotypes about other cultures eating things that we perceive as weird. Point two was that Ron Meek my guy from the pig plant Ron was pulling my leg. And he was getting away with it because I was a dumbass. He told me more than once that I should quote find something worthwhile to do with myself. When we ended our conversation he told me that he was refusing to even dignify what I was doing by appearing on the radio or by letting me use his name. OK so to respond to his points one by one first am I racist against Asians? Well I am half-Chinese. My mom's Chinese. Like anyone I have had the occasional issue with my mother but this has not been one of them. We grew up eating chicken feet and fish eyes and I think it is possible to raise the question of who eats what without being racist. His second point though that Ron Meek was pulling my leg-- the guy was still an expert on meat in China. So I called Ron back. All right shoot me some questions dude. I told him the whole thing about the anthropologist about what he said. I guess the only thing I want to ask you is are you messing with me? No. That was what my boss told me. I was like what the hell do we save these hog bungs for? He says they use them for imitation squid and stuff like that. But so in your heart of hearts you believe it. Yeah man. I as not going to set here and tell you things that are bull- and play with you when I am just going off of my knowledge of saving hog bungs. You got to think about how far advanced slaughterhouses are especially big ones that want to make every penny count. Like the one I worked at you bring the pigs in. You stun them then you stick them. And the blood goes off into a trough. And it goes down and it is vacuum sucked out of there with a vacuum into centrifuges. And they separate the blood from the blood plasma. Mhm. And they save that. They save the lungs. They save the pancreas. They save the spleens. They save the hearts. The only thing left by the time it is all said and done is a skull and jaw bones. You can be an anthropologist all you want. If you do not work in a processing plant you do not know . I contacted the plant Ron worked at where this happened. And for what it is worth they backed him up. They said their sales team had heard of people eating pork bung as imitation calamari though they had not witnessed it firsthand or heard it directly from a customer. It was all hearsay. So at the end of all this I still had no proof that anyone was passing off bung as squid. Then I realized I had not asked the more basic question here. Could bung do it? Could it pass as calamari? And that question led me to a guy named Eddie Lin. Eddie Lin has eaten a lot of bung. At least a hundred times he said probably more. Eddie has an extreme food blog called Deep End Dining and an online TV show called Kamikaze Kitchen. I could definitely see a resemblance texturewise. Oh really? Yeah yeah definitely. They are sort of a rubbery texture sort of like a calamari. Huh. But you would really have to get rid of that needless to say foul flavor and odor from the bung. Somehow I had not figured that the bung once it was scrubbed and rinsed and cleaned with steam that it would still taste like-- you know. So yeah you would definitely have to do some major major blanching  or brining. I meant brining yeah. Mhm. Just to try to leach those flavors out of there. Yeah those flavors have been marinating in that pig for quite a while so-- A lifetime. Yeah.  He thought it would not be easy but he thought it could be done. And there was only one way to tell if he was right to cook up some bung and eat it. And if the taste was overwhelming and the texture was all wrong well then I would have my answer. And at this point-- I will be frank-- I started to root for the bung. I realized that this is not a story about fraud. It is not a bait-and-switch story. It is a story about possibility. It is classic rags-to-riches. It is about whether a cut of meat perhaps the lowliest most malignable cut of meat in America might somehow in at least one place on the planet be dipped in the redemptive oils of the great culinary equalizer that is the deep fryer. And it might emerge transformed no longer an outcast but instead hair combed clean shaven in a suit and tie it might walk reborn onto a table. Through shear force of resemblance it might be loved. Its history years of drudgery and hardship doing the body's least glamorous job all washed away. No this is not the story of a conman like Bernie Madoff. It is Pretty Woman. This is whether Goodwill Hunting finds his way out of Southie. It is whether Charlie on that very last chocolate bar really can get a golden ticket. To do all this to try it I called my little sister Lauren. She is a chef trained abroad at the Cordon Bleu. Worked at Michelin star restaurants. She is that kind of chef. Soon we were standing in front of a deli case. And I do not know why I feel hesitant about saying this because I do not think it is racist. It was in Chinatown. Pork bung there it is. Look at it. It looks like the sphincter. Wait. What do you mean it looks like a-- This one up here that is cut up it looks like a butt hole.  It does. And Lauren had theories about pulling it off-- brining soaking maybe braising. But once we got to the store once she would seen the meat up close her doubts got worse. I think after looking at it I do not think that-- I do not think it is going to-- You do not think it is going to work. No. It is too thick. There is too much-- there is too much like muscle tissue. It is too thick. You would have to use a ring cutter to make it the right thickness. What do you think those bits are in there? Oh you know poo. My sister said Eddie Lin was definitely right. The giveaway would be the stubborn flavor of poo. That flavor she said it is tough to get rid of. The Earth revolves around the Sun and bung will always taste like . But there was no backing out now. We would eat. We would eat our way to the truth. And so what if it did not look good? So what if bung was destined to taste like bung? You know who it did not look good for and he still put up a fight? Rocky Balboa that is who. This was it the bung versus calamari squid versus tail the rumble in the bung hole. We set up the tasting at a restaurant in the lull between lunch and dinner. In the dining room there was just a few tables eating. And all around the restaurant the morning shift was wrapping up as we walked in with a red cooler filled with squid and hog bung. So originally I would recruited some half a dozen people from our office at This American Life as tasters. The final group the day of the tasting included from the office Seth Lind and Brian Reed. So when is the last time that you guys had calamari? I had calamari probably like a month ago. And what about you Brian? I have not had it since we got this tip about the possible-- Oh my gosh. Have you been avoiding? Yeah no totally. And to be honest I ate calamari pretty-- I am a regular eater of calamari. Not like all the time. But it is something I will routinely order if it is on an appetizer menu. Yeah. I grew up in an Italian-American family where my grandparents were also born here. I feel like calamari is just big among that sector of people at Olive Garden and stuff like that. So I just grew up eating it you know? I had not realized this. For weeks Brian had been avoiding calamari. He would been living in fear. Brian if you find out that they are indiscernible from each other will you ever eat calamari again? No I do not think so. That is why I want to do this just to know going forward. Back in the kitchen things were looking bad. I would given up on the idea that bung would taste the same as calamari. Now I would hung my hopes on the idea that at least visually it would look the same. But as my sister dropped the floured rings of hog bung into the fryer they had turned into this kind of big ugly tangled wad-- nothing like the jiggly squid rings. Oh they are very scraggly-looking. But then as if by a miracle they changed. My sister gave a shake to the fry basket. And as they sizzled the bung just seemed to gracefully snap into rings. Oh look at that though. It is like magic. They are turning into circles. Yeah. So I am going to pull these first ones. Soon we were face to face with the plate. On it there were two piles of rings similar in size similar in shape. The bung had more of a frizzly edge to it kind of like a fancy onion ring. The calamari was smoother. I asked Seth and Brian to just give a first impression. I have a guess. But I could-- it is one the things where you are pretty sure but you could totally be wrong. God I thought I would be more sure. I do not-- I am waffling now. It is kind of just I do not know. My gut reaction-- my gut reaction is that this was calamari and this was not. OK before you eat it see I totally thought this was calamari the other one. OK. So I am going to do it at the same time. All right. OK so just to be clear what is going on here Seth has chosen one pile of rings which he thinks is calamari. Brian has done the same thing only Brian is choosing the other stack of fried rings. OK so we are about to bite into these simultaneously which we both think this is calamari. But they are the opposite ones. But they are the opposite ones. OK.   So in actuality Seth is right. Seth is eating calamari. The chewing you hear from Brian's mic that is the sound of a calamari lover eating fried pig rectum. I should also add there were actually two varieties of bung on the plate that day. One bung that my sister had blanched over and over to mellow any organy fecal flavor and then untreated straight-up bung unfiltered unchained uncut 100 pure bung. That one the latter one bung at its purest at the height of its bunginess this is what Brian was eating. As they ate Seth still looked confident. I think that was-- I think I was right. I think I was right. Really?  Yeah. I totally think I was right. Game set match bung. And it was not just Brian. I thought so. Damian who manages the restaurant he also thought it was passable. A few of us picked up a faint flavor of pork rind. But if you were not really looking for it you would not notice it was there. One of the restaurant staff a guy named Ethan Van Buren had the simplest clearest explanation. I think that when you slice something up really thin and deep fry it it is going to taste like something that is been deep fried. If a plateful of the bung came out how many people do you think would even-- do you think you would notice if you were in that setting? I would say top scenario is somebody says this calamari tastes funny and keeps eating it. And as for Brian-- oh Brian-- Brian was reeling a bit trying to figure out just what this was going to mean for him. I am sure I have been fooled in the past. I am just like sure of it. Oh you are thinking that you have been places in the past and you have had bung? I just imagine seeing a plate with this food that looks like this on it sitting with my family growing up. We definitely have eaten something that tasted like this and just thought it was calamari for sure. Not only was not he sure if he would ever eat calamari again he did not want to eat the calamari on the plate in front of him calamari I guaranteed him was real. Just to repeat one last time I have no proof that anyone anywhere has ever tried to pass off pork bung as calamari in a restaurant. All I know is if you wanted to do it it would be easy. And I am choosing to believe that it is happening somewhere because at some point in working on this story I stopped identifying with Brian and anyone who might feel ripped off or grossed out by getting imitation instead of the real thing. Now I identify with the bung. And I would like to think that somewhere out there right now under a heat lamp a platter is sitting. It is warm and it is full of promise and transformation and redemption. That is the world that I will choose to live in for me for you for the bung for the bung in all of us. Ben Calhoun is one of the producers of our program. Ladies and gentlemen before you swear off calamari forever please please notice that Ben is only saying that it is possible that this is happening that he did not find actual documented proof that pig bung is being substituted for calamari abroad or especially here in the United States. Coming up cooking chicken for dinner right in front of the chicken who is your pet who you live with who watches you do it. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program turkey and a face mask. For the holiday season this unusual COVID Thanksgiving when so many things about the holiday are different we put together a show with stories about food that we have done over the years. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Still Life with Chicken. So Jonathan Gold was a kind of legendary food writer invented this way of writing about restaurants that treated hole-in-the-wall places and street food with the same seriousness that other restaurant critics had always written about fancy places. This led to a whole genre of food writing and TV shows like Anthony Bourdain. And before he died in 2018 Jonathan was on our show a couple times. And this interview that I want to play you now it was one of those conversations that just-- it ended in a very different place than it began as you will hear. It ended with him talking about-- I do not even know how exactly what to call it-- but the nature of eating. But it began with Jonathan explaining to me how he ended up living with a chicken. He explained that that happened by accident. When he was in his 20s he was not living the kind of life one usually associates with chickens. This was during the period when I considered myself to be a performance artist of sort-- a naked performance artist to be specific. He was putting together a performance. He had a PA system which could put out the requisite amount of annoying feedback sound at high decibels. He had the two full bottles of Glade American Beauty air freshener which he would spray in their entirety in the performance space. And he had a live chicken which he bought the day before the performance from one of those Chinese poultry markets in Los Angeles. And comes the day of the show an audience gathers in a darkened warehouse in West LA. I do not know if you have been to a lot of performance art but this was sort of really typical of the stuff that was going on in the period. And I showed up. And I was naked. And I was carrying a machete. And I was blindfolded. And I stood in the middle of this pile of supermarket chickens like the broilers that you buy. And the chicken that I had bought was tethered to a 3-foot rope around me. And I hacked up and down blindly with a machete. Toward the chicken or just in general? Well I was blindfolded so I did not know if it was towards the chicken or not. And I had fully intended that in fact I would kill the chicken in the midst of the performance. But chickens are not that stupid. And this chicken wanted no part of the machete. It stayed at the end of its rope the entire time apparently. And after 10 minutes when I was completely exhausted I fell to a heap. And everybody laughed and the performance was over. I do not know if you have stuck around after an art performance. But the few minutes after an art performance are some of the most depressing in the world. How so? You have done your wad. You have done your sort of bid for art which has either worked or it has not. But you are sitting there. You are covered with chicken eflluvia in my case. It stinks to high hell. Everybody's gone. And you have got to clean up. And you are naked.  It is really not a pretty picture.   So Jonathan cleaned up. And when he was done he had a chicken. And he did not feel like he could kill the chicken. Destiny had brought them together. He felt like he could not turn his back. He says it was the same as if a kitten shows up on your back door scratching and lonely needy. So he took the chicken home. And in doing that he stumbled across that thin thin line that separates food items on the one hand from pets on the other that divides the animals we eat from the animals we love. So I get home and I have this chicken. And I do not know what to do with it. So I spread out some newspaper on the top of my refrigerator and I put the chicken up there. I get a can of Green Giant-brand niblets from under the counter and I open it. And I put it in a little bowl for the chicken. And I give the chicken a little water. And the chicken's on top of my refrigerator. Because you think chickens eat corn-- you had read that or something-- and that was the available corn. That was the available corn. I wish I had thought better of the niblets idea. Why? Because in fact if you are buying three or four cans of niblets a day which is what the chicken ate and you are existing on almost nothing which I was then your niblet bill turns out to be like some two-figure percentage of your total income each week.  If you imagine living on 50 a week but 10 of it goes for niblets.  It is just hard to justify an expense like that. Though at the remove 15 years I think I can probably safely admit to you now that one of the reasons that I stuck with niblets is because I like saying the word niblet so much.  And this gave me the excuse to use the words like niblet in general conversation several times a day.  Usually it just does not come up. And the chicken stayed there on top of my refrigerator for a long time-- months. Six months I think. Is this like a one-room apartment? A two-room apartment. I had a kitchen and a bedroom. So I did not have to look at the chicken when I was sleeping though I did have to look at it when I was cooking. Did you ever cook chicken? Of course I cooked chicken. Did not you feel intensely disloyal? No I felt no particular loyalty to this chicken. I do not know if you have ever had chickens but it is not like-- you do not pet chickens. Chickens do not really like you to pet them and you do not hold them. There is really no love that you feel for a chicken in your life I do not think. But yet you kept the chicken. I kept the chicken because I could not bear to do anything else. And it is not like I could have carried it out onto Pico Boulevard and said be free little chicken. Be free. Did you give the chicken a name? I never named the chicken. When I referred to the chicken in public I always called it the hen. How did you not name it? It was a creature in your house. The chicken always seemed temporary. It never occurred to me that I might have the chicken as long as six months. The chicken always seemed like something that I would have for just a couple days. And then what did you think was going to happen? I guess I thou