Reggie Richardson and his identical twin brother Ronnie went to grade school and high school together. They were roommates in college and track stars together. They trained as educators together taught fourth grade classes side by side were assistant principals together and finally this fall achieved something they would dreamed of together since they were teenagers-- they became co-principals of a school Claremont Middle School in Oakland California. And what is that like? Well one recent morning I was talking to Reggie in his office when Ms. Champion the administrative assistant called on the walkie-talkie. This is Mr. Richardson. I have Orion's mom on the phone and she says it is urgent. Is she on the line now? Yes. Do you want to transfer me? OK which Mr. Richardson is this? Reggie Richardson. OK thanks. Copy that. Turns out to be an incredibly handy thing having your identical twin as your co-principal. They handle things the same. They know how each other thinks. They look the same. When kids arrive in the morning or leave in the afternoon they both wander around the grounds. And there is this feeling of omnipresence. Here's Reggie's brother Ronnie. What is powerful about having two of us is that even the teachers and the students are like wow he is everywhere. I turn this corner he is there. I turn this corner he is there. When I first came I did not know they were twins and I needed help finding my classes. So I seen one by the stairs and then I walked down the hallway and I seen another one. Like they were at too places at the same time and I thought it was one person. And I was like what? To afford two principals the school has no assistant principal. And mostly the two brothers just pass things off perfect surrogates for each other. Ever wish you had a second you to help you with your kids or your job at work? That is every day for these guys. Something comes up for Ronnie and he cannot meet with a parent he just tells Reggie to do it. The morning I was there a group of parents and kids who'd be coming to Claremont next year was getting a tour. Ronnie was the one who was supposed to lead it. Which he did at first. Good morning beautiful scholars. Good morning. His brother Reggie stopped into the library where the tour was starting said a few words. The plan was that his participation was going to be brief. But then when the bell rang Ronnie the one who is supposed to be leading the tour stepped into the hallway to monitor the change of classes which these guys do all day long. James? James. James. Can you please take your beanie off son? Thank you. And he stayed out there. Back in the library stuck with the tour group now his brother Reggie vamped. Um however in the interim I-- Mr. Richardson stepped out. You know we get real busy so he should be back. But I am going to split you in groups. If we have to do a large group we will do so. But he should be back momentarily. When Ronnie returned the two continued the tour together for a while and then Reggie ditched out leaving Ronnie. This swapping tasks back and forth happens all day long between them. And since they arrived at Claremont at the beginning of this school year everybody-- kids parents teachers-- all say they have made a huge difference. Claremont went through several principals last year and it was chaotic. Kids were roaming the halls when they were supposed to be in class. It was such a mess teachers say that it drove the kids' standardized test scores down. Now it is orderly thanks to the Richardsons. And among the students who they have taken a special interest in are a pair of twins from the seventh grade Faith and Hope who have been to the principal's office many many times since Hope transferred into the school this fall. Faith had attended here last year. Here is how Hope sees things. She is new in school and the person she knows best does not want her nearby. Well we use to share classes but she got hers switched so we do not share no classes now. She got hers switched so you guys would not be in all your classes together? She does not like to like really hang out with me. But yeah she got them switched to her best friend's classes. What'd you think of that? Uh I am used to it. They got along when they were little she says but now they are teenagers and it is different. So how did she start to act? Like more-- meaner. And like teenager-y selfish. That is why-- OK we get along at home but not at school. She likes to keep her space. Treated like that a person can act up try to get the other person's attention. Which Hope does. It is not so effective. I am always mad at her. Here's Faith her sister. She steal my clothes. She is like an instigator. When somebody's about to fight she runs back and forth saying stuff. And she takes jokes too far. And then she acts the fool everywhere she goes. Like she always bring attention to herself. I do not like that much attention so. And everybody thinks of us as one. Like everything she do they say why you all do that? They even think that it is me. And she is evil. Like I said she has anger issues. She is the meaner one. Everybody says it. The troubles between these 13-year-old twins definitely got the attention of the 36-year-old twins over in the principal's office. Because we kind of get offended. We got a little offended when they were-- we took it personal. It is something about twins that really because we are twins when we see siblings having issues and disrespecting each other in public we take it a little bit more personal. Reggie says that for a while the twin girls were in their office constantly with both brothers. And we were really talking to them about it. And Ronnie started it. Twin code. How to respect each other as sisters. Because when we hear like shut up. No you shut up. No you are ugly. No you are ugly. We are like whoa no. That is totally against twin code. Let us talk about this. Calm down girls. He said that we have a gift. This is Faith. Because not everybody gets to be a twin. And that we are breaking twin code by doing this stuff to each other. Wait what is the twin code? I do not know. And then we talked about you come from greatness. You are queens and kings. He would just call us kings and queens something something. I was not really listening. I appreciate that they trying to help. But I do not like her. So they said that we only have each other and all that so we should stick together. Like I try to do that with my sister but she does not really like that. Like I always try to give her hugs and say hi and stuff but she does not like that. She just does not want to be my friend so I just let it slide. That was Hope. Here's Faith. No I just think that it is not that easy 'ecause I gotta go to school with her and I gotta go home with her. I gotta walk home with her. I gotta see her when I wake up when I go to sleep. And I do not like her. Oh that is some improvement. Ronnie says that a few months ago they were not saying I do not like her. They were saying I hate her. He says that whatever they told me in the interviews whatever they might think they are doing better. Because they are not in the office with us every day. They are in class. They are making strides in their academics. And this is coming from their teachers saying wow. In November the girls even wrote them a letter thanking them for all the time and help they would given. And for better or worse the brothers have come to see themselves in these girls. They really want them to be closer someday. And the only question in our interview where they disagreed was-- does it matter if these two girls ever get close? First here's Ronnie. Personally I think it does not matter as long as they are happy in their individual lives. Do you think it matters? I think it matters that they remain-- I think they should stay close. I think that-- he is breaking twin code right now.  No but I respectfully disagree. Why does it is matter? They are each other's pulse. And whether they believe it or not yet I see that as they get older they are really going to need each other. Of course he is the one who sees a twin in his life as his pulse. And today on our show we have people who feel this very aggressive kind of empathy seeing their lives in somebody else's life seeing somebody else as their surrogate. One of our stories today is about a man who did some terrible terrible things who apparently lots of people related to. The other story involves a scandal that shook Washington for decades a scandal involving sex power cabinet positions and-- here's a word I do not get to say very often-- petticoats. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Petticoats In a Twist. So this is not the kind of Washington sex scandal that we are all used to. There is no presidential candidate president or congressman caught doing whatever. There is no mopey press conference with his wife by his side blah blah blah. The sex scandal that we are going to talk about now was one of the first sex scandals of the American presidency. It was during Andrew Jackson's time in the 1820s and '30s. And it affected the course of the entire country in surprisingly large ways. Sarah Koenig tells what happened during what is become known as the Petticoat Affair. It all began with a pretty young innkeeper's daughter named Margaret O'Neale or Peggy as she was called. According to accounts written at the time Peggy O'Neale was a fox. Cherry-lipped perfectly proportioned white skin thick dark curly hair a firm round chin. She also had very blue eyes. That comes from other accounts. That is Nancy Tomes who teaches American history at Stony Brook University in New York. She had an education. She spoke French. She danced like an angel. She played the piano. She performed in front of First Lady Dolley Madison who was smitten with her. So clearly she was not a yahoo. But she was crossing class lines and that made her suspect among the ladies of Washington. And then this unfortunate business with Justin Timberlake did not help her. Surely his name is not Justin Timberlake. No.  Did I just say that? Oh that is awful. Oh. His name was John Timberlake not Justin. Sorry. Oh ho ho I have an eye trained for opportunities like this. A lonely sailor a pretty little tavern girl moonlit night? That is the first time John Timberlake lays eyes on Peggy at her father's boarding house in Washington or at least how Hollywood imagined it in the 1936 movie called The Gorgeous Hussy. Will you drink? Thank you. To Miss O'Neale sir in whom I am more interested than ever. Peggy marries John Timberlake very young. She is only 17. He is a purser in the Navy which means he has to go away on long trips all the time leaving his very young flirtatious wife back at her father's boarding house where all kinds of important men especially politicians stay while Congress is in session. She tends bar and does things women did not usually do-- in particular talking politics hanging around with the guests-- while Timberlake is at sea. And while he was away she came under the friendship of another older man a senator from Tennessee named John Eaton. Took a big interest in the young couple. The husband had debt problems and he tried to help with them. The old let-me-help-you-with-your-debt-problems routine evidently works. Gossip starts flying that Peggy and Senator Eaton are too intimate that they are consorting. Then Timberlake dies at sea. He cuts his own throat in fact. Maybe because of his debts. Maybe rumors had it at the time because of Peggy. And rather than mourning her husband for the customary year or two Peggy the Widow Mrs. John Timberlake becomes Mrs. John Eaton just eight months later. This is not done. It is outrageous. There is even talk that prior to the marriage Peggy had become pregnant and had a miscarriage or even an abortion. The society ladies of Washington are thoroughly scandalized. Remember women cannot vote yet. They are not in politics. They are not even allowed to make public speeches. But that does not mean they are silent especially these Washington wives who are exposed to the workings of government. These ladies in Jackson's time they controlled social life judged who was moral and who was not. That is how they influenced their powerful husbands. One of Peggy Eaton's biggest critics was Floride Calhoun the wife of John C. Calhoun the vice president-- so she was the vice president's wife-- from a very aristocratic South Carolina plantation aristocracy. And she was the one who first made it clear Peggy Eaton was beyond the pale. She was not going to return her call. That was the way you conducted war among the petticoats is someone came to pay a call on you and then you did not return it. And that in the etiquette that was evolving in this era was tantamount to a full rejection. To a full cut. And what Floride Calhoun did the other ladies fell in line and also cut Peggy Eaton. Refused to acknowledge her socially. The job of good Christian women at this time was to improve the United States by making sure their husbands and children were model citizens rational and virtuous. So it is not just that people disapproved of Peggy Eaton or were jealous of her as that she was seen as a danger to the Republic. She might lead their leaders astray. We have been forced to take this stand for the salvation of the morals of our homes. Again Hollywood. We realize that her sphere of influence is great. But we demand that she be removed from that sphere and expelled from our community. All this was of course painful for Peggy Eaton. Or at least it sounded really painful for Joan Crawford who played Peggy Eaton in The Gorgeous Hussy. I have humiliated myself. I have called knowing they were at home to be told they were not. I have ignored insults lies gossip. Their blue blood curdles in their veins at the very mention of the hussy. Oh they do not know anything about you Peg. Enter Andrew Jackson freshly elected President of the United States. Peggy Eaton's personal life will soon envelope his administration. Jackson was a proud emotional frontier politician with a famous temper. He would been orphaned by 14 or 15. Both his parents and his two older brothers had died. But he makes his way to Tennessee becomes a successful lawyer and landowner and slaveholder-- not to mention a military hero. And he manages all this without family connections. So he is fiercely loyal to his close friends and political allies including John Eaton. So Eaton's trouble with the petticoats become Jackson's troubles with the petticoats. Having a virtuous wife was considered part of a test of a man's character. And by that test Eaton had failed. Now here's where it gets interesting. By supporting Eaton Andrew Jackson gave his enemies the ammunition to question his morality. Jackson was not going to stand for it. He would just been through a similar battle involving his own beloved wife Rachel. The presidential campaign of 1828 had savaged Andrew and Rachel Jackson. Anti-Jackson campaigners supporters of John Quincy Adams portrayed her as a backwoods pipe-smoking hayseed with low morals to boot. Rachel had been in an unhappy marriage prior to her marrying Andrew Jackson. But it turned out that the second marriage happened before her first one was technically dissolved unbeknownst to the Jacksons. When they figured it out they actually remarried. Nevertheless the anti-Jackson party launched a smear campaign. There were lengthy pamphlets newspaper articles saying Rachel was a bigamist. How do we know she is his wife?  Your Rachel as not fit for the White House. So Jackson was accused of being unfit for the presidency because of his relationship this unfortunate legal muddle with Rachel Jackson. She was so distraught over the charges that she withdrew from private life. Get me my pipe Peg. One little puff cannot do no harm. The doctor says no Aunt Rachel. No more pipe-smoking. This is an ailing Rachel Jackson hunched in a rocker wrapped in a dowdy shawl confiding in Peggy. We do not know whether Peggy really called the soon-to-be President and First Lady Aunt Rachel and Uncle Andy as she does in the movie. But apparently the Jacksons had met her at her father's boarding house and had liked her. Peg these womenfolks around here are going to make it awful unpleasant for you just like they did for me. Watch out for 'em honey. She eventually had a heart attack and died soon after his election. And he always blamed the gossip for having killed his Rachel. At her funeral he said May God forgive her murderers as I know she forgave them. I never can. Their gossip killed my Rachel Peg. Their lying scummy tongues killed her just as sure as if they would stabbed her with a knife. That is Lionel Barrymore playing Andrew Jackson. And I swear now by her memory they will never do it again to anyone I love. Not so long as I have got one breath left in my body to stop 'em with. So here's a man he is in deep mourning. All the descriptions of him he arrives as president in 1829 just broken-hearted. He wants to make Eaton who is a very close friend of his part of his cabinet. And he is told by the Washington insiders do not do that. This Peggy Eaton affair it will cause you all kinds of problems with the ladies of Washington and their husbands as well. And Jackson is incensed. This really strikes chords of what had happened to his own wife. He was going to defend Peggy Eaton as he had defended his wife as he expected any Christian gentleman to defend the honor of the woman he loves. And that among the members of the cabinet created a division. Did you side with the Calhouns in rejecting Peggy? Or did you side with Andrew Jackson? The surrogacies of this thing are dizzying. Peggy is a surrogate for Rachel. Jackson is Peggy's surrogate fighting this fight on her behalf. And the scandal itself? Jackson sees it as a proxy for his struggles with hoity-toity enemies who are trying to beat back the progress of our country-- our young perky outspoken immigrant country that is a lot like Miss Peggy O'Neale. Jackson of course does appoint Eaton his Secretary of War. And as the power couples of Washington publicly snub Peggy Eaton now a cabinet wife at the inauguration and at administration parties Jackson proceeds to try to clear her reputation. He gathers testimony about her behavior collects affidavits argues with church leaders about it berates his cabinet members who will not accept her innocence. He is president of the United States and he becomes Peggy Eaton's de facto defense counsel. He becomes obsessed. But he cannot convince his administration. Except for Secretary of State Martin Van Buren almost no one sticks up for Peggy. By all accounts he spent an extraordinary amount of time during his first term collecting information and haranguing people about Peggy Eaton. Eventually the cabinet becomes dysfunctional. This led to the resignation-- in some cases voluntary in some cases forced-- of almost the entire cabinet. They could not resolve this issue. Eaton resigned. Van Buren resigned. I hereby ask of you and accept your resignations. But-- but this is without precedent in the history of our country. Our country is without precedent Mr. Calhoun. But by the eternal I am going to have justice! Do you understand the word? Justice! Now git. Essentially Jackson started over again. He did eventually replace the cabinet. Was there any talk at the time that Jackson's obsession with this that he was a little off-kilter or he was just crazy? Why is he jeopardizing his entire government over defense of this woman? Or did they see it as well we have got to get our loyalties straight or we cannot function as a government anyway so this is sort of part of the purging? It seems crazy. Yes. I do not think there was the same level of awareness. It is the historians who have gone back and looked at the amount of time the number of letters that he wrote that in retrospect it is clear how obsessional he became about this. At the time I think it was seen more as this is partisan politics and that it was viewed as a faction war. American politics was in transition Nancy says from a party system that was more elite-dominated to a party system where the vast majority of white men could vote whether or not they owned property or were well-educated. Politicians who want to get elected need to do this new thing-- engage the masses. Engage their base. And they found-- then as now-- that these kinds of moral issues engaged the base. In fact at the time it was seen as an issue of the elite Eastern seaboard against the up-and-coming West. It was the common man against the aristocrats. Peggy was a woman of the people. Andrew Jackson was a man of the people. To focus on this kind of trivia this gossip to allow the gossip of these Washington matrons to trouble the president was a sign of this elite aristocracy creeping in. And that was completely unacceptable in the new republic. It had to be rooted out. Jackson himself he saw this as a conspiracy on the part of the Adams party to destroy him. And thus by defending Peggy Eaton he is really defending himself. The person he is largely defending himself against is his own vice president John Calhoun. Remember it is Calhoun's wife Floride who led the society women against Peggy. John Calhoun and Jackson were fighting about other things too not just Peggy. A hugely controversial tariff for instance in 1828. It is a tariff on imported goods that Southerners like Calhoun see as putting the South and especially his home state of South Carolina at a disadvantage to the benefit of Northern manufacturers. And as their personal fight over Peggy Eaton spirals out of control as Calhoun gets increasingly angry at Jackson he starts agitating for the right of South Carolina to protect its own interests even to secede if necessary. Then South Carolina tries to openly defy federal law. In 1832 it declares that federal tariffs will be null and void within its borders. It is the Nullification Crisis. It is one of the biggest challenges of Jackson's presidency. That same year Vice President John Calhoun quits. Calhoun once he resigns he goes back to South Carolina. He is elected to the Senate and as a senator becomes the architect of the states' rights philosophy in the South. Jackson as a Southerner is sympathetic to states' rights. But when push comes to shove he sees the Union as the top priority and faces down Calhoun in the Nullification Controversy. It is a major major rehearsal for the Civil War. They eventually reach a compromise so South Carolina does not secede. But Abraham Lincoln took a great deal of inspiration from Andrew Jackson's position. The Union-above-all position that Lincoln would eventually have to adopt as well. Wow. Yeah. So Peggy Eaton saved the Union.  Yes Peggy really gave us the red white and blue and-- That is why you and I are sitting here today. That is right. The big winner in all this-- besides the Union of course and Joan Crawford-- was a man whose name has undoubtedly been on the tip of your tongue-- Martin Van Buren. He became the next vice president and after that the next president. Not John Calhoun who'd been widely expected to take over. Once he resigned as vice president Calhoun's aspirations were finished. No it was Van Buren the only member of Jackson's cabinet who'd carefully strategically supported Peggy Eaton during the Petticoat Affair who understood that it was in his own interest to break Washington social protocol and pay a visit to Mrs. Eaton. To knock on her door. 30 years after the Petticoat Affair in 1860 a journalist named James Parton published a biography of Jackson. Chapter 23 was titled Mr. Van Buren Calls On Mrs. Eaton. Parton wrote quote The political history of the United States for the last 30 years dates from the moment when the soft hand of Mr. Van Buren touched Mrs. Eaton's knocker. Sarah Koenig. I do not know what you just think you heard right there but she is one of the producers of our show.  Coming up a teenager tries to understand why her dad wants to adopt a 27-year-old ex-con into the family. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This  American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program Surrogates. People standing in for other people substituting in all kinds of situations. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Maul in the Family. This is a story where a bunch of people including the father of the person who is going to be telling the story see themselves in somebody who did some truly truly awful things. A warning-- if you are listening with kids or have sensitivity to such things this story has some violence in it. On the positive side there is also a brief appearance by Neil Patrick Harris. Amity Bitzel tells the story. When I was 16 my parents adopted a 27-year-old man. Not long after he moved in NBC broadcast a made-for-TV movie based on his life called Sudden Fury-- A Family Torn Apart. It was about his life before we adopted him. My entire family gathered in our living room to watch. Neil Patrick Harris played the character based on my new brother. It opens with him a teenager in a big suburban house making a phone call.  Annapolis Police. Hello? I am sorry I cannot hear you. I think my parents are dead. When the police arrive at the house it is a gruesome scene. His father is in the basement covered with blood stabbed to death. His mother's outside in her pajamas lying face-down in the yard. She is been both stabbed and bludgeoned. In the movie they call my adopted brother Brian though his name was really Larry Swartz. And in the film as he becomes the main suspect his lawyers confront him. Listen Brian we have a little problem. The police do not believe your story. They think you are lying. Like how you got blood on your shoes and why you did not hear anything on the night of the murder. How do you explain that? I cannot. Yes you can. Yes you can. I cannot. Tell me what happened. I cannot.    He would not stop hurting me. He would not stop hurting me. He would not stop. My sister and I sat on the floor as the film played. Larry the real person my new brother who killed his parents sat next to my mom and dad his new mom and dad on the couch. Everyone acted calm.  The movie did a pretty good job of portraying what actually happened. A warning-- this next half-minute or so of my story gets graphic. He would repeatedly stabbed his father and his mother with a kitchen knife and bludgeoned his mother with a maul one of those big wood-chopping things that looks like an axe. The movie does not include this but when the police found Larry's mother's body she was naked. Larry's lawyer told a reporter that Larry admitted to sexually violating her. When the end credits rolled we agreed the movie seemed over the top almost corny in that prime-time TV way. I remember somebody-- either Larry or my dad-- joking about how melodramatic it all was. It was a hallucinatory experience but also it was somehow utterly banal. Let us watch a movie about our adopted killer brother joke about it and then get ready for bed. Larry ended up in our family because about four years earlier my mother read the book the film was based on Sudden Fury by a reporter named Leslie Walker and gave it to my dad who read it also. Which was weird because he rarely read anything. He was never enthusiastic about a book. But he seemed to really connect with the story. And when my parents talked about the case and Larry they did not say oh who could do such a violent and horrible thing? They said how sorry they felt for him how he was a victim of abuse. Which he was. The book details Larry's troubled childhood starting with how his mother abandoned him as a toddler and follows him as he is shuttled through an uncaring foster system six families in all. One foster mother broke his arm. In several homes Larry showed signs of an eating disorder even sneaking food out of garbage cans. Larry's adoption by the well-meaning Swartzes was meant to give him the family he had longed for. But as time went on the Swartzes became controlling and emotionally abusive. After he read Sudden Fury my dad wrote a letter to Larry in prison. And for whatever reason Larry wrote back to my dad. Letters graduated to phone calls and eventually my father began driving several hours away to visit with Larry. The next thing I knew my dad told us that we were going to visit Larry together in prison as a family. He wants to meet you guys my dad told us. We were let into the visiting room. I noticed the other people sitting there and wondered if they were seeing murderers too. And then suddenly there was Larry. He and my dad hugged and then my dad pushed me to hug him as well. I did not want to but with my dad you did what you were told. I knew what Larry looked like from pictures in the book. Here he looked normal unassuming. Slight build big dark eyes with almost girlish lashes soft-spoken. We would brought Big Macs and fries and we sat there picking at food awkwardly. I do not think it could have been any more awkward. My little sister asked Larry if he had seen the movie Mermaids with Cher. We talked about what the weather was going to do. How do you girls like school? The thought that was running through my head during this prison visit that had been running through my head ever since I would first heard my parents talk about Larry was this. How could my parents feel so sorry for Larry and his terrible circumstances? Why did not they feel sorry for me? Because life with my father was miserable. In my house we lived by his rules rules that were fluid and shifting and terrifying. Something small and accidental could set him off in a rage. Maybe my sister or I broke a cup or slammed the car door too hard. Or maybe we had not even done anything at all. We would still be on the receiving end of my father's wrath. And once he started drinking we knew we were in for it. These episodes usually began the same way. First he would drink. Not even hard alcohol just beer. And he would blast music and sing loudly always Jackson Browne and John Cougar Mellencamp. To this day I have a visceral Pavlovian response to songs like Running on Empty. Then after his low-grade anger progressed into full-blown fury he might force us all into the family van and drive us around drunk for hours screaming and swerving the whole time. Or he might go into my sister's room and smash up every piece of furniture in it. He might brandish a rifle and threaten to shoot all of us. He might hit me or my sister with a belt. Worst of all he might wrap his hands around my mother's throat and strangle her as my sister and I tried to pull him away. I do not know why it never occurred to me to call the police during any of this but I never did. No one did. And things were not at this level all the time of course. Even on a good day though it felt like living in a child's version of war just waiting to see if the bombs would start falling and wishing you had shelter. By 1993 Larry was set to be released. He would originally had a 12-year sentence but three years of that were knocked off for good behavior. The judge could have given him two 20-year sentences for both of the murders but knocked it down to 12 years total which shows how seriously the judicial system viewed Larry's troubled upbringing. In the end he served nine years. For a while my parents had been talking about how Larry would have no place to live and nowhere to go. He would be on probation and he would need a job. My dad was worried that Larry would be eaten up on the outside that he needed guidance. How would he be able to forge a life for himself especially bearing that notorious name that had been on the news? The name of a convicted murderer? And so the decision was made that Larry would be formally adopted into our family. He would take our last name and he would live with us in our home. There was never a big discussion about any of this. As with everything else we were informed of the new plan by my dad after it had already been decided. I do not remember my mom saying much about it. That was how she was about almost everything a silent bystander. It is the right thing to do Dad said and so that was that. But it did not mean I was OK with it. I would gotten used to meeting with Larry in prison but the idea of him sleeping in the bedroom next to mine? That was a whole differ