From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. And today we have a big big story of money and politics. It begins with a humble voice now. This is Eleanor Norton Congresswoman Eleanor Holmes Norton. I noticed that you have given to other colleagues on the Transportation and Infrastructure Committee. I am a senior member a 20-year veteran and-- This is voicemail that Eleanor Holmes Norton the Democratic congresswoman from Washington DC left for a lobbyist in the fall of 2010. We do not know who the lobbyist is but from the voicemail we can infer that he represents a contractor who is working on the new Homeland Security complex being built in Washington DC-- a complex that Eleanor their Holmes Norton at the time had a lot of power over. I am handling the largest economic development project in the United States now the Homeland Security compound of three buildings being built on the old St. Elizabeth hospital site-- After pointing out that she is in charge of the project that he cares about she gets to the point. I was frankly surprised to see that we do not have a record-- so far as I can tell-- of your having given to me despite my long and deep work essentially in your sector. I am simply candidly calling to ask for a contribution. I am asking you to give to Citizens for Eleanor Holmes Norton PO Box 70626 DC 20024. This tape first surfaced on the Andrew Breitbart site Big Government. The source was the lobbyist and redacted his own name from the beginning of the tape. Eleanor Holmes Norton verified that it was real. She declined to talk to us for this program. This voicemail of a US congresswoman sounding a lot like a telemarketer is a peek behind a curtain that usually we do not get a chance to peek behind. It is a part of our political process that we all know exists-- the money gathering part-- but we usually do not get a chance to witness. Politicians usually do not like reporters and film crews present when they ask for cash. Most of them never want to talk about it with a reporter. But it is daily life for pretty much every member of Congress their staffs lobbyists. Phone I calls like this are happening all day every day. There are phone banks literally phone banks in offices in Washington DC where congresspeople are making calls like this one leaving messages just like this one. And do not just take it from me. Here is the second in command of the US Senate Dick Durbin Democrat from Illinois. I think most Americans would be shocked-- not surprised but shocked-- if they knew how much time a United States senator spends raising money. And how much time we spend talking about raising money and thinking about raising money and planning to raise money. And you know going off on little retreats and conjuring up new ideas on how to raise money. Well today on our program we will shock you. Alex Blumberg from our Planet Money team has joined forces with NPR's Congressional correspondent Andrea Seabrook to take us deep inside this world that is hidden in plain sight. The world of lobbyists and money and political fundraising. A world that we all hear about all the time but most of us never have seen up close. They talk to the people who need the money they talk to the people who give the money and they try to figure out what exactly the money buys. Also there is this little Supreme Court case you may have heard about Citizens United. We will talk about that as well. And we bring the old band back together-- McCain and Feingold here on the radio. Original cast no substitutions. Stay with us. Act One The Hamster Wheel. Alex and Andrea start off our hour at the spots where the money actually changes hands. The money changes hands in very specific places all over DC. There are townhouses whose sole function is to be rented out as venues for this. Dozens of restaurants do a booming business catering small parties in private rooms. And if you have an idea in your head of what a political fundraiser is-- I know I did-- get it out. It is not that super fancy black tie gala event you hear about like the one Barack Obama went to with the 30000 a plate dinner and Alicia keys performing. It is not that at all. These are much more mundane. Like this one here. Here's an invitation to one for Rep. Tim Bishop. He is a Democrat from New York. It is at a restaurant called Johnny's Half Shell. Costs you between 500 and 2500 to get in. The time? 830 in the morning. Breakfast. See? Not glamorous. A lot of these fundraisers happen at breakfast. Or at lunch like this one for a Republican candidate Steve Daines of Montana. It is at the offices of a big trade group in town. Maybe 15 20 people munching appetizers in a conference room. A congressional watchdog group called the Sunlight Foundation collects these invitations to fundraisers and puts them online. Sifting through them the same venues come up again and again. Lunch at the Capitol Grille dinner at Bullfeathers cocktails at the Monocle breakfast at Johnny's Half Shell. Now occasionally they do get fancy. You will see fundraisers at golf clubs or hockey games pheasant hunts-- yes pheasant hunts-- or at live events. For example this past week for 1000 you could join South Dakota Senator John Thune at a Van Halen concert. Now all of these events just happened. Just in the last week actually. Our analysis with the Sunlight Foundation data shows that in peak fundraising months there are at least 20 events a day. One lawmaker told us You could spend every day of the year raising money. And in fact some actually do. I am very proud of the fact that this year we have broken all records for our donor contributions to our fundraising efforts. And that enabled us to outraise the Republicans this year. This is Nancy Pelosi the top Democrat in the House. She is also the Democratic Party's number one fundraiser. Pelosi has raised hundreds of millions of dollars over the years. Close to 40 million in this election alone. How many fundraisers do you typically go to in a given week do you think? A lot. Yeah. Either on the phone or attending events. But I think they have said this year I attended almost 400 fundraisers in nearly 40 cities. That is 400 for the year 2011. That is more than one a day every day of the year Saturdays and Sundays included. Now we know from fundraising numbers and scheduled events that the leadership on the Republican side is working just as hard. We contacted all of them and no one would speak to us. Staff for the number two Republican in the house Eric Cantor said quote We will pass. House Speaker Boehner's staff said quote It does not sound like a good use of time. And there is one thing driving all this activity-- a gnawing relentless voracious need for cash. To understand that need consider Walt Minnick. Minnick is a conservative Democrat who represented a Republican-leaning district in Idaho. He was first elected in 2008 and after he won he took just five days off from fundraising. Then two months before he was sworn in as a congressman he was back raising money for the next election two years away. I needed to raise 10000 to 15000 a day and you only do it by elbow grease. Let us stop and dwell on that statement for a second shall we Andrea? 10000 to 15000 a day. The typical cost of a congressional race is about a million dollars-- although if you are challenging an incumbent you need more. Minnick's goal was even more than that-- 2.5 million-- because he was in such a competitive district. I would spend two or three hours a day as a congressman trying to raise money. That is typical for a member of Congress and most of those hours are spent across the street from the Capitol in special offices set up by the parties specifically for this purpose. Special offices because federal law prohibits lawmakers from making fundraising calls from their own congressional offices. Neither party is eager to let reporters into these call centers but we got a couple Democrats to describe what it is like in there. This is Oregon Congressman Peter DeFazio. If you walked in there you would say boy this is about the worst looking most abusive call center situation I have seen in my life. These people do not have any workspace. The other person is virtually touching them. Just counters on the wall with telephones and people eight inches away from you talking on the telephone. We sit at these desks with stacks of names in front of us and short bios and histories of giving. This is Senator Dick Durbin who says that on the Senate side they will have these things called power hours several times a week where a bunch of senators will go into the call center-- --and make these calls to people who are our faithful friends and ask them to give money or have a fundraiser. And then if we are fortunate enough we end up attending those fundraisers that we begged people to do for us. I mean that is part of the conversation. And this goes on and on and on. Where do the names come from? How do you decide who to call? The names come from a history of giving. And many of them-- it is hard for most listeners to believe-- really are not looking for much. They want their team to win. In this case the Democratic team. They do not ask for special favors. But there are exceptions. There are some who will not waste any time to tell you what they think is the most important issue in Washington as they talk about their donation. It is part of the reality of the life that I live. It is absolutely the most distasteful thing to do as a congressman or a senator or a candidate. Again Walt Minnick. You essentially wear out your friends and you wear out the people who are your natural supporters because if someone writes you one check or comes to a fundraiser they get on a list. And three or four months later you call them back again. And the best thing about being an ex-congressman is my friends now return my phone calls. Your friends started dodging your calls? They do what they can help. They are your friends. But after you have called them three or four times in an election cycle and they have been very generous they think enough's enough. And it is. I agree with them. And I hated to make those calls. Now there is an easier way to relieve some of that pressure and raise money faster. A way that does not involve tapping out your friends. Just go to the people who already have big stacks of money set aside to give to politicians-- lobbyists. A lobbyist can throw you a fundraiser. A lunch a Johnny's Half Shell or a cocktail reception at Bullfeathers. And so every week lawmakers and their staffs work the phones trying to find lobbyists to organize these events. Jimmy Williams used to get those calls. He was a lobbyist for the real estate industry for many years. A lot of them would call and say Hey can you host an event for me? And you never want to say no. Actually no. You always want to say no. In fact you always want to say no. But you could look on your phone with these caller IDs and you would be like really? I am not taking that call. Oh so you would dodge calls for fundraising? Oh yeah. Every lobbyist does. Are you kidding? You spend most of your time dodging phone calls. Oh yeah. This was one of the most surprising things I learned about this whole process. The way most of us generally think about it is absolutely backwards. We imagine the lobbyists stalking the halls of Congress trying to influence members with cash. But more often than not it is the reverse-- the member is stalking the lobbyists saying Hey can I have some of that money? And it is hard to say no Jimmy says. Especially to a congressman whose work and votes he cared about. So he would say yes and then he would have to round up a bunch of guests. That is why I call up my buddies down on K Street. From my buddy over at the credit unions or my buddy over at the insurance company or my buddy over wherever-- at the home builders. And I say Hey dude. I am going to do this event for this guy and he sits on the House Financial Services Committee. And do you guys have any money for this person? Is he in your budget? And the answer was usually Yeah yeah I got money for that guy. And so all right. So cool. So we will come up with a date and then we have this fundraiser. And it is a breakfast or it is a lunch or it is a dinner or a cocktail reception. And everyone comes and they bring their checks or they mail their checks in. And then you have it. We are talking thousands of dollars that the congressman will make in just an hour. And imagine what this is like for the lawmaker. For someone like Walt Minnick who has to pull in 10000 to 15000 a day. When his staff comes and says We have convinced this group of lobbyists to throw a fundraiser for you it is a relief. And my answer is Yes I will be happy to attend. And I get lots of those kinds of events too. I was on the egg committee and every egg group in Washington that wanted to host one of those kinds of events I would be pleased to go to. And if you walked away with 4000 or 5000 from that that was a half or a third of what you were supposed to raise that day. And that was easy money. That was a lot fewer phone calls you had to make that afternoon so. We were curious how exactly does the money change hands? Is it like handing the groom an envelope at a wedding reception? Does someone collect it at the door when you walk in? Are you supposed to be discreet or overt? The answer is all of the above. Some people pay with plastic. A lot of times there is actually a space on the invitation to put your credit card number. Sometimes you will tell a staffer Just put me down for this much and then you send the money in later. But some like financial services industry lobbyist Scott Talbott prefer a more direct approach. We have a policy that all checks have to be hand-delivered. So we have to go up and eyeball the candidate and talk to them and deliver the check. In rare instances we can mail the check but for the most part we want to be there as part of the delivery system. So you bring it with you. You have it in your pocket. And I have left it in my coat pocket many times. My wife has said What is this for this envelope? That has happened. But why is that better marshalling than just doing an electronic transfer? Well because it is the ability to help the candidate who is receiving contributions from multiple sources remember you the industry et cetera et cetera. Would not you remember if someone handed you a check versus just got it in the mail? Hell yes. Sure sure. Talbot says typically there is the person who works for the member of Congress there who is holding the checks. That person is called a fundraiser. Yup the event is a fundraiser and that person is called a fundraiser. Jimmy Williams picks it up with what happens next. You sit around and you have a conversation with the member who is seated at the head of the table or in the center of the table and everyone goes around and says I am Jimmy Williams and I am a lobbyist for the National Association of Realtors or whatever it is. And then you go and you say We care about keeping big bad evil banks out of real estate and we care about protecting flood insurance which is the flood insurance program which is great for coastal communities. But everybody does that so the insurance guy the lobbyist for the insurance industry he does that. And the lobbyist for the accounting industry she does that. By the way the fundraiser is standing in the room. And the fundraiser has 35000 in checks sitting in her pocket right now in her pocketbook. Oh and we are going to talk about public policy while we take the checks. Jimmy says that it is not like the check will buy a vote on a bill or even an amendment. But to get in front of the lawmaker to make your case at all you need that check. People we talked to in this system said everyone understands the rules. You are going to cut checks from your PAC your political action committee to get access to lawmakers. But they tell us the rules are rarely explicit although there are times says Jimmy Williams. Like when he took a couple of clients to one Congressman's office. They open up the door and the chief of staff said Can we talk to just you for one second and then we can bring in the two constituents? And I said Sure absolutely. Not a problem. Walk in they shut the door. The congressman is sitting behind his desk. He stands up he shakes my hand and says Hey Jimmy it is great to see you. And I said Congressman it is good to see you too. He said I have put in two calls to your PAC director and I have not received any return phone calls. Now why am I taking this meeting? And he held up a piece of paper with my PAC director's name highlighted in yellow on it with the dates and the times that he had called her to ask her for a campaign donation. And she had not returned his call. And then I thought to myself This is great. Because I have got two of my guys out here that are constituents of this congressman who are now going to come in here and they are going to make an ask of him to support a specific piece of legislation. And what he has done is he has warned me that if I do not take care of what my PAC director is not doing which is contributing to his campaign then he is not going to help my guys. Some members of Congress have a much easier time getting lobbyists and donors to call them back. Members whose positions in Congress give them more sway over powerful interests. A lot of that depends on committee assignments. Here's Jeff Flake a Republican congressman from Arizona. I can tell you the difference between the fundraising potential when you are sitting on the Ways and Means Committee or sitting on the Science Committee. There is a difference. There is a big difference. The Ways and Means Committee covers the US tax code. Who gets tax breaks who pays more. Every corporation in America concerned about the tax code-- which is a lot of corporations-- is suddenly concerned with your candidacy when you are on Ways and Means. The Science Committee cannot compete with that. Although Science is not the worst. Here's Walt Minnick. Well I do not know the worst committees. Government Reform Ethics. The leadership of both parties actually ranks each committee according to its fundraising potential. There are lists of the A B and C committees with fundraising targets for each one. Those numbers are not public-- many lawmakers say these lists exist but no one would give one to us. So we did our own list based on publicly-disclosed fundraising numbers. Lee Drutman a senior fellow at the Sunlight Foundation crunched data for us going back to the early '90s. And the math shows the best committee is indeed Ways and Means. Just getting on that committee earns you an estimated quarter million dollars more in donations than the average member of Congress. Number two-- no big surprise here-- the Financial Services Committee. It covers banks and Wall Street. It brings in 182000 more per member than the average. Third best-- Energy and Commerce which has jurisdiction over the oil and natural gas industries. If you are there you get a 142000 boost in fundraising. And as for the worst-- it is true Government Reform is bad. As are Education and Natural Resources. They all hurt your fundraising. Members on those committees bring in less than the average. But the very bottom spot belongs to the Judiciary Committee which covers the federal courts and judicial nominations. Just being on Judiciary costs you 182000 in donations. And then there is leadership. According to the Sunlight data having a leadership position on any committee-- even a dud committee-- will bump up your fundraising. So for example even the chairman of the Government Reform committee does very well bringing in about a half a million dollars more than the average House member. And if you become a chairman of a powerhouse committee an A committee like Ways and Means or Energy you pull in over 1 million more. Like Congressman Barney Frank. He became a leader on the Financial Services Committee in 2003 and saw his fundraising skyrocket. People would come to see me and pay for the privilege of doing that. But there is one catch to getting on a good committee or taking a leadership spot. Where much is given much is required Jeff Flake the Republican from Arizona says once you get on a good committee or become a chairman your party's leadership expects you to raise even more money and turn it over to them so that they can spread it around to members who are less fortunate. Ones in tight races who do not have such an easy time fundraising for themselves. Remember that list of the A B and C committees? Flake says leadership makes those targets pretty explicit. We were given dues and assessments. And if you are a senior member on committees that lend themselves to fundraising and you are either a ranking member or you are the chairman then you are expected to raise a lot of money. Or? Or when you come up every two years to either retain your position or move to another committee those things are certainly taken into account. Do they tell you this? I think that is implied. I think it is pretty well understood. Lawmakers of both parties told us that if you are on a good committee you regularly get called up in front of your party's leaders to go over your fundraising numbers. And let us say your numbers are not that good. You know there are other congressmen out there hungry for your spot trying to prove to the party leadership that they would do a better job raising money if they were in your position. And you can hear this pressure in the voice of Eleanor Holmes Norton. She is the congresswoman who left that voicemail we played at the beginning of the show. This is a part we did not play earlier. I am simply candidly calling to ask for a contribution. As a senior member of the committee and a subcommittee chair we have obligations to raise funds and I think it must have been me who has not frankly done my homework to ask for a contribution earlier. So I am trying to make up for it by asking for one now when we particularly need contributions. Particularly those of us who have the seniority and the chairmanships and are in a position to raise funds. And this brings us to the big question-- what does the money buy? What are corporations and special interest getting in return for the billions of dollars they spend lobbying each year? There tend to be two views on this. If you are cynical you think money buys votes pure and simple. Washington is owned. Money drives everything. But lobbyists and politicians will sometimes tell you the opposite. Money has no effect. After all they say there is always two sides and both are giving. Exporters versus importers bankers versus Realtors businesses versus unions. The money cancels itself out. When we asked Barney Frank about this he said both of those positions are caricatures. People say Oh it does not have any effect on me. Look if that were the case we would be the only human beings in the history of the world who on a regular basis took significant amounts of money from perfect strangers and made sure that it had no effect on our behavior. That is not human nature. On the other hand he says there are things that influence a politician besides money. If the voters have a position the votes will kick money's rear end any time. I have never met a politician-- I have been in the legislative bodies for 40 years now-- who choosing between a significant opinion in his or her district and a number of campaign contributors does not go with the district. And I have had people tell me-- and we talk honestly to each other we do not lie to each other very often. You do not survive if you do. As chairman of a committee I would be lobbying for votes. I have had members say to me Mr. Chairman I love you. Barney you are right. But I cannot do that politically because I will get killed in my district. No one has ever said to me I am sorry but I got a big contributor I cannot offend. But the fact is most legislation your district does not care about. The stuff that makes the news is a tiny fraction of what Congress actually does. They are deep in the weeds of tax law and business code and replacing the and in subsection b of title one with an or. Things most voters have no opinions on. The only people who do care or who even understand what that small print means are the lobbyists and the industries and interests they represent. Consider the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. This was a piece of legislation that lots of multinational corporations spent a lot of time lobbying for because it got them a huge one-time tax break. Some of the profits-- the profits they made overseas-- would be taxed at just 5 instead of the normal rate of 35. A massive windfall. This law caught the attention of a tax professor at the University of Kansas Raquel Alexander. She thought it might help her understand a pretty difficult question she and her colleagues had been considering. We know that people lobby for a reason but we have not really been able to quantify what is the return on their lobbying investment. With the American Jobs Creation Act Alexander and her colleagues finally got something that could help them add up the lobbying costs and benefits. They simply compared the amount that companies spent lobbying with the amount they saved on their taxes. They came up with a figure. A figure they called the return on investment for lobbying. Now for some perspective money in a regular old savings account you be lucky to get a 1 return on your investment. On the other end of the spectrum Bernie Madoff advertised annual returns of just over 10. If you want to come up with a big impressive-sounding lie a 10 return on investment is what you say. The return on investment to lobbying in the case of Alexander's study-- 22000. So for every dollar on average that these firms spend on tax lobbying they receive 220 in tax benefits from this repatriation provision. Were you expecting it to be that big? I was not. I was not expecting it to be that big at all. I thought I needed to go back and check my math again. So after the fifth or sixth time checking you were like well this is the number. After the 20th time of checking. In 2010 there was a total of 3.5 billion spent on lobbying. 3.5 billion. It is hard to imagine that every one of those dollars got a 22000 return. There are certainly companies out there that spend a lot of money and do not get what they want. They have just lost money. And it is not to say that the things they are lobbying for are bad public policy. There are lots of people President Obama included who think a lower corporate tax rate would benefit the country. Barney Frank and lots of others told us straight up a lot of times the lobbyist knows much more about your subject than you do as a congressman. You depend on their expertise and so you listen to their arguments. The problem is those arguments are accompanied by a large check. The other side of the issue-- you do not always hear from them. Again Walt Minnick the one-time congressman from Idaho. The fact that you get to explain your point of view because you are a big banker executive and that someone who is just a depositor in the bank does not have the time to come into Washington does not have the financial wherewithal. So you may not get that side of the view as well articulated. So you may end up voting the wrong way because you have not fully understood both sides of the story even if you do have integrity. Is there a time that you accepted a meeting and money with people that in retrospect you might not have? I had some meetings I was pretty uncomfortable at with the lender the payday-loan kind of lender. Some of the folks in that industry were a little unsavory. And they were funding your campaign? They contributed to my campaign. They are a big political contributor in Washington. And so that is an example of-- there were not any people who were applying for payday loans that came in to see me. The consumer side of that does not contribute a nickel. When he was talking about this Walt Minnick told us I think I was able to vote in ways I do not regret. That ambiguity it is built into the system. And now he is on the other side of it. After losing his reelection bid in 2010 he became a lobbyist. And he still has misgivings about the power of money and politics to frame the issues and set the agenda. Money in the political system helps explain why oil companies get big subsidies even while their business is booming. Why the federal government provides flood insurance for rich people to build beach houses in hurricane zones. Why corn syrup that goes in soft drinks gets federal subsidies and fruits and vegetables do not. It helps explain why the Defense Department paid two different companies to make engines for the Joint Strike Fighter. Why you can deduct the interest you pay on your mortgage but not the interest you pay on your credit card. It is why we have a system where even though we passed a comprehensive health care reform bill where it is still illegal for the federal government to negotiate drug prices. We pay-- old people young people people needing a new cancer drug-- pay eight or 10 times as much in America as they do in any other country. And that is directly a function of the amount of money the pharmaceutical industry has poured into congressional campaigns of members of both parties. That is our system. If a congressman went in front of a town hall meeting and said for 5000 I will sit down with anyone of you and have breakfast. You can tell me exactly how you would like me to vote. He would be booed off the stage. But that is the case for pretty much everybody in Congress. They do not even have to say it. Alex Blumberg is a producer on our program and on the Planet Money team. Andrea Seabrook is NPR's congressional correspondent. On the internet right now the Sunlight Foundation and Planet Money crunched numbers from over 13000 fundraising invitations. Put together an interactive map showing the most popular spots in DC for hosting a fundraiser charts listing the best and worst congressional committees for fundraising how many fundraisers over the years have been birthday parties golf tournaments and hunting trips. That and more is at Planet Money's website npr.orgmoney. Coming up how everything that you just heard is now changing. Changing in such a big way to give individual donors and corporations and unions way way more leverage thanks to the United States Supreme Court. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program Take the Money and Run for Congress-- stories about the moment that money is handed to a politician and what it buys. We have arrived at act two of our program. Act Two PAC Men. So everything that we described in the first half of the program-- the fundraisers the phone banks of congressmen asking for donations-- all of that right now is at this very moment changing dramatically. The way that money flows into politics is changing because of the 2010 Supreme Court decision in the Citizens United case. Citizens United lifted a bunch of restrictions on political spending. It opened the door for unlimited political spending by corporations and by unions. And it gave birth to entities called Super PACs. These funds can take again unlimited amounts directly from corporations unions millionaires-- anybody-- and spend it on politics. And because of the way the laws are written Super PAC donors can either temporarily or sometimes permanently keep their identities from becoming public. Meaning that people can drop millions into any given race. They can write commercials they can attack candidates and voters will never know who they were. A lot of attention has been paid to what this is going to do to presidential politics but where it is already having a big effect is Congress. Ben Calhoun tells how. Here's one pretty good example of how Super PACs are affecting American politics. Affecting the whole balance of money and influence. It starts in Northern California. Starts in the suburban congressional district around Sacramento. And it starts with this guy who was never supposed to win. Most folks thought you know what Ami? You cannot win this race. Ami Bera is a doctor a college professor and when he ran for Congress in 2010 his chances were pretty bleak. He was a Democrat in a midterm election where Democrats took a beating. He was a first time candida