Here's how it works. You are a doctor you help some patient and you want to get paid for it. So you have to choose a code that describes what you did to put on the insurance form. And it is an arcane language of its own with tens of thousands of codes. And just make things more confusing every insurance company interprets the codes differently. So even a simple procedure the simplest procedure giving somebody a shot can become fantastically complex if you want to be reimbursed for it by insurance. Take the new swine flu vaccine. The American Academy of Family Physicians put out a guide for physicians on how to code this. CIGNA uses a new G9141 code but Aetna wants you to use codes that indicate the age of the patient 90465 to 90468 for kids 90471 to 90474 for adults. The vaccine itself is free but United Health Care wants you to say it costs 0.01 because its computers will not recognize a 0. And if you are giving somebody the swine flu shot at the same time as the regular flu shot well then you do a 90470 plus the other codes. Though if you used the 90470 you should not use any codes written since the 2010 code book came out. Lost yet? There are things daily that are hard to code. People when they come into your office they come in with my arms feel weak. Well there is no code for that. Rob Lamberts is a doctor in suburban Georgia. He also writes a blog called Musings of a Distractible Mind. I mean when you think about it we have four physicians in our practice and two mid-levels. And we have I think four full-time billing staff to help us figure out this whole process. Well that is a lot of percent of money of our practice that is going towards just making sure our billing is working well. I suppose it helps the recession to have this complexity because it hires more people to do coding. It is a growing part of the economy. Yeah unfortunately. There is no joke. There are schools to teach you medical coding. There are conferences whose seminars have titles like Keep Your 99214 and 99215 Use on the Up and Up. The American Association of Professional Coders-- and yes there is such a thing-- says there are now 200000 medical coders in the United States. And the Bureau of Labor Statistics says these jobs are on the rise. They are going to rise 18 in a decade. Quote faster than the average for all occupations. Dr. Lamberts estimates that he and his partner spend 20 to 25 of their revenue on the billing department and on codes that do not go through. When they send in a wrong code write 401 instead of 401.0 or we have got a modifier or do not realize that they have changed the codes the insurance company does not pay. He points out that you and I are paying for these armies of coders who work with doctors and hospitals on one side and insurance companies on the other. All this money spent that does not make anybody healthier. And by the way does not go to doctors. What I am being paid per visit has not really changed. If anything it is dropped a little bit. Well today on our program we bring you the second of two hours that we are doing on health care in America. The first was last week. Today we look at the crazy Rube Goldberg system that we have for insurance in this country where there is a code for an injury involving spacecraft E845 but not one for weak arms. We look at how our insurance system affects everything else in our health care system. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International I am Ira Glass. Our show today in four acts. We guarantee you the most entertaining hour you are ever going to hear on the insurance industry. Stay with us. Act One One Pill Two Pill Red Pill Blue Pill. Today's show by the way is a co-production with NPR News. We have three stories today from the Planet Money team of economics reporters. One thing that makes our insurance system so hard to understand is that so much of it is invisible to us. We get these insurance statements that are nearly incomprehensible with those insurance codes and prices that make no sense and some things get covered and some do not. As President Obama's put it If we knew more about our health care choices we would choose better. If there is a blue pill and red pill and the blue pill is half the price of the red pill and works just as well why not pay half price? Thing is the fight over red pills and blue pills is decades old. It is one of those things that our insurance companies are deeply involved in that we are barely aware of. Planet Money reporter Chana Joffe-Walt tells more. Ted Sarah is in the middle of a war. It is been going on for many years and involves billions of dollars. A lot of us are in this war and like Ted we do not even know it. He stumbled onto the battlefield because he is got pimples. Pimples and a card. It is called the SOLODYN Patient Access Card. What is it look like? It looks like a little credit card. It is white and blue. The SOLODYN Patient Access Card is just the latest weapon in this war. It is an arms race really that is been escalating for decades. There have been moves and counter-moves before. This war it is a war over drug copayments. If you do not say run an insurance company you probably hate copays. They are a way to make you pay for your drugs at the pharmacy even though you are insured. Which seems kind of evil right? But I tracked down an evil insurance VP Eileen Wood who actually was pretty personable. And she said no no no. Copays are an insurers special little way of yelling at us. There are drugs that cost 1000 there are drugs that cost 5. When you are insured you do not care. You do not even know. So the insurers put a 30 copay on one and 10 copay on the other. They are giving you a hint that there is a difference in the drug's total cost. And the consumer does not see that and so we struggle to try to shine the light on that and get called the bad guy. You do get called the bad guy a lot? Yeah we do. So copays were basically a bad guy's way of doing something good for everyone. That is the way Eileen sees it except for the bad guy thing. Because if insurers could discourage us from buying expensive drugs it is not just that they would save money we would save money. They could charge us less in premiums which we all want. By the 1990s insurance companies had it down. Copays were working really well. The insurers felt like they were winning the war which was pretty gratifying to people like Eileen Wood. She had watched for years as drug companies came out with slightly tweaked versions of existing generics and sold them for 10 times the cost. Our doctors told us there was a drug to help us we went out and got it brand name generic whatever and no one cared. No one cared because no one saw it. No one but Eileen. Let us look at Kapidex-- oh that is this one. I love this one. That is the Minocin but this company-- this is the original Minocin-- Eileen works in a tidy office park in Albany New York for an insurance company called Capital Districts Physicians Health Plan CDPHP. And in her file cabinets she is got plastic zipped-up pouches of her least favorite brand name drugs. She collects them. Minocin that one she is talking about there is a generic version that costs about 50 a month. Minocin PAC which Eileen is now waving in my face is a newer brand name drug. It costs 668. So what is different? It has a couple little extra items that are not prescription items in there. It has this lovely calming wipe so that when your skin's all red and you can pat this on and it is supposed to bring the redness down. It is not a prescription item. Calming serum and a calming mask. It is basically stuff you could buy over the counter. But behind the scenes it is-- 668. Yeah. And the only difference in this is that it has wipes? It has these. That is it. That is the only difference. You could probably buy them for 10. So those three products are added to the Minocin PAC and I guess that must be what costs the extra 600 I am not sure. It is very slick. Eileen has dozens of stories like this that do seem ridiculous. An acne medication that comes with green tea swabs? It is kind of like a prescription for Viagra that comes with a Hustler magazine that costs an extra 500. Now not all brand names are like this. There are brands that are better than existing generic options that are the only thing that work for some people. And with copays you can still get the brands it is just the more expensive choice. You want the green tea swabs? You pay 40 of the 668 for it. If you just want Minocin generic you pay 10 of the 50. The copay strategy worked so well that in 2003 generics passed the 50 mark. Meaning more than 50 of the drugs people went and picked up from pharmacies were generics. It was probably around then that it happened. The drug companies they noticed. People like Sally Beatty at Pfizer. That is the company that makes among other things the world's most popular drug Lipitor. Sally not a fan of copays. The issue with that is that we want treatment decisions to be made based on what the physician feels is medically best for the patient not just the cost to the patient or what another player may decide is in their interest. Another player like Eileen Wood and her insurance industry buddies with their copays that were hurting the drug companies. Lipitor was facing major competition from generics. In July 2007 sales were down 13. Now there is no approved generic for Lipitor. Sally Beatty from Pfizer will say this three times in 15 minutes. And what that means is that there is no drug that is chemically identical to Lipitor. What there are are generic drugs in the same class of cholesterol reducing drugs. That is what Lipitor does reduce cholesterol. And those generics are effective for most people. But there are some people who respond better to Lipitor. And for some of those patients a 40 copay stops them from getting the medication. And so in 2007 the pharmaceutical industry marshaled its counterattack that mysterious card you heard at the beginning of this story their central weapon-- coupons a whole bunch of coupons. OK so I have always sort of had a little bit of acne. Enter Ted Sarah the paralegal with the card and the pimples. Pimples that just a few months ago were in need of drugs. Yeah it sort of comes and goes and it generally-- when I am sort of going through more periods of stress either at work or just as a course of life it sort of gets worse. Ted walked into the doctor's office. She poked at him with gloved hands and told him OK we are going to put you on a couple topical creams and some antibiotics a drug called Solodyn. Ted was tentative but he mentioned he would been on a generic before worked pretty well called minocycline. And the doc said yeah that is great. Basically that is the same as Solodyn but Solodyn is time release. That means as opposed to minocycline which you have to remember to take in the morning and in the evening you only have to take Solodyn once a day. It did not really sound that big of a deal to me but it is I guess to anyone slightly easier to take one pill per day instead of two so I went with it. And I asked in terms of the cost of it just to pay the extra money to take it once a day if that was going to be a big difference. It would not really be something I would be interested in. And then she presented this card. You remember the card. It is called the Solodyn patient access card. It is actually called Solo-DINE not Solo-DIN. Who knows where they come up with these names? Point is this is the moment the moment that the drug makers weapon makes its way into the hands of its oblivious soldier Ted. Ted was going to get a deal. The doctor explained that this card it is a coupon. Give it to the pharmacist and it should make your copay very affordable. Which is exactly what happened. Without the card Ted's copay would have been 154.28. But when Ted got to the pharmacy he presented his card. They went to ring it up at the register and when it came up the price was 10. 10. 10. That is pretty good for drugs. Yeah it was great. Solodyn access achieved. Ted's insurance company was then charged 655 a month for Ted's once-a-day Solodyn. For reasons too complicated to go into here they only paid 514. Minocycline the one that you have to take twice a day costs 109 a month total. 514 109. Ted never saw those numbers. So you think OK well Ted used a coupon because he did not really know any better. He thought he was getting a deal. Who would not go for that right? But the doctor what was up with the doctor handing out these cards? Luckily Dr. Elena Allbritton was generous enough to answer some questions. Do you know the price difference between those two drugs? I do not. Like Ted and the majority of Americans Dr. Allbritton has no idea what drugs actually cost. Not because she is lazy but because these numbers are really hard to find out. The insurance companies they all individually negotiate with drug companies. And they each pay a slightly different amount. So no Dr. Allbritton is not thinking about prices when prescribing she is thinking what is the best thing available for this patient? Solodyn is better. It is easier to take a pill once a day instead of twice. It is easier for Dr. Allbritton to get the dosage just right. And Dr. Allbritton wants her patients to have the best. I think if I can get a discount for most patients I think it is great because the cost of medications can be very high. It is like a free gift to them. Dr. Allbritton just wants it to be easy for patients to access the drugs she thinks they need. Truthfully she does not really want to keep track of all the prices. That is not her job. I just do not think that it is realistic to have that responsibility fall on the physician. I mean then are you going to start saying well should I really do this biopsy because I am not really sure that it is really that significant of a difference in that mole and it might cost you 1200 in the end if this does not get covered. I mean you do not want to start thinking about price tags with everything. Actually when people talk about how to reform health care in our country this is one of the things they talk about changing. That doctors should know the prices of things and at least play some role in deciding whether a time release version of a pill is worth 400 more to everyone. The maker of Solodyn is Medicis. They would not talk to me. By the way in the month since Ted started taking Solodyn a generic version has come out. And the war has escalated. Another tactical maneuver. Drug makers used to just give cards to doctors. Now they distribute them to patients too. But pharmaceuticals did not announce their counterattack to insurers. Eileen Wood at CDPHP she had to figure it out by putting much of her staff on a hunt reporting back to her on what cards are out there who put them out and how people are getting them. Because they are like everywhere. You can go online and get these. You can open up a women's magazine and get these. I mean they are everywhere. So this little purple card is their way of saying fine you are going to put a 30 copay on us. Take that. Yes that is exactly what is happening. They are trying to say fine you are promoting generic CDPHP. We have got to do something about this. We are going to waive our copay. We will fix you. We will be zero copay. We will be cheaper than you and we will keep our market share. Eileen sounds a little crazy when she starts to talk like this. Like multibillion dollar companies are setting out to punish her personally Eileen Wood for her copays. But when you think about it from her perspective she is the only one who sees this stuff. We do not. We see a deal. And like Ted we like deals. I cannot argue with that argument except to say there is a consequence for that. Because what will you have to do if everybody gets the more expensive drug? We would have to raise premiums. I think there is no question about that. It would have an impact on him and everybody that sits next to him. At work. At work and their families and so forth. Yes. I do not want to pay more in premiums next year. I do not want everyone around me to have to either. Do you think your coworkers are going to hear this and go well thanks a lot Ted? You and your fancy acne medicine. Probably. But there I was sitting in the dermatologist's office and I have no idea. Again like I had never heard of this medicine had no idea how much it costs. I know it is brand name but I certainly never would have dreamed that it would have cost 655 sticker price. Looking at this war laid out like this it is a view of a health care system that is comprised of enormous insurance companies throwing their weight around just as enormous drug companies striking back and then all these idiots in the middle-- us. You me and our doctors. Pesky interlopers who do not even know the price of the pills we are buying. President Obama wants us to choose the blue pill and not the red pill. Because the blue is just as effective but half the price. But with these cards which one is the blue one? We have no idea. Chana Joffe-Walt. Act Two Let us Take Your Medical History. If you think about it it is very strange how we do insurance in our country. Including for example the fact that most of us do not buy our own insurance. Our employers buy it for us. Whatever we are doing it is not working so great. Health costs are rising so fast that they are threatening our entire economy. A third of all health care is waste unnecessary procedures and tests according to the Dartmouth Atlas of Health. How did we get here? Alex Blumberg and Adam Davidson have been looking into that. The more you study the roots of our modern health care system the more you realize that nobody ever planned for it to be this way. What we have right now is the result of lots of historical accidents over the last hundred years. So let us start at the beginning at the turn of the last century and get a sense of what health care looked like let us say circa 1900. In a lot of ways the world then was starting to look like the one we have today. There were electric lights going up in cities. Henry Ford produced the first car made in Detroit. The Boston Marathon was already four years old. But health care health care was still basically stuck in the Middle Ages. Some doctors in the US were still using leeches and bleeding people. There were medicines to mask your symptoms and relieve your pain but there was nothing that could actually cure you. And hospitals at least what we would think of as a hospital they did not really even exist. There were things by that name but they were basically poor houses for the sick. Dark dirty places where the indigent went to die. But you know there was a big plus side. Health care was cheap. It was really really cheap. They might kill you but they did not charge you very much to do it. The average person spent 5 a year on health care. Even back then that was not very much. That is less than 100 a year in today's dollars. So how do we get from that system that pre-modern system to our current health care system? We got there in four simple steps. Step one start curing some illnesses. This year is the 100th anniversary of a remarkable discovery. 1909 the very first drug ever to actually cure an illness. It was something called Salvarsan a treatment for syphilis. And it was different from the usual potions and nostrums. With Salvarsan you took a pill and then you were not sick anymore. More of these medicines followed and once health care actually starts to work it launches a revolution. In the 1910s and the 1920s people start expecting their doctors to actually know how to cure them. To actually have an education from some decent medical school. Maybe even to have a medical license. Melissa Thomasson is an economic historian at Miami University in Ohio. She focuses on the history of modern health care and she says the medical revolution was especially apparent in hospitals. Hospitals have a radical transformation in the early part of the 20th century. So that instead of being these poor houses these alms houses where unwed mothers and people with no family go hospitals are actually marketing themselves as places to have babies do appendectomies take your tonsils out. They are focusing on generally things with happy outcomes. Painting themselves as clean and full of sunshine. And not a dark Victorian place for poor people to die. Exactly. So two points. All these clean hospitals with educated doctors and effective medicines they cost more. Also since they actually work more and more people start using them. The cost to provide health care is increasing the demand for health care is increasing. All of which means health care is now more expensive. A lot more. Which brings us to step two of how you get to our modern health care system. Step two have a great depression. It is hard to imagine what our modern health care system would be like if it was not for the Great Depression. By the 1920s even before the crash the cost of health care had gotten so high that a lot of people stopped going to the hospital unless they were so sick they had no choice. An official at Baylor University Hospital in Dallas Texas noticed that most of their hospital beds were going empty every night because of that high cost. But he also noticed that Americans on average were spending more on cosmetics than on medical care. He said specifically-- I have the quote right here We spend a dollar or so at a time for cosmetics and do not notice the high cost. The ribbon counter clerk can pay 0.50 0.75 or 1.00 a month yet it would take about 20 years to set aside a large hospital bill. So Baylor Hospital wanted to figure out how to get ribbon counter clerks and anyone else they could find in Dallas to pay for health care like they pay for lipstick a tiny bit every month. Baylor started small. They offered a deal to a group of public school teachers in Dallas. They told them you pay us 6 a year. That is just 0.50 a month cheaper than rouge and we will give you up to 21 days of hospital visits a year. The math was simple. In any given year only a few of the teachers would need a hospital visit. A few hospitals copied the Baylor approach and then the Depression hit. Almost every hospital in the country saw their patient load disappear. All their patients were broke. So the Baylor idea became hugely popular. And eventually it got a name Blue Cross. Again Melissa Thomasson. The genius in marketing this by Blue Cross is marketing it to groups of workers. You know when I actually started studying this stuff I got interested in it because I wondered why we have an employment-based health insurance plan. It does not seem very logical. But it comes right out of Blue Cross selling insurance to groups of people who probably would not need it. That is people who were healthy enough to work. I see. So how did that work? Blue Cross representatives went around to factories and what did they do? Right. Exactly. They went around to factories. Here give your employees this benefit. And it appealed to corporations then because the '20s and the '30s is the great period of corporate welfare capitalism too. Employers want to improve their workers' lives. They are starting to offer other benefits like pensions and group life insurance at this time too. The Baylor plan this Blue Cross plan fulfilled two goals. They got people spending their money on health care and it also got them to use health care more. To visit the hospital to see it as a place where you go even if you were not at death's door. By the middle of the Depression there are Blue Cross programs in most states. So by the start of World War II this employer-based health insurance is spreading. But still only around 9 of Americans have it. It is still pretty obscure. It is nothing like our modern system. To get to our modern system you need another step. Step three go to war. If the Great Depression inadvertently inspired employer-based health insurance World War II accidentally spread the idea everywhere. Again economic historian Melissa Thomasson. The war economy is an entirely different ball game. Think of government rationing on all levels. And so what they tell people is you legally cannot raise prices. You cannot raise wages. At the same time lots of people are joining the military and labor is scarce. So you cannot find workers. Can you imagine in today's environment you cannot find workers who can work for you. You cannot lure them by increasing wages. And at the same time you need to produce enormous amounts of stuff for the war effort? Exactly. So what is a poor employer to do? They turn to fringe benefits. And they just started offering more and more generous health insurance plans and pensions and everything else actually. So you would say Rosie come work at my riveting factory because I can offer you this boutique insurance package versus-- Exactly. The war sets the stage for step four the final step in the transformation to the health care system we have today. This step plays out over a number of years and it starts like all the other steps almost completely by accident in a bureaucrat's office at the Internal Revenue Service. Now this bureaucrat is one of the key figures it turns out in our American health insurance saga. But his or her name has been lost to history. What we do know is in 1943 this bureaucrat or possibly a panel of bureaucrats-- we do not even know that-- made a routine ruling. Possibly in response to a question from an accountant at some company. The ruling was at least in some cases employers do not have to pay taxes on health insurance premiums for their workers. Now this ruling it was actually vaguely worded and pretty confusing. But the response was huge. Because what it seemed to imply was you get a huge tax break for offering health insurance to your workers. Now I want to jump in here and really focus on this. Because this is such a perfect case study in how we get a health care system that nobody ever planned for. Accountants notice that they can get their firms a tax break so more and more employers get in on the deal. Soon they start demanding the government set it into law. And in 1954 Congress does just that. They pass the Updated Internal Revenue Code which clearly and unambiguously states employers do not have to pay taxes on health insurance premiums. And if you do not think a tax law change can have a huge impact on health care Melissa Thomasson has some data for you pal. Just look at how the number of people with employer-based health insurance changes over time. You start from 9 of the population in 1940 to 63 of the population in 1953. Everybody starts getting in on it. It just grows like gangbusters. And by the 1960s roughly 70 of the population is covered by some kind of private-- what the AMA would say voluntary health insurance plan. So employer-based health insurance which only started because Baylor University was able to sell to teachers in Texas and which spread because of government price controls and tax breaks that became our system. Employer-based insurance is a horrible system. I mean why would you want your employer buying your health insurance? Why on earth would you want your employer buying your groceries? You certainly would not want that. Just imagine it. Your employer has a contract with a grocery store. You go in you pay your 20 copay and then you get to take whatever you want. You would probably go home with a lot more groceries and you would not skimp on the luxuries. Why get hot dogs when you can have lobster? And from the grocery store's point of view it would have no incentive to keep prices down. Your plan is paying the bill. Pretty soon they might get so high that people without employer provided food plans could no longer afford to eat. They would call Congress demand universal food coverage. To economists like Thomasson that is exactly the system we have with health. We the consumers are totally separated from the cost of what we are consuming. We get tests and procedures we do not need because well why not? We are not paying for it a la carte. Our employer's paying for part of it. Our government is paying for part of it through those tax incentives. Melissa Thomasson says that what we have combines the worst of the market and the worst of government. Markets are usually really good at controlling costs. When they work best products come into existence like cellphones or stockings. They start expensive and then they get cheaper and better. But markets do not guarantee that everyone can afford the things they need. Government can be good at that ensuring universal access. But when you are paying for everybody it is hard to control costs. For Melissa Thomasson she says that either extreme a competitive market system where consumers know what price they are paying what they are getting which would probably drive the price of health care down or a government run system which would cover everyone would be better than the accidental mixture that we have today. A really expensive system that does not cover us all. Alex Blumberg and Adam Davidson from the Planet Money  team. Coming up a journey to the very frontier of health insurance. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today's show Someone Else's Money. Stories about the insurance industry and how it shapes everybody's health care. This is the second of two programs that we are doing explaining health care in America. And both are co-productions with NPR News. If you missed last week's show you can hear it on the Internet for free. We have arrived at act three of our program. Act Three Insurance? Ruh Roh! We have a story for you know about the newest frontier for health insurance a place where it is just starting out although you can hear it right there. There it is. Here's Dave Kestenbaum from the NPR Planet Money team. If you cannot tell from all the beeps this is an operating room. On the table one of the millions of this country's uninsured. The patient lies motionless connected by tubes and wires to various machines. The surgeon is about to make a cut just below the knee. The operation this patient's having done is one I have had done or close to it. We both tore the interior cruciate ligament that holds the knee together. Actually I have had two operations both knees and this is his second also. There is one big difference though he is a dog. The bill for the surgery? About 3500 per knee. Looking around this veterinary hospital you realize pet health care more and more is looking a lot like human health care. This is Chesapeake Veterinary Surgical Specialists in Annapolis Maryland. In the next room a weimaraner has been knocked out and is being prepped for surgery. Actually he is being vacuumed. It turns out when a dog is unconscious you can vacuum it. Down the hall dogs with cancer are getting chemotherapy. The knee surgeon Dr. Daran Roa says not long ago places like this just did not exist. The numbers of surgeons and internists and cardiologists and large mega practices like this across the country has gotten astronomical. 25 years ago you could not find a surgeon but at a university. And then if you were lucky. But now there is thousands of them. And so pet health care is now crossing a magic threshold one human health care crossed long ago. It is getting good and it is getting expensive. Expensive enough that people start thinking would not it be nice if someone else paid for this? Would not it be nice to have insurance? Only a handful of pet owners that come here have pet insurance. Nationwide it is a few percent or so. But the business is growing rapidly at a pace of 15 or 20 a year. And you wonder if pet health care is about to import one of the major problems with human health care. My name is Dennis Drent and I am the president and CEO of Veterinary Pet Insurance Company. And you are the largest pet insurance company in the United States right? We are yes. By a lot. By a lot. Knock wood we stay that way. Veterinary Pet Insurance VPI is a subsidiary of Nationwide Insurance. And Dennis Drent comes from the car insurance house insurance world. Do you have pet? I have two. I have two miniature dachshunds. They are 10 years old Willie and Charlie. And are they insured? Absolutely. And I will tell you why. The veterinarians have something called stop treatment which is a concept where they actually measure how much will somebody spend on medical procedures u