One of the producers of our radio program Sean Cole used to live in Toronto. And he went out to bars a lot when he was there. And at one point he heard this rumor about the places that he was hanging out. A friend of mine basically said the thing about these bars-- he actually said the gasoline that allows them to function was cocaine. Meaning the staff was doing cocaine? The bartenders were on coke. And I was like how did I not notice? You know? Yeah. And I wondered how true that was. Did you do any coke tonight? Yeah.  How much? Just a bump. So that is like what is that. That is like the tip of a key. So this is one of about a dozen bartenders that I interviewed all anonymously. When she says a key she means like-- Like a house key. You sniff it off of that. But I have done it while I am working. But I do not do it until later like past 100. Oh I see. Yes. And how often does that happen? Umm like every weekend. I had this experience years ago. A friend sat me down and told me that she would just started going to AA. And she wanted me to know that she knew how annoying it must have been for me and all of our friends at the time that she was always on coke back when we first were getting to know each other. She was running to the bathroom all the time. She was really hyper. And I told her I had no idea. I told her I just assumed that is your personality. You are a little manic small bladder. And of course right? I think if you are not a daily drug user you are not a big drug user it does not occur to you that the people around you might be high. And Sean found that this bar scene he thought he knew so well did actually seem to be run on cocaine. So lots of bars in certain areas of town definitely coke is like fuel for the staff. Partly because you know these bars it is like drinking on the job is kind of expected. People are buying me shots. And I see people I know and I am buying them shots. And then just you start to get the spins. It is like after you do four or five shots I am like OK. I do not want to be too drunk. I need something to straighten me up. Jeez I really want a line right now to straighten this up. That is the phrase you keep hearing. Everyone uses it so loosely. It is straightening out. You need to straighten out. Yeah you just take a quick little jump down to the bathroom straighten yourself up. Come upstairs. How often does that happen to you? Uh eight minutes ago. OK.  Yeah. So their bosses have to know right? The bosses are doing it too sometimes. For the first little while the bar I worked at the managers were doing lines of cocaine in order to sober up enough so they could cash out the bartenders who were completely inebriated. Oh! I also knew policemen who were partaking. In cocaine? In the bathroom with the manager in uniform. It blew me away! I was so naive. I was like what? It would be like finding out Superman is-- you know-- Doing cocaine. --doing cocaine! Exactly. Of course to put it in perspective this is a cop doing cocaine in a city whose mayor was caught on video smoking crack and stayed in his job. He is finally going to rehab now. And all of this got us thinking here at the radio show how many people around us are high right now? Like right this second? OK if you are out in the world right now as you are hearing me say these words look around at the people around you. Look at their faces. Could one of them be high? And I mean everywhere you go right? It is like for example we found this book that came out a couple of years ago by a guy named Ethan Bryson. So the title of the book is Addicted Healers. And the subtitle is 5 Key Signs Your Healthcare Professional May Be Drug Impaired. And right here on page xviii it says Rates of illicit drug use by health care professionals within the past year ranged from 8 to 20 depending on the type of personnel within the health care industry. And then it says At any given time roughly 3 to 5 of this population is using illicit drugs while they are caring for patients. 3 to 5 you mean of all health care professionals? All across the profession. Wow which drugs? They all have their drug of choice. And we actually played this kind of word association game. Physicians? Pills Oxycontin oxycodone. Nurses. Intravenous opioid-based drugs. Psychiatrists. Benzodiazepines. Anesthesiologists. Fentanyl. You said that so fast! That is the biggest drug. I should point out here that Dr. Bryson is himself an anesthesiologist. Say it again fentanyl? Fentanyl. It is a highly potent derivative of morphine. It is actually like 80 times more potent than morphine and can significantly mess with your judgment. It is extremely addictive. And Dr. Bryson pointed out that most medical professionals do not have to take drug tests. Military personnel on the other hand do. Now many of you reported last week on the investigation involving some of our airmen and illegal drug possession. This is the Secretary of the Air Force Deborah Lee James giving a press conference a few months ago. Basically two lieutenants were busted for allegedly dealing amphetamines and ecstasy. And they were found out because they were sending text messages to other airmen about drugs. Well it turns out that three of the 10 who were implicated in this drug investigation were from our Air Force Global Strike Command which is the command where our ICBM missile forces reside. ICBM that is-- The nuclear warheads. Well that does not seem like somebody we want high. Not someone we want high. Sean are there surveys measuring how many of us are high all the time? I mean--  There is not a lot of data. There is workplace drug tests that show 3 and 12 of workers test positive for drugs. But obviously that is only in workplaces that test for drugs in the first place. One of the experts on this data who is wonderfully named Dr. Barry Sample from Quest Diagnostics told me drug use is a couple percentage points higher in places that do not test for drugs. Which jobs have the highest drug use? So the Department of Health and Human Services actually has numbers on that. The latest ones that I found said-- so this is people who say yes I have done illicit drugs in the past month. People who work in real estate is about 7. Same for mining. Mining? 7. Mining. Retail is 9 and 12. Construction workers is about 14. So that means roughly one in seven construction workers. The highest is accommodation and food services. That would include dare I say bartenders?  Yes. Accommodation and food services roughly one in six admit on the survey to using drugs. It could be higher though right? It could be higher? What do you mean? It could be higher than one of six actually do drugs. Oh it could be higher-- Right one out of six-- --meaning one out of six admit on the survey-- --admit on the survey to drug use. Some more of them actually might be doing it. Yeah maybe. They should try the survey in Toronto.  Well today on our radio program the secret world of getting high which is OK maybe not such a well-kept secret. It is all around us all the time. High people mingling with us working passing laughing extra hard at our jokes. We do not even know why. We have stories today of great drug experiences and awful drug experiences and funny drug experiences tales of miscalculation bad judgment and dumb-assery. We have comedians Marc Maron and Wyatt Cenac. From WBEZ Chicago It is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. Stay with us. Act One High on the Corporate Ladder. So there is this secret society many million strong people who are going through life high. Maybe you are part of this society. If not you are probably dealing regularly with people who are cashiers baristas and stockbrokers and cab drivers maybe the cop writing that parking ticket. Alex Blumberg has this story about just how hard it is to tell who is in that society and who is not. Richard for many years was a member of that society the society of people who get high at work. I would roll a thin joint and start smoking in the morning. I would usually duck down at one of the back stairways and take a few more tokes during the day. I would smoke at lunch. I would smoke a little bit in the afternoon. I would basically stay high all day long. And what exactly was your job title? I was chief operating  officer of the second largest ad agency in town.   How many people at your company knew that you were doing this? Um somewhere between three and all of them.  Richard says that at the time he thought he was hiding his habit. But in retrospect who knows? One of the head executives toking up in the stairwell every day how could he hide that? On the other hand there is this. I had no idea that this was going on. And I am Richard's son. I only found out that my dad was getting high at work every day long after the fact when I was in my 30s. And I found out because my dad got cancer. It was a horrible week. It started with the discovery that the pain in my dad's back was not just a pinched nerve. And it ended with a diagnosis of lymphoma a particular form of lymphoma that we had learned that week to root for because it is actually curable. That is the word they used. Back then I did not even know you could say that about cancer. But that whole week my dad was convinced he had a different diagnosis lung cancer. Even towards the end when the doctors were pretty convinced the news was good he insisted on it which did not make any sense. My father had quit smoking cigarettes way back in the '80s. When we pressed him about it that is when he told us about the pot. My dad's cancer and recovery was a pivotal time for our family. Painful secrets came out. Much was said that needed to be said. My dad got into a 12-step program. And he is been clean for almost 15 years. But then here at the radio show someone suggested doing a show called I was so high and I realized something. I really wanted us to do that show. I had a lot of questions for people who got high all day questions about what they thought of themselves what they thought of their families what they were getting out of being high. I realized in other words I had a lot of questions for my dad. When did you use marijuana for the first time? Uh I do not know. You were about a year and a half old. First of course I wanted the details. When did it start? When did it get serious? And for my dad it started in the '60s. A friend rolled a joint at a party. It was fun. It became something he did socially getting high with friends listening to Jefferson Airplane on the brand new FM station in town. And this part I knew. I remember joints passed around when my parents' friends came over rolling papers on the end table next to the couch. One afternoon I answered the door and found a friend of my dad's turtleneck sunglasses what I remember as a Burt Reynolds mustache. He handed me a dime-bag and said this is for your father. My dad does not remember the first time he smoked weed at work. But it was probably around the time I was leaving middle school and entering high school. By the time I left for college it had gone far beyond a thing he did at nights with friends to a thing he did routinely during the day while he would walk the several blocks to a meeting with one of his firm's largest clients. I knew where every alleyway between our office on Seventh Street and Procter on the other corner of downtown. And you are talking about a meeting with Procter  Gamble-- Yeah. --one of the largest companies in the world. That was one of clients. If there is any company less associated with habitual work-time pot use it has to Procter  Gamble. Right. So when you were making these presentations you do not think that they knew that you were high at the time? That you would stopped in at an alley on the way over and smoked a joint? No. I was putting something over on the straight world. Like I am not really part of your world. I am just visiting here for a little bit. I think that was something that was very very much a part of being stoned. Here I was this guy in a business suit tucking down a back alley and smoking a joint. Another question I had for my dad were there people for whom his drug use was not a secret? Other members of the Society of Secret Pot Smokers that he would duck into that alley with? Was he regularly sharing joints with-- I do not know-- the Kinko's guy while they both waited on a large print order? I could see a camaraderie developing between secret pot smokers just like cigarette smokers at an office will go out and take smoke breaks together. But my dad says that for him at least it was not like that. Sure he knew of other people at the agency who smoked pot. And yes if you must know they were mostly in the art department. But he mainly kept to himself. You increasing live in a secret world that you cannot reveal to the people who do not share that world. And there are an increasingly limited number of people who share the world-- the more you use the deeper you get into it to the point where you are all alone in it. And you have to keep it a secret from everybody else. And you do really stupid things to keep it a secret really stupid. What are you thinking of when you said really stupid? Well I remember one time I went down I would stopped in Eton Park on the way back to the office. And I got out of the car. And I got stoned. I smoked a joint. And I came back and I realized that I would locked my keys in the car. And I could not-- you know I was stoned. My judgment was shot. I did not know what to do. So I went around. And I found a big rock. And I broke the little window in the rear. And I reached in and unlocked the door. And then the back of the seat was full of glass. And I had to go down to Ace Auto Glass and had the glass replaced. And then finally I got to the office an hour and a half late for the meeting. And I made up some excuse.  This image of my dad in his suit early morning rooting around in the underbrush for a rock to throw through his own car window I found it so shocking. It is one solution to the problem at hand. But it is hard to imagine a person who was not high weighing all the options and deciding you know the think I need to do right now at 800 AM on a work day? Smash in my own car window. And I know as rock bottom stories go this is nothing special. In general my dad's addiction story barely registers on the family dysfunction scale. But his marijuana use was starting to fray the edges of his life. He and his business partner Dale were having regular fights over my dad's inability to show up to meetings on time or fill out his time sheets or just get things done when he said he would. At a certain point my dad sold his stake in the business for a nice chunk of money. But then he lost most of it on a string of failed business ventures. I remember my dad trying to explain a couple of them to me at the time. I was just out of college at this point. And I never really understood what the products actually were or how they were going to make any money. Only in retrospect did I realize after the cancer and the secret came out those business ideas they made a lot more sense if you were stoned. All told in today's dollars my dad probably lost somewhere north of half a million. And this brings me to the most basic question I had for my dad the question that lay underneath all the other ones. Why do you think you were getting high every day at work? Uh I think that I was getting high because I did not really feel that marketing was a worthwhile thing to do. This is part of it for sure. Getting high allowed my dad to retreat from this reality that he did not want to face that he was not a hippie anymore but in fact a guy in a suit with a job in advertising. But that answer it did not feel like the full truth to me. Because he was not just running from reality at work. He was running from it at home as well. The one time in particular I remember was we were on vacation out in California. It was one of the times we went to California. We did a big road trip across the country. It was sort of crazy. And we would found some unbelievably beautiful little swimming hole in northern California. And we would set up a tent. And the weather was perfect. And we were all getting out. We would put on our swimsuits. And we were all getting ready to get in. And we would just been visiting your friends Gene and Jan in San Francisco. And they would given you some--  They would given you some Berkeley gold as they called it. Yeah. And I remember you rolling a joint and saying something like but first it is time for little Berkeley gold or something like that. And I remember being really upset. And part of I think the reason that I was so upset is I remember thinking what in the world? What more could you want? And there is sort of a feeling of are we not enough? It seemed like almost even at that time in your life you were almost sort of running from something even in that moment or wanting to change the reality a little bit in that moment. Is it-- I think I probably was. What were you--? What did not you have? I do not know. Yeah. I do not know what it was. I had a perfect life. I guess that is where I feel like I go back to it was feeling. Like I find when I have used pot the thing that it takes away is it takes away feeling. Yep. Feelings become less intense. And I feel like for whatever reason the feelings of oh my god this is so perfect. I love my family so much. Or oh my god this should be so perfect but I am pissed off at my wife. Or I am let down by my children or whatever it is that you were feeling. I sort of feel like that is the thing that links all of the pot use. Is that true? Or is that just my theory? Yeah I think it is true. It is part of what you are running away from. The most important thing is that you are running away from something. You are running away from looking at the world as it really is. You push all of that direct experience of reality away. It is not a good way to live. It is just not a good way to live. Oddly for my dad it was not just the happy moments he regretted checking out for but the sad ones as well. For example when his mother died of cancer. My aunt had been telling my dad that their mother's condition was getting worse worse than their mother was letting on. If my dad had not been high he says he would not have ignored what my aunt was telling him. He would have spent more time with his mother engaged more with her doctors. I probably would have been in Cleveland with her when she had the operation that ended in her death. Oh I did not know that she died during operation. Yes. She had bone cancer. And they were trying to break a connection to the pituitary gland or something like that that would reduce the pain. And she wound up hemorrhaging and died. Mm. And you thought about going with her when she did that and you decided not to? If it were to happen today there is no question that I would have driven her up to Cleveland. That would have been the most natural thing in the world to do. Instead he says he got high pushed the feelings aside and avoided the whole thing which makes this last story I will tell all the more amazing. Just last month my 80-year-old Uncle Paul my mom's brother fell ill suddenly and ended up in the hospital near death with a breathing tube down his throat. My parents got the call and were on a plane down to Florida where he lived the very next day. My uncle was a recluse. Except for occasional phone calls to his brothers and sisters he interacted with almost no one. It was my parents and a neighbor that Paul barely knew confronting the sad end to his lonely life Medicaid applications power of attorney hospice finally cremation. And while my parents were down there going about all that my dad did something that was on the one hand utterly ordinary but that I found remarkable. He emailed us with regular almost daily updates giving the details on Paul's changing condition going through next steps. The emails were direct and honest filled with love for Paul and sadness about his decline. And I would sit there and read them. And they felt miraculous. A daily email on a tough hard-to-face topic from my dad something he never could have done organizationally or emotionally when he was high. Like I said as these stories go ours was not that bad. My dad was a good dad. He read to us every night took us on long hikes in search of snakes and salamanders to keep as pets. But his drug use did leave at least one lasting effect on me. I cannot hear any story about a seemingly functional pot-head with anything but a skeptical ear. From magazine features about rappers who are constantly high but still put out platinum records to casual asides about this friend I know who smokes weed all day but is a great husband and father some part of me just cannot buy it cannot help but think there is more to that story. There is always something being run from. And there is always at least one person wondering is that something me? Alex Blumberg is one of the producers of our show. Coming up Marc Maron Wyatt Cenac and what do you say to Drew Carey when you are a contestant on The Price is Right and you are also high on mushrooms? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life from Ira Glass. Each weekend our program of course. We choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program I Was So High stories about doing drugs the people who do lots of drugs and the rest of us who maybe do not do as many drugs. We have arrived at Act Two of our program-- Act Two You Were So High. So there are people who are not getting high every single day and organizing their whole lives around drugs. There are people in this world who get high and have fun and giggle with their friends. Among other things drugs can be enjoyable. And we asked you to send in your drug stories on our blog and Facebook and Twitter. You sent in 2600. Elna Baker was one of three staffers here at This American Life who went through those emails. And she joins me in the studio now. Elna what were most of those emails like? I would say about half of them are people just doing really dumb stuff while they are high like this. I called my friend Shane. And when I got him I was like well I think I might have done some mushrooms. He is like where are you? I was like I am at the intersections of One Way and Do Not Enter. He is like look at other signs. I thought I picked up the bud. And instead I picked up goose poop and took a nice big hit of it. I would stop and write little poems. One just said what if you were a cat and all you could say was meow? All you would have to talk about is meow. So one of the reasons why we asked listeners for their drug stories is because we thought we would get a lot of funny stories. Were they funny? They were OK. They were not that funny. And I feel mean saying that because so many people actually put the effort to write us stories in. And we read 2600 of these emails. But they do not stand up unless you either know the person or were there or if you were on drugs at the time it was funny to you. It is like hearing people's dreams. Yep. So it is like 2600 emails but they are not so funny. Mm-mm. There was a few or one liners that I remember inside jokes. Like? I am loving that bunny. That was somebody-- What are you talking about?  Exactly people had their drug catch phrases that I kind of liked that I want to use now.  OK. But one was some little boy was on anesthesia. And he had this horrible surgery. And his parents were very worried. And they looked up at the TV screen. And there was Animal Planet. And he just looked up and was like I am loving that bunny.  It made me laugh. But that is about as good as it gets. Yeah that is about as good as it gets. Any surprises? Yes. A lot of people especially teenagers will hit on their anesthesiologists while they are under the influence. So that is like a thing you know if you are an anesthesiologist? And if you are hot yeah. And then oh several people doing shrooms had a vision of a Native American guide appearing to them on the path in the distance-- Oh my god. --and just gesturing for them to follow which just seemed racist right? It does.  It is like a message from your unconscious. Hi I have been meaning to tell you by the way you are a racist.  OK good. Now you know it. But you did get one email that turns out to be a really funny story. Who is this? Josh Androsky. So Josh one day goes out with his friends. They are drinking. They end up doing mushrooms. And then they go to be part of the studio audience of The Price is Right. Already without mushrooms it would have been crazy.  Here it comes! Because literally old people are dancing with children in the aisles. This one old lady starts booty dancing on Drew Carey. There were just dollar signs and flashing lights. I mean everybody's going crazy. We were demonstrably the least high-looking people there. Now it is the most exciting hour of fantastic prizes the fabulous 60-minute Price is Right!  It was so just awe-inspiring seeing all the colored lights that I did not actually hear Come on down. Joshua Androsky come on down! All of a sudden I looked on the stage. And there was this PA who was holding up a sign with my full name on it which was really really scary. Because in my head it was not like Joshua Androsky come on down. In my head that sign was Joshua Androsky we know that you are here. There was that light bulb that went off in my brain that was like oh my god. I am going to play The Price is Right now.  Let us get the show started with the first prize up for bid today on The Price is Right. Excellent idea Drew. We are going to start off with a new home theater system! I was the first person to bid on the first prize on contestants' row. It goes to whoever bids closest to the actual retail price without going over. Big papa we are going to start with you. And I am an idiot. And I bid 1 every time.  For that I am going to bid 1. 1! All right big papa bids 1. Big papa hat Dolly Parton shirt bid 1.  I am a mystery dude. That is-- That is an enigma. Get used to it.  Miraculously one of the 1 bids worked. And I got up. And then Drew Carey was like hey! OK cool. What do you do? But that is when all the mushrooms hit me at once. And I just looked at him and I said I am a skateboard rabbi.  A skateboard rabbi. Uh-- Drew Carey turns to me and goes how do you incorporate skateboards into Judaism? I was like well Drew Carey we go to local high schools and attempt to turn religious extremism into religious X-tremism! Unfortunately they cut it out of the show. I get it.  I did! But if you watch the video the studio audience is going crazy. And Drew Carey looks right at the camera and goes-- He really is a skateboard rabbi! Josh Androsky he went home from The Price is Right with a diamond ring. Act Three Bottom of the Eighth. We now turn to this story from Wyatt Cenac recorded live on stage at Seth Herzog's SWEET at the Slipper Room in New York City. A lot of people they assume I smoke a lot of pot--  --because I talk kind of slow and I look like in high school jazz teacher.  I do not really smoke weed. I do not smoke it that much because I do not get high smoking weed. It does not affect me. It does not affect me. I have only once gotten high from pot. And that was one time I ate a pot brownie. Ooh. Yeah that is right. That is the right response.   I ate a pot brownie. I was about eight years ago. I was living in California at the time. And it was Memorial Day weekend. And I was with three of my friends. And we decided to go to a Dodgers game. And so it was me my friend Ben my friend Steve and Steve's brother Sweet Dave.  You could try to call him Dave if you want to. But he will not answer to anything but Sweet Dave. Like if a tiger was about to attack and you were like Dave look out! Sweet Dave would die.  And so it is the four of us. We are in the parking lot at Dodger Stadium. We are tailgating. And one of my friends is like hey I got some pot brownies. And I am going to let you guess which friend of mine said that. Sweet Dave? Wrong. It was Ben.  But Sweet Dave was like sweet!  And so Ben had four pieces of pot brownies for the four of us. And it seems like oh yeah four and four. Here's a little twist. At this point in my life at 30 years old I had never had pot before. And also at that point in my life I had no job. I was living off my credit cards which my credit cards did not really appreciate.  I was about to get evicted. And I was five months behind on my car note. And so I looked at my friends. And I was like eh I do not really have anything to live for. Let us go. And I ate the brownie. And then we went into the game. And we sat down. And we are all sitting in Dodger Stadium. And I can see that it is starting to hit my friends. Like they are all starting to look around and get a little giggly. And it is hitting them. And my friend Ben looks at me. And he is like you feel it yet? And I was like nah. But I do got to take a piss. So I get up and I go to the bathroom. And I come back. And Steve is in it hard. I can see. He is just sitting straight up. And his arms are crossed. And he is just watching the field not the game the field.  And Ben looks at me. He is like you feel it yet? And I was like nah. But I really got to take a piss.  And I did that eight more times.   And my phone rang. I answered the phone. But no words would come out. I could not say anything. And I could hear my friend Laura on the other end. And she is saying hello. Then I am trying so hard. I am just like say something. Just talk. Talk damn it! And finally I am like UNUSUAL ACCENT I am so  high. This is terrible.  And I did it in that voice. And I have never done that voice before in my life. I do not know where that voice came from. But I heard myself use that voice. And in my mind I went oh . I just gave myself Down Syndrome.  NORMAL VOICE Now let me just say I know what Down Syndrome is. I know that Down Syndrome is something that you are born with when you are born with an extra chromosome. I know all that information. I knew that information then. But something about eating this brownie made me think that somehow I had grown an extra chromosome and I now had adult-onset Down Syndrome.  And for people who have Down Syndrome it is something they grow up with. And they grow up and they have healthy and happy lives. I just got it.  And I start freaking out. I am just like I am going to have to explain this to people. And I start panicking. And I just start freaking out freaking out to the point where I start weeping in the middle of Dodger Stadium. And then I start laughing. And then I start weeping again. And then a bunch of cops start walking towards me. And something in my brain just clicks on. It is like Wyatt you have to keep it together right now. I was like UNUSUAL ACCENT yes. Keep it together. NORMAL VOICE Yeah Wyatt there are cops right there. They cannot know you are high. UNUSUAL ACCENT No they cannot know I am high. NORMAL VOICE And now my internal monologue has become my external monologue. And I start pointing at the cops.  And I am like UNUSUAL ACCENT you cannot know I am high. I have to fool you. I am fooling you.  NORMAL VOICE We thought maybe it is time we should leave Dodger Stadium. I am not sure exactly how far into the game we were. I know it was past the first inning. We might not have made it to the third inning.  But we leave. And we get back to Steve's place. Ben immediately leaves goes home sees his roommate who is like hey what is up? And he goes I think I killed Wyatt.  Steve decides to park himself on the couch and watch TV not TV shows just a blank TV.  Sweet Dave went to a cookout.  He was fine.  Wyatt Cenac. You can catch him every Monday night hosting a show called Night Train at Little Field in Brooklyn New York. Act Four Straight Man. So Marc Maron is a comedian who for a long time very aggressively did smoke pot every day. He also did coke and LSD and mushrooms. He says that for a while he did so many drugs that he was hearing voices. He first tried to get sober in 1988. He has now been continuously sober for over 15 years. He is best known these days for his podcast WTF which is basically the New York Times of comedy podcasts. It is like the comedy podcast of record. Every comedian goes on to talk to Marc. He also has a TV series on IFC. We reached out to him because he is been on both sides of the line right? He is been a daily drug user. And he has been sober. And we thought tha