Craig 01 Hi everybody. This is Craig from Washington DC. Radiolab is supported by HSS the number one hospital in the country for orthopedics for nine straight years according to U.S. News  World Report. With locations in Nassau Westchester Bergen and Fairfield Counties the best is now nearby. Learn more at hss.edu. Olivia Fritz 23 This is Olivia Fritz from Sheboygan Wisconsin. Radiolab is supported by Math for America. Here's a brain teaser Ever wonder where the best math and science teachers across New York City come together to lead learn and share? MFA fellowships inspire great teachers to stay in the classroom. Learn about the power of the MFA community at mathforamerica.org. Intro 51 You are ... listening ... to ... to ... You are ... listening ... to ... to Radiolab.  58 I just thought I would see if I could get the sound of babies sleeping. Jad Abumrad 09 This is Radiolab. Today's program is about sleep. I do not have to tell you how good sleep is. You do it yourself every night. Well you try. And how wonderful when it actually works when you can close your eyes and forget the day and just drift off into oblivion like a little baby. But let us suppose that you are a little baby this little baby and you grew up to become a scientist like one of the scientists we will hear from in this program and you decide to ask what should be the dumbest question ever. Why do we sleep? And not just us. Well pretty much everything sleeps.  53 As far as we know all mammals do it. All birds.  56 Bees locusts cockroaches crayfish ...  59 Reptiles insects.  00 Scorpions. Jad Abumrad 01 Anything that is been studied has something that looks like sleep. Robert Krulwich 04 It is a mystery. Most things we sort of know what they are for and also how they work. But sleep is really in your face. I mean everybody does it. You do it from the cradle to the grave. You cannot help doing it because if you try to stay awake at some point it is irrepressible. And we do not know why. That is a shameful state of affairs. How can you be a scientist in the 21st century and not know the answer to that? There you go. Okay. Jad Abumrad 37 Yeah nice word shame. Okay.  Robert Krulwich 37 That is a pretty good way to begin. You know? Jad Abumrad 39 With shame? Robert Krulwich 40 Yeah yeah. Today on Radiolab we are gonna try to correct this shameful state of affairs when it comes to the subject of sleep. Jad Abumrad 46 We will talk with people who can help us understand what it is for ... Robert Krulwich 49 Why we do it. Jad Abumrad 50 ... and what happens when we do not. Robert Krulwich 53 I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad 54 I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 55 Stay with us. Jad Abumrad 05 For centuries people thought that sleep was kind of the opposite of being awake. Robert Krulwich 10 It is reasonable one would think. Jad Abumrad 12 Sure because during the day you are doing all these things you are having all these thoughts and feelings. At night you just lie there very very still. In fact like sometimes a bomb could go off and you would not wake up. Robert Krulwich 23 I can hardly wake up even in a fire. Jad Abumrad 26 I do not know why ... Robert Krulwich 30 No I am a really heavy sleepy. I am a very very heavy sleeper. Jad Abumrad 33 The point is if all you have got are your eyes to go on sleep can seem like being ... Well- Robert Krulwich 39 Like being off. Jad Abumrad 40 Yeah like off-ness. Robert Krulwich 42 Right. Or worse. Dr. Carlos Shan 44 Well both Shakespeare and Cervantes referred to sleep as death. Jad Abumrad 49 That is Dr. Carlos Shank. He wrote a great book about sleep called Paradox Lost. Dr. Carlos Shan 53 We go to bed every night we die every night and then we wake up in the morning and we are alive again and that was the prevailing theory for centuries. Jad Abumrad 01 For Dr. Shank the awakening to just how wrong Shakespeare and Cervantes were about sleep came one day while he was sitting in class for med school. Dr. Carlos Shan 09 My first year at medical school ... Jad Abumrad 11 This was back in 1972. Dr. Carlos Shan 12 ... we have an emeritus professor who actually was a Nobel Prize winner Dr. Eccles Sir John Carew Eccles from Australia and ... Jad Abumrad 20 Here's what happened. This esteemed lecturer walks into class pops a cassette into the tape deck hits play and out comes this sound. Dr. Carlos Shan 27 Well the sound was ... or ... wait a second let me get it right. Oh here we go ... and multiply this by a hundred ... Jad Abumrad 45 This the professor announced is the sound of a cat's brain while asleep. Dr. Carlos Shan 51 My God. Jad Abumrad 53 Shank almost fell out of his seat. Dr. Carlos Shan 55 This is the brain during sleep? Making these really rapid highpitched multiple sounds. That just blew us away. It was just ... Jad Abumrad 03 Clearly while that cat was curled up in it is little kitty basket its brain was very very alive much more than anyone expected. And this is still a weird revelation. Like take my cat Sammy. All right. That is just the sound of my cat Sammy sleeping. To think that while Sammy is sitting on my lap totally out there is a circus happening in his brain. What is going on in there? If you can imagine back in the '70s this was a paradime shift. People were suddenly like oh my God if we are gonna figure out anything about sleep we have to ask the brain. John Lescue 42 And then this is the room where we do all of our surgeries. Jad Abumrad 45 And luckily that is easily done if you are willing to get your hands dirty. John Lescue 51 Okay so the first step is you have to make an incision on top of the animal's head. When you have done that we drill holes through the animal's skull ... and then you insert your electrodes ... Jad Abumrad 05 Then you have got a little window into their brain. You could see right there on the screen you could see the brain waves ... Robert Krulwich 12 Now are you out of your mind? Did you just put a hole into a kitten's head? Jad Abumrad 15 No that was not my cat. C'mon. Robert Krulwich 17 So what was it we were doing there? Jad Abumrad 18 What you just heard was a mock surgery to an iguana actually. Robert Krulwich 22 Even an iguana man. It is not a nice thing to do. John Lescue 27 Within 20 minutes of coming out of the anesthetic the animal is moving around it is eating it is climbing and it is basking. It might seem like a rather invasive procedure but in actuality it is not too bad at all. Robert Krulwich 37 Uh-huh. Jad Abumrad 38 Yeah. And that by the way is John Lescue. He is a graduate student at the Ecology Department- John Lescue 42 At Indiana State University. Jad Abumrad 44 Which is where we are. John gave our reporter Carol Oller- Carol Oller 47 Testing. Jad Abumrad 49 -a tour of the lab. John Lescue 50 There are big boys here and they all have nice hats. Jad Abumrad 52 Showed her the iguanas. Carol Oller 54 These guys are a little frightening to me. They are pretty huge. Jad Abumrad 57 They are like four feet long head to tail. Robert Krulwich 00 Oh I did not know that. Jad Abumrad 00 I mean they look like baby alligators. John Lescue 02 Pick that one up. Jad Abumrad 02 And John measures their brain waves at night to see what happens in their head as they sleep. In a way it is a continuation of that cat experiment that Dr. Shank just told us about. Except what they are looking for is much more peculiar than could ever happen in a cat or in us. Robert Krulwich 17 What is that? Jad Abumrad 20 Let me put it to you as a puzzle okay? Robert Krulwich 20 Mm-hmm  Jad Abumrad 21 Forget iguanas. Dolphins. Right? Dolphins. Robert Krulwich 24 Yup. Jad Abumrad 25 How is it that a dolphin in the ocean or even say the dolphins that you might find at Six Flags in New Jersey I think they have two. Megan Tuterra 34 Cody is our 10 year old Atlantic Bottlenose dolphin. His buddy Avalon is 12 years old ... Jad Abumrad 40 And that is their trainer Megan Tuterra. Avera Metra is holding the mic. Anyhow here's the puzzle and we asked Megan about this. How is that her two dolphins Cody and Avalon can successfully sleep given the inherent challenges of being a dolphin? Robert Krulwich 40 I do not know. What are the challenges of a dolphin? Jad Abumrad 58 Well they have significant challenges my friend. First they have gotta breathe. Megan Tuterra 02 They are conscious breathers. They are not unconscious breathers. So they have to think about breathing. Jad Abumrad 07 Making matters worse dolphins are not fish so they have to breathe air which means they have to constantly consciously come up to the service to breathe air every few minutes. So you can imagine what would happen if they decided to unconscious for a wile. Robert Krulwich 22 They would drown. Jad Abumrad 23 Right. And yet they do manage to sleep. A lot. Robert Krulwich 27 How long? Jad Abumrad 29 Eight hours a day. Like us. Robert Krulwich 30 Really? Jad Abumrad 31 Yeah eight hours. Robert Krulwich 32 But how? Jad Abumrad 33 That is the puzzle. Megan Tuterra 33 What happens is they do what we call logging.it is when they rest on the surface of the water. You know when a log floats down a river it just floats? That is exactly what they look like. And they rest half their brain at a time. Jad Abumrad 47 Half their brain is asleep? Megan Tuterra 49 Half their brain is asleep at a time. Jad Abumrad 51 That is nature's solution. To cut the dolphin brain in half. Robert Krulwich 55 You mean literally in half? Jad Abumrad 56 Literally in half. So that one half can snooze while the other half keeps the dolphin swimming and surfacing- Robert Krulwich 02 Wow. Jad Abumrad 02 -just enough to breathe. From the outside you cannot really tell what is happening. It just looks like the dolphin is sort of awake but a little out of it. Megan Tuterra 09 Well it is almost like the state of when you are falling asleep but if something happened you would wake right up. So they are in that state all the time. Steve Lema 17 This little guy can be characterized as groggy. Jad Abumrad 19 That is Steve Lema. He runs one of the labs back in Indiana. Steve Lema 22 They are sort of awake and they are sort of asleep then. It is just a way of staying awake enough. Jad Abumrad 27 And again it is easy to miss but if you look inside that groggy dolphin's brain at what the brainwaves are doing ... Steve Lema 33 It is exquisitely obvious ... Jad Abumrad 35 It is clear as day. Steve Lema 36 A six year old could figure it out. When half the brain has these beautiful slow waves like a sign curve and the other one's just jagging all over the place.  53 Awesome.  53 Wow those are beautiful. Robert Krulwich 54 Wow that is amazing. Jad Abumrad 56 Yeah it is called unihemispheric sleep. That is what the guys at Indiana State are really interested in because ... and here's the next surprise it seems to go way beyond dolphins. John Lescue 06 Oh yeah. They are aquatic mammals like whales seals and sea lions. Jad Abumrad 10 John says that all of the marine mammals that have been studied seem to do it too. John Lescue 13 Recently walruses they are all are found to engage in unihemispheric sleep as well. Jad Abumrad 18 And now the Indiana team led by ... by this guy. Charles Amlanne 22 I am Charles Amlanner Chair of the Department of Ecology and Organismal Biology. Jad Abumrad 27 They have found this weird split-brain behavior in creatures of the air. Robert Krulwich 31 Oh? Charles Amlanne 31 Okay let me just back up a little bit and describe this experiment. Jad Abumrad 37 Charlie and his student had been at the park one day and they noticed something. Charles Amlanne 39 We observed that ducks ... Jad Abumrad 41 Ducks. Charles Amlanne 43 ... sometimes will get together into groups. Jad Abumrad 45 Like on a log. Four ducks will get together and snooze in a neat little line. Charles Amlanne 49 And the birds that were sitting in the middle of that line tended to be sleeping with both eyes closed. The birds that were sitting on the outside of that row tended to look a little bit more wary. Jad Abumrad 04 The inevitable question ... Charles Amlanne 05 What is going on here? Jad Abumrad 07 ... led to a very simple experiment. Charles Amlanne 08 We put four birds in a row. Jad Abumrad 09 Four mallard ducks this time in the lab and they watched them sleep. Charles Amlanne 13 The two birds in the center of this row slept with both eyes closed. The birds on the outer edges both left and right slept with one eye closed and one eye opened. Jad Abumrad 24 One more time. Charles Amlanne 25 Slept with one eye closed and one eye opened. Jad Abumrad 28 It is just like in that song. Do you know that Metallica song? Robert Krulwich 36 I missed it. Jad Abumrad 36 It is a good one. Robert Krulwich 38 But I knew they were all botanists. Jad Abumrad 39 It is true. You know no one knows this but that song is really about adaptive sleeping behavior in ducks. Charles Amlanne 48 The outer eye the eye that was faced away from the group the eye that was facing towards where potential predators might come from that stayed open. Jad Abumrad 57 At this point Charlie had a pretty good idea of what was going on because he knew that inside bird brains each eye is attached to the opposite hemisphere. Charles Amlanne 06 The left eye is attached to the right hemisphere the right eye is attached to the left hemisphere. Jad Abumrad 12 So his team implanted some electrodes to measure what the duck brains were doing and voila! Like the dolphins the ducks too were sleeping one half of their brain at a time. Charles Amlanne 24 The bird could simultaneously sleep and be awake. Jad Abumrad 29 Not only that here's the cool part after a few hours ... Charles Amlanne 31 What happened was is that the birds that were on the outer edge then would rotate- Jad Abumrad 36 Stand up turn around. Charles Amlanne 37 -180 degrees. Jad Abumrad 38 And then sit back down. Charles Amlanne 40 And the other eye would then get some sleep and consequently the opposite hemisphere would get some sleep.  45 When we saw that we said oh yeah that is good. Jad Abumrad 50 Good because right there in the ducks was a perfect illustration of what these guys think it is all about. You gotta sleep for whatever reason. Robert Krulwich 58 Right. Jad Abumrad 58 But sleep is dangerous. That is the headline. For dolphins the main danger is drowning. You know? For ducks ... Robert Krulwich 08 Getting eaten. Jad Abumrad 08 Exactly. Ducks have to sleep but how can they when lurking in the darkness are foxes wolves and a hundred other eaters of ducks.  19 Hey you guys. John Lescue 19 Do you like snakes?  20 I do not know. Not really. John Lescue 24 What?  24 I mean I do not dislike snakes. John Lescue 26 He is a good man he is a good man. Jad Abumrad 28 In another nifty experiment John took the resident snake Monty ... John Lescue 32 This is Monty.  35 Hi. Jad Abumrad 35 Big snake. John Lescue 36 He is what about a four foot long python. Jad Abumrad 40 And at night ... John Lescue 40 You are so cute. Jad Abumrad 41 ... John brought Monty the python into the room where his iguanas sleep. John Lescue 45 And he terrifies them. Robert Krulwich 45 Really? Jad Abumrad 47 Well I mean Monty was in a cage so he could not really hurt the iguanas but as soon as that snake appeared all the lizards popped one eye open. Robert Krulwich 54 I bet they did. Jad Abumrad 56 Pop pop pop pop pop. And they trained that open eye right on Monty the snake. Steve Lema 59 Put a big snake in the room and they will watch it with one eye all night. Jad Abumrad 03 That is Steve Lema again. Steve Lema 04 They do not like these snakes that is for sure. And we moved the snake from the room the next day and they are still looking for it the next night or two. Jad Abumrad 10 So they keep one eye trained on that door for a few more days? Steve Lema 13 About two or three days then they go back to regular sleep. Jad Abumrad 29 So what does this all mean? Well think about this. Okay all the sea mammals they do it. Robert Krulwich 33 Right. Jad Abumrad 34 At least the ones that have been studied. All the flying creatures they do it. The reptiles seem to do it too. Who does that leave? Robert Krulwich 42 You mean who is left not sleeping with half a brain on and the other half a brain off? Jad Abumrad 45 Yeah. Us! Robert Krulwich 50 Really? Jad Abumrad 51 We may be the strange ones. John Lescue 53 Well it is sort of strange in that terrestrial mammals cannot do it. Terrestrial mammals just for some reason have lost the ability to do this. Jad Abumrad 59 Not all mammals says John the terrestrial mammals. The ones that live on land. And here's his theory. Sometime long ago our scaly ancestor wandered up on the land and thought I think I will dig a hole. Yeah I am gonna dig a hole. And the hole was dark and it was safe and for the first time in millions of years of evolution that little creature closed both eyes. And so we lost it. Totally speculative theory of course but the basic idea though is if you are protected and safe you can afford to close both eyes. Conk out completely. And that simple idea of safety that explains ... well these guys think almost everything. Where you sleep how you sleep how long you sleep it all boils down to two words. Steve Lema 55 Predation risk. John Lescue 56 Predation risk. Charles Amlanne 57 Predation risk. Jad Abumrad 58 Which is really just fancy way of saying ... Charles Amlanne 00 Generally speaking just your risk of being killed. Jad Abumrad 02 Your risk of being eaten. Now what does this have to do with us? Here we are top of the food chain in our warm beds. Dr. Carlos Shan 13 Nice warm bed. Jad Abumrad 14 A locked door. Dr. Carlos Shan 15 A locked door. Covers. Jad Abumrad 17 Maybe a nice neighborhood. Dr. Carlos Shan 18 A good police force looking after you at nighttime and you live in a country that has a very secure living environment. Jad Abumrad 27 You would think that this whole predation risk idea has nothing to do with us. Well? Dr. Carlos Shan 33 Well there is a few studies that have looked at say sleep patterns where people are sleeping in novel environments. Robert Krulwich 40 What is a novel environment? What does he mean? Jad Abumrad 41 Well like a hotel. Robert Krulwich 43 Oh. Jad Abumrad 43 That first night at hotel why is it no one can sleep well that first night at a hotel? John Lescue 47 On your first night of sleeping in a hotel room you generally have less REM sleep and less deep slow wave sleep relative to sleeping in your house. Robert Krulwich 57 I suffer from that myself I do not sleep we hotel rooms. Especially if it was just one night per place or something my sleep is terrible. John Lescue 04 There are some folk that actually hypothesize there are certain predator relays in the brain and that these circuits remain active at all times. Jad Abumrad 20 Now what if that is true that we all have buried deep in our reptile brain a sort of predator alert system? Perhaps in some of us it is a little too sensitive. Dr. Carlos Shan 33 Okay we are in the sleep lab at the Minnesota Regional Sleep Disorder Center Mission Control we call it. We are viewing the typical sleep terror episode. This little girl who is five years old would engage in these sleep terror episodes every single night. Jad Abumrad 49 That is Dr. Carlos Shank who we heard from before. We are in Minnesota now at the Hennipin County Sleep Center where he works. Dr. Carlos Shan 49 Here in the sleep lab- Jad Abumrad 56 We are standing in front of a grainy black and white video of a little girl in her pj's screaming. Dr. Shank discovered an odd category of sleep disorders called parasomnias which is why we came to talk to him. Para means around somnia means sleep. Around sleep. This might be the human analog to the ducks. People who is brains never quite shut off completely during sleep. Dr. Carlos Shan 20 Well this guy is interesting. He has seizures. No no no he does not. Wait a second. Jad Abumrad 25 He showed us tape after tape. Dr. Carlos Shan 26 We are viewing a man who we very affectionately call Santa Claus. Jad Abumrad 30 On the screen a large guy thrashes back and forth. Dr. Carlos Shan 34 His legs are moving he is going back and forth from his side to his back. Jad Abumrad 38 And then suddenly he starts to ...  39 Ho ho ho ho ho. Ho ho ho ho ho ho ho. Ho ho ho. Robert Krulwich 39 Is this real? Jad Abumrad 53 Yeah this guy is in and out of sleep. He has no idea what he is doing. One of the interesting things Dr. Shank noticed when he first began to diagnose parasomnias in the early '80s is that while they were in that kind of liminal space around sleep a huge percentage of the patients would have these visceral dreams of being attacked. Dr. Carlos Shan 10 The common theme is a menace is posed from nowhere coming out of nowhere. It is an immediate threat that you just cannot ignore. Let us put it that way. You have to either fight it or run away from it. Martin Sabelle 21 The dreams can be very violent. Jad Abumrad 25 This is Martin Sabelle age 88. He is another of Dr. Shanks' patients. Martin Sabelle 29 I remember someone coming up the stairway. Jad Abumrad 33 In Martin's case the attackers never had a face. Sometimes it was a bear. Martin Sabelle 37 And I was gonna fight with him. Gertrude Sabell 40 He would yell at them Get out of here. Jad Abumrad 42 That is Martin's wife Gertrude. Gertrude Sabell 44 Scram! It was always trying to protect me. Martin Sabelle 47 Yeah I would have black and blue bruises on my arms and hands because I was hitting the headboard. Dr. Carlos Shan 54 Not infrequently the man is dreaming in be with his wife that he is fighting to defend her from an attacker when in fact he is beating her up. Gertrude Sabell 01 One night I was sleeping and all of a sudden he is got his hands tightly around my throat. I am petrified. Quit Mart you are dreaming. You are hurting me. Martin Sabelle 12 She says Martin you are dreaming. Jad Abumrad 14 Gertrude and Martin Sabelle are still married believe it or not after 57 years. Though she did force him to sell his guns. Gertrude Sabell 22 He has never been happy about that. Martin Sabelle 24 Well they were quite valuable. Robert Krulwich 26 So you are suggesting then that all these people and the iguanas and the ducks and the dolphins all have a portion of their brain which is weary in the night? Jad Abumrad 37 That is what I am hinting at. I do not wanna go any stronger than hint at but there seems to be something in us that is always watching out always wary. Robert Krulwich 47 Bottom line here though is that sleep for all creatures is a dangerous thing and a few unfortunate people are still awake to that fact. Jad Abumrad 56 That is right. Before we go to break I just wanna thank Ann Hepperman for excellent reporting in Minnesota and also before her Cara . And to remind you to stay with us because we are gonna turn our attention shortly from danger to deprivation. Radiolab will continue in a moment. NIcole 11 This is Nicole from Brooklyn. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Olivia Fritz 31 This is Olivia Fritz calling from Sheboygan Wisconsin. Radiolab is supported by Rothy's. Rothy's is the everyday flat for life on the go. It is stylish classic comfortable and comes in four fashionable styles for women. The flat the point the loafer and the sneaker. Fun designs and patterns while still looking polished and professional with new colors launched every few weeks. Best of all Rothy's are made from recycled plastic water bottles and completely machine washable. So you can feel good about wearing them every single day. Go to rothys.com and enter code radiolab to get your new favorite flats and free shipping. Robert Krulwich 12 Hi I am Robert  Radiolab is supported by wix.com. With Wix you can manage and grow your business online on a single platform. So you create a professional website you use your built-in SEO tools which is fancy for Search Engine Optimization. It is easy to use it is got a scheduling system. It is got all the things you need. You could do this on your own no matter your industry. Wix has tools that your business needs to create a sleek sleek digital presence. Just go to wix.comradiolab to get 10 off when you are ready to go premium. So that is W-I-X.comR-A-D-I-O-L-A-B. Jad Abumrad 53 This is Radiolab you are Robert Krullwich. Robert Krulwich 55 Robert Krullwich that is my name. And you are- Jad Abumrad 57 I am Jad Abumrad. And today our topic on Radiolab is sleep. Robert Krulwich 00 Yup. It is something that all of us do we cannot help but do it. Jad Abumrad 04 It is so good. Robert Krulwich 04 It is dangerous to do. It is so good. And it is universal. Steve Lema 07 Think about it sleep is dangerous. And if sleep could have been circumvented in some way natural selection probably would have found a way to do it. Jad Abumrad 14 That is Steve Lema again from Indiana State University. Steve Lema 18 Because it would just be such a great idea to not sleep. Jad Abumrad 21 Do not I know it. But there are times when you just cannot sleep. Robert Krulwich 25 Right. Jad Abumrad 25 Maybe you are one of the 35 million Americans I am who has chronic insomnia. You just cannot sleep. You do not know why. It just does not happen. Or maybe you do it to yourself. You pull all nighters for school or you have to drive long distances or ... and here's what we wanna turn our attention to next maybe it is done to you. That is the case with producer Hannah Palin. She kept this audio diary of her own experiment with sleep deprivation. She has an 18 month old son. Hannah Palin 59 It is 54 for the record. Today was my first day back at work. We were discussing budgets. I just ... I could not even articulate what it was that I was seeing on my computer screen and try to communicate that to the curator that I work for. The words did not come. Lie down. Lie down on me. Instead of saying well Nicolette I believe that that choice was made because ...  no no all that came out was honey buckets I mean nothing nothing would come out. There was just no brain cells really. So anyway that was my first day back at work. 47. Dominic will not sleep. I do not know why. I am trying to get him to sleep and I am kind of at my wit is end. God this just sucks. Totally sucks. Here's the funny thing. Everybody has a theory. When I was talking to my sister-in-law tonight and her theory is that he is not enough milk because milk has some agent in it that would help him sleep. And he does not like milk. It is true. Other people say oh if you just would exercise him. If he just gets fresh air and exercise he will sleep all night. If you just let him cry he would sleep all night. If you just would do whatever it is we are not doing he would sleep all night. And this is feeling like I am doing it all wrong and that I am a failure as a parent. I do not know how to do this. C'mere Sweetie. C'mon c'mon c'mon. Just lay down on me. So anyway I needed to record just one thing really quickly and that is that yesterday and today I have been struck by these waves of satisfaction and delight with being alive and this amazing landscape with a funny kid. And these beautiful mountains and water and I do not know maybe it is just getting a little more sleep in the last couple of days. But I suddenly feel like wow. I am so lucky. Okay I have gotta take my kid to play now. Here we go. Do you know the muffin man? The muffin man ... Okay that whole I am loving life yeah that is all gone now. And it is pretty much because Dominic will not take a nap. We came home from the beach which I thought would wear him out. Then we sat down and read some stories which for some reason ... And I realize that an element to the sleep depravation and an element to this whole thing is that I get angry from having my own needs subverted to the needs of this little tiny person. Which when you are not sleep deprived is not a big deal. Dominic 01 I am tired. Hannah Palin 02 I am tired. Dominic 04 I am tired. I sleep. Hannah Palin 09 I do not wanna wish a minute of Dominic's childhood away because it is so precious to me. But damn I am looking forward to that moment when I am able to say honey time to go to sleep and he does it. Are you tired? Dominic 09 No. Hannah Palin 31 You are not tired? Close your eyes Bug. Close your eyes. There is my personal take on what it is like to be sleepy and to crave sleep as much as you crave water or breath. I crave it thanks to  Jad Abumrad 57 And her son Dominic and her husband Steve. I know poor Hannah. Robert Krulwich 03 But there is a science question lurking in the background which is when Hannah was so tired why does she feel that way? Jad Abumrad 14 Because she has not been sleeping. Robert Krulwich 17 Well yeah. But what is the essence of tiredness? Jad Abumrad 22 Lack of sleep. Hello? Robert Krulwich 24 Chemically I am asking. Jad Abumrad 25 Oh got it. Robert Krulwich 27 What is happening to her? If you were way down in her cells could you see something tired-like going on? That is what I wanna know. Jad Abumrad 33 That is a good question actually. Robert Krulwich 34 Good. I am glad you think so because I know a guy who has a theory about this. Dr. Alan Pack 38 Did you see Tiger yesterday huh? Tiger Woods is just he is unbelievable. He is the best of anybody. I mean the guy is unbelievable. Robert Krulwich 45 This is Dr. Alan Pack and in addition to being a rabid golf fan he is also a rabid ... can you be a rabid biologist? Jad Abumrad 52 Sure. Robert Krulwich 52 At the University of Pennsylvania. He is been looking at sleep down at the cellular level. And one thing that he is found over and over and over ... Dr. Alan Pack 00 And that is been showing in mouse it is been showing in rat it is been showing in fruit fly. Robert Krulwich 04 ... is that inside certain cells in all those different animals when they are sleep deprived ... Dr. Alan Pack 08 Eventually what happens is you do not get proteins properly folded. Jad Abumrad 14 Excuse me? Proteins properly folded? Robert Krulwich 17 A phenomenon called the unfolded protein response. Jad Abumrad 20 What on earth does that mean? Is that a good thing or a bad thing? Robert Krulwich 23 Are you asking why do you need proteins to properly fold? Jad Abumrad 25 Yeah I guess that is what I am asking. Robert Krulwich 26 Well you are made from proteins. Proteins are the essence of you. So if your proteins are misshapen if they are not folded properly ... Dr. Alan Pack 35 If you do not fold the proteins properly then do not have the right three dimensional structure and as a result they start accumulating I the cell and then these different unfolded proteins can aggregata together and form clumps. Clumps. Clumps. In say the cell and essentially clog up and it is really quite toxic to cells. Robert Krulwich 58 Clumpiness equals tiredness is what his formula ... remember when Hannah was so exhausted? Jad Abumrad 04 Yeah. Hannah Palin 05 God this just sucks. Robert Krulwich 06 Well because she has not slept much ... Hannah Palin 08 Totally sucks. Robert Krulwich 09 Inside her cells lots of these valuable little proteins have not folded properly. That he thinks is the consequence of not having enough sleep. So maybe what is going on is the cells cannot do their business quite as well and things start to break down and that adds up across the whole of your body to a feeling of ... but when she gets the sleep ... remember when she is so happy? Jad Abumrad 31 Yeah. Hannah Palin 31 I suddenly feel like wow. Robert Krulwich 33 Because of the sleep ... Hannah Palin 34 I am so lucky. Robert Krulwich 35 ... a group of cleaner uppers have gone through her cells removed the toxic and misshapen proteins so that ... and in fact sleep is the best housemaid you have ever had in the hotel of you. And this idea the idea of sleep as a cleaner upper might even explain one of the most basic things about us as humans how we learn. That is the notion of Dr. Julio . Ellen Horn 02 Testing testing. Testing testing. Robert Krulwich 05 And my producer Ellen Horn and I went to visit him at his offices in Madison Wisconsin. What are we expecting? What does he look like? We do not know what he looks like. Ellen Horn 05 A football player. Robert Krulwich 14 A football player? Ellen Horn 17 But like a quarterback or tightend not like a linebacker. Robert Krulwich 19 Not like a linebacker. So big but not overwhelming? Ellen Horn 26 Yes. Robert Krulwich 28 How do you even know that? Ellen Horn 30 Website. See but I was totally wrong. Robert Krulwich 34 Now to be fair he is a very attractive guy. He has sandy blonde hair and glasses. He is actually more the sensitive guy intellectual than a linebacker. Introduce yourself. Dr. Julio tenon 43 I am Julio Tenonie I am a professor of psychiatry here at the University of Wisconsin Madison. Robert Krulwich 48 But when it comes to the subject of sleep which is his specialty he takes sleep very seriously. What go you into sleep? Dr. Julio tenon 56 Sleep is the annihilation of conscious. So it is a terrible time in which everything disappears. The universe and yourself with it. I think if people did not sleep and did not have the unconsciousness of sleep they possibly would not even realize that consciousness is an enormous gift. Robert Krulwich 12 So being awake then is wonderful. But it is what happens when you are asleep he says that is what allows you to make very important connections in your life. And he noticed this first when he was connecting with ... I believe it was a guitar. He was playing music. Dr. Julio tenon 26 I used to play first. I played classical guitar. I am sure many people who play musical instruments know that you may train and train and train on a piece during the day and you get better for sure. But you are never perfect. And then you sleep over it. The next day you wake up you play it again and now it is smooth and it flows beautifully. Robert Krulwich 53 That happened to you? Dr. Julio tenon 54 It happened to me. It happens to lots of people.  55 That happened to me all the time. I discovered that sometimes if I worked on a piece and put it away went to bed and got some rest I had it better learned than if I stayed up all night cramming. rob 08 Yeah.  09 Definitely. There is one story and I have not thought about this for a long time. But first of all Rob and I play in a band together. rob 16 The band is called the Sisterhood of Convoluted Thinkers.  19 And we switch instruments like a lot. rob 21 She is usually the bass player.  22 I was gonna play drums. rob 22 So she had to learn how to play drums.  24 So we rented a cabin. rob 25 We went somewhere to rehearse and at night she was really just kind of practicing and practicing and trying to get this rhythm.  31 This one particular beat I worked on it a lot. I just keep going and going and- rob 36 I remember playing that one thing again and again and again.  40 Yeah. And I finally just gave up and went to sleep. And the next morning I got up and went straight to the kit and I just played it immediately. rob 50 The butt hit the stool and she was going. She could just do it.  57 I thought it was magic. That you can just learn stuff in your sleep. Robert Krulwich 02 So in the middle of the night somehow the things that your fingers did repeatedly and the notes that you were using to propel your fingers all those things somehow got better learned. So you learned overnight or you ... you remember better in the morning? Dr. Julio tenon 20 What happens is that the next day you are a bit better off. What happens during the night to make you better off is  Robert Krulwich 27 Tenonie's contention is that sleep helps you remember by forgetting. Jad Abumrad 35 I do not know what that means. Robert Krulwich 35 Let me explain to you what he is saying. He says there is a limited amount of space in your brain. Dr. Julio tenon 40 The real estate in the brain is pretty limited. Robert Krulwich 42 A limited amount. Jad Abumrad 43 That makes sense. It is a small little guy up there. Robert Krulwich 45 Yup. And yet every experience you have during the day- Dr. Julio tenon 48 Is going to take away some space. Robert Krulwich 49 -uses up a little of what you got. When you are awake inevitably you learn. Whether you want it or not. You are going around talking to me having breakfast going to work and yakking on the phone with your friends talking to your mom very different from the friends then going home taking a bath. Gotta take a bath. Jad Abumrad 10 Yeah I get it. Robert Krulwich 11 Everything you do during the day every thought you think no matter how small it all causes your brain to form new connections. This conversation as we are having it is reshaping my brain. Little pathways are forming that were not there before I sat down. Dr. Julio tenon 25 Exactly. Whether we recognize it or not lots of things are going to change your brain by the end of the waking day. Robert Krulwich 32 So if in the middle of the afternoon you sit down with your guitar and you practice the guitar intently those two hours you are also making connections. And because you are concentrating maybe you are making more connections than usual. These are guitar connections. And all those synaptic connections made during the day one upon the other upon the other by the time you are ready for sleep at the end of the day up in your head it is a giant unruly mess. And that is where we think sleep kicks in. Well I am gonna guess here but I think you think that sleep is a garbage detail that comes in and says Okay you are done you are done you are done ...  Dr. Julio tenon 20 It is actually even simpler than that. Robert Krulwich 21 According to Tenonie there is not really a janitor who comes in and decides Okay you have to leave you get to stay. Nothing like that. Instead he says what happens ... Dr. Julio tenon 29 We think that during sleep ... Robert Krulwich 32 Waves of electrical activity kind of like a late evening bath wash over your head. They start at the back of your head and they move to the front. Dr. Julio tenon 41 These waves are called slow oscillations. Robert Krulwich 44 And over the course of the night ... Dr. Julio tenon 46 One thousand times a night ... Robert Krulwich 47 Those waves wash through all the experiences of your day all the little synaptic connections that you made all day long and everyone of those connections all of them gets just a little bit softer. Dr. Julio tenon 00 They get weaker progressively gracefully they get weaker. Robert Krulwich 02 Even he says the things you wanna hold onto like the guitar. Wait a second. Wait a second. You were the one who said you learned how to play the instrument in the afternoon. You went to sleep and you play the instrument better in the morning. Why would you wake up the next morning playing better? You should play more weakly with less confidence and less memory. Because after all you have just given the whole place a bath. Dr. Julio tenon 26 It is all relative Sir. Robert Krulwich 28 What he means by relative is this. That mess of new connections in your head some of those connections are softer some of those connections were louder the random things you ordered for lunch they are softer. But the guitar because you spend so much time thinking about guitar technique you spend so much energy on it that is louder. So we are just measuring connections here. Now imagine that sleep is a big volume knob. So listen to what happens when you lower the volume the whole day. Lower and lower and lower. Now you hear how the softer stuff just falls away you cannot hear it anymore? But the guitar while it is getting softer too because it was so loud to begin with now it stands out a bit more clearly. No? Jad Abumrad 14 Yeah. Dr. Julio tenon 15 The signal. The signals that have survived reasonably well are heard better because his background has become more silent. Robert Krulwich 21 So your ability to play the guitar better the next morning is not because you have learned these skills overnight that you did not have before it is because all the other stuff taking up your brain has gone down in volume and you are left with relatively speaking a better guitar fingering technique. Dr. Julio tenon 39 You put your finger on it. Robert Krulwich 42 So Mr Tenonie feels that sleep is a little bit like wind and rain like the process of erosion. At the end of the day or rather at the beginning of the morning the things left standing are the things you need to know. Jad Abumrad 11 We should go to break. Robert Krulwich 11 Okay so coming up next for those of us who can get to sleep next our chance to dream. Jad Abumrad 17 This is Radiolab. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 19 And I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad 20 We will continue in a moment. Cheryl Ing 22 This is Cheryl Ing calling from San Francisco. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Jad Abumrad 47 This is Radiolab I am Jad. Robert Krulwich 48 And I am Robert. Jad Abumrad 48 And today's program is about sleep. Robert Krulwich 50 As in the kind of sleep where you perchance to dream. Jad Abumrad 53 Exactly. Do you know that story about the benzene molecule? Robert Krulwich 58 No. Jad Abumrad 58 Speaking of dreams. Well here- Robert Krulwich 01 The benzene molecule? Jad Abumrad 01 1865. German chemist is trying to figure out the shape of this molecule benzene. He knows it has a certain amount of one kind of atom and a certain amount of another but he cannot figure out how they all link up. And he is tortured by this problem. Goes to sleep has a dream of a snake biting its tail. Wakes up bolts right up and says it is a ring. It is a ring. Robert Krulwich 25 Do you believe that? Jad Abumrad 26 I want to. Robert Krulwich 27 Well yeah. Jad Abumrad 28 I mean do not get me wrong. I hate it when people tell me their dreams. Hate it. I wanna stab my eye with a fork when people tell me their dreams. I do not know why- Robert Krulwich 35 Well I am never gonna tell you about my dreams again. Jad Abumrad 37 Good. Robert Krulwich 38 But no you are not alone. Because for a long time scientists have avoided studying dreams because they think they are so random and meaningless and study-able. But we did meet a guy ... Bob Stickgold. 50 I am Bob Stickgold S-T-I-C-K-G-O-L-D. I am an associate professor of psychiatry at Harvard Medical School. Robert Krulwich 57 Who found an interesting way to ask the question ... Bob Stickgold. 59 Why do we dream? Robert Krulwich 01 Simple question. Very hard answer. Robert Stickgold was one of the first modern scientists to take dreams seriously. And for him it actually began kinda by accident. Bob Stickgold. 12 I would been up in Vermont with my family. We had gone and climbed Camel's Hump one of the higher easy to climb mountains in Vermont. We would gone at 00 in the morning we were back at 00 in the afternoon. Robert Krulwich 24 And for that whole day he would been up climbing on the rocks gripping them with his hands really climbing. Later that night ... Bob Stickgold. 31 I lie down I close my eyes I can feel the rocks under my hands and I sort of startle up and I say whoa. That is really bizarre. It was not like I was thinking about it. I was there I could feel the rock. I would been off the mountain for eight hours. Nothing like that had happened. I lie down on the bed for three minutes starting to go to sleep and boom it is there. And I try it again and I fell asleep. Two hours later I wake up have to go to the bathroom. I go to the bathroom I come back and I say That was way cool. I have to try that again. And I cannot get it back. What happened in those two hours to those memories that they will not intrude anymore? And then I started talking to friends and they said Oh try canoeing. Or someone else says Try white water rafting if you wanna get that. And someone else says Oh hello. Take organic chemistry. And you go to bed at night and all you see are these spreading molecules rotating in front of your eyes. Those daytime activities are affecting your dreams. Robert Krulwich 41 And that got him thinking. What exactly is the connection between what you do during the day and what you dream at night? Jad Abumrad 48 What are the rules of that? He figured all right this replay is kind of interesting. Maybe I will test it. But how? If I get some subjects together what could I have them do during the day that would reliably end up in their dreams? Robert Krulwich 02 Well he cannot have them all go for hike. And they are probably not gonna get permission to take them white water rafting. Jad Abumrad 08 Too expensive. Robert Krulwich 08 So what could he do? Bob Stickgold. 09 Sort of sat fallow for a year. And I was moaning to some of my students about how cannot think of how to do this and someone says Tetris. And somebody else says Absolutely. And I am saying What? What? He said Well do not you play Tetris? And I say Yes Well when you start playing Tetris ...  It turns out when you start playing Tetris and you go to bed at night you lie down in bed and you see Tetris pieces falling down in front of your eyes. Jad Abumrad 47 Sure. Robert Krulwich 47 Sure? Jad Abumrad 48 Oh yeah. Bob Stickgold. 48 You knew that? Jad Abumrad 49 Absolutely.  Bob Stickgold. 50 You guys both know that? Jad Abumrad 51 Oh yeah. Bob Stickgold. 54 I got a cover of a science magazine for the first published paper on dreaming in 40 years because I discovered that and everybody already knew it. Robert Krulwich 07 It was that simple. He got a bunch of people put them in a room had them play Tetris later that night they woke up and 60 of them were dreaming of Tetris. 60. Jad Abumrad 18 How do you know that just from their reports? Bob Stickgold. 20 As they were falling asleep we are monitoring them electrophysiologically and as they start to drift off to sleep please report now. Jad Abumrad 33 This Tetris observation was a pretty good start in terms of getting at that question. Bob Stickgold. 37 Why do we dream? Jad Abumrad 38 Why do we dream? How does it work? What if as a next step instead of having the people report their own dreams waking them up and doing that whole thing what if instead you could cut the person out of the equation entirely and go right to the source? To the dream directly. Matt Wilson 53 I am Matt Wilson. I am a researcher here at MIT and I am a neuro scientist studying learning and memory. Jad Abumrad 59 That is what Matt Wilson does. He takes us to the dream lab. Matt Wilson 04 So when we first come in what we see is this bank on monitors. Jad Abumrad 08 13 monitors all in a row. Matt Wilson 09 Each monitor displaying ongoing activity in the brain. Little panels each panel showing these ... Jad Abumrad 16 It is like the Kennedy Space Center really. All the monitors have data just flashing all over them. Graphs and squiggly lines and numbers. It is not immediately clear where all this information is coming from. But if you peek around the back you will see that all the computer wires go to one box which then connects to a cable which then goes up to the ceiling over to a wall and down into the head into the head of one tiny rat who is just kinda hanging out in his own little basket. Matt Wilson 44 See him just resting. Jad Abumrad 45 Is that the little guy himself? Matt Wilson 46 Yeah that is him. Jad Abumrad 48 He looks pretty normal except for this cable coming out of his skull. And the cable is basically a microphone or a bunch of them which Matt uses to eavesdrop on the brain cells inside the rat's head as they chitchat. And this is what that sounds like. Matt Wilson 06 You can hear this kinda snap crackle pop sound. These are individual cells that are firing. Jad Abumrad 12 Like ... right there. One does. Matt Wilson 15 That kind of whooshing sound. I can tell this animal's sitting resting quietly. Jad Abumrad 23 Amazingly he says this while he has his back to the animal. He is so fluent with the morse code language of the rat's brain cells he does not even have to actually look at the animal to know what it is doing. He can just instantly decode all of that snapping. Kind of like that guy in the Matrix the bald guy. Matt Wilson 39 I do not even see the code. All I see is blonde brunette redhead. Jad Abumrad 43 Just by listening Matt knows when the animal is sitting. He knows when it is sleeping. He knows when it is running around in a maze. He even can tell which direction it is running. Matt Wilson 52 It just happened that as we were studying these patterns while the animal ran around after the experiments the animals would get tired. They would go to sleep. I would be there in the room but I would continue to listen to the activity. Notice how it is gotten silent? Jad Abumrad 06 Yeah. Matt Wilson 06 I began to notice that when the animals were asleep the brain cells were not just firing randomly. In fact when the animals would go into REM sleep ... So now he is going into REM right now. The pattern of activity we would hear ... Notice that it is not these whooshes anymore. It sounded very much like the pattern that the animal had just been running through. Like if you were not watching the animal you would think Oh the animal has gotten up and is running around again but then you turn and you look and you see the animal is asleep. Jad Abumrad 35 He checked the data and it was not simply that the rat was running around in it is mind while it is body was asleep. It seemed to be running a specific route. The same route in fact that it had run earlier in the day. Robert Krulwich 45 The same sequence same order same everything? Matt Wilson 48 Yes. Jad Abumrad 49 It was re-running its maze. Step for step. So then he asked the next question. Matt Wilson 55 Are they seeing the things that they saw while they were awake? We actually look into these questions as a rat. Jad Abumrad 01 And? Matt Wilson 02 So the answer we see evidence of replay in basically all of the parts of the brain that we have looked in. Jad Abumrad 08 They see the maze that they ran through? The very same maze? Matt Wilson 10 Yes they see the maze. Jad Abumrad 11 Because that is dreaming in a sense. Matt Wilson 12 Well how do we define dreaming? Jad Abumrad 15 Sounds like dreaming to me. I do not know. But the question remains why would the rat or any creature do this? And so Matt came up with a simple next experiment. He decided to give the rat two mazes. Robert Krulwich 27 What would that do to it is dreams of the night? Or whatever you wanna call them. Matt Wilson 30 If they run on maze number one and then on maze number two we see them running maze one and maze two together in a way that they did not experience when they were awake. Jad Abumrad 41 So it is like a remix a new pattern that includes part of maze one and part of maze two. Matt Wilson 46 Precisely. Jad Abumrad 47 It turns out that when the rat had more than one maze in its memory it began to invent completely new mazes. Robert Krulwich 53 Oh wow. Matt Wilson 54 This gives us the thought that sleep has this unique opportunity to basically run through events to put them together in ways that may not have occurred while the animals were awake. And that is what learning really is. Learning is about synthesis about taking things that were apparently unrelated and figuring out the connection in those figuring out the rules the hidden rules the undiscovered rules that will allow us to create something new. Bob Stickgold. 23 I think dreaming is a time when we try out possibilities that in waking we might not feel were worth trying. And when it really works it can be profoundly important. Robert Krulwich 36 If Robert Stickgold is right then how does this solving the problem thing how does it work? How does the brain decide what to put into a dream and what to leave out of the dream? Bob Stickgold. 48 One of the interesting things about dreams is that people do not have dreams where they are word processing where they are surfing the net. These things that they spend huge amounts of their day doing do not get into their dreams. Jad Abumrad 00 But somehow Tetris gets in there every time. Bob Stickgold. 03 Every time. Jad Abumrad 03 And why would that be? Robert Krulwich 05 Well he has a hunch. Jad Abumrad 06 Which he is actually exploring with a completely different video game. Bob Stickgold. 08 We have moved to a game called Alpine Racer which we bought out of an arcade. Jad Abumrad 13 Which he showed us. Took us down the hall to the game room. Bob Stickgold. 17 Here we are. Robert Krulwich 18 And there in the corner it stood. Jad Abumrad 21 Mockingly. Oh wow it is a full body game. Bob Stickgold. 24 Please step up. Robert Krulwich 25 I stepped up to the game got on the platform. Bob Stickgold. 28 It is still warming up. Robert Krulwich 29 And then I set off down a virtual mountain. All right I am going down the hill. I am also a girl. I am also avoiding the ... oh I am doing a nice little turn there. Be careful of the wall. Straight down ahead. And down we go. Ahhh! Oh no! A tree! Ahhh! We are now gonna go through the tunnel. This is ... Ow! Oh that hurt! As you can hear this game was really stressful which is by design. Robert Stickgold has the theory that as you go through your day your brain's constantly keeping track of emotion that is the thing emotional content like when you run into a virtual tree for example. Your brain is gonna flag that stuff. It is gonna flag that it is important. It says Ooh I need to remember this so I can work on it later. I am gonna put a sticky on this one. Bob Stickgold. 19 So if it puts a sticky on everything that is heard during the day then all the brain has to do when it is creating a dream is go and grab stickies. Robert Krulwich 28 Oh I died. But I died nice. Bob Stickgold. 32 Just for the record you got further than Jad on your first try. Robert Krulwich 36 Wow. Wow it is like ... Jad Abumrad 39 Then it is over. You know? Bob Stickgold. 41 Could you say that again? Jad Abumrad 42 So you have people play Alpine Racer for 45 minute bursts throughout the day what happens next? Do you wake them up? Bob Stickgold. 48 We monitor their brain activity and just as they are falling asleep within the first two minutes after they fall asleep we will wake them up. There is a microphone right next to them on their bed. And they just report what was going through their minds.  05 I was just thinking about skiing. Bob Stickgold. 08 And we get on the first night up to 40 of all the reports being about skiing.  14 And the game that I have been playing. Bob Stickgold. 19 40. Almost half of them. And that is right up there what I would expect to see after trauma with something that is been labeled so intensely that the brain says Okay it is obvious what is on the agenda for tonight. Jad Abumrad 33 Stickgold thinks he is seeing the outline of the dream making process here. It starts really simply the very beginning of sleep like right after you fall asleep with the replay. This he suspects. Is just the brain emptying out it is stickies. Bob Stickgold. 46 Things that really intrigued me during the day that I felt during the day. Jad Abumrad 49 Yeah. But- Bob Stickgold. 50 What happens if we let the people go to sleep sleep two hours like I did in that very first time after climbing the mountain wake them up after two hours of sleep ... Robert Krulwich 01 Because remember he could not get back the memory of the rocks after he would spent two hours asleep. Jad Abumrad 06 That is right. And what he is found is that if you fast forward two hours into the dream. Bob Stickgold. 09 Got almost no reports of skiing at all. Jad Abumrad 12 The replay seems to dissolve into a remix. Bob Stickgold. 16 We start getting reports like Oh I dreamt I was sliding down a hill.  20 It is like I am going downhill. Bob Stickgold. 23 Just rolling down a hill.  29 Downward motion.  31 I was thinking about ... I was about to say a downhill banana.  32 I was thinking about skateboarding. I was thinking about doing-  34 I was thinking about a bunch of bananas.  36 Doing yoga on a ski slope. Bob Stickgold. 37 Somebody else had a dream that they were rushing through a forest with their body incredibly stiff and their legs not moving at all as if they were on a conveyor belt. Jad Abumrad 48 It is like as the dream goes on the brain is starting to free associate. What do I have in my past that has anything to do with mountains and anything to do with crashing or skiing anything at all that can help me? Bob Stickgold. 00 What do I have in all my memories in my case for the last 60 years that fits associatively thematically? Jad Abumrad 08 And the result? Well it might seem random it is. But every so often he says you come up with the right answer. Bob Stickgold. 14 So now we get to your dreams of people discovering the structure of benzene. Kekule was his name. Jad Abumrad 22 Kekule actually was his name. I will guess Kekule. Robert Krulwich 25 That is close. Jad Abumrad 25 He was the German guy I talked about earlier who had a dream of a snake eating its tail and realized from that dream that the shape of the benzene molecule is a ring. I do not know if that dream is true but maybe that is in fact the point of dreaming. It is this time when you shut off the outside turn inside take the problems that you have got and start to really work on them pull them apart. Make connections that you would not normally make during the day. Robert Krulwich 52 However have you ever wondered why it would be necessary when solving problems like this to dream so vividly? Are you at all puzzled by the super duper technicolor extraordinarily cinematic qualities of some of these things? Because if it were just an everyday brain function to sort of make sense of the world and that would allow you to make new connections you really would not need quite the movie quality. Matt Wilson 18 So when we talk about dreams what seems to come into dreams are memories concepts relationships associations that have a strong emotional flavor and I am guessing from the data need a full blown orchestration to be properly processed. And it is it is technicolor the colors are overwhelming almost. Jad Abumrad 42 So if I hear you right what you are saying to Robert's question about why are the dreams so vivid is that I do not know but maybe the vividness helps. Matt Wilson 51 That whole long answer is what a Harvard Professor says instead of saying I do not know. Jad Abumrad 00 I guess we should wrap up. If you want anymore information on anything that you have heard this hour visit our website raidolab.org is the address. Robert Krulwich 07 There will be more information about sleep on there will not there? Jad Abumrad 09 Yes. There will be more information on sleep. And you can sign up for our podcasts radiolab.org. Also while you are at it send us an email radiolabwnyc.org is the address. Robert Krulwich 20 Remember also that sleep spelled backwards is peels which is what you would do to an orange grapefruit and to a pear. Jad Abumrad 26 I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich 27 I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad 28 We will see you later. Recording 30 First message. Hannah Palin 31 Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad Ellen Horn Senior Producer Lulu Miller Assistant Producer Production Executive Steve Copello. Recording 42 Next message. Hannah Palin 44 For additional reporting by Producers Ed Hepperman and Cara Oller. Production support by Sarah Palagrini Scott Goldberg Alaska Keville Sam Lavender Avra Metra Ryan Scammel and Jacob Wineburg. Thanks to the musicians we interviewed Brad Creswell Jeanine Durfey Rob Christianson George Preston and Karen Havelick. And special thanks to me Hannah Palin. You are welcome. Robert Krulwich 13 Hi I am Robert Krulwich Radiolab is supported by IBM. By 2050 the world population will reach nearly 10 billion and food production will need to grow by 70. So what if artificial intelligence could help? Farmers are already using it to help increase crop fields. Watson and the IBM cloud provide access to weather data and analyze satellite imagery to help them monitor soil moisture levels and reduce water waste. So as the population grows more food can be put on tables. So let us put smart to work and find out how at ibm.comsmart. 