Everybody knows the holidays can be stressful. And so with the holidays upon us we thought you know what would be nice? An hour of jokes. Let us do an hour of holiday jokes. But reflecting on this for about 10 seconds made us realize there is actually no such thing. Think about it for a second. What is your favorite Christmas joke? Right? Even kids who love Christmas and love jokes do not have Christmas jokes. To be sure this is true we actually ran a scientific test this week where we asked a group of kids to tell us their favorite Christmas joke. OK. Hmm. I do not really know one. Can they go first? One of our producers Jonathan Menjivar went to the playground at New York's PS 11 asking third graders for Christmas jokes. And while none of them knew any Christmas jokes it turns out that all of them were willing on the spot-- apparently any third grader will do this-- they were willing to make up Christmas jokes. Why did the reindeer cross the road? I do not know. Why? To get to the horn station. You know the horn station. The horn? What is a horn station? Where they get new horns. Oh! That makes sense sort of. Yeah. I do not know if you could hear that. One of the kids in the background goes That makes sense. And everyone then agrees. --sense? I am not sure I understand. Because reindeer have horns and then they need new horns. Yeah. And then sometimes reindeer if they get their antlers broke off they grow back in and in this joke they go to a store. Here's another one. There was a chicken that is running around like crazy on Christmas Eve. And then Santa came. And it is like Hey Santa! Can I go on? Then Santa's like You can get on the deer but not on my head! Why does Santa get married with a skinny woman? Yeah. I feel like the setup is often the best part of these jokes. Why does Santa get married to a skinny woman? Because Santa feels bad that he is so fat and she is so skinny. And he wants to see somebody that is skinny. I am glad to say though that some of the jokes the kids made up on the spot did actually have the structure of real jokes and worked as real jokes with punch lines that actually made actual sense. Why did not Santa deliver the presents? I do not know. Because it was not Christmas. OK. This next one was told to Jonathan by a little kid who first explained that they do not celebrate Christmas. They celebrate Hanukkah with the Hanukkah menorah and all that. What does the Christmas tree say to the menorah? I do not know. He says You do not have decorations like me. I am more popular than you. It is funny because it is true. Jonathan was not sure what he should say to this little Jewish kid about that joke. Wow the Christmas tree is mean. The Christmas tree is mean but the menorah actually has good intelligence. Good as these jokes are fact is if you want a Christmas holiday special that is filled with jokes you really have to go to professionals. And so in preparation for today's show we went to stand-up comedians and performers and we put them on stage in little clubs and venues wherever they like to try out new material over the last few weeks. And today from just a small club with I think 200 people in it we bring you our Comedians of Christmas special. We have some people who you have heard of on our show before like Mike Birbiglia but lots of amazingly funny people who you may not know. We have actually never tried this before and it is been completely exciting seeing what happens when we throw a theme like Christmas to these really talented funny people. And so from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Christ Has Prison. We were worried that was a little too Eastery. It is a Christmas show. Wyatt Cenac is a correspondent and a performer for The Daily Show with Jon Stewart. And he has this story about spreading Christmas cheer in Texas. Please welcome him. Thank you. I am from Texas.  That is not normally the response I expect. Its very weird because when you tell somebody that you are from Texas their response is Oh my God I love Austin! Which is cool but I grew up in Dallas. And people will be like Oh I am sorry. Austin's pretty awesome. Austin's great. It is weird. I have lived here in New York now for about two and a half years and I was actually born here. I lived here as a baby. And it is nice to be back. The city has changed a lot since I lived here as a baby. When I was a baby everywhere you went it was just colors and shapes everywhere. Gentrification has changed all of that. In my old neighborhood I remember on the corner there was this amorphous yellow blob. Now it is a Chipotle. When my mother hit her 50s she went through a bit of a midlife crisis. And typically a midlife crisis is something that people associate with men. Men who are struggling with getting older they maybe go out and buy themselves a Corvette or some other type of penis car. And my mother did not do that. What she did for her midlife crisis was she went to church wearing those big fancy church lady hats that star in Tyler Perry movies. You see a man in a midlife crisis maybe goes and gets himself an old Mustang and soups it up. And my mother did the same thing. She would take these hats and you would see her at church on Sunday with a bunch of other middle aged ladies. And they would have tricked these hats out with lace and ribbons and flowers and dodo eggs whatever they could get their hands on. They would put rims and a spoiler on there if they could. And this is what my mother did. And in the same way that when a man goes through a midlife crisis he might find himself a trophy girlfriend some 20-year-old who will spike up his hair and put him in ill-fitting T-shirts that have sparkly dragon skeletons on them. My mother did the same thing. She went to church and she found herself a trophy boyfriend named Jesus Christ. And when you think about it Jesus is really the best trophy boyfriend for a menopausal woman. He is older but he does not show it. He does not care if you feel like you are aging and you have got crows feet or you feel bloated or anything like that. He does not care. He loves unconditionally. If you want to spend all day in aerobic slippers guess what? So does he. That is his uniform. Oh and the most important one. He is made of bread and wine. He is perfect. And around the same time that my mother started seeing Jesus the church decided that this Christmas they were going to do some Christmas prison ministry. And what they were going to do is they were going to take Christmas gifts to prison inmates. And my mother loved this idea so she signed up. And you might be asking yourself What kind of Christmas gift do you give to a prison inmate? I mean their list is probably pretty simple it is probably just freedom and sex not necessarily in that order. The church could not deliver on those things so they thought the next best thing would be a bag of fruit. And what it was it was a paper bag that had been decorated by the children of the church. They drew little pictures on it. And then inside that bag was an apple and an orange and a little prayer card. Because it is church nothing's free. And then on the flip side of that card was a calendar which really seems like the worst thing you could give a prison inmate as a gift. That is the Christmas prison equivalent of some kid waking up on Christmas morning to find a pair of socks when he has no feet. But at the same time it is the thought that counts. And my mother was doing this thing. It was very noble. Not everybody would go and give Christmas to prison inmates. I thought wow that is really awesome of her that she wants to do that. I am going to do something nice for her. So that morning I figured I was going to wake up and I was going to make her some pancakes because she is got a big day ahead of her. And that is when I found out that my mother would not be going to the maximum security prison. My mother had never had any intention of going. See she liked the idea of doing a Christian mission but she also liked the idea of spending the day in bed watching Wheel of Fortune. And since she could not do both she decided she would send me to prison in her place. It was at that moment of my life that I understood what outsourcing was. My mother decided to send me my little brother and my stepfather who up to this point had been OK with the open relationship that my mother he and Jesus had been having. And we get out to the prison. And if you have never been to prison the first thing that happens is you take off your Santa cap because you feel silly. It does not seem right. And it is like everything you have seen in movies. There is a big buzzer that is like errr and some guy's like Come on through! And you do that and then there is a caclunk of the door and all that stuff. And we do all that and we are inside the prison. But what does not happen most times in the movies or an episode of NBC's Lockup is because there was a thunderstorm going on there was like big flash of lightning and then this really loud thunder crack. And then the power went out. Yeah. It was just darkness in prison. And at the time the movie Jurassic Park was big. And all I can think to myself is  the raptors are loose and all I have are these apples to defend myself. The oranges I will keep to fend off scurvy. But the apples. And then eventually the power comes back on and everybody's fine. I have to pick up some of the warning apples that I threw out. And we are doing this. We are giving Christmas to these guys. And in prison they tend to separate the prisoners and categorize them in different ways. And there are the guys who are in solitary confinement. It is called the hole. They are considered the worst of the worst. And then on the other side of the spectrum they have inmates called trustees. And these are inmates who have decided they want to rehabilitate themselves. They may never make parole but they have decided that they want to be better people now than they were when they walked in. And so they take counseling they take classes they get jobs and they are given more responsibilities. And they do not live in cells they live in barracks with bunks. And so these are the people we are going to be giving Christmas gifts to. And we go there and we go into the barracks and we start handing these gifts out and it is amazing watching these guys get these gifts. Their faces just light up. Just the bag itself the drawings on the bags. You would have assumed that those were drawn specifically for them because they are so proud of these drawings. They are like Yo check it out. This kid drew me a car and it is red and that is my favorite color. It is awesome. Another inmate would be like Check it out. This kid drew me a house and then there is a pool. And that is the house I want to live in. Another inmate was like Check it out. This kid drew me a horse with a spear sticking out of his head. That is a unicorn. It is a spear horse! And to see how happy they were getting these gifts. And for this moment they are not inmates in a prison anymore. As they are going through these gifts they are just kids on Christmas. And they are so happy. And they are emptying out the bags and just smoothing out the bags and hanging them on their bunks and you are watching just the sheer pleasure on their faces as they are going through the gifts. And you are watching that fade away as they find the calendar. Like seriously man what am I supposed to do with this? Beyond that they were very appreciative. They were appreciative for the apple appreciative for the orange appreciative for the bag. The calendar not so much. But we give everybody the gifts and I notice there is still a lot of gifts left. And so the guard who had been taking us around was like You know what? Let us take those and give those to the guys in solitary. Really? Does Santa's naughty list mean nothing at this point? I mean what happened to be good for goodness' sake? Better not pout better not cry better not shout? Santa has problems with those but murder he is cool with? Really? And we go to solitary. Solitary each of the doors are these metal doors. And there are these metal doors. And then on the door is a smaller little over door about the size of a shoebox. And that is there. And then there is a guard and he is got a stick. And he will take the stick. He takes it to the little shoebox sized oven door and opens up and he is like All right give me a gift. All right. Do I get a stick? No you will be fine. Really? Because you have a stick. Do it. So I start giving the gifts and I am just throwing them in the hole. And we go to the next one and it is like I am playing Quidditch just tossing them in. And eventually we get to this one and I throw the gift in and the guard is about to stick up the door again and from behind the door I hear this voice and he goes Wait. Hold on a second. Hold on. I want to shake his hand. Well my friend I would love to but I am sure the guard has something to say about that. No it is fine. Go ahead. Do it. Really? And I am terrified because now I cannot see anything except eyes back there. And I am slowly making my way and just thinking I could shake his hand and he could eat my fingers. And I am nervous. And I am walking closer and I still cannot see anything. And then all of a sudden this hand just comes out. It is a big meaty hand because it is a prison hand. And I walk over and my hand sort of nervously grabs his and shakes it. And he holds on to it and pulls me a little closer. He is like Yeah I thought I knew you. Yeah I know you. I am like Oh no you do not. No. No you do not. And he is convinced. He is like Yeah I know you. I know you man. And now I am starting to think to myself Does he know me? He is really convinced. Yeah I thought it was you. Yeah I know you. You are from Austin. Which at that particular moment I had never felt more pride to be from Dallas. I was just like No I am from Dallas ! At which point he was like Oh you should really tell people you are from Austin. It is a much nicer place. Thank you everybody. Thank you. Wyatt Cenac. Act Two Stocking Stuffers. Among other things Edith Zimmerman writes these very short short stories. Please welcome Edith Zimmerman. This story is called The Holiday Party. So do you come here often? he asked leaning toward me with a twinkle in his eye and a sprig of mistletoe in his hand. We had been exchanging flirtatious glances across the bar all night. Finally he was making a move. Yes I said with a playful smile. Oh really? he said. Yep. I come here every day actually I said. On weekdays they open at 500 so I get here 15 minutes before that to wait outside. And then on the weekends they open at 300. And then today because it is a holiday party they opened at noon and I did not have to wait outside at all. Huh he said giving me a funny smile. You really do come here often I guess. Yep. There is no one else who comes here as much as me. You can ask the manager. They let me keep stuff in the bathroom sometimes. Ah he said and looked around the room. One time I fell down over there and hit my head I said and pointed to a corner in the bar but no one noticed so I even got to stay here overnight. This one is called Christmas Cookies. Good morning! I said to my students. Does anyone like-- And here I reached under my desk to produce a heaping tray of homemade treats. --Christmas cookies? Yes! they screamed. How much? I asked. A lot! they screamed. Do you love them? I asked. Yes! they screamed. We love them! So why do not you marry them? I asked. No! they screamed. Why not? I asked. You cannot marry cookies! they screamed. I looked down at my engagement ring and slid my hand behind my back so the children could not see. Is that like for sure a fact or is it something you just assume? I asked. Edith Zimmerman. She is the editor at TheHairpin.com where she writes all day every day. Coming up more Comedians of Christmas. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bringing a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show for Christmas a comedy Christmas special. We wanted something funny for the holidays so we invited comedians and other performers to go on stage at various locations wherever they perform. And we created two shows at a club in Brooklyn called Littlefield to record them in front of live audiences. In our search for holiday jokes Christmas jokes holiday humor of all kinds one of the kids of one of our producers found this book called Christmas Crackups and knew that we were doing the show and sent it into the office very generously. Though I am supposed to return it when I am done. I thought I would read you a few of the jokes. What kind of bills to elves have to pay? Jingle bills. What nationality are Santa and Mrs. Claus? North Polish. Suddenly I feel like Steven Wright or something. I am deadpan. On which side of Santa's face is his beard? The outside. I want to play you guys one more clip that Jonathan Menjivar got when he was out on the schoolyard at PS 11 talking to kids about Christmas jokes. He talked to this one kid and he said Have you got any Christmas jokes? And the kid says-- I do not want to do that if it is going on radio. Yeah do not worry about it. No one's going to know who you are. Oh OK! OK so now the kid knows that the kid is anonymous so here's the joke that this kid tells. Knock knock. Who is there? Ella. Ella who? Ella really got to go poo. The kid works blue. The kid knows I am anonymous. Great. I have got this dirty material that I have got to try out on public broadcasting. Act Three Little Altar Boy. Despite our nation's best efforts to turn Christmas into a festival that is about gifts and toys and buying stuff it is still a religious holiday. Please welcome comedian Mike Birbiglia. One of the reasons Christmas was a really big deal to me when I was a kid was that I was really good at being Catholic. And not everyone was. My brother Joe only came to church on Christmas and even then he would show up late. He would be like Mike the later you show up the shorter it is. And then he would change the lyrics to the hymns. There was this one we used to sing every week that goes Christ has died. Christ is risen. Christ will come again. And Joe's lyrics were Christ has lied. Christ is in prison. Christ will come at 1000. I would try so hard not to laugh because I was on Jesus's team. Well I went to church every week with my mom and I thought it made me her favorite. My mom decided early on that I would be a priest. And I really thought that I would and I liked the idea. So every week we would go to church. When other kids would go to the park or the mall we would go to church. And sometimes I would be like Hey Mom I want to go to the mall. And my mom would say Like fun are you going to the mall. That is an expression that my mom uses. Like fun. Which is her way of saying Like Hell because she is Catholic. And for Catholics Hell is fun. When you are seven and your mom sends you to Catholic school it is all pretty simple. They are like There is this guy Jesus and he totally loves you. And you are like Great. And they are like You love him too right? And you are like I am sorry. Do I know this guy? And they are like You know from the cross. That guy loves you and you love him. And it starts innocently enough as innocently as manboy love can start. You just kind of accept it. There is this guy Jesus who everybody's afraid of but everybody loves because he loves everybody. And a long time ago some people killed him and it is not totally your fault. So do not be scared or sad because he is living forever next to God who is his dad even though he is also God. And also there is this whole Holy Spirit part too that no one really understands. Am I going too fast for you seven-year-old boy? So you go with that for a few years. And then you are 11 and you get the word that Father Grady wants you to be one of his new altar boys. He is seen your work at recess on the kickball field and he thinks you have got what it takes to snuff out candles and hold a chalice and not trip and fall on your robe. So I became an altar boy. And the answer's no. I was not and I think it is because they knew I was a talker. I have that look about me. And I loved being an altar boy because church was glamorous. The priests have these multicolor robes. As an altar boy even you have a robe just a plain white one. It is like karate where they start you with the white belt and then you get the different color belts once you start kicking some Devil ass. So I loved being an altar boy especially on Christmas. That is when I could really show off because Christmas was cool. I mean everyone came to Christmas Mass. People who you never saw at church came to Christmas mass people like my brother Joe. And they would see me there with their families and they would see me in my robe all fitting in around the church. I acted like I owned the place. I would go Oh yeah? You want to walk up on the altar? That is probably not a great idea. That is where J-Dog hangs out. You know Jesus too? Yeah he is a pretty good friend of mine. It is cool of you to come by but seriously where were you during Advent? That is for the real diehard Catholics that last one. Shortly after I finished college my mom developed this condition where as far as the doctors could tell part of her spine was pushing into her spinal cord. And they were not sure what was happening but she was experiencing chronic pain all over her body. And so the doctors did this operation and the problem is the pain did not go away. So my mom was faced with both the original pain and then the pain of this operation. And she was laid up for months. She was in bed. And so I came home and lived with them to administer her pain meds and get her meals. She was also prescribed this drug called Ativan which is an anti-anxiety. And she was supposed to take it three times a day but pretty soon she wanted to take it five or six times a day. And I was not sure why. And I asked her and she pulled me aside and she said I am dying. And I was so upset that I called her doctor and I asked him if my mom was dying. And he said Well we do not know what is happening exactly but there is no reason to believe she is dying. Just make sure she does not take too much Ativan. It is making her delirious. So I hid the Ativan. And it drove my mother crazy. At one point she shouted Michael where is the Ativan? And I said Mom I cannot give you the Ativan. And she said I am your mother and if I say get me the Ativan you get me the Ativan. And I said Mom like fun am I getting you the Ativan. She started pulling me aside every day and she would say Michael I am dying and I am going to Hell. And the way she said it was not in that exaggerated way that people use it where they say I am going to Hell. She said it as though it was the next stop on her train like it was this actual location. It was not a concept. It was like I am going to Hell on Tuesday. And I would say Mom you are not going to Hell. And she said No there is things that I have done in my life that you do not know about. And I would say Mom if you are going to Hell Hell is going to be really crowded because I had you as a first-round draft pick for Heaven. And she would not laugh. I mean there was not a lot of laughing in this period. And eventually my mom got better. But the whole thing shook me up. It was this side of Catholicism I never thought about as a kid. And I never went back to church. I cannot be part of an organization that convinced my mom she was headed for eternal torture. Like Hell am I going to a church like that except of course on Christmas. Mike Birbiglia. He is the author of a book based on his one-man show called Sleepwalk With Me and Other Painfully True Stories. Act Four One Lord A-Leaping. Gabe Liedman and Jenny Slate perform together all kinds of places. They have a video series called Bestie x Bestie. They have their own weekly show Big Terrific in Williamsburg Brooklyn. Please welcome Gabe Liedman and Jenny Slate. Hi. My name is Jenny. I am Gabe. We are thrilled to be here. Yeah. We are really excited and we put on our holiday best. Yeah you look great. Thank you very much. You look really good. Well I think I sort of look like-- You look like Stevie Nicks. Oh thank you. Yes. That is the highest compliment. It is the highest compliment you can give a woman. I do not want to ruin the vibe or anything but I would just like to say how happy I am to have a boyfriend that I can also perform with-- A what? --over the holidays-- A what? --because it is really like a double . She is kidding. Yeah we are not a couple. Its really nice to have a boyfriend. You guys probably already know that without being told because you can hear my voice. And to be in a couple is very important to me. We are just friends and comedy partners and we spend all the time together in the world. I am a very loving person. But we are just friends and we work together. It is sort of my main quality that I am very loving. Obviously. No duh times a million. And I can tell she is pretty. I am happy about it. I am not blind. I am not a blind comedian. But it is lovely to be in love because-- Yeah or in whatever. Just hanging out in Brooklyn. I am very very grateful. I am just in general in sort of a sappy mood I guess because I really really love the holidays. Me too. I get super into it. Or I love other people's holidays. I wish I had Christmas. Yeah. We should just get real about it. Yeah we are Jewish. Yeah. But I love Hanukkah. I love it. You do? Yeah. My family just floored it and I can remember almost all of my presents that I got. They were so shocking and awesome I can remember each one. You are so lucky. I do not know what this says about me. I mean I know my parents were the sweetest people ever. They were such good parents but all I can remember is my worst Hanukkah present. What was it? I have two siblings. And one night for Hanukkah we all opened our presents and we had all gotten thermometers. No! That is horrible! All three of us three thermometers. That is medical! No not for taking a fever. It was for the temperature outside. No that is even worse! It is way worse. I do not even get that. Why do not you just use your face? How does it feel on your face? Yeah totally. Why did you each need one? I do not know. You only need one right? Yeah. You do not need any! Right. You do not need any. We had AOL. It was fine. It was fine. Everyone knew what the weather was. I really love your parents. They are the best. I mean hopefully my in-laws one day. That would be weird. But that is a horrible present and it is stupid and I do not like it. Yeah. But what I want to talk more about is how good one of my presents was one time. I think that I will never die because of the energy that I got from that one day of getting the present. It gave me an extra heart somewhere in my body. That is how exciting it was. OK. It was from my grandparents who were a wild card a lot of mock turtlenecks in the mix for sure. Yes definitely. But I opened it up and it was a digital clock radio-- Hold on. I know. --with a tape deck in it. Nice. OK? Nice. And then my older sister to top it off gave me a cassingle-- Yes of course. Gabe taught me that word. --of From a Distance by Bette Middler which I know how to sign. Yes. Thank you. I know. And I woke up every morning to From a Distance and I felt mature. I felt beautiful. I felt ready for my day. Yes that is a good present. Well I did not ask for any presents this year because I have everything that I need. And I would like to say that the best gift that I could have ever received is to have a wonderful boyfriend like Gabe Liedman. Or whatever that you have. That is right. So Season's Greetings. Season's Greetings guys. Let us find some mistletoe! Yeah and take it down so no one gets hurt! It is poisonous. Happy Holidays! Thank you. Goodnight. Jenny Slate wrote and voiced the award-winning film Marcel the Shell with Shoes On and can be seen on HBO's Bored to Death. Gabe Liedman writes for videogum.com and can be seen on AOL.com's new series The One. Act Five 'Twas the Fight Before Christmas. So we booked a bunch of comedians to do stories about Christmas. And for reasons I do not even understand or care to speculate about just a number of them ended up doing stories that heavily involved their moms. Go figure. Please welcome our next comedian Julian McCullough. When I was a 14 years old I lived with my dad and my mom in southern New Jersey. And one Sunday my mom was like Hey let us go out to your favorite restaurant for breakfast. And I was like Why? OK. So we go to breakfast and after we leave we are driving home and she stops. The car has to stop at a railroad crossing. And she turns to me and she says How would you feel if I moved to Tennessee? And I kind of understood the finality of what she was saying even though she did not use the word divorce or anything like that. And it is amazing how fast defense mechanisms can kick in because I remember immediately my reaction was Oh my God. Go. When was the last time Patricia did something for Patricia? So another thing you should know is that this did not seem that strange to me because my parents had moved us so many times. I was born in Philadelphia. We had lived in Portland Oakland San Francisco Pittsfield Massachusetts and southern New Jersey. People always asked if I was an Army brat and it was not true at all. My parents would just get bored and move us. So I was used to an unstable existence. I was new in school almost every year. And I just thought this seemed kind of logical for my mom to all of a sudden move to Tennessee for no reason. So that started a series of visits to my mom down in Tennessee for the next five years. I would go in the summers when I did not have school. And I really started to dread it. By the second time that I went to visit her my mom's new boyfriend Rick showed up at the airport to pick me up. And Rick showed up on a Harley which is a motorcycle to pick someone up at an airport. And I was like That is awesome. I will just leave my bags on the twirly thing until I go back to New Jersey. He was wearing a T-shirt that is very popular. It is a Harley Davidson T-shirt and the back of it said If you can read this the bitch fell off. And I was like That is my mom. Is she OK? Let us get her. To give you an idea of what Rick looked like he was about 5'7. He had been a commercial roofer for many years. He had started out in a biker gang and I guess decided to move on from that life and became a commercial roofer. So he was very very strong and muscly and very red. He was red everywhere from the sun and from just anger. And the tension between me and Rick started immediately and built from there. See I thought Rick was an anti-intellectual homophobic racist gun-toting alcoholic. And Rick thought that I was a wimpy arrogant self-entitled kid whose grandparents were putting him through college. And we were both dead on. So finally after five years of going down there in the summers my mom convinces me and my sister to visit her for Christmas for the first time. She had always been begging Hey maybe for Christmas one year you should come down. And I did not want to do that for a couple reasons. One you just heard everything. Two I had a sweet Christmas going on with my dad's parents. My grandparents in Philadelphia threw the most amazing Christmas. They threw a Thomas Kinkade painting Christmas. But finally me and my sister-- she lived in San Francisco at the time she was older --decided we would do that for my mom. And we go to Christmas. Now Rick was on his best behavior. In fact he had a smile plastered on his face that my mom had clearly put there for him. But it is going fine. He is behaving himself and so are we. And we have dinner that night and my mom cooked a great dinner. One other thing is that my mom was a vegetarian my entire life. And she also was a poet and she read all the time and she meditated. She did all these things until she got to Tennessee and she threw all of that out the window because it made them uncomfortable. So she started eating meat and cooking ribs and wings and shepherds pie. And that is what we had for dinner. She also got tattoos at 47. She got a black widow spider on her hand.  That is the laugh of a man who that is not his mom. She also 