I was a reporter for years in the Chicago Public schools covering all the different ways that people tried to fix and improve those schools. And one of the big debates-- not just among the parents and politicians but inside the schools as well-- was how much could we expect teachers to actually accomplish? Like how much could they do really with the students they were given? Some teachers definitely were the heroic we-can-do-better types. We need to try everything. They were trying all kinds of reforms and fixes to make their schools improve. Others shrugged. This population of kids they would tell you arrives with such deficits-- no books at home violent neighborhoods the kind of family problems that would distract anybody from school. These teachers would say we are doing as well with them as anybody could. You know if dozens of kids show up in your classroom each year with terrible reading ability and in need of remedial writing instruction how exactly are you supposed to bring them up to grade level on the state standardized tests in the one year you have with them? One of the things that is been interesting about the teacher's strike in the Chicago schools is that it is actually gotten people talking about some very basic things in education and things like these. Like for instance one of the big issues is standardized testing. How much should teachers be evaluated on the test scores of their students? Where you stand on that one pretty much comes down to whether you think that teachers have a lot of power to raise those scores or not. There is an essay that is being published this Sunday in the New York Times by Alex Kotlowitz a reporter who writes a lot about kids and poverty in Chicago. And he points out how much we expect from teachers especially teachers in a school system like Chicago's where 87 of the students come from low income families. He writes that he is been reporting in a high school lately where the staff has transformed and improved the school in lots of ways. And yet each day I spend there he writes I witness one heartbreaking scene after another. A young girl who yells at one of the school's social workers 'This is no way to live' and then breaks down in tears. Because of problems at home she is had to move in with a friend's family and there is not enough food to go around. A young man has retreated into his shell having witnessed a murder over the summer. The stories are all too familiar. And yet somehow we have come to believe that with really good teachers and longer school days and rigorous testing we can transform their lives. We have imagined teachers as lazy excuse-making quasi-professionals or alternately as lifesavers. But the truth of course is more complicated. I bring all this up here today because there is a new way to look at all this a new body of science that is just starting to get discussed in a widespread way. It looks at what a difficult home life can do to the brain of a school kid-- literally to the biology of the brain-- and how it makes it difficult to learn. And this science suggests all kinds of things that schools could be doing that could improve teaching get through to huge numbers of kids that teachers have a hard time getting through to today. As school starts up again we thought here at the radio show that it would be nice to turn away from the political questions and the union questions and the money questions and all the regular stuff that people argue about when they argue about schools all the time and turn instead today for the beginning of school to something more optimistic and forward-looking something that feels big and Earth-shaking and I have to say kind of exciting. That is what we are going to be talking about today. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. Stay with us. Act One-- No These Things Will Not Be on the Final Exam. OK so let us start with the most basic question a question that is so big it is almost embarrassing to ask out loud. What should kids be learning at school? You know people argue about this. Schools are established pushing this approach or that one about the best way to teach. And I learned about this shift in the way that people are answering this question this whole new set of theories and ideas that are in the air right now from this new book this book that came out this month that is trying to document that shift and explain what these ideas are about. Some of these ideas have been around for years but are now backed up by new data and tied to research about what goes on in kids' brains. Some are new based on new research. There are educators involved in this psychologists economists neuroscientists. They are not all working together. But they are starting to make connections. And I feel like they are coming to a similar conclusion. This is Paul Tough. He is a reporter who writes about new approaches to educating children. He is been on our program now and then in the past. And he is the one who wrote this new book. He says that to understand this shift in thinking you have to first understand where things were before the shift. Up until now what is been emphasised in most schools is something called-- and jargon word here but there is no way around this-- something they call cognitive development. And what cognitive development means is smarts the way that you think about smarts in school-- the stuff that gets measured on IQ tests and standardized math and reading achievement tests that kids take most places. And it is not like that stuff is not important. Well I am definitely not saying that none of that stuff matters at all. I am saying that we have put way too much emphasis on it and especially in the early years. I think it is especially parents of very young kids who get really anxious that their kids need all of these skills and all of this information really early on. I think-- There is a whole industry that came out of that. Exactly. I think it is part of these preschool classes Junior Kumon all of these flash cards and brain building toys and the right kind of videos and DVDs from early on to try to boost their cognitive skills at an earlier and earlier age. So that is the old way of looking at this. What is our new understanding? Where I think they are heading is this idea that what matters most in a child's success is not just cognitive skill. It is not just reading and math and IQ. It is this very different set of qualities. And you write that the guy who is kind of at the heart of this way of thinking is an economist named Heckman right? Yeah James Heckman. He is a Nobel Prize winning economist at the University of Chicago. If there is any one figure who is trying to pull together all of this research it is him. He puts together these conferences where he invites psychologists and neuroscientists and economists people who do not usually have much connection to get together and talk about some of these ideas and some of these issues. The thing that really got Heckman started down this path was a study that he did about the GED. The GED of course is the high school equivalency exam. If you did not graduate from high school you can take the GED. And if you pass it counts the same as if you graduated. Well I will give you-- it is a personal anecdote. This was in the early 1990s. When I invited Heckman into the studio to chat he told me how blown away he was when he first encountered the GED. It was the early 1990s like he said. He was in Texas doing a study about something else. And they pointed to this classroom and said You realize that these people will be studying for their GEDs. And in a few weeks maybe a few months you can convert essentially high school dropouts people who were even intermediate school dropouts into high school graduates. And I said That is amazing. So I am an economist. And that really started to surprise me. And as a result-- Wait why was that surprising if what they were testing was just you have learned this information? Well it was surprising you know in a few months you could actually teach people the knowledge that they would acquire in four years of high school. Oh I see. Maybe a couple more. So it seemed to me-- really the average preparation time for a GED is like 32 hours. And the average amount of study time for a student in high school is around 1000 hours per year. And you say Well wait that is like 3000 4000 hours versus 32. And from an economic standpoint if that were true it would be a real miracle. And it would be very cost effective. All eighth graders should take the GEDs. Instead of going to high school? Instead of going to high school. We would save ourselves a lot of money. Save ourselves a lot of money. Save ourselves a lot of time. So Heckman kept thinking about this. If it were true should we even have high school? It raised some questions. Which led him to wonder well is it really true that the GED was equivalent to graduating from high school? Did the GED students really go on to do as well as the graduating high school students in life? So he devised a study that looked at what happened over time to people with GEDs versus people who graduated from high school. And so when we follow these people into adult life follow them many years what we found was consistently GEDs are performing slightly better than dropouts who did not go on and take the GED people who really dropped out of high school but nowhere near as well as high school graduates. And that was in terms of performance in earnings performance in occupation. We find that they consistently fail whether it is going on in college. The success rates in college are very low. The success rates in the military are very low. The success rates in marriage are very low. They get married but they drop out of marriage. These people drop out of virtually everything they start. Now if you think about it this should not be so surprising. If you cannot manage to follow the rules and do what is assigned and keep your ass in a chair for four years of high school of course you might be somebody who has trouble applying yourself later in life. Of course you might be different from a high school grad. But what struck Heckman is that this did not show up in the test results. Our entire education system is organized around the idea that testing and the kind of smarts that you can measure on a test are the most important information we could have about a student. That is how we evaluate whether a school is well-run. There are kids who do better on standardized tests. That is at the heart of huge policy initiatives like No Child Left Behind. But here was a test the GED that said that millions of people were just as smart as high school graduates. If they passed the GED it proved that their cognitive skills were just as good. But these people were failing which led Heckman to conclude-- That these test scores explain only a tiny fraction of the variability among individuals-- who is successful and who is not-- and that other factors are out there that are not measured that are not even accounted for in public policy that make a big difference. And so I said Hm something's missing. And now the first impulse is you appeal to astrophysics and you say ah dark matter. There is something out there in the universe that we are missing. And that dark matter what could it be? What were the skills that the GED students lacked that the high school graduates had? Specifically what was this unnamed dark matter and how could you measure it? Heckman started calling these mystery skills that he was looking for non-cognitive skills to distinguish them from the stuff that educators normally focused on which of course were cognitive skills. But it must be a drag saying the phrase non-cognitive skills all the time because when you talk to Heckman over the course of a conversation he jumps around to all kinds of other words to describe the same thing. Soft skills. Or a moment later. Social skills. Or here's another. Personality traits. You know what you guys need is you need a better word for this. Better word? Non-cognitive is not good you mean? No. The phrase non-cognitive skills it just feels a little confusing or clumsy. I agree with you. It is lousy. It sounds like a very negative terminology. Well it is funny talking to you about it. Because even as you talk about I hear you run through all the different terms because none seems to suit. Correct. Because you guys have not come up with a term yet. Well no we have-- character. Character. The trouble is character sounds very moralistic. It sounds like we are running a Sunday School. See I think the proper word is probably personality and social skills. Listen to you! You are changing from minute to minute. I agree I agree. We go all over it. Heckman says it is not like educators never considered character before this-- or should I say non-cognitive skills? The history of American schools is a pendulum that swings between emphasizing character on the one hand and intelligence on the other. Everything from classical boarding schools to progressive schools to modern private schools have endeavored to teach character not just the ABCs. And public schools once taught character-- conduct deportment. Those are the words they used which Heckman would call non-cognitive skills. But over the course of the 20th century testing-- standardized testing of math and reading and other cognitive skills-- grew and it grew until it dominated American education. What happened-- and this is just the logic of testing how tests have a life of their own. But literally what happened was it became very easy to mark reading writing tests much harder to judge deportment to judge all these other traits. It is hard as hell to measure those. And so most schools gradually organized themselves around teaching stuff that you can measure stuff you can quantify in test results which are the cognitive skills. All this other stuff went by the wayside. Now Heckman wanted to take a look at it anew. And specifically he was interested in finding skills that he could prove empirically prove help kids succeed-- and succeed in the ways that an economist measure success. Things like how much money do you earn and do you end up in prison and are you on welfare? And he then wanted to try to understand how these things could be taught. For such a prominent academic a Nobel Prize winner to tackle all this and tackle all this in this way was new. Nobody set out on a mission like the one that Heckman now embarked on pulling in and connecting people who were already working on pieces of the puzzle. Again Paul Tough. And that is what he is been doing for the last 10 years. And so as the research has gone on what kinds of things have people found are these non-cognitive skills? Like what are they? Well there is not sort of a master list of non-cognitive skills right now. The ones that Heckman would refer to and that I think are most important some of them have to do with self-control. There is a number of different terms-- things like self-regulation skills self-control conscientiousness. So that I think is one set of things. Just the ability to delay gratification to resist impulse. When you are about to make a bad decision to think twice about it. To keep your temper. All of those things I think matter a lot. And I feel like when you say that it makes me think of studies that I think a lot of us have read about where they will put a kid into a room. And they have to resist eating a cookie something like that. Yeah this is called the marshmallow test. And this is a famous test that was done starting back in the 1960s by a psychology professor then at Stanford named Walter Mischel. And he took a bunch of four-year-olds into a room said Here is a marshmallow or a cookie. I am going to leave the room. If you want you can just ring this bell and I will come back and I will give you one of this treat. But if you can wait until I come back on my own then you get two. And so this was like psychological torture for these kids. They were four. Exactly. And so they would sit there and try to resist ringing this bell. And squirm. Exactly. It was very painful for them.  It is so long! This is such a well-known study that on YouTube you can see videos that various parents have made administering this test to their own kids in their own homes. 10 minutes. 10 minutes! 10 minutes! 10 minutes! This little boy named Theo has obviously been told that he is going to get his second treat if he can just wait 10 minutes. And he sits there. 10 minutes! 10 minutes! 10 minutes! 10 minutes! 10 minutes! Aw 10 minutes! So anyway back to Walter Mischel. He was actually doing this study to try to figure out how kids resisted temptation. And it was only like 10 and 15 and 20 years down the road when he started looking these kids up again and he wanted to find out how well they were doing. And he found there were these huge correlations between how long these kids had been able to wait for the treat and how well they did on their SATs how much money they were making all sorts of indicators of how well they were doing in life. Now for James Heckman and for writer Paul Tough for that matter what is most exciting about the power of these non-cognitive skills is the possibility they would give kids the skills they need to get out of poverty and the skills they need in the short run to counter-act the effects of poverty on children in school. It is well-documented that poor children do worse on tests and worse in school than better-off ones. This is the so-called achievement gap. What this new science seems to indicate is that what is holding these children back is not poverty. It is not the lack of money or resources in their homes. It is stress. If you grew up in a poor household it is more likely to be a household the just stresses you out in ways that kids in better-off homes are not stressed out. And that stress prevents you from developing these non-cognitive skills. What was stumping me was how does this work. Let me introduce you to somebody else that Paul Tough writes about in his book. This is Dr. Nadine Burke Harris. In 2007 she set up a clinic for children in Bayview-Hunters Point in San Francisco. And she set it up there because poor minority communities like that one are often less healthy than other communities. She was an idealistic young black doctor. And she wanted to do something about that. She also had a master's degree in public health. But stress and its effects on kids was not on her radar yet. I thought that if we kind of did the basic stuff-- if we worked on asthma hospitalization rates and immunization rates and obesity treatment-- those would be the big public health things that we would need to do to make a difference in this community. And what I found in my daily practice was that a lot of folks were sending me kids and saying you know Oh Dr. Burke Bobby's got ADHD. Can you put him on Ritalin? Or can you put him on some kind of medication? But when I did my job and did an actual history and physical which is what doctors are supposed to do what I found was most of these kids really did not have ADHD. And most of these kids had issues associated with trauma. Let me ask you to talk a little bit about the kind of trauma you are talking about. What was going on in their lives? Yeah so as a pediatrician I feel like I had the opportunity to hear some of the real story. But we are talking about kids who are witnessing violence on a daily basis. And some of it was domestic violence. Just domestic violence like you would not believe. I had a family-- you know sometimes it is almost mundane things a family who leave the house and they are boarding up their own windows because they are afraid that their neighbors will come in and rob them. I had a family where not only did their neighbors rob them they took everything including the food in the fridge and the toilet paper off the roll. Right? Wow. Someone really robs you when they take your toilet paper. She started to believe that there was some connection between the terrible situations these kids were living through and the symptoms they showed up with-- headaches abdominal pain difficulty with digestion. One girl's hair started falling out. Some little kids had a medical condition called failure to thrive where they did not grow well. But nothing in her medical training or her public health training explained this. So she researched till she found this big authoritative study that followed over 17000 patients from San Diego HMO that showed that people who had adverse childhood experiences when they were little ended up with worse health that continued into adulthood. She says that for her it was like that scene in The Matrix when Neo suddenly understands everything about the world. And as we talked she was actually able to rattle off their findings from memory. She said if you had enough difficult childhood experiences-- You were two and a half times as likely to develop chronic obstructive pulmonary disease in adulthood twice as likely to have heart disease two and a half times as likely to have hepatitis four and a half times as likely to be depressed 12 times as likely to attempt suicide. But in addition to all the bad things that are likely to happen to them as adults there is also the effect that long-term stress has on them when they are still kids especially on their brains and their ability to learn. If you look on the molecular level you are walking through the forest and you see a bear right? So you can either fight the bear or run from the bear. That is kind of your fight or flight system. Right? Right. And your body releases a ton of adrenalin right? Which is your short-term stress hormone and something else called cortisol which tends to be more of a long-term stress hormone. And this dilates your pupils gets your heart beating fast. Your skin gets cold and clammy. That is because you are shunting blood from anywhere that is not absolutely necessary to the muscles that you need to be able to run from that bear. The other thing that it does-- now you can imagine that if you are about to fight a bear you need some gumption to fight that bear right? So it kind of shuts off the thinking portion of your brain right? That executive function cognitive part. And it turns on the real primal aggression and the things that you need to be able to think that you are going to go into a fight with a bear and come out on the winning side. Yeah. And that is really good if you are in a forest and there is a bear. The problem is when that bear comes home from the bar every night. Right? And for a lot of these kids what happens is that this system this fight or flight response which is an emergency response in your body it is activated over and over and over again. And so that is what we were seeing in the kids that I was caring for. When the brain does something over and over and over again it creates pathways that get more and more ingrained. So this kind of repeated stress affects the development of these kids' brains. And especially affected in this situation is a specific part of the brain that is called the prefrontal cortex which is where a lot of these non-cognitive skills happen-- self-control and impulse control certain kinds of memory and reasoning. Skills they call executive functions. If you are in a constant state of emergency that part of your brain just does not develop the same. Doctors can see the differences on brain scans. Dr. Burke Harris says that for these kids the bear basically never goes away. They still feel its effects even when they are just trying to sit there quietly in English class. And if right at that moment someone asks you Oh could you please diagram this sentence? Or could you please divide two complex numbers? You would be like what are you talking about? And so that is what we were seeing in the kids that I was caring for is that a lot of them had a terrible time paying attention. They have a hard time sitting still. And you hear about this in lots of schools. Head Start teachers in one survey said that over a fourth of their low income students had serious self-control and behavior problems. Nadine Burke Harris says that it is true for her patients the ones with adverse childhood experiences like neglect domestic violence a parent with mental illness or substance abuse. For our kids if they had four or more adverse childhood experiences their odds of having learning or behavior problems in school was 32 times as high as kids who had no adverse childhood experiences. Paul Tough writes about a number of teenagers and how this plays out for them. One of them is a girl who he met when she was 17 Kewauna Lerma. She had a really chaotic childhood. Her parents split up. She moved around a lot. She was homeless for a while. Just all the bad things that happen to poor kids were happening to her. The first 10 years of my life was really messed up. This is Kewauna. She came into the studio for this radio story to talk with me and Paul. Because it was like my mom for five years she was going to place to place sleeping wherever she could sleep at you know. And when I was born my mom and my father they really could not take care of another child or whatever. It is so many different incidents I remember. It is hard to state on one. When you think back on those times do you think of that as like you were mostly happy most of the time? What was it like for you? No I was never happy. I was never happy because I was just an angry child. And I really do not understand what I was angry about. I cannot even remember what I was angry about. And so she had trouble in all kinds of ways. And the two biggest ways that she had trouble were ones that I think anyway had a lot to do with her brain development. One is that she had a really bad temper bad impulse control. She would just kind of shut down. And she could not see anything. And she would just go into these rages. And that was a real problem especially in school. I cannot even remember this particular incident when we was in that classroom. Kewauna got into lots of fights. For instance with one girl at school who got to her Kewauna told me like a bug crawling under your sweater. One time I did that she just made me so mad I just started screaming everything I could in class. I just got up like I was a terminator or something. And I was about to attack her. And I was like screaming. And I just like stopped the whole classroom or whatever. And Mr. Coleman-- This is the dean of her high school Mr. Coleman. He told me Miss Lerma stop cussing. But when I blank out I am not thinking about nobody that is right here in front of me. I see him in front of me just doing this. And he told me about that. He was like you blanked out. It was like you did not see me. He was like I was saying Miss Lerma stop cussing. And you just kept on cussing. And I was like I do not know. I blank out. She was one of those kids who was always fighting with teachers talking back-- She told me that I think in her sixth grade year she got 72 referrals meaning she was sent to the principal 72 times. And as a result she was sent into the slow class. She was put into this class where all the kids do poorly. It was called the Wings program? Exactly the Wings program. And she still talks about how it was kind of devastating for her emotionally to be put in that class. So I got put in this program called Wings and I was embarrassed. You were embarrassed because you just felt like? Because we were retarded. That is was we was called. It was not like-- I am not going to beat around a bush. I am not going to say like we were just under-performing. No. We were retarded. That is what we got called. That is what we were seen as. That is what it was. And was the idea in Wings that you were supposed to just go there for a while and get your remedial stuff and then get back in your regular class? What were they doing in Wings? We was not doing nothing. That is what they said we were going to be doing. But most times we would play video games eat popcorn. Nobody never did-- we did not do anything. It was like they were just carrying us to our tables every day. I felt like they treated us like something was wrong with us or something. They were like You want to play the video game? Here you go. Let us play a video game. I cannot do that in my other class so why are we doing it here you know? Paul Tough says that what happened to Kewauna happens to kids all the time. Where the early stresses and problems that had to do with her family and had to do with how her parents were dealing with life all were creating in her brain a set of problems that then when she got into the school system they did not have a way to deal with it except for putting her into the slow class except for saying You are a problem child. Which raises the question what else could the school system do for a kid like this? What will work? Well James Heckman the economist you heard earlier who is studying these non-cognitive skills says that one advantage of working with non-cognitive skills is that they can be learned. That is not true for cognitive ability for intelligence the way we usually think of it like your intelligence on an IQ test. Well cognitive pure IQ tends to be pretty hardened at least what is called rank stability. If you are a top dog in the distribution at age 10 you are probably going to be top dog at age 30. Versus non-cognitive skills he says. Social skills personality traits the ability to stay on task-- these can be taught. And these can be taught at later ages. And there is a malleability there that actually offers a new perspective on social policy-- how social policy might redirect itself towards those more malleable soft skills. And so with that in mind programs and experiments have sprung up to try to change kids' lives by teaching these non-cognitive skills. And Paul Tough documents a bunch of these in his book. What is striking Tough says is how simple some of the interventions are. Many of them basically come down to having a coach for kids to teach them resilience and optimism and grit in certain situations. There are some studies where they have taken kids and given them-- taken kids I think in middle school and given them a college mentor. And this college mentor would work with these kids not very intensively like meeting with them a couple of times a year. And the only thing that they would say to them the only message that they would give to them is simply this idea that You know scientists have studied intelligence. And they have found that you can improve your intelligence. So you should just think about that as you are going through your day. Whether or not they are right that they can improve their intelligence if you think that especially when you are a kid when you are a teenager you do way better at school. It gives you this sort of confidence this optimism this ability to try new things to push yourself harder. And one of the things that I find most interesting about this study is that it is the kids who have sort of cultural reasons to be anxious about their skills who are most affected by the message. So especially girls and math-- you know girls do great on math until they get to middle school. And then they start becoming socially anxious. And they tend to fall apart. When they hear this message the girls catch up to the boys entirely. They close that gap 100. 100 meaning the girls' average math test scores were the same as the boys' average math test scores. That is a huge result. Another example of huge payback for a small amount of coaching happens in early childhood. And this one is an intervention with the parents not with the kids. And to explain this intervention I am just going to take a little detour here and tell you about a study that involves rats-- stay with me on this one-- involving rat babies and rat parents. This was done at McGill University Again here's Paul Tough. What they discovered is that there were certain mother rats called dams who in their laboratory tended to lick and groom their pups more especially in stressful situations. And for a rat pup the stressful situation in life if you are in a lab is getting picked up by a graduate student by a scientist. And this is really stressful understandably for a rat pup. And when they put the rat pups back in the cage certain rat moms would do this ritual of kind of licking and grooming and soothing their rat pups. And certain moms would not The researchers wanted to understand what this 