A friend in South Africa sent me the link to this article that is making the rounds there. It is an open letter supposedly from the foreign media to every man woman and child in their country. It begins Dear South Africa please get the F of the way. Wait that probably came out wrong. As you may have noted we are back! Meaning of course that the foreign press has returned to South Africa to cover what is happening now with Nelson Mandela. I will go back to the letter. In the real world far away from your sleepy backwater news works on a 24-hour cycle and you need to get out of the way. It is nothing personal. In fact we could not do this successfully without you. In many cases our footage is made more compelling by your presence. Specifically we are fond of small black children praying and slash or singing in unison. Equally telegenic are the Aryan ubermensch blond kids also praying slash singing who help underscore the theme that Mandela united people of all races under a rainbow umbrella. Also very important thematically speaking are Mandela's successors. We very much like the idea that your ex-president was quote 'one of a kind' and that despite his best efforts the current batch of idiots proved that he was an exceptional presence. Sui generis. And we do not have to worry about someone else like him coming along in Africa ever again. We enjoy your leaders' bumbling ways their daft nonsequiturs. This story would lack a tragic arc without Jacob Zuma. That of course is the current president of the country. May he keep on keeping on. The letter continues. Then there is the Mandela family. Really where would we derive our soap operatic undertones if it were not for the infighting and blinged-up brashness of that clan? We love subtly implying that a saint sired a generation of professional shoppers no-goodniks. In our biz we call that irony. Makes for great copy. In fact we love everything about the country that does not live up to Mandela's legacy. We will take every opportunity to mention how everything you do flies in the face of everything Mandela would have wanted for his people how you are basically a nation of underachieving screw ups. All of this is fantastic. We thank you profusely for your individual and collective contributions to this essential storyline and urge you to keep squandering your potential. Can I say what I love about this? It was written by a journalist named Richard Poplak for the South African news service Daily Maverick which you can find online. What I love about this is how it does not just take us foreigners inside how a South African might see our news coverage and the tone of that coverage it also reveals a world of utterly justified resentments that I guess maybe we could have suspected but we did not really know about. It is an insider's view totally. Well today on our radio show we have stories from three radically different locations. We dive into three very different worlds for the insider's view that only insiders have. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One The Weeds of Discontent. What we have now is a recording of a very unusual conversation that came about in an unusual way. There is this filmmaker named Eugene Jarecki who made a documentary about prisons and the criminal justice system called The House I Live In. And he is been taking it around the country and showing it in prisons kind of Johnny Cash style for inmates and corrections staff. One of our producers Brian Reed went to one of those screenings which is where this conversation happened. Here's Brian. The screening I saw was at Joseph Harp Correctional Center a medium security prison in Lexington Oklahoma. About 35 inmates most of them in for drug related crimes or with a history of drug use sat waiting in the visiting room in chairs facing a projector screen. Once we get to where we are getting ready to start the movie if you are here you are staying. More than a dozen staff members came to watch the movie too including the warden and some state officials from the Oklahoma Department of Corrections. And before the screening started what did these drug offenders think the movie was going to be about? Rehab. Probably about some drugs and how to prevent yourself from doing some drugs. How drugs is bad for you. How it mess up your skin and your body. Make you age quicker too. But these guys were way off base. The House I Live In is about how drugs are bad for them but not in the way they were expecting. Because it argues that the war on drugs has completely failed. That it is made law enforcement less effective and overwhelmed prisons. That is it is a self-perpetuating system which preys on poor uneducated people. A system where politicians win elections by being tough on crime a multi-billion dollar industry and entire towns thrive off the business of incarceration and laws trap people with few opportunities in a cycle of committing crimes. People do not realize for example that when you arrest a young black man and he goes to jail when he gets out of the prison he cannot get a job in most places because of his record. This is Charles Ogletree a professor at Harvard Law School. If he wants to go back to school to go to college he is ineligible by law for certain grants. He cannot get certain health care benefits. His family that was the centerpiece of his life if they are living in public housing they cannot take him in. He cannot vote! The film has interviews with people throughout the criminal justice system. Inmates and their families but also judges police officers and prison staff. Almost all of them say in some way or another that the system needs to be fixed. And what made it even more interesting for this audience in Oklahoma is that several people from the Oklahoma Department of Corrections are in the movie. And a couple of them were at the screening watching it with the prisoners. Like Mike Carpenter who oversees security for Oklahoma's medium security prisons. I am very much a law and order kind of guy. I would rather have 10 police cars than 1 soup kitchen if you give me the choice. But sometimes I think that we need to be smarter about what those police officers are actually out there doing. I think sometimes we have people doing a whole lot of time for not very much crime. It is almost like they are paying for our fear instead of paying for their crime. So when the screening was over some of the inmates were surprised that prison staff had even shown them this at all. One guy said it was exhilarating to hear corrections officers say things like We are jailing too many people. We are locking them up for too long. So we had this idea. We thought the film might prompt a conversation that prisoners and guards do not normally get to have about the prison system. And Oklahoma corrections authorities agreed to give us a room where I could sit down prisoners and guards and they could talk to each other one on one. Who do you want to talk to? Who do you want to talk with? I want to talk to Dooley and Shelock. OK. Why do you want to talk to them? My own personal opinions. This is Antwaun Wells. He is 25 serving the third year of a nine year sentence for shooting a guy during an argument and also for stealing TVs from a Target and then stabbing a security guard in the arm on the way out of the store. It is not his first time in prison. He would been in before. One of the staff members he picked-- Shelock-- was not around. But Dooley was. Dooley is Lt. Cecil Dooley. He is been a corrections officer for 14 years. He is a big burly guy. He was not there to see the movie. He was the guard on duty supervising the inmates as they watched the film. I recorded other conversations throughout the day. But this was the one that stood out. We are going to go in here. Pardon me guys. We got our first pair. We will see how this goes. Lt. Dooley and Antwaun sat down facing each other. I sat off to the side to try and stay out of their way. Now let me say here that this whole thing was a total experiment. I do not think any of us knew what to expect. And just to get in front of this Antwaun did not bring Dooley in here to talk about the movie. All right so you wanted to bring him in here and ask him a question. Yep. Do you have your question? I want to know why you all feel that it is so important for you all to demand respect but do not want to give it. When you say you all you putting everybody in the same boat. Well I cannot put everyone in the same boat because there is some guards that are respectful. But it is some-- being you in particular with me-- I feel that you are just disrespectful. Like the other day in the office I asked you to come here. If you was to ask me to come here and I told you to hold on you would have wrote me up because I did not follow a direct order. I acknowledged you. I told you to hold on. I . Unless you are bleeding dying or giving birth the stuff that I had going on was much more important than what you needed at that time. I just feel-- I have never once called you outside of your name. No that is-- I have never slandered you in any way. Yeah. No. And I am not gonna say that and I never will say that incident happened. But what I am saying is that is not the only-- But you come in here and you say I was disrespectful because you do not get what you want when you want it. In my eyes I feel like you and other guards view us as if we are nothing. You all walk round with you all head held up. You know what I am saying? It is always you all win. No matter what the situation is you all win. You have a arrogant attitude. Your attitude is I am Dooley. I am big bad Dooley. If I tell you to do something that is not illegal that is not going to jeopardize your life that is not offensive you should have no problem doing it. Whether you like it or not is a totally different story. That is where the disrespect come in. Because you had-- That is not disrespectful. OK you had me pick up dandelions. Yes. Just to prove a point to me. To prove a point that you all have power. OK. So you are still upset over the dandelion deal? Yes I really am. That really actually frustrated me. If you would not have bucked up against that officer that day-- But see that is what I am saying. You never came and asked me exactly what happened. Do not need to. Exactly. You took your officer's word and you left it at that. It is always three sides to each story. My side his side and the truth. You left two sides out and you went off of what your officer said. You never came to me as a man and asked me. You know what I am saying? I did. And then you forced me to do something just because you could. And if I did not you threatened to ship me. Antwaun is saying Lt. Dooley threatened to ship him to another prison. I do not remember threatening to ship you. But I could. Yes you threatened to ship me. I could. Disobedience to order. Exactly. And you told me trying to override your staff you could ship me. Mm hmm. I could. And if I did not pick up dandelions you will put me in a holding cell. And if I remember correctly that was over you trying to get other people to stand up against that officer and not do what he was telling you to do. No. That is exactly what I am saying. So OK sure. They were not talking about the history of the drug war or the prison industrial complex or any of the other big ideas from the movie. But it was interesting to listen to them argue like this. It was intimate. It was personal. They were bickering like family members. Like a dad and his kid going at it. And I felt like I was seeing something people on the outside do not usually have the opportunity to see. You realize oh right these two are embedded in each other's lives in a way that only happens when one person has the power to punish the other and the other person has a whole lot of time to stew over it. And the thing that was bugging Antwaun the dandelions seems small but kind of gets to the heart of what he hates about being incarcerated. And he wanted to hash that out with Dooley. Obviously there is disagreement about what happened that day which was months ago by the way. Antwaun says another officer had given some other inmates a few tasks to do like pick up trash. Antwaun went up to the other inmates and told them they were allowed to do the tasks in a different order than the guard did. Dooley says that is not how it happened. That Antwaun Wells was telling other inmates to disobey a guard. So Dooley gave him what they call extra duty. In this case to pick dandelions. I do not-- Was it hard? No. I mean it was not hard. It was just-- Did it take a lot of time? No. It did not take a lot of time. It is still the principle. You made me-- Did you break any bones? No. You could have said go pick up some trash. You specifically made me pick up a flower that grows out the ground. Mm hmm. Just because you could. Right. Exactly. It is always going to be officers that feel like just because I have the power and authority I can do and say what I want to to these people. There was not just to put power and authority. I am where I am because I have morals ethics and beliefs that I stand by. Still yet even once again-- I think your problem Mr. Wells is you like to dwell on the fact that you do not get your way each and every time. And that is part of the reason that you are in prison-- No it is not. --is because you like to buck the system. I am in prison 'ecause I shot somebody. I will never deny that fact. OK. I am in prison because I put myself here. OK. I made the choices in my life because I chose to. And those are poor decisions. I do not blame nobody for nothing that happens. But when I feel that is just like there is some guards here that is just rude for no reason. I do not understand that. You did not care enough about me to even ask me my opinion. You did not care enough about nothing that I had going on once again because I am an inmate. You all feel just because I came to the penitentiary that I have no rights. You being an offender has nothing to do with it. 'ecause you have no say over anything. Policy and procedure. You have no say to tell my officer what he can and cannot do to ask people to do. Exactly. That is the point where you are missing. I told the inmates that. I did not tell the officer nothing. Right. Which makes you the person that was instigating. They went on like this for more than 20 minutes. I know you do not like me just like I do not like you. I have never disrespected you and my job has nothing to do with like or dislike. You disrespected me that day that you did not ask me my side of the story and you made me pick up dandelions-- That is not disrespect. Because you could. That is not disrespect. You power abused because you could. You just admitted it. It is not even abuse of power. OK. Finally I interrupted and asked them what they thought about the movie we just watched. Dooley had actually seen it before. He had it recorded on his DVR. And he liked it. He told me that for several years now he is felt that the country needs to rethink the way it does corrections. He said he often tells inmates that when they get down to the last three years or so of their sentence he thinks they should be released early. When you see that movie and when you think about your day to day are you dissatisfied? Are you frustrated with the system where it is gotten? Absolutely. Absolutely. What frustrates you most? The fact that we have now taken people and made them a monetary commodity. Right now the big thing is the push to privatization. To make money off of prisons to make money off of people's lives to make money to incarcerate people. That to me seems backwards. He turned to Antwaun for a second. And this is not to push your button or anything like that. I did more in 10 seconds of his life by making him pick up dandelions. He will remember the fact that I came up there and I told him to pick dandelions for arguing with an officer. He will remember that forever. And if that one issue makes him hate me to the point where he does not ever want to put himself in that position again then I have done my job. I have done my job to correct an action forever. What do you think of that Antwaun? You get that? I mean I understand it. But I still do not feel that it is fair. Penitentiary to me is just slavery in another form. In my eyes these is my owners and I have to do what they say otherwise I have consequences. Just like the slave master. You either do what he say or you get punished. Then the conversation got more personal. Lt. Dooley told Antwaun that the last time he got out of prison he had a chance to stay out to make a different life for himself. But instead he re-offended. Antwaun said he did not have many options. And it was around this point that Antwaun and Dooley actually started to hear each other out a bit. What was I supposed to do? I come from the hood. I come from nothing. You tell me what was I supposed to do? Now you are talking outside my purview because I do not know where you are from. Exactly. Exactly. You do not know where I am from. And I do not feel that you would care. Me as a person if I did not have all the tattoos or whatever if I had the money to get them removed you could put me in a white collar neighborhood and I could make it because I have a education. You know what I am saying? I have two years of college. I have no other option but to accept my choices I made. You know what I am saying? I do admit my failures. You know what I am saying? But I will say that there were obstacles that at that time I did not think right of overcoming so I chose the wrong way to overcome them. You know what? I grew up very poor. I did not know I was poor. My mom always had two different jobs growing up. I was taking care of my little brother at the age of eight by myself. I am on this side you are on that side. That is all decisions. And you know the difference between right and wrong. Yeah. But you make the conscious decision to continue doing the same things and expect different results. Sometimes you get pinned in a corner and you are forced to do what you know. Like when I got out of the penitentiary this time for three days I wore the same clothes until I went out and had to steal me some clothes. My sister and my brother and my mama did not give me no handout. You know what I am saying? Jobs they will not-- you are a felon. You know what I am saying? I applied for 35 jobs with my little brother. And just because both of us is felons we got nowhere. So what am I gonna do? I am going to go commit a crime make me some money and then go get me a dope sack. See if I were to go the first thing I would do would try to go pick up a lawn mower or something and go mow some lawns. That is the difference in thought. Yeah. That was an option. But still yeah once again where am I gonna get the lawn mower from? I got friends. I feel like society made a lot of rules to keep people safe. But at the same time the people that they was trying to keep safe from they gave us no other option but to go back out and re-offend because they put so many limitations on what we could do that where you have no other option but to go back to what you used to do. I have heard that same story for 14 years. I do not know how to fix it. If I did I would be a millionaire. If I did there would not be people in prison because I could tell them how to fix it. That conversation took place about a month and a half ago. And since then I have wondered if it changed anything for Antwaun and Lt. Dooley if it improved their relationship at all. So I called them up the other day to ask them. I talked to Dooley first and he said he would only run into Antwaun a couple times since they would talked. So he had not really noticed a difference. But he did come down here. And when I called him down for this interview he did not have that same negative attitude he normally did. Dooley said he had not thought much about the conversation since it happened. And when I asked him if it changed him at all if he felt more sympathetic towards Antwaun or if he thought differently now about the way he disciplines inmates he said no. Not at all. Then he went to get Antwaun. Now hold on just a second.  Are you still there? I am. If you will have a seat right there Mr. Wells. This is the gentleman that did our interview while we were in the room when they came and showed the video. Here he is. Hello? Hi Antwaun? Yes. Hi it is Brian Reed. How are you? I am doing all right. I asked Antwaun the same question. Had the conversation changed anything between him and Dooley? And he said yeah it had. Well to me before it was like if I asked for something he was dismissive or he would keep going as if he did not see me or something like that. But now if I ask him a question or whatever he takes the time to talk to me about the issue right then and there. He does not blow me off. You know what I mean? I feel now that he looks at me as a human being more than he did then. Wow. It is interesting 'ecause I just got off the phone with Lt. Dooley and he says the conversation has not changed him at all. To me it has. You know what I am saying? I do not know if it was the conversation or it was just that I did not know him at the time. You know what I am saying? Or I did not want to know him. I do not necessarily know. But I mean I feel like the conversation that we had I feel like it helped me even if it did not help him. You know what I am saying? It maybe have helped me see him in I do not know I guess the way that he should be seen in. I am not for sure. I just got to know that it is not him being disrespectful it is just him doing his job. My perception was maybe the one that was off. Wait Antwaun. Is Lt. Dooley sitting right there? Nuh uh. Really? Yeah. 'ecause it is almost like you are totally proving him right. And I was wondering if he was watching over you right now to make sure you said these things. Nuh uh. No. It is surprising that this is where things ended up. When Antwaun went into the conversation his goal was to bring Dooley around to seeing his side of things. Instead the opposite happened. Brian Reed. You can see Eugene Jarecki's prison movie The House I Live In. And believe me it will get to you. It is available on every possible internet platform-- iTunes Netflix Amazon Instant YouTube and a half a dozen others. Or you can see it by getting yourself arrested and thrown in prison where screenings are still happening around the country. It is in New Mexico prisons next month. The film's website is thehouseilivein.org. Coming up an insider's view of what it is like to follow love into a different and much more dangerous country than the one you live in. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show The View From In Here-- Insiders' Stories from Three Very Different Places. We have arrived at Act Two of our show. Act Two The Real Housewife of Ciudad Juarez. Emily Bonderer Cruz is an American. Her husband Raymundo-- she calls him Gordo-- is Mexican. When they met he was here in the United States illegally. In fact he had already been deported once and snuck back in. And the way that the law works that means that the only way that he could live with her now right here in the United States with them married is that he first needs to live outside the United States for 10 years. So after trying to live here in the States illegally for a little while they decided they should move to Mexico. So they moved to Mexico. They chose Ciudad Juarez because it is a border town. Emily could earn a US wage just by commuting into El Paso every day right across the border. And that is what she does. While Ray works at a maquila one of the factories-- there are tons of them-- on the Mexican side of the border. They moved to Juarez in 2010 at the height of the narco drug wars when Juarez had the highest murder rate in the world in the entire world. Emily started writing a blog about their life called The Real Housewife  of Ciudad Juarez. And after reading it radio producer Ann Heppermann gave her a recording kit and asked her just to keep a radio diary documenting her everyday life to give the rest of us a sense of what it is like to be an American housewife right there. OK so we are here at the house. I am in the living room. We are sitting on the couch. And basically I am about to interview my husband. So I am just going to explain to him in Spanish. Basically I am going to ask him a question in Spanish I am going to let him go ahead and answer and then I am going do my best to translate. Are you ready? Mm mm. . OK.  So I asked him what his version of meeting me was.  That laughter is because it is super hard to tell our version of meeting me without either of us looking like complete whores. So we generally have a filtered version of how we met each other.  I met you in Mesa Arizona.  He is explaining that he did not pay any attention to me because his friend was wanting to get at me or whatever you say. So he was just kind of ignoring me and keeping his distance. And it is funny because that was what I liked about-- well I did not like it. But I was like does not he see all this?  He says he does not remember if it was that same day or another day that he whistled at me from down below. And that I gave him the finger wag like come here.   It was the same day. Shh.  OK next question.  So I asked him how did you feel when you came back to Mexico?  I felt really weird. You know we drove from Arizona with our car completely packed to the brim bikes on bike rack crap on the top of the car. And I drove. It is a six-hour trip from Phoenix to El Paso. And the whole time I was driving I mean my hands were just clenched to the steering wheel so hard. I was sweating. It was August. August 7 of 2010. And for me it was really emotional when I saw Juarez for the first time. It is a pretty bad area right there. A lot of the roads are not paved. Quiet tears rolling down my face. And I am just praying to God that my husband does not notice that I am crying because I did not want him to feel bad. I mean the whole time it was my idea to move to Mexico. I could not back down now. And I went into this like I could live in a shack. I love this man. I do not care where we live. I do not need air conditioning cable. I do not need internet. I can just do this.   OK we gotta power through these last questions because his novela is starting in eight minutes.   Oh I am sorry. Excuse me. Excuse me.  OK.  I am going to ask him how he feels about working in the maquilas now.   Well I feel good.  But the bad part is the pay. That is really the only bad part.  And then I ask him how do you feel since your wife earns more than you do and pays the majority of the bills? How does that make you feel?  Well I feel-- how could I say?  I feel a little bit bad.   I can really only pay the water. No.   But--  I put a little part in there.  My part's really small but--  I am proud of my part. I am going to ask him how this move or self-deportation has affected our marriage. And does he think it is been hard on our marriage?   To begin it felt a little bit bad. But now it feels better and it is not as big of a deal. And you know we are here.  We are living the best life in the world. We are happy. He is fist pumping.  Pumping? Fist pumping.  The Jersey Shore? ?  No? ?   He said that was the easiest question I asked him.  You rock.  .  Oh I really love my husband. He is just like the man I always wanted. You know like you hear those songs? Like Third Eye Blind is my favorite band. So you always listen to those songs and you hear about these guys that just love a woman so much. I want to fall asleep inside of you. I mean you have heard that lyric right? And it is like you go after that person that is like that and that is romantic right off the bat like that and it never ends up being a Third Eye Blind song. But I have came to find years down the road that is not really what I wanted. I wanted someone to say oh you have someone coming over? Do you want me to take something out of the freezer for dinner? Or somebody that mops the floor because I have to work late or whatever. That is really what made me go to Mexico is taking out the trash. OK testies testies. Un dos tres. OK so I am in line and it is only 644 so you can see how fast I got in line from downtown El Paso. I feel like I have a song for this. 'ecause not only is it Friday but I got paid today. OK this is my perfect song for payday Friday.  Friday baby! Literally one speed bump out of this joint I am in Mexico. This is my hood. I love this neighborhood. It is like the perfect mixture of America and Mexico to me. Because I am not so hardcore pioneer that I could really do real Mexico. I mean I guess maybe I could. I just do not have the balls or I do not know the ovaries to live on a ranch or not have running water or whatever. And there is other things that I just like to have. Like an oven for instance. Those are privileges here. And I definitely have those things at my house and I really enjoy that. And that is something I love about my neighborhood. I am in line right now at Beep Beep to buy cigarettes. I am not quite sure how they are going to react to the microphone thing but I am just not going to mention it and see what happens.    Si por favor. Well he said absolutely nothing about the giant microphone in front of my face. Which sometimes see? We are just paranoid in Juarez for no reason whatsoever. 13 days after we had gotten to Juarez we went to turn into the street to get to my house and we could not. There were federal police everywhere. And then I saw him. His body it was lying there on the ground. I remember his knees were bent very awkwardly. It was really not natural. There was blood everywhere. And I started to cry. That was 13 days after we moved to Juarez. That was the first and last time I cried over a dead body. But I remember that day thinking what else am I going to see in 10 years here? . There is a new man selling newspapers right there. He puts his stool right over that blood stain and goes on with his life sells the paper. Juarez has to keep chugging along regardless of what happens. So I am home now. Get my chicken that I smuggled.   And then it is time to open like 700 gates. That is a lie. There is just one gate. I have to have a key card to get in the neighborhood and then I have to have three keys to get into the house. And you gotta lock everything behind you of course. And then probably we already locked the car but--  Lock it again.  My puppies are barking. They miss me. Hi! Oh my babies.   Baby! Ray! Mi amor! OK so tonight-- and this is a typical Saturday night-- Gordo and his friend Milon are outside right now listening to music and getting their drink on. I am in here making some chicken because I needed to make it before it went bad. In Juarez this is what we do. So they are going to sit outside and drink and listen to music. It is like in the country but with bullets!  People always joke about it but I rarely hear bullets. Gunshots I guess is what they are called. You do not just hear bullets.  For me it makes me happy that he can go and live a normal life that he could not live in the US. Or that I guess he could have but it would have been so risky. You know driving and paying for things that he could not do in the US. And even though he makes way less money here he can be more of a man without having that income in other ways.  Hello? Well I was going to go sleep. But crying a little bit. You know just when I think that I have--  At times I feel so caught up in immigration. And the idea that we have been slighted in some way. And lately I do not really feel that way. My husband did break the law and this is the result of laws that were put in place with good intentions. And now what I want to concentrate on is my life here. This is my life. I cannot change the law. I mean I marched in protest rallies and I was involved in immigration reform and I was a member of different groups and talked to congressmen. And I did all those things for all these years while we were in the US. And when we got here it was just like a weight had been lifted off my shoulder. Because I did not have to  deal with any of that anymore. I did not have to think about my husband getting picked up by 