When the phone calls started Meron Estefanos was leading a quiet busy life. She was a single mom with two young boys going to school holding down a couple jobs including working as a freelance radio reporter. She would been born in Eritrea in East Africa moved to Sweden as a teenager. She was living in a suburb of Stockholm. She was also a human rights activist focusing on Eritrea. That is what her radio stories were about too. And so she was used to people phoning her with tips and leads now and then. But at the end of February 2011 came this phone call-- This guy from UK called me and told me that his brother was kidnapped and that he was being asked 20000 for the release of his brother. The man said his brother was with other people who had been kidnapped all of them Eritrean and that they were in the desert far from Eritrea. They were on the Sinai Peninsula in Egypt close to the border with Israel. He said they were being tortured and held for ransom-- 20000 each which seemed absurdly high to Meron. Eritrea's a country where the average person makes less than 1000 a year. I had a hard time believing that actually what he was telling me was true. And he understood that people were hard time believing. So he said well if you do not believe me here. So he gave me two phone numbers. He said you can talk to the hostages yourself. Meron wanted it to be a lie. And she could not bring herself to try the numbers. But then that night she could not sleep thinking about it. So-- . Hello? Hello. Hello salaam. Meron Estefanos.  Meron called the numbers. And remember she was a radio reporter. She did reporting for two radio stations that broadcast by shortwave and satellite into Eritrea and over the internet to Eritrean emigres around the world. So she recorded these phone calls hoping she could do a story. This is one of the first calls she made. And yes someone did pick up and yes he said he was being held hostage. He told her his name was Biniam he was 22 years old that he would fled Eritrea in 2010 had been living in a refugee camp in Sudan working at a farm when he was kidnapped and taken to Sinai. He said he was there with other people in a group of 28. There had been 29 he said but one had died. They were being held by some Bedouins Biniam said. Meron came to learn that the hostages were allowed access to cell phones so they could beg their families to send money. We have interpreters translating what Biniam and Meron said to each other. . The place we are held at is an underground facility. They have us chained. And they have taken three people to the outside. We hear cries from the outside. We do not know whether they are being tortured or whether they are dead. . Tell me more. What are they saying to you? . The people who are holding us are saying that unless we make good on our investment there will not be a solution. They tell us they will drink our blood. . Meron had heard stories of Eritreans being kidnapped and held hostage in the Sinai before this call. People had been fleeing Eritrea for years. Its government is one of the most repressive in the world. And sometimes people got kidnapped either on their way out on the road or from refugee camps right across the border. But it was still this shadowy thing that human rights groups were just starting to report on at that point in 2011. It was not clear how many people it was happening to. And the ransom surprised her like I said-- the size of it 20000. Meron had never heard of a ransom that high. It did not seem like it could be real. And come on we will drink your blood? Really? It could even be some kind of hoax a scam where they trump up how desperate they were to get money sent. I kept telling myself OK. Maybe they are lying. It is just too hard to believe that this many people can get kidnapped and tortured and a lot of money. It is just hard. But at the same time I kept saying to myself what if it is true and I did not believe them? Then I will regret this the rest of my life. So Meron calls back. And thanks to caller ID they call her back. And then reluctantly she gets pulled in deeper and deeper into this situation where it is not clear exactly what is true and what is not and there are people who are saying their lives are in imminent danger and it is happening thousands of miles away. But it is also happening right there in her own home over the telephone. Imagine for a second if hostages started phoning you at your house while you are at the dinner table while you are sleeping. Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass as you will hear Meron ends up making lots of recordings over the phone and gets more and more involved with these people who are claiming to be hostages. And reporter Yowei Shaw one of our producers Brian Reed and an Eritrean journalist Bealfan Haile went through those recordings. According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees there are now more migrants and displaced people in the world than ever-- over 65 million. This is a story about the severe danger some of them face. A warning to listeners-- this is a story of hostages and people having their lives threatened. There is some content that is violent and probably not right for children to listen to. Here's reporter Yowei Shaw. Meron had a lot of questions for these people on the phone. She started with Biniam the guy you just heard. . So tell me explain to me from morning till night what does your day look like? . I cannot even begin to describe the situation in here. They come here every hour and they torture us. They get us up in the morning. We do not get breakfast but they get breakfast. And they torture us. . And towards the evening after they torture us for so many hours they give us one bread and they give us very small amounts of water. . We have been tortured so much that we have wounds all over our backs and we have lost our appetites as a result of that. We spend our days yearning for death. Meron listened took notes finished with Biniam. And then he passed her on to the next hostage and then the next-- a 21-year-old named Dejen who told her that he and about five of the others were almost completely naked. For 28 days he would been wearing just his underwear. Do they beat you up? . We could have actually gotten used to the beating but they are introducing us to new methods of torture that were unknown to us. They come here every hour after having tea and food and they start electrocuting us on our heads as one person steps on our legs. . To them our lives are much less valuable than a goat or any animal. . OK Dejen. I will contact you and keep checking on you again. I will broadcast all this information and the numbers that you have given me. Just stay strong that is all I can say and continue to encourage each other. I will call you again. . Is there anyone else who wants to talk to me? . . Yeah there is one guy here. OK so please pass the phone. Hello? Hello. Hello. . Meron talked to the fourth hostage the fifth the six. They were shackled together in groups of five to 10 people. The traffickers would electrocute them melt plastic bags and drip the hot liquid on their backs. They said we own you. You need to bring 20000. If not another option we have is we can simply open you up and harvest your kidneys and hearts. By the time Meron was talking to the eighth hostage Yohannes you can hear in the recording that she is at a loss for what to say. She just keeps repeating stay strong. . Stay strong and if there is anything new I will call you and let you know. But right now all I can say is stay strong and continue to encourage each other. . I am sorry. Are we done for now? Meron had been talking to the hostages for nearly an hour and she could not absorb any more. But another hostage got on Semereab. . You are our only hope. We spend our days wondering whether death will come today or tomorrow. . The next hour or the next minute. . OK stay strong. . I do not even know what else I can do or what else I can say. There is nothing else I can say. There is not much I can do as an individual. . . OK are we done for now? Or is there anyone else? . Yeah there are others. But Meron had heard all she could take. She cut the call short. . Can we stop here for now? And maybe next time when I call I can talk to the others? . . . Say bye to them for me and tell them to stay strong. Please do not disappear on us and call us every now and then. . Meron hung up and sat at her desk staring at a computer screen. What can you feel? It is just shock. It was hard to accept what I was hearing the stories they were telling me the things they were going through. I was just-- from a normal life it is like going to another world that you never thought existed. She still was not entirely certain whether this call was legit or if it was how much of what she was being told was real. But she knew it might be real. She knew it was true that Eritreans were being held in Sinai. And if these 28 people were there maybe she could help them. . Meron began broadcasting her interviews on Tigrinya-language radio stations. These were not carefully-crafted feature stories. She felt she did not have time for that. They were basically raw unedited recordings of her phone calls with hostages describing the torture and begging for help on the air. . . Meron also reached out to other reporters to try and get them to cover the story. Oh it is a very touching story but it would not sell. That is the kind of reply I would get when I called to some journalists that I knew. Sorry we cannot help you. Oh it is not connected to Sweden. Sorry. So this is the kind of reply that I was getting. Meron did manage to get a BBC reporter interested in the hostages' story but he asked for proof. How could he verify that people were being held and tortured in Sinai? She put him in touch with a group of doctors Physicians for Human Rights Israel who'd been helping and interviewing Eritreans coming out of Sinai. They would photographed people's injuries from beatings shackles and burns. In the end though BBC story did not seem to get any attention. Meron went on a phone and email blitz trying to publicize the issue but also hoping that something could be done for these 28 people. She contacted governments NGOs the United Nations Refugee Agency. There was a lot of disappointment at the time-- disappointment of all institutions and disappointed at journalists because I thought that within weeks I would be able to solve it. Some organizations were taking small steps like pressuring Egypt to take action. Early 2011 was incredibly bad timing for anyone trying to fix a problem in Sinai. The Arab Spring was going strong. Egypt was going through a revolution. Meron first got in touch with the hostages the same month that Egypt's president Hosni Mubarak was forced to step down. There was no government. That was a problem. They did not have government so that was also one of the biggest problems that we had because we did not know who to talk to because there was no government. Hello. Hello hello. Biniam? The hostages continued to call Meron and the one she talked to the most was Biniam the first guy in that phone call she recorded. He became kind of a spokesman for the group and they developed a good rapport. . . Very soon Meron was talking to Biniam nearly every day often multiple times a day. She wanted to move on from the story but the calls would not stop. They saved my number so it was really hard to even avoid it even if I wanted to. I really wanted to avoid it. I could not just ignore those phone calls. The way it worked is the hostages would call and hang up before she answered so she could see their number and call back since they did not have enough phone credit. And in these conversations Meron was always trying to figure out what was real in what the hostages were telling her. She knew that some amount of torture and killing needed to be happening to convince hostages' families to pay the insanely high ransoms. But the traffickers could not kill too many people. It would cut into profits. So she figured they forced the hostages to exaggerate or lie sometimes. Still she felt she could tell real panic when she heard it. Hello hello? Meron Meron. . . Meron Meron two people have died just now. . Oh my God. Who has died now? Who did they-- what did they do? Tell me what happened. On March 6 eight days after she first started recording the hostages Meron called them to check in and a guy named Medhane picked up. A warning-- this call has explicit violence. Even me my legs are crushed right now. I am gathering all my strength to speak to you Meron my sister. . We have two hours left. Please help us. Just tell me what is it that has happened? Tell me. What happened? They came in to beat us as usual. And they told everyone to raise their legs. When those two could not do it anymore and lowered their legs they killed them. . Please please do something. I am losing so much blood that I do not think I will make it through the night. The hostage pleaded with Meron to send money as soon as possible and then Meron heard a noise in the background.  .  He said the traffickers were beating them right then and there. The others are being tortured as we speak. Please it is an emergency. . Meron is saying oh you poor guys you poor guys. And there was one hostage in particular Meron told them she had to speak to-- the only woman in the group an 18-year-old named Semhar. Hello? Hello? Hello Semhar. Hello Semhar? Good morning Semharina. I am very sad. They have told me everything that is going on. . Please Meron my sister please. Please help us. . Semhar had been kidnapped while living in a refugee camp in Sudan like Biniam and some of the other hostages with her. She had left Eritrea in hopes of finding a job to support her mom who was very poor and trying to raise four young children she would taken in. Meron felt especially close to Semhar. And during this call Semhar kept telling Meron how terrified she was how she was on the verge of death how she just could not bear it anymore. Meron started crying. . . Her story really touched me and now I feel like she is my younger sister. I mean I have heard so many people crying in the Sinai. But she is a very special girl that just I mean the way she would beg was really-- How would she beg? How was it different? I mean it is just different. Like she would say my sister Meron please please. I do not know. It is hard. You have to understand Tigrinya to get it. So it was just different. In fact as we were interpreting the phone call you just heard when we got to Semhar our interpreter who'd been listening to these recordings for hours began crying herself and had to stop. She said she would never heard anyone beg like that. . And the male hostages who were in captivity with Semhar felt the same way. They told Meron that Semhar had it especially bad even worse than them. One of the guards was taking her at night and she came back crying. They did not know what he was doing with her. They were saying we know that you cannot save all of us. We are 28 people. But at least save this girl and then we will be happy. Meron recorded all of these phone calls from the living room of her one-bedroom apartment surrounded by photographs of her kids and lemon-painted walls in the woods of a quiet suburb of Stockholm. Hostages called at all hours-- during meals or in the middle of the night or early in the morning. She would have to watch her boys while talking to the hostages. You can sometimes hear her kids in the recordings playing nearby. And it was not the kind of work that ended when she hung up the phone. I could not sleep. All I was doing is just crying. And the first three weeks I could not even take care of my kids because I was just almost going crazy. The screams were just-- I could hear the screams 24 hours in my head. I could not breathe. Sometimes when you are tired you say . And that feels good to breathe out. But for three weeks I could not do that. I would be trying-- -- and still it does not come out. I remember it was around 1100 at night. And I had quit smoking for a very long time. And it was like five to 1100. And the store near my house closes at 1100. And I was rushing to buy cigarettes. And I remember taking the first smoke and it was like for the first time I was able to breathe out. I could exhale and it felt really good. Things only seemed to be getting worse. The hostages told her that a fifth person had died and Meron says that is when she reached a turning point. That is when I decided now I cannot take this. I cannot just sit by and the world is not doing anything. At least I have to save one person. And that is when I decided to do fundraising to collect money for the girl that Semhar will be the one. Meron knew that paying ransom was a bad idea. She knew it just encouraged more hostage-taking and she knew it might not work. The traffickers could take her 20000 and still not let Semhar go. Also it was so much money. She would raised money for causes before but never that much. At the beginning I did not believe that someone should pay. And I thought that if the international community knows about it they would just send soldiers or something and rescue them. That is the way I was thinking. But then you start realizing that you are on your own. Nobody will save these people. And one by one they start dying. So I could not take the phone calls that when I called the next day they would tell me oh he just died. And he just died. So when five people died that is when I decided who cares if it is wrong or not? But I want to try at least to save one person so that I do not have a guilty feeling that I did not try. So Meron began asking for money. She wrote posts on Facebook and used Paltalk a social media voice chat where a lot of Eritreans hang out. At night she went into different chat rooms making her appeal. She got Eritrean ex-pats in the US Norway and the UK to collect money from people in their respective countries. But donations came slowly-- 20 here 50 there. People were reluctant to give money for a ransom payment understandably. She also had to contend with the internal politics of the Eritrean diaspora. Meron's pretty well-known as a strong opponent of the Eritrean government and there are still large groups of Eritreans in the diaspora that support the government. So they did not trust Meron. Some claimed she and the hostages were making the whole situation up to make the government look bad. They were saying it must be a made-up something like for radio like a drama or something. They thought I made it up. So I said well if you do not believe me here. Here is the number. You can call them yourself. That was really stupid of me. It was stupid because people did take the hostages' phone number and started calling them Biniam and the others but not for the reason Meron had hoped. They started calling and cursing at them saying you think you can play us? You are not going to get anything a cent out of us and calling them names and told the girl that she is a whore trying to make money out of Eritreans. On the phone afterwards Biniam told Meron it really upset him. . They have been calling us all night. They would say we are jihadists. We are swindlers. And they are accusing us of actually trying to get them to send us money. . For Biniam the fact that people did not believe them struck at the one thing that was giving him even a shred of optimism-- the thought that Meron would be able to rally people on the outside to come to their rescue. He was losing faith in Meron. . We have trusted you and we have become extremely hopeless when we hear such talk coming from you and the other people. . . Biniam my brother I believe you. I do not think you are pretending. . . . But you are all by yourself in this. . . What can you accomplish all by yourself? . . We really do not want to trouble you. . . If no one's willing to bail us out we are all ready to commit suicide here. . Do not say that. Do not say that. There are people all over fighting for you. . . But what are we supposed to do? If you are the only one in this we understand that you can not do anything. Meron my sister one hand cannot clap by itself. It is meaningless. . I am in such a dire situation. Because of the injuries that I have sustained in my head my health is deteriorating on a daily basis. I believe that I am going to die. Well if you ever give birth to a boy please name him Biniam after me. Some hostages like Biniam Meron was talking to you nearly every day sometimes several times a day. But there were always new ones too. One day early on Meron got a call. A hostage began talking to her. Hello. Hello hello? . . And after a few minutes she realized wait this is not the same group of hostages I have been talking to. This is a whole different group of 31 people in the same situation-- being tortured and extorted for money in Sinai. Somehow they found out about me and they got my number. And then they called and I started talking to them interviewing them broadcasting it on the radio. And then after a week or so then another group heard of me. So it became-- within a month it was about six different groups of hostages that I was interviewing like the group with 28 and then 31. Hello. Hello hello? And then the third group were 71 people there. Hello. . And then the fourth were about 150 people. Then I stopped counting. It became too much. Everybody started calling me. At first Meron was reluctant to get involved with other groups. But not surprisingly she got drawn into their situations as well. And as she spoke to more people she was able to piece together a clearer picture of the criminal networks that were doing the trafficking. As best she could tell a small group of Bedouin bosses in Sinai were at the top but they had connections with gangs of kidnappers in Sudan who would bring them truckloads of people. And they seemed to have agents in different cities around the world who would collect ransoms for them. Meron also learned that there were Eritreans working for the traffickers in the encampments. Some of them were kind of like indentured servants forced to do construction and cleaning jobs for the traffickers. Others were interpreters Eritreans who spoke Arabic as well as Tigrinya and served as go-betweens for the Bedouins to help them communicate with the hostages and their families. And in the first hostage group she was talking to she learned that there was one interpreter in particular named John. She could not figure out his place in the hierarchy whether he was a hostage forced to translate for the traffickers or if he would actually joined their ring himself. A former hostage and a hostage's brother warned her that he was shady. But then when she asked Biniam and Semhar if John was working with the Bedouins they told her he was not. So in early April when John came bearing good news she did not know if she could trust him. She had been asking the traffickers for weeks to lower the ransom and John brought word that they would agreed. The new price was 5000 per person. At this point Meron had already sent 2000 for Semhar. So this meant she needed to send just 3000 more which was a lot more manageable than the original 20000 price tag if the discount was actually for real. She called Biniam to see if it was. . So if I pay 3000 more he will let Semhar go Meron asked Biniam. Yes Biniam said. If you pay 3000 more right now he will let Semhar go. Meron was excited. This was her first break in the whole ordeal. But she soon found out it was not that simple. Yowei Shaw. Coming up things get precisely five times more complicated in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's show This Call May Be Recorded to Save Your Life. We have been hearing a story that we first ran in 2013 about Meron Estefanos a human rights activist and journalist who was trying to save a group of Eritrean hostages who were being held in Sinai. In the years since we first aired this story this problem has actually stopped in the Sinai Peninsula because of increased Egyptian military presence there. But it still continues elsewhere. According to Meron and human rights groups Eritrean migrants are being held in torture camps and other places particularly Libya. Meron says Libya is an even worse situation than Sinai was a few years ago. At this point in our story it is been over a month since her first phone call with the hostages and she is been offered a discount a break on the price to save one of them the only woman in the group of 28. Her name was Semhar. Instead of a 20000 ransom it would be 5000 to release her. Release means in this case they would drive her to the Israeli border and tell her to run for it. Just to repeat the warning that I made at the beginning of the program this is a story with violence and lives being threatened. And there is some content that is probably not right for younger listeners. Yowei Shaw picks up the story from here. Meron called John the Eritrean who was translating for the Bedouin traffickers. She wanted to finalize the deal to get Semhar out and John said for sure. He could do this deal. He knew the Bedouins. And as for the hostages he said he was looking out for them as best as he could in a very difficult situation. . Here's the deal. . These are your brothers and sisters and you are actually advocating for them right? Me here when they try to kill them I try to protect them. And after they are tortured I try to clean and dress their wounds. I try to wash the blood off their backs. . I have been doing a lot for them. John said the traffickers would do the deal. They would release Semhar for 5000 but only if at least four other hostages paid 5000 each at the same time. In other words the discount only applied if Meron bought in bulk. A friend of Meron's who was on the call with John tried to push back but John said basically do not tell me how to do my job. Just do yours. . You just need to focus on sending the money. If you pay for those five people I will get them to their destination safely. . Meron was skeptical but she had no other option. She got in touch with four other families who were willing to pay the discounted ransom. Biniam was not one of these four hostages by the way. His family was having trouble delivering the money. The families would pay 5000 for each of their relatives and Meron would pay 5000 for Semhar. Meron put out a frantic call to the people around the world who were helping her collect money for Semhar's ransom. And maybe it was the urgency or maybe it was the fact that 5000 seemed like a more realistic amount of money to raise than the original 20000 but people chipped in. Within 48 hours she had the money she needed. They asked us to send the money using Western Union which I did. So I called and asked if they got the money. They said yeah and said well I am rushing right now. We are about to drive them to the border of Israel right now. I will speak to you tomorrow. Meron was so nervous she could not sleep. She spent the next 24 hours calling her contacts in Sinai and Israel to see if they had any updates. She tried John again and again. Finally he picked up. . Hello Johnny. . John tell me honestly what have you done she asked him. I have set five people free he said. I was really happy. So a friend of mine she came and slept over in my house. This is a woman that was helping me raising money. And we kind of celebrated. I am thinking OK. Everything is over now. 5000 is paid and she is out. And then Meron got a call from the brother of one of the other hostages who was supposed to have been freed to Israel. He said you know their playing with us because my brother just called me. And he told me that he is in Sinai. And now they are asking for 15000 more. So it was all a game. Meron phoned John and asked about Semhar. I called and said how could you do this to me? I know that she is there. And then he started calling me names. He did not care. . I do not give a  about those people. . I do not care about them. They are mother . . You cannot say that! You tell us to pay money to have them released and then when we pay you will not release them. . I do not want to harm anyone. But whether those people live or die is none of my business. . . Hello? John hung up on Meron. A few minutes later Meron got a missed call. She returned it and it was the hostages. They insisted that the people who had been paid for had been freed that they would made it to Israel. They begged Meron to free them now too. But she did not believe them. Her plan had completely failed. It had been five weeks since her first phone call with the hostages and now she thought John was trying to get more money out of her by forcing the hostages to say these things. Biniam got on the phone. . How you been? . I am not doing well Biniam. This is not good. . This has become a joke. I am not going to be able to do anything for you going forward Biniam. . I am going to tell the families not to pay. People pay and no one is being released. . But they have left. . OK well once they call me and tell me they have left that is when I will call you. But until then I will not call you. . . Meron hung up on him. But she could not help yourself. It was not long before she called Biniam and the other hostages again but John and the traffickers prohibited them from speaking to her like they used to. Whenever I called they would tell them to call me names. They would force them to call me names. And at the beginning I was really hurt. They were saying the same thing-- do not call us here you whore. We do not want you. You are just making money out of us. Eventually Biniam Semhar and the rest of the group stopped talking to Meron completely. It is been more than two years since that happened. Meron kept talking to other hostages on the phone dozens of them. And without ever meaning to she became one of the people Eritrean hostages and their families turned to for help. In those years she is learned about the different traffickers and the different tricks they use which traffickers can be relied on to let people go once they have paid and which ones cannot. One former hostage described Meron's phone calls this way-- she said when she talked to her family from the torture camp all they would do is panic and freak out. Meron on the other hand was mostly calm and comforting. She would give you clear updates and tell you what was being done to help. It was a relief. Meron is not sure how many hostages she is helped get free over the years but one of them is Biniam. . Tomorrow the 18th of July it is going to be exactly two years. Biniam got out of Sinai in 2011. He is showing one of This American Life's producers around his small apartment in Israel where he lives now. . Here this is our bedroom. This is the bathroom. And this is our kitchen. . In all these apartments we live like four people. And we three we have been together in Sinai. . This is how my apartment looks like. My producer Brian Reed and I interviewed Biniam. He sat on his twin bed next to an interpreter and described what he remembered from the months he was talking to Meron. From the outside the place they were held looked like the foundation of a house with a corrugated metal roof placed on top of it.  We do not see nothing. We are in the darkness. We are underground. Everything is dark. The only time we are going out it is to use the bathroom and only in the night time. And when we go out you smell people smell like dead body smell because everybody die and they would throw 'em out at this place just right outside. Who was holding you? What did they look like and how many of them were there? . There were eight guards on us. . There are elder ones between 40 and 50 or 40 and 55 years old controlling the torture and everything. And those who are really guarding us are the youngest ones. . They would been in the age of 20 or something. What was the demeanor of the torturers like-- That is my producer Brian. --when they are doing these things to you? . Yeah. They need to be stoned to come and torture you. You can see that they took drugs because their eyes changed. They have been so red and they look so angry their eyes. And they are acting like they are angry. But they are also playing around while they are beating you up. They are laughing. . They have to take drugs. They are not that tough. How often did you guys exaggerate or lie to Meron because you were being forced to? . Many times so many time