OK. This happens to be Chicago but every city has a place like this. That weird desolate area at the far end of town. We are a half mile west of the old abandoned steel mills. We are a half mile north of landfills where methane fires used to burn. Just south of the auto junkyard. Just east of the site of the old city dump where there was a mountain of raw garbage that would stink up the neighborhood whenever the wind would blow in the wrong direction. Everybody down here called it Mount Pacini for the alderman who let the city put it here. You will notice all these-- what would you call it-- tire marks. This street is used as-- for drag racing year-round. Really? Yeah. Because it is basically far enough away from the police that they do not do anything about it. My guide is Charlie Gregerson who grew up down here. He shows me where a lake-- Lake Calumet-- used to be back in the '40s when he was a kid. He would go fishing on a rowboat with his dad. Then the city started filling in huge sections of the lake with garbage and incinerator ash. He would come here in the '70s and see bulldozers pushing around the rubble of some of Chicago's great buildings which had been recently demolished. Louis Sullivan masterpieces like the stock exchange building and the Garrick Theater-- this is where they ended up. Now show me-- we are standing here-- where were all the buildings being dumped and what did that look like? Right here. Right here at what was the north end of the dump. And actually we picked-- I picked up a few pieces of the stock exchange ornament right out of the lake. But of course most of it had been ground right into the dirt because they had bulldozers that would just-- they would keep on-- they would dump the stuff in piles and the bulldozer would just flatten it all out. And so there would be this like Louis Sullivan you know terracotta ornament just sticking out? Yeah just laying out there. Yeah. And so walking around when there is these pieces of building sticking up I mean it just seems like it just must have been such a strange scene. Like this apocalyptic you know death of a city-- Oh yeah. Well there were-- I remember seeing one of these big Phoenix columns that I knew had come out of the Garrick Theater was just sticking out of the ground. Two of those in the Garrick Theater distributed the weight of the upper floors that were over the stage. One of those was just sticking out right about a 45-degree angle out of the ground. And at that point the Garrick had been gone for almost 10 years. There were once big plans for this area-- for canals and waterways a harbor that never really worked out. There are zoning maps of the city that show streets and complete neighborhoods -- a whole grid of them-- that nobody ever got around to building. Instead now on top of all the trash stands a golf course. Charlie says that from the clubhouse he gets exactly the same view that he used to get back when he and his dad took out the rowboat. It is the same spot. That is where the lake once was. You can see clear to downtown. So far away it might as well be another city. Well today on our program we have stories from several places like this in the shadow of the city. That weird no man's land where it always feels like secret stuff is happening you know? Just out of sight. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Our program today was first broadcast a few years ago. It is in three acts. Act One Brooklyn Archipelago. In that act some passengers set sail one day on a three-hour tour-- a three-hour tour-- and end up getting lost in the wilderness. One fears for his life on a string of islands that is just outside a very very big city. Act Two Troubled Bridge Over Water. A guy goes to a remote spot to help people who do not want to be helped. Act Three Please In My Backyard. Controversy over industrial odors coming from a factory. Odors that for once people want to keep coming. Stay with us. Act One Brooklyn Archipelago. Brett Martin has this story which takes place on the outskirts of-- well perhaps you have already figured out which city. Listen it happens. You go out for a night with your friends and you wind up drunk in your underwear soaking wet covered with blood and shipwrecked on a desert island all within sight of the Empire State Building. These things happen. Or at least they did happen to Alex Zharov. Alex is 17 years old. He moved to the US from a small town in the Ukraine when he was nine. He is skinny and wears tie-dyed T-shirts a unmanageable spray of frizzy blond hair and a valiant-- if not altogether successful-- starter mustache. And-- well he can probably introduce himself better than I can. Here's how he responds when I ask him to state his name for the record. My name is Alex Zharov and I love to have very radical experiences in life. And I consider myself to be a psychedelic artistically productive person. Here are a few other things about Alex. He lives with his cute older girlfriend and his exceptionally patient parents in a small apartment in the Midwood section of Brooklyn. Instead of going to high school he is enrolled in an internet home schooling program. He is at work on a science fiction novel and has logged several hundred in-flight hours as a student pilot. But most of Alex's time is spent as a guitarist singer and songwriter for his band EBuffalo. When I went to see them play at a two-day Russian rock festival last fall I learned several things. First there are many many ex-Soviet immigrants living in Brooklyn. Second they all very earnestly want to rock. And third Alex Zharov-- whether he is writhing on his back on stage or reclining in the dressing room with a beer and a cigarette-- is kind of a superstar. Before we get to our story the other key person you will need to meet is someone who entered Alex's life at a crucial moment years ago when Alex first came to the States. Alex had an awkward adjustment. He fought in school and was kind of depressed. He was bored. Then one day Alex was walking along the Brighton Beach boardwalk and saw a group of older guys collecting money for something called the Russian Punk Rock Club of America. Older guys like 25 and 30 years old. Alex was 12. One of the musicians he met that day was Roman Gadzhilov who immediately took to the young Alex. Well he had this blink in his eyes. It is sometimes you see extraordinary person and you know you kind of know this. You know he was not appeared to us as 12-year-old at that moment. At 12 years old he was writing songs that I was writing at 18. And after this we have been together all the time. We called him Khryusha you know that is-- And what does that mean? Khryusha means  little piglet. Little piglet. Under his new friends' tutelage Alex began walking around in an old Bolshevik-style hat and trench coat. And his friends gave him books. Dostoevsky Tolkien guides to Slavic paganism The Beats and also Robinson Crusoe and Treasure Island. Alex was particularly fond of those. In our story today our own seafaring tale happens on a boat that Roman owns-- a 25-foot white sailboat which Alex likes to refer to as the yacht. One cool evening last May Alex Roman and another friend named Alex-- Alex Glubochansky decided to take a nice little boat trip in Jamaica Bay the body of water that wraps around the southern end of Brooklyn. Here's Alex. The three of us decided to just get like 10 gallons of gas. And my friend Roman he got a bottle of rum and we got two cans of food. And we just decided to have a cool trip on the yacht. And I started saying oh I will go as the open ocean. Let us sail to Poland I told him. Roman had a slightly less ambitious agenda. The plan was just to go to the bridge-- under the Rockaway bridge-- then turn around and then come back. It should have taken about 40 minutes. Yeah. Things started to go wrong almost immediately. Before they even left the marina Roman who'd been making headway through the bottle of rum fell into the water and they had to haul him back in. He was clearly in no shape to drive. This is Alex. He got drunk. And he just was babbling something. Laughing like he said do not go there. Do not go there. And he was constantly saying do not hit the shallows. He was already like-- he did not control the situation by that time. As a responsible journalist I should say for the record that Roman does have one objection to Alex's version of events. It was not the rum by the way. It was a cognac. I do not know why everybody puts rum. So it was a cognac. You are sure? It was Lautrec. OK. Yes. It was Lautrec cognac. I do not know why-- how come it is become rum. It is probably Alex told it was rum but it was cognac. Not a little bit. It was a lot. We was out of commission yeah. I was out of commission. Alex and Alex had had a few drinks themselves. But we were perfectly sober and everything. We might have had a few drinks but we were perfectly sober. But neither of you knows how to drive a boat? No. No. But we got ahold of it. It was not that hard. So we knew how to drive it so like it did not seem pretty hard. You turn on the motor you turn the boat it turns cool. Somehow they managed to get out of the marina gun the engine and take off across the water toward the Marine Park bridge in the distance. Once there they decided to try to sail to Brighton Beach and headed toward a land mass. But they got confused and turned back to open water. They drank some rum or maybe cognac. One way or another they drank a lot of it. At one point they almost crashed into a small island. Gas was running low. But they figured that if worst came to worst they could always put up the sails and still make it home. Then they got caught in a strong current that turned the boat in circles. The perfect time you would think to begin to panic. Or-- if you are the kind of person who forgets trouble the moment you are out of it or even while you are in it-- the perfect time to shoot off all the boat's flares into the water. Just for fun. Finally the series of mistakes reached a critical mass. They had no cell phone. Roman's had died when he fell in the water. No flares no captain and almost no gas. Even Alex had to admit they were in trouble. We did not know where we were. And then we realized we were not going to make it anywhere. And we were like in the morning we will figure out what to do. So we went to sleep. It was a glorious spring morning on Jamaica Bay-- sun glinting off the water gulls calling overhead-- as our young pleasure cruisers slumbered. The light filtering into the boat's cabin woke Roman and Alex Glubochansky first and they came up on deck. What they saw was not good. After drifting through the night the boat had come to rest in the shallows of a small bay alongside an uninhabited landmass. Stretching out behind them they could see a long furrow where the tide had dragged them deep into thick mud. And as they stood there blinking and wondering how this might have happened the wind carried them another 10 feet inland. They could see the skyline of Manhattan on the horizon the runways of JFK airport a little closer and signs of civilization in every direction. They could even see boats passing by in the distance but these were too far away to take any notice. It was obvious that they were-- in a word-- shipwrecked. The hungover sailors sat down to decide what to do. Roman and Glubochansky were in favor of waiting to be rescued or for the tide to rise and pull them out again. Meanwhile Alex was formulating his own plan. Beyond the island they were closest to lay another landmass which Alex was sure led somewhere. His idea was to swim to it walk to civilization catch a bus somewhere and bring back help for his friends-- who as Alex remembers it-- thought the plan was frankly idiotic. These are islands said Roman who in truth had actually been out on the Bay before and was in a position to know. But Alex was sure that Roman was wrong. So Alex stripped to his underwear. He put what he thought he might need in a waterproof plastic mayonnaise jar. He brought his MetroCard for the bus he was going to swim to an expired passport for ID and his favorite Buddhist medallion for luck. He wrapped his clothes in a cellophane blanket and bid his friends farewell. Roman watched him disappear into the surf. Of course I tried to stop him. I tried to give him reasonable things but he get a little bit too much excited. So I decide to give him a challenge in life. What? Should I just knock him down and say stop it? You know? He wanted to swim. You know he wanted to swim and he swam. I swam really violently to get myself warmed up. And by the middle I got really tired and it was really cold. I am like aw this is much worse than I thought. And there is birds flying like picking on me. I am like oh these crazy strange Far Rockaway birds are going to bite me or something you know? And I got really lucky because my legs suddenly hit the bottom. And I am like-- and I was so happy when I came out of there. I was so cold but I was happy. OK. And I was definitely sure there was civilization because tall buildings were right behind the trees. They were like-- and the bridge was right over there. And I am like oh finally. And I was even singing a song walking. And the birds were screaming something to me. And I am like yeah you know I made it. I am still not sure I understand why you left your friends though. Because I thought we were going to be stuck there for a really long time. Maybe for the whole day. The only thing I could do is just try to get to civilization. And especially-- these islands they were pressuring me to go there you know? They were so close. And I am like-- and I got really bored you know. I wake up in the morning and I do not want to stay in one spot on the yacht and like think about how are we going to get saved you know? I really want to do something. And I am like OK. I am going to have this little adventure. I am going to go out and try to make it somewhere. And I did. Except he did not. Soon he realized that he was indeed on another island with no way off except to swim back through the freezing water to rejoin his friends. And he was not about to do that. He was alone. So Alex set about doing all the things a good castaway should do. He wrote a giant help in the sand for the benefit of the planes landing at JFK. He circumnavigated the island looking for supplies. He found a stick and a piece of red cloth and made a flag to signal passing ships. Then he found several big pieces of Styrofoam and some wood and spent an hour or two fashioning a raft but it collapsed when he sat down on it. Undeterred he went back to searching for something that would be his ticket off the island. And then he found it. It was the hollowed out carcass of a jet ski-- or as he calls it a scooter. I knew-- I 100 knew that it was going to float although it was pretty badly dug into the sand. And as I was digging out the scooter something really bad happened. Like there was pieces of glass under it and I did not see. I was just digging and digging. And I did not have any shovel or anything. And I cut my finger really bad. I started getting huge amounts of blood was coming out. And I had this white T-shirt that was eventually all in blood. Now there was really no way off the island even by swimming-- because well you know sharks. It was a galling situation. And it was made even more maddening because the city was right there. I was thinking how the hell did I get myself into this situation? I never believed that something like this could happen in like New York City you know? Like and it is such a huge city that you could see skyscrapers like 10 miles away. And on the other side you can die looking at them you know? And also I got a little mad at the city of New York. Like I could understand if they had just one payphone there. Or at least I do not know like a button to press to know that you are there you know? By probably 6 oclock in the evening it was getting a little dark. All my excitement has fled away and I got very cold. So I was like shaking you know? Shivering and no help at all. So I am like wow this is going to get really bad. Were you hungry at this point also? I was very hungry and I was very thirsty. And I found limes. I tried to open them up but they tasted so nasty. I could not-- I did not even think about eating them. There was no source of food other than the ducks. Ah yes the ducks. You will want to hear about the ducks. If I was not going to get rescued in the next hour or two I had a plan to kill a bunch of ducks to get some warm blood to warm myself you know? So to drink some blood and to cut them open and use them like to warm myself. I had this strange idea about use them as slippers. I even had-- after that I even had this psychedelic idea of floating on the ducks. Making a raft out of the ducks. Imagine a man with strings attached to the ducks floating on the water so it is like this duck rider you know? Totally normal for a Russian hiker to go and pick up a duck-- not just to kill it but to eat it. Like-- I am still-- I cannot-- I do not-- like you could just go over and pick up the duck? Like how did you catch the duck? Oh you just go after it with a stick. I mean you are a human being. You got more brains than a duck. You can catch it. But I was not really thinking about doing it. I was not like fantasizing about killing ducks or anything like that. I was just thinking that if it comes to that I will have to get some blood to drink you know? I know it sounds very violent but I was fighting for my life you know? Like people might laugh when they hear about being trapped on an island that is so close to civilization. And the sharks and the ducks-- I knew it was a funny situation. But I really got the feeling of what it was like being on a desert island. I felt like Robinson Crusoe you know? I knew what it was like to be by yourself away from civilization with no help and you are facing this huge problem. And the only person that is near you is you and the ghost of your death close by you know? So I could smell the-- smell my death in the air. It turns out that the island where Alex was stranded is called Ruffle Bar and it lies only a 20-minute boat ride away from the coast of Brooklyn. Far from being traumatized or ashamed of his exploits Alex wanted nothing more than to go back out there. And from the advantage of my overpriced under-sized apartment I wanted to see a place where you could be totally alone in the wilderness smelling your own death in the air while in at least theoretical commuting distance to Midtown Manhattan. So we hired a boat to take us to Ruffle Bar. In truth I was not as completely surprised as some might be to learn that such a place exists. I grew up near the islands of Jamaica Bay in a neighborhood called Canarsie. And when I was little my friends and I would cut through the empty lots near my house to explore the mix of trash and nature on the shoreline. It was a place totally apart from the rest of my mostly urban childhood. A secret place that my friends who lived even 10 or 15 blocks away were unaware existed. But then the smaller islands around New York have always occupied a weird place on the edge of the city. Home to all sorts of enterprise that the citizenry either does not know about or prefers not to see. Sanitariums and prisons potter's fields and grand failed schemes. Ruffle Bar itself had been the site of several of the latter. Since the Civil War it had housed a ferry stop a resort hotel and even a short-lived dune community of some 40 buildings. We stop in front of a concrete foundation. A building of some kind was here. Oh look this is a cool thing. This is one of the World War II things that is here. Like you open them up and you can go inside. There is like a room in there. It might be something like a bunker or something. You see the rope here? And the rope is really old. Let me take a picture of this. There are no buildings left here. The island is returned to a deeply wild state. There is a wall of dense brush and a few trees around which sinister gulls are circling. We pass a flock of ducks who take one look at Alex and wisely move away. Well I do not think it is-- I am really thinking about where the heck is this scooter because it seems like it should be like as we turn there should be more shoreline here. Maybe the-- Is this it? Yup that is exactly it. Oh wow. This is the scooter I tried to dig out. Let me show you. Maybe you will see the glass and stuff. That is awesome. As we search for Alex's Buddhist medallion that he would left in the excitement of the helicopter rescue we walk across a plane of thick dry grass matted down like a carpet. Underneath you can hear shells crunching and mysterious things scurrying around. Still reminders that we are in fact in a major metropolis are always close at hand. For one thing there is the garbage. Piles of plastic and driftwood but also shoes steering wheels prescription bottles deflated balloons a washer dryer several refrigerators and oddly boats. Three perfectly intact ones complete with oars. I hesitate to point these out to Alex though to be fair they are probably too heavy for him to have dragged to the water. And then there is this reminder of civilization.  Hold on.  He was always close enough to the city that simply having a cell phone would have had him tucked safely into bed within half an hour. Alex was finally rescued after seven hours thanks to Roman and Glubochansky. Back on the boat they were having a fine old time. A police helicopter was performing drills nearby. And apparently-- no slouches in the clicheed castaway department themselves-- they had figured out that they could signal it with a mirror. But why rush? We really enjoyed the time staying there. We was just sitting in the boat and you know smoking the last tobacco that we had left. And we make a deal that we are not going to eat each other if we are really going to get hungry. So basically it was having fun. You know just a little bit. No hustle no nothing. You know very quiet. Nice weather. Oh so you did not-- so you were actually holding off signaling the helicopters while you had a nice day? Yeah of course. It was a nice day. Still as it began to get dark and the cigarettes ran out the friends thought it was probably time to get a move on. The helicopter soon arrived and airlifted them off the boat. It was not until they were safely ashore wrapped in blankets and being fed complimentary cookies that either of them happened to mention that there had been a third passenger. When the helicopter came back for Alex cold exhaustion and dehydration had left him in a trance-like almost wild state. And for him this island will always be a place where maybe there would be monsters. And I was actually-- when I was here I was wondering if it is like totally wild place. Are there any animals here other than birds? I was maybe hoping to see some cool animal like a badger or something. I do not know. I like badgers a lot. Is that right? Yeah it is one of my favorite animals. You know I like badgers for the same reason probably I like the state of Utah where I never was. It is like something that has some kind of-- what is it called-- like a secret or it is hiding or it is like-- they attract me in the way that they might be hiding something cool from me. And that is what after many hours spent with Alex I find myself liking about him the most-- his insistence on finding mystery and adventure everywhere he looks. It is easy to laugh at that to write it all off as adolescent stupidity. But what if it is more than that? What if it is also a kind of adolescent magic? Actually I am thinking that this needed to happen you know? I think if I was a boring person and I would just like stay at home all the time and be like a nerd I would never get into this situation. So I think this happened strictly because I was with the right people at the right time like in the right situation. Think about that. Every step of the way by almost any measure Alex could not have been more wrong. It takes a special kind of grace to turn that into right time right place. And how can you help but envy that? Who would not rather live in a world where if you believe you should have an adventure you do? In which each of your mistakes does not narrow your life but expands it? In which the worst thing that could possibly happen is being bored and you can go to sleep on stormy seas and trust that when you wake up if you are very lucky you will be in Utah? What I am trying to say is this. Alex does something I never in a million years would have thought possible. He makes me think it might be cool to be a teenager again. There is a story that back in the 1830s a ship carrying 54000 in Mexican gold was hijacked by pirates outside Jamaica Bay and that the treasure was buried somewhere near Ruffle Bar. On our way back from the island I tell Alex this and he listens with great interest. If he found the treasure he wants to know could he keep it? Maybe I say. If he did not tell anybody. To which Alex answers-- precisely as I know he will the only way he possibly can. He says but what if I told everybody? Brett Martin. He is the author of Difficult Men Behind the Scenes of a Creative Revolution.  Coming up the thing about Chicago that nobody outside Chicago believes about Chicago but that actually is completely and totally true. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme and bring you a variety of different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program In the Shadow of the City. Stories about things happening out of sight from most of us but very close to us. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Troubled Bridge Over Water. In 2003 on the edge of a city halfway around the world in Nanjing China a man named Chen Si-- Mr. Chen-- headed out to a bridge away from his wife and daughter. He was there for 10 hours a day. The bridge he chose is this concrete communist monstrosity four miles long covered with slogans that celebrate the worker. Four lanes of traffic and thousands of pedestrians on the top deck. Two train tracks on the lower deck over the Yangtze River into Nanjing a city of seven million. Estimates are fuzzy but the best guess is that one person per week commits suicide off this bridge. Quick heads up by the way that this story is going to discuss suicide. Mr. Chen decided he wanted to try to keep them from jumping. And he started to-- singlehandedly at first then with an occasional volunteer. The blog that he keeps about this is the most sober taciturn non-boastful account of saving lives imaginable. Occasionally Mr. Chen will insert his feelings. Beware heavy thoughts he declares to himself during one entry. How I wish that he would soon be free of this shadow he says about an old man he saved in another. But mostly it is just the facts. Here's a translation from the Chinese. On July 25 at 1030 in the morning I discovered a woman lying on the bridge railing on her belly weeping. I went to her. She wiped her eyes. She said she was just playing and walked toward the center of the bridge. I went with her and she-- very ordinarily-- dialed her cell phone. When I returned at 110 I discovered that she had already climbed up on the bridge railing. I restrained her and forced her onto a moped. She is from Nanjing's Jianye district. Her last name is Zhao and today she is 45 years old. Because her husband surnamed Li and 51 years old is violent towards her and mistreats her she thought killing herself would be better. However she is silent when she thinks of her 15-year-old son. March 21 2010. Yesterday at 305 PM I saved a young man in the middle of the bridge. He had drunk a lot of alcohol and was planning to jump over the bridge railing. I at once restrained him and dragged him to safety. As we spoke I learned the situation was actually quite funny. He was thinking about jumping because last year his wife promised to start returning to him 200 Yuan of his monthly 1400 Yuan salary to spend as he pleased. But she had not honored her promise. Yesterday afternoon he started drinking with his friends. And the more he drank the angrier he got. He believed that killing himself would make her realize that not one cent had come to him. He then said another funny thing. His mother's colleague said that the bridge is haunted and could take one's soul. I said haha it is haunted by drunk ghosts and I took him home. This was the calmest simplest rescue I have made in recent years. Many of Mr. Chen's entries are about the people that he does not save. February 15 530 in the morning a middle aged man jumped to his death. It is reported at this time that he was holding a photograph of his family. August 10 2008 Saturday afternoon at 140 PM a young woman 300 meters from the south end of the bridge climbed under the bridge railing. I immediately started my moped but because they accelerated too quickly the moped leaked oil and ignited. I had to run to her. But when I was 200 meters away she jumped into the Yangtze. Her silhouette was visible in the water at a spot 50 meters away and I could still hear her yelling for help until a large wave obscured her from view. At the end of each year Mr. Chen does an inventory of how things are going on the bridge. This one is from the end of 2009. He wrote that since he began back in 2003 he saved at that point 174 people from committing suicide counseled another 5150 on the bridge and 16000 on the phone. 51000 people had texted him. Total days volunteering to that point-- 646. With regards to the reasons for suicide he writes emotional problems make up 60 terminal illness 20 sudden explosive crises 10 and domestic violence 10. Mike Paterniti wrote a magazine article about Mr. Chen. He first heard about him years ago from news reports. He read a bit of his blog in Google translate. He felt like he had to meet this man who on his own had decided to rescue so many people and flew to China. I thought maybe-- maybe I will see him in action. Maybe I will get to see him save somebody. Just as back story I mean I actually came-- I had come from Cambodia. So I was covering these genocide trials so I was not-- I did not have the most optimistic feelings about humanity. And I thought I was going to find something there. You thought you were going to meet like a hopeful figure? Yeah I mean hope perseverance generosity. But as soon as I got on the bridge I realized that all those notions were completely absurd. I mean I got instantly depressed. First of all there is this four-mile long bridge and this one man out there sort of trying to pick out who was going to jump. It just seemed from a distance like insurmountable odds to actually maybe pull somebody off the bridge. Yeah you wrote in the article at one point you said first of all there is the cars and there is the trains and the bridge is shaking and then there is just like a sea of people-- thousands of people in the rain with umbrellas going back and forth on the bridge. And he is just one guy kind of walking up and down. And he has this little moped and does a little cruise on the bridge every once in a while. But even that is a somewhat comical sight to behold. You know he is on this little broken-down moped putt-putting through the crowd with his big pair of binoculars around his neck. You know I sort of thought maybe this is not even real. Like maybe this blog is a complete figment of his imagination or a fiction that he constructs you know once a week. And I just do not see how this guy can save anybody out here. And you write in your article he will he will not really talk to you when you are there on the bridge. Yeah. He is really grumpy and unwilling to acknowledge me. And so give me a typical exchange between the two of you on the bridge. I think I did ask like why are you standing here as opposed to any other spot on this four-mile-long bridge? And he turned and lifted his binoculars and focused out toward the river and then brought his binoculars down turned the other way put his binoculars up and focused in the other direction on the crowd. But that is it? He does not even respond. No. It was not like-- it was like I was not even there. It was like I was some ghost. And I sort of went through some of this. And then I said maybe is there a better time for us to talk? And he said to the translator you know I can talk to you at lunch. So you go to lunch with him and what happe