This guy I know David Rudis was talking to me on the phone last week. He wanted me to help out with this Jewish organization that he is part of. David is concerned about the fact that fewer and fewer Jews are joining Jewish organizations and identifying as Jews. He thinks those organizations need to make themselves more relevant to modern Jews. And I was telling him that is fine for him but that is just not my thing. Yes I am Jewish but I do not believe in God. I married a non-Jew. I have been eating bread all this week during Passover. I have plenty of interesting Jews in my life and feel no need to meet any more. Why would I ever join a Jewish organization? This of course led to the brief obligatory discussion of the Holocaust which is what we Jews always talk about at a point like this in a conversation like this. And David was very insistent that it does not matter if I think of myself as a Jew. I just am a Jew. I think Ira you do not even begin to realize how much this identity has affected your life. As an avid listener to your show there is something profoundly Jewish in the contents of what you are producing whether you know it or not. I am so surprised to hear you say that you think of the show as a Jewish kind of cultural product because I do not think of it that way at all. See I actually think it is. If you are playing morality plays to get into the hearts and heads of people on a weekly basis what is more Jewish than that than telling and interpreting a story? It is in your DNA. I suggested to him that telling stories is kind of something that every culture does not just the Jews. David says sure but so what? Literally what you are doing really is profoundly Jewish. It was a weird conversation. David thinks that in our big multicultural world of course it is just old-fashioned for people to identify strictly with their own ethnic tribe. He told me that he remembered when he first moved to Chicago decades ago it was standard back then for people to just meet you and ask what are you? Meaning what neighborhood are you from? What parish? What religion? It seemed really weird to him at the time. But at that same time as he was saying this he says-- no contradiction here-- he just likes having his own tribe and would like me to come join the herd. There is a scientist at UCLA named Jared Diamond who came out recently with this book called The World Until Yesterday that is about how humans lived on this planet until about 10000 years ago. When everybody lived literally in a tribe of a few hundred people or a small band of a few dozen people. And Jared Diamond writes this thing about life then about what it means to actually live in a tribe that I had never heard before that really just stuck with me. He says that in these societies because they were so small you knew everybody. You never encountered strangers. You never ran into them. The idea that you could just wander around and meet someone is utterly impossible in New Guinea. If you ran across a strange person on your land that could only mean that they were there for some bad reason. They were there to scout out your land for a raid or to steal a woman or to steal a pig. And so if you ran into a strange person in the forest and you could not run away from him you came around a corner and there he was then the two of you would sit down. And you would have a long conversation in which each of you names all your relatives trying to find some relative in common which gives you a reason not to kill each other. And if after two hours you have not found any relative in common then one of you starts running or you try to kill the other person. Diamond talked to me on the phone from Jakarta. He had just gotten there. Back to electricity and showers after three weeks off the grid in Papua New Guinea. I wanted to speak with him because I wondered what he thought this story meant. Was he saying OK this is who we are? This is just built into us to be suspicious and fearful of outsiders? To want to stick to our own tribe? It is going too far to do that. People can be more or less suspicious of strangers and it depends upon the circumstance. And so he says for instance the circumstances when humans lived in small traditional societies there was good reason to fear strangers. As soon as human societies grew bigger into groups of thousands of people you would run into strangers all the time. It was normal. You would not have these same reasons to fear strangers and so we stopped in lots of places. Though apropos of my conversation with David Rudis Jared Diamond said that one of the things that does seem to have been true of traditional small societies 10000 years ago that is still true today is an obsession with who is in and who is out and seeing that people stick with the rules. It is whenever there is a group you have the problem of figuring out who really is a member of your group. And who is just pretending to be a member of the group for advantages. That may be part of the reason why humans have these very complicated cultures including languages and body mutilation. If I come into a group and I say I am really a long-lost member of your group but I cannot speak your language and I have not tattooed myself. Then it will immediately be obvious that I am not a member of your group. So all groups have what are called expensive ways of identifying themselves honestly so that you cannot just fake it. Right. And the reason why it is so universal is it just because if somebody can sneak in and be part of your group then they are getting access to stuff that is really yours? That is right. The term is freeloader.  he says that that is the actual scientific term. That is the one that anthropologists use-- freeloader. Well today on our radio show we hear very different kinds of groups struggle with this question who is in and who is out. It is the question which of course over history has led to purges witch hunts factionalism the assassination of Trotsky the Spanish Inquisition. Nobody expects the Spanish Inquisition right? Well we probably should. It happens all the time. Today on our program we have three stories of three groups including one whose defining characteristic is that they talk very evenly and softly. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  Act One I Know I Am But What Are You? This story is about a group arguing over that most basic thing that any group can fight over-- who should be a member. The group is an Indian tribe in California the Chukchansi in the middle of the state. Currently about 900 members. One of many small tribes in California and the dispute has gotten pretty bitter. David Ferry explains just how far they have gone. Here's how bad things have gotten with the Chukchansi. About a year ago they had an election for their tribal government-- it is called the tribal council. Four people won majorities but the old counsel refused to step down. They disqualified the winners and changed the locks on the tribe's equivalent of City Hall which is actually a trailer like you would see on a construction site but a little bigger. So two dozen tribal members who wanted the candidates they voted in to actually take office decided to go to City Hall the trailer early one morning and occupy the building. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. This is from video taken by one of the occupiers of the building. It was meant to be a peaceful takeover although they did break a window to get inside. They made coffee ordered pizza and walked around the trailer with homemade signs. But loyalists of the incumbents the counsel that refused to step down started showing up. They were angry. Easy. Hey calm down. Calm down. Dude what about that ?  Get back in there. Calm down you guys.  One of the winning candidates who was not allowed to take her seat is Dixie Jackson. She was inside the trailer for the occupation. She thought she heard a gunshot at one point. I said hit it and I went down and hit the floor. Well then I could not get up because of course I got a bad hip and bad knees. Dixie's in her 70s. Here's Morris Read another winner also in his 70s. Once they broke the windows they started spraying in that pepper spray. And we started to have a hard time breathing. And then all of a sudden they are throwing in burning logs. I think there was two of them that they threw through the window. And our people get wet rags and papers where we could put over our mouths so we could breathe. We are not walking out! You were voted out by 150! Walk away! You walk away! By nighttime the occupation had turned into a siege. A crowd of 50 people outside cut off the power to the building and then the water. They shot more pepper spray down into the ventilation system. Dixie and Morris and the other elders crowded into a tiny bathroom in the middle of the trailer for safety. Someone called the cops and they showed up-- sheriffs from Fresno and Madera County and the California Highway Patrol. But they could not intervene because this was an internal tribal matter. By morning 40 people were fist fighting in the parking lot outside the trailer. Local TV crews captured the tail end of it. In the midst of the madness one teenager was stabbed and two people were injured. All your people are going to  prison for this too. Two people were taken into custody. As for what caused the fighting-- This failed occupation the election fiasco it is all about one thing-- something called disenrollment. That is the word Indians use for kicking someone out of the tribe. They get disenrolled. For years now the Chukchansi tribe has been disenrolling its own members-- dozens sometimes hundreds of people at a time. The tribal members who occupy the trailer the winners of the election they wanted to stop the disenrollments-- the people outside did not. Lots of tribes in California are disenrolling people but the Chukchansi are sort of a poster tribe for it. Best estimates have the tribe shrinking from about 1800 people down to about 900. So the tribe has cut itself in half and almost all this has happened since they opened a casino. A big shiny Casino with a spa and a hotel and a high roller club 10 years ago in 2003. At the foot of beautiful Yosemite Valley there is a sound. Cha-ching! This is one of their ads. Can you hear it? The sound of winning. Let me hear that cha-ching! Oh yeah Chukchansi Gold Resort and Casino. The sweet sound of cha-ching! The math is simple. If they have fewer people in the tribe each person gets more of the sweet sound of cha-ching-- more profit from the casino. Right now each Chukchansi only gets a few hundred dollars a month in casino profits. A tribal member named Nicki Livingston told me that when her friend Nancy was kicked out a few months ago she could see it in her payout check. We got a raise on our per capita check after she got disenrolled. You got more money per month after your close friend was disenrolled from the tribe? Yeah. Me and my sisters my two older sisters and myself we were together when we heard that news. And we saw it  saw it on our bank statements and all three of us cried. It is done off the skin of someone's back. She says the checks were around 280 per month before Nancy and several dozen other people were kicked out. She says it jumped about 380 a month after. There is another tribe just down the road from the Chukchansi and its paid tens of thousands of dollars a month to each member. And that is because their tribe only has around 75 people. Chukchansi officials usually deny that disenrollment has anything to do with casino money. They say all they are doing is correcting the membership rolls. Getting rid of the people who do not belong in the tribe. But Reggie Lewis the tribal chairman who refused to step down when he was voted out of office said to me sure money has something to do with disenrollments but why should not it? We do not have that much to share. We have got tribal members who are living in gutted out trailers with no sanitary facilities without power. And then we have people who are trying to take advantage of being a tribal member when they are not entitled to be in.  This is the sound of my producer putting the microphone away as we are talking to a Chukchansi woman who'd agreed to be interviewed but was so worried about repercussions that she kept going off the record or going silent. By the time I got to her I was used to this. So many Chukchansi refused to talk or agreed but then backed out saying that they were too scared. I asked this woman who did not want her name used what people are scared of. In my opinion most of them are afraid because they either have members loved ones or themselves that are employed. How many people do you think you know who have been fired from the casino? What is happening in the silence after my question is she is pointing at the microphone and shaking her head no. This woman had already been disenrolled and she still did not want to talk. She has family members who work at the casino. And like everyone else we met like that she took it as a given rightly or wrongly that they might be fired if she spoke out. The tribal council appoints the people who oversee the casino. There are not a lot of jobs in this part of California. And the tribal council's very powerful-- in the community and in the casino. Disenrollment could mean serious financial hardship. When you are part of the tribe you get a bunch of services. So on top of losing the monthly casino payout people who are disenrolled also lose subsidies for child care and housing. Older members lose more-- a 300 monthly food stipend and extra cash to cover utilities. So no surprise there is now this culture of paranoia in the tribe. The anti-disenrollment folks are sure that some people who seem to be on their side are really spies for the other side. I was talking to Morris Reed and Dixie Jackson the ones who were elected to the tribal council but never seated. They are the ones who hid in the trailer choking on pepper spray. And Dixie said that at one point they tried to get tribal members to sign a petition supporting them calling for an end to disenrollment. She said it went nowhere. Even our own family says that they do not want to sign. Because then their names will be on the list that we support you and therefore we will be subject to retaliation. Dixie said one of her daughters had been fired from the casino two weeks earlier. She suspected it was retaliation against her family for occupying the trailer and opposing the tribal council. A casino spokesman told me the firing was not political. As Dixie was telling me about all this the phone rang. We were sitting around Morris's kitchen table. Morris answered it and it was actually for Dixie. Yes she is. Do you want to talk to her? Somebody wants to talk to you. Yes? Yes. Dixie did not talk long. It was about another daughter who still worked at the casino. They walked the other one out today. Wait. Just now. Wait. Wait what? They walked my daughter the other daughter that was director of floor games. OK yes. They walked her out just now. Your daughter was just fired? Uh huh. The casino said this firing was also unrelated to the family's politics. Bryan Galt saw how the disenrollments got started and he is one of the few who saw it from the inside. He worked in the Chukchansi Enrollment Office the office that decides who is a member and who is not. Back in 2003 when the casino first opened the enrollment office was really just a room he says with six file cabinets and a computer. But it was where the tribe stored all of its documents on everybody's ancestry. Before the casino was built you just needed a birth certificate and some proof that you are a lineal descendant of a Chukchansi. I do not think you can imagine a more messed up filing system. Because it had been years of just people just shoving stuff in the files. You were there though. Was the enrollment committee about letting people in or was it about kicking people out? Well initially it was to help straighten out the records because they in such disarray. And then the casino opened and then it started to become a head hunting expedition. Find out how people can be disenrolled. Bryan says that mandate came from the top the tribal council but he did not agree with it. My committee we refused to take action against anyone who was already enrolled because we did not think it was fair. You are going to what-- tell 80-year-old ladies that they are going to have to go to the National Archive and find information that no one had ever told them they needed for the last 15 years? They are enrolled-- just leave it at that. So we argued for the next two years about this. Have you ever seen a Jerry Springer episode? You would go to monthly meetings and that is how it was. There was no Dances With Wolves type mentality. I hate that movie for that reason. They show the wise old tribal chief you know that is all I have to say and everyone's polite to each other through the whole meeting. And I am like I do not know what meeting those guys are at but I have never been to one of those. This is a small tribe remember. Everyone knows everybody else. And everyone thinks they know who is pushing to disenroll people. There is a family called the Wyatts and there is another called the Ramirezes. The Ramirezes actually filed a lawsuit last year arguing that they are the only legitimate members of the tribe-- just their family. The case was thrown out. I reached out to members of both families but no one agreed to speak on tape. One person who is supported disenrollment for years is Reggie Lewis. He is the tribal leader you heard from earlier who refused to step down after the election. He says the disenrollments are necessary because of the weird history of the tribe. The Federal government disbanded them in 1958 along with lots of other California tribes. And when they started up again in the 1980s he says they were in a rush. That they did not really know what they were doing. For a long time our tribe was looked that as kind of a joke as far as membership. Because they were saying oh yeah the Chukchansi tribe that is a country club. You can go up and join. They just knew that they could get in. And so he says they had to make a lot of hard choices. He told me he even voted to disenroll his own cousins-- he had to. They are my cousins but they did not have any Chukchansi in them. For years they thought that they were Chukchansi. We thought they were Chukchansi. When the research was done we find out that no they were not even Indians. They were white people. The fact is even tribes that are not disenrolling people have a hard time figuring out how to decide who is in the tribe. What is important-- blood line? DNA? Language? Land ownership? In California tribes were hunted down and forced to disband. To abandon their land and their language. There was lots of intermarriage. Records were lost. It is a mess. So the Chukchansi settled on a set of arcane rules based on land ownership and ancestry to determine who could stay in their tribe. If your family had Chukchansi ancestry but no one got a land grant from the Federal government long ago you were given a one-year deadline to get in your paperwork. If you did not make the deadline or the extension you were disenrolled. If you are one of the luckier families that was deeded land for you there is no deadline. But your ancestry gets combed over and scrutinized for any hint of non-Chukchansiness. This is the letter I got right here. This is Irene Cordero. She got a letter recently from the tribe telling her she was disenrolled because her grandfather Jack Roan had in some official documents said he was Chukchansi and in some others said he was Pohonichi. Irene says what is the problem? He was both. But the tribe kicked her out along with about 70 members of her family including her mother Ruby. She is the oldest Chukchansi there is now. Last one passed away last week I think. We could not confirm that Irene's mother was the oldest Chukchansi. We also could not find a Chukchansi that was older. She will be 90 in January. And she is a native speaker of the language? Uh huh. How many native speakers are there around? About two. There are actually more like six. Disenrollment letters all end with a line saying the tribal council's decisions are final and not appeal-able to any state or federal court. There is nowhere to go to say but wait this woman speaks Chukchansi. Does not that count somehow? Irene cannot take this to the US courts or the Bureau of Indian Affairs and expect any help because each tribe operates like it is own separate country. And for the Chukchansi the tribal council's the final authority. A few months after the tribe disenrolled Irene's mother Ruby one of the last remaining native speakers they gave a million dollars to a local university for the study and revitalization of the Chukchansi language. Honorable tribal council the enrollment committee's prepared to present evidence as to why the respondents are not eligible for membership. This is a recording of a disenrollment hearing. It is actually Bryan Galt's disenrollment hearing. He is the guy who worked in the enrollment office and fought against the new mandate to kick people out. He ended up defending his own membership in the tribe in 2006 three years after the casino opened. These hearings are closed to the public and to the rest of the tribe too. Bryan recorded this secretly and then posted it online. What is most striking is how much time is devoted to asserting and reasserting that this whole process is legal and it is being done according to the tribe's constitution and its ordinances. Everyone's just following the rules. But anyone who is sitting there about to be disenrolled knows that the tribe as its own sovereign nation of about 900 people can change those rules at any time. So that there would not be hearings to disenroll someone like Bryan who in fact has Chukchansi ancestry. Which the tribe acknowledges during the hearing to kick him out. For his great great grandmother Mary Galt. From the committee I would like to indicate that Mary Galt is of Chukchansi Indian blood four quarters. So not only does he have a full-blooded Chukchansi relative Bryan's family actually got land from the Federal government more than a century ago. But the problem is the council decides it is the wrong kind of land. So in the end the thing that does him in is the he just did not get his paperwork in by the deadline. October 22 1988 through April 3 1990. Therefore the enrollment committee requests that James Bryan Galt is not eligible for membership pursuant to the tribe's constitution and therefore requests that he be disenrolled. The same day Bryan found out he would been disenrolled he lost his job as a beverage manager and web director for the casino. The casino spokesman told me the firing had nothing to do with his disenrollment. Tribes across the country are watching these mass disenrollments by the Chukchansi and others and they are just flabbergasted. Here's David Wilkins. He is a Lumbee Indian and a professor of American Indian studies at the University of Minnesota. I get shocked every time I read any Country Today and see that another tribe usually it is out of California that has decided that they are going to disenroll another 22 families. Wilkins is one of the few people who studies disenrollment. Disenrollment is occurring now in some 17 states. It is occurring in at least 30 tribes in California. I cannot find a definitive number on how many native individuals have formally been disenrolled. I see figures ranging 4000 to 6000. But it is difficult to find accurate data because like I say tribal governments are not going to be forthcoming with this information. The Bureau of Indian Affairs refuses to share this information because they say that it is a tribal internal matter. And so as a scholar as a researcher I am frustrated and embittered because I cannot find the accurate data to get the word out about what we are doing to ourselves. Wilkins told me other tribes are watching the Chukchansi and others disenroll their members with no consequences and so they are trying it too. And he said something that I would heard from a lot of Indians. We were almost wiped out by other people. And why are we now whittling ourselves away through disenrollments? And this is what I find most frustrating when I have to say that we really are involved in depopulating ourselves. And at this point we cannot blame the Federal government we cannot blame the state that we are in. We have to look at ourselves in the mirror and try and explain this to ourselves. With the Chukchansi a lot of the tribe's members thought disenrollment was OK as long as it was happening to other people. They never thought it would happen to them so they did not stand up against it. Even the current opponents of disenrollment the four people elected to the tribal council who never got a chance to take their seat they used to sit on the council years ago. And when they did they presided over hundreds of disenrollments themselves. At this point no one feels safe. Even Reggie Lewis the tribal chairman who refused to give up his seat in the election. Even he can imagine a future council trying to kick him out. The reason will be whatever they want to say because they will be the ultimate say so. It does not matter what is right or what is wrong. I have the documentation to show that I am from this area. I have established a special relationship with people that are in the Wyatt and Ramirez family. He is talking about the two families in the tribe that folks say are staunch supporters of disenrollment-- the Wyatts and the Ramirezes. I cut timber for 40 years and I got Mike Ramirez jobs. I worked with Mike. His father used to come up and get drunk with my father. I went over and had beers with his father and my father. His sister was married to one of my cousins. And they lived right next door to me on my allotment on top of the hill here in Coarsegold. And so I know that I have established close ties with these guys over the years. And if they want to say that I am not a member and they want to kick me out that is on them. Meanwhile at the casino things are not looking too good. Another tribe is planning to build a competing casino just 30 miles down the road. And Reggie Lewis told me the Chukchansi casino is still 250 million in debt from its construction. About a year and a half ago it missed a payment on that debt. He says they might miss another this month. He told me that if they do miss that payment members of the tribe might not get their payouts or benefits. The tribe has gone through all this heartache. It is on track to disenroll the majority of its members. If the point was to generate a higher payout for everyone who remained that might not be panning out. David Ferry in Oakland. Coming up-- whispering it is not just for libraries anymore. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. This American Life I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme. Bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's program Tribes. Stories of people who believe they are part of these big groups that may or may not necessarily want them. We have arrived at Act 2 of our program.  Act Two A Tribe Called Rest. You know sometimes it can be easy to believe that you are in a tribe of one-- alone there by yourself. Andrea Seigel tells this story about finding out that she is undeniably not alone. In the fourth grade I had this one friend Mindy. She was OK to hang out with and all. But what was really great about her was that she would always want to see whatever stuff I had in my room. If I sat her down in front of my shell collection she would delicately go through it one shell at a time. She would murmur to herself what she liked about each shell and I would get this tingling throughout my skull. I know how weird that sounds. But it was like starbursts in my head. Starbursts that open on the crown and then sparkle down at the nape like this warm glittering water rushing under your scalp. I would seek this feeling out starting when I was seven. I would go to the library so I could sit in a big quiet room and listen to pages being turned. There was a boring librarian who everyone in fifth grade hated. But I loved her because when she would read us stories in her soft voice she would turn my head into a snow globe. I was an anxious kid. I worried about getting homework finished even back when homework did not count for anything. But while I was getting this tingling in my head my anxiety just magically fell away. And afterward I would actually feel kind of good for a half hour. Then I found this public access lady on TV who used to show you how to stencil flowers on a wall. She gave me the tingling. I would also get it watching the late great Bob Ross teach how to paint mountains on PBS. So we have black blue crimson little bit of brown. Now then barely touch the canvas. So there is Bob Ross. And I am eight and sitting on the carpet in the den watching him delicately mix paint colors in close up. And I am going into a trance. My jaw kind of goes slack. My eyes are probably a little glassy. And my head is a globe. Take a little blue and white here-- just mix it together. And once again flap our little tiny roll of paint. So as I grew up I never told my parents about this. Never talked to anybody. I assumed the tingling was an almost pervy way I was miswired. I felt ashamed about it and all I understood was that I did not want anyone to know. It became even more extreme as an adult. As a kid I was only allowed to watch a certain amount of television. But once I was old enough to own my own TV I would stay up until 400 AM watching home shopping network night after night. Soft-spoken women talked about the jewelry in very detailed intricate precious ways and I loved it. People were confused about why I watched so much home shopping because I never bought anything. But the starbursts worked as well as an adult as they had as a kid. They calm my anxiety. And calming is important because I am still an anxious person. In fact I am way worse as an adult-- there is a lot more to be anxious about. And I still never told anyone about what was going on inside my head not even my boyfriend Brent. We have been together for years. We have a kid together. We tell each other everything. I have told him some really horrible embarrassing things about myself but I did not tell him this. Like I would never turn to him during dinner and ask so when the fork just delicately pinged against the knife did you get tingles throughout your brain too? A few years ago I started seeking out this stuff on YouTube. I began with makeup tutorials because I love to hear the tapping of a brush on a Mac pigment bottle or the clicking up of an eyeliner pencil. That is how I moved on to this woman named Senada who does something called haul videos that is H-A-U-L which are just her talking about what she bought on a shopping trip. These kind of videos are actually really popular-- there are tons of them. Hi everyone. Welcome back to my channel. Today I wanted to show you what I got from the Versace for HM. So as you can see I have-- So I was up to watching two or three hours a day. And I know this is all starting to sound like porn and someone's obsession with porn. But it is not porn even if it does operate a little bit like porn. All the searching for videos trying to find exactly the right moment or performer developing very specific tastes and preferences. I wanted someone speaking in lightly accented English. And I wanted them talking to me about jewelry slowly and deliberately. And preferably it is tacky or cheap jewelry that is not being treated as if it is tacky and cheap. And just like porn the effect wears off after a while. You have to find new videos. Finally one night over the recent holidays I was suddenly out of videos. I would exhausted all my usual haul favorites. Despairing I typed jewelry collection into the search box. Nothing I had not seen already. That was when I had an idea. I would noticed a number of the haulers on YouTube who had accented English had trouble with the spelling of jewelry. I typed in jewelry again this time with two Ls. YouTube returned a video at the top of the search entitled ASMR Old Jewelry Collection Show and Tell Whi