     Hey I am Jad Abumrad. This is Radiolab. And Annie McEwen ...   Yes.   Well whatve you got for me?   Well first of all Robert let me just get the levels on you.   Okay Im here.   Weve got Robert.   Robert!   Maybe you can tell ...   Im sitting in on this one with Annie just because ...   As many of you know he retired from Radiolab not too long ago. But I brought him out of retirement and back into the studio to sit in with me on this interview.   ...We just sometimes just pile on when it looks like its gonna be a candy fun thing to do.   And second of all I have a hero. And a story that -- I dont know I just feel like its exactly the kind of story that we all need right now at this moment.   Okay. Lets go.   Okay so lets start with our main character.    Excuse me.   This is our hero?   Oh no no no no.   No -- well. Our main storyteller I guess.   My name is Bruce Robison. Reaching out to you from KAZU in Monterey California. California State University Monterey Bay.   Whoa thank you!   You got it all in there!   I know that was very well done.   So Bruce is a deep sea explorer.   Im a Southern California beach kid who just kept going out deeper and deeper.      These days he works at the Monterey Bay Aquarium Research Institute. And basically he and his team theyll go out on a boat with a little remote sub that they drop into the water with a camera and see what they can see.   Its really exciting because theres all of these cool animals.   Well Im just curious like did you just go out onto the ocean and then look down? Went Oh! Or did -- how does it begin this story?   Well one day ...   This is back in April of 2007.   Were on a ship called Western Flyer.   Theyre on one of their runs checking out sea life and theyre just off the coast over this giant underwater canyon the Monterey Canyon.   Pretty much the -- the same scale and scope as the Grand Canyon in Arizona.   There is an underwater Grand Canyon in Monterey Bay?   Thats right.   Wow.   And on this day Bruce and his team drop their little robot sub down into the water.   A little less than a mile down.   Which doesnt seem like a lot but imagine going down the length of the Empire State Building. And then go down another Empire State Building.   Oh my God.   And then go down another Empire State Building. And then go down like maybe a few more floors. Like maybe ten more floors of that Empire State Building.   Thats just -- that makes me a little bit dizzy.   The darkness is overwhelming. You can look up and say Maybe the surface is up that way. But the last little photons have given up. And yet it is punctuated by sparkles and twinkles and flashes all around. The majority of animals that live there make their own light and you can hear scritches and squeaks and thumps around you.   Right. Oh Bruce Im noticing that youre chair is rather vocal.   Ah.   It seems like it is squeaking. Unless thats Robert. Is that you Robert?   Thats my imitation of a ship at sea. Thats ...    Its not quite working for me. It sounds a lot like a chair.   No no. Its his fault. Its not mine. Youre rocking.   Well Ill try not -- Ill ...   Yeah.   Anyway theyre down there in the darkness and they flick on this little headlight. And sweeping this cone of light around in front of them they see the silty seafloor a few rocky outcrops. When into that cone of light wanders ...   An octopus moving towards the rock across the sea floor.   Our hero. Using her arms to sort of pull and glide and roll herself along.   She was kind of purpley-gray dark mottled. There was a crescent-shaped scar on one arm and a circular scar elsewhere.   Cool. Like tattoos.   Yeah.   Well just so we get a sense of size can you fit her on your lap? Or could you wear her as a hat?   Okay. The mantle the roundy part was as big as a healthy cantaloupe.   Oh.   Oh. How long are the tentacles?   Foot-and-a-half long. Theyre very stretchy.   Ooh. Okay.   Anyway about a month later we went back and dropped down.   A month later? You see an animal heading towards a rock and you dont wait to see if she gets there because it would -- that would take too long or why ...?   We werent really focused on that. That -- it was just an observation.   Oh Okay.   Anyway ...   When they went back in the robot sub a month later ...   That same octopus was up on a vertical face on the rock sitting on a clutch of eggs.   Her body covering the eggs. Each of her arms ...   Curled in a little spiral tucked into position.   How many babies was she sitting on?   160.   Are they jellybean-sized or ...?   Yeah thats a good approximation.   And Bruce and his team were like ...   Oh!   This is great!   We know within about a month when the eggs were laid.   And theyd often wondered like how long does it take for octopus eggs to hatch?   Does science not know about the brooding period of octopuses?   Not deep-water ones.   Oh.   Which was a totally different species of octopus and could have totally a different way of doing things for all they knew.  We know so little about life in the deep sea that something like this can be very illuminating.   Did you have a name for her other than like 1006-B?   We just called her Octomom.   Octomom.    Oh beautiful.   So whenever they were out at sea and had time in their schedule theyd toss in the robot sub drop down ...   And have a look ...   ... at Octomom. They dropped down in May and there she is a little figure huddled on the rock. A month or so later there she is again sitting on her eggs and warding off predators.   Crabs and shrimps on the rock who wouldve loved to chow down on her eggs.   So lets say Im a crab and I see some lady sitting on 160 babies. So I figure my odds are pretty good that I can scarf at least six of them.   Not a chance.   Oh.   She is vigilant and relentless.   Couldnt I bite her?   Nope.   Or what about ...   Nope.   No.   Yeah what happens if a crab bites her?   Yeah. Or pinces her?   She would squeeze the heck out of it.   Okay.   Couple months after that theyre zooming in towards the rock and oh!   There she is.   Cleaning the eggs with an arm. Like la la la la la.   And you can see the baby octopus inside the egg after a while.   Next visit ...   Still there.   Couple months after that ...   Um ... oh!   There she is. Same old spot.   Ah.   October Still there?   You bet.   November?   Yes!   Curled around her babies cleaning them protecting them.   Mm-hmm.   And its been now been around like six months something like that? And Bruce and his team start to notice that she was changing.   She became very pale. She clearly lost weight. And you could see over time that her eyes began to get cloudy. I say the human counterpart might be cataracts.   And according to Bruce for an octopus this is normal.   Most octopuses that we know about do not feed while theyre brooding.   At all?   At all.   Oh shes -- shes stuck to the rock with her jellybeans ...   Shes there.   ... that entire time?   Yeah. She hasnt moved.   So that would mean that she was starving.   Yes.   And not just starving but starving to death.   Octopus moms die after they reproduce.  Who is this?   Oh! This is Yan.   I know. Im just kidding.     I was like Ill talk to whatever voice is coming through the headphones but ...   So Yan Wang ...   I am an evolutionary neuroscientist.   Shes a postdoc at Princeton but she did her PhD research on reproduction and death in the octopus. Now she studied a shallow-water species of octopus which tend to have a very short life.   It typically only lives for a year.   Really?   Yeah.   Thats it for an octopus?   I know. Isnt that crazy?   That seems -- I mean theres all the attention they get as being these brainy creatures.   I know.   And to think theyre so ephemeral.   Now the deep-sea species like Octomom probably live a little longer than that. We dont actually know exactly how long. But Yan told me that all octopuses have a sort of similar life story. Like when your a kid youre just growing ...   So youre just eating everything.   ... then you hit puberty. You gotta find a mate that wont eat you. Apparently thats a big risk. And when you do finally find that mate ...   The male octopus reaches with one of its arms into the mantle ...   The big balloon-y part of his body.   Reaches in there and removes a sperm packet.   And he tucks it inside the females mantle. Here you go. And thats it. Thats their sex. Which sounded a little dry to me.   Well I once was describing this on a train a commuter train to a friend of mine. And I suddenly noticed the train was completely silent.      So ...    In a porn-like way or in a horror way?    In a total porn-like way!   This is Sy Montgomery. Shes the author of The Soul of an Octopus as well as like 29 other books about animals. And one Valentines Day at the Seattle Aquarium she got to see ...   Mmm ...   Octo-sex.   Lets see. The male might have been up in the corner.   Teeny digression here.   And the female came out of the one tank and entered this tank and crawled towards him. As soon as he realized My love has arrived they both turned bright red and they flew into each other's arms! And they covered each other with their suckers 16 arms going on. And theyre all very fast. But they stay together for a while afterwards sometimes hours. I mean it was very romantic. The male often wrapped around the female. And frequently they both turn white which is the color of a relaxed octopus. So thats when theyre having the cigarette.   Huh.   Anyway we cant know if thats what Octomom experienced. She is a different species after all. But what we do know is that once she used that sperm that was the beginning of the end of her life.   The female can essentially decide when she wants to fertilize her eggs because once she lays them you know shes not going to move them.   So yeah she has to go do all of her favorite things one last time before she switches over.    Her last hurrah.    Exactly.   Her rumspringa.   Totally.   Yeah.   But when she decides the time is right shell find a safe spot and lay her eggs.   Then as the eggs are about to hatch she dies.   Now the shallow-water species of octopus that Yan studies this sitting and taking care of your eggs phase does not last that long only about a month. But with Octomom since they knew virtually nothing about the species the question was how long would it go? How long would she sit on those eggs not eating slowly dying?  How oft -- are you visiting her every month or two? Every three months? Or ...   No no no. It was -- there wasnt a regular pattern. This was sort of bootleg science. We were out there doing other things that we were supposed to do as part of our project up in the water column. And if we had a little extra dive time wed sneak down and check her out.   Which they did month after month after month after month.   If you keep counting how far does it go?   Well like lets say lets say year one.   Year?   Yeah.   Oh wow!   Year one they drop down. Shes looking pretty rough. And there are all these crabs crawling around. And theyre scientists but they are also kind of having a hard time watching this octopus suffer for lack of a better word.   And one of the things that we tried was we went down once and broke a couple legs off a crab.   With the robot? With the robot?   Yeah. We have manipulator arms. We can do all kinds of neat stuff.      So we broke off a couple of crab legs and offered them to her. She -- she wouldnt have anything to do with it. We tried that oh two three times.   Whoa.   And one time in year two ...   Year two?   They drop down and they see she is being circled by crabs.   What?   Looking as though they were trying to mass an attack if you will.   Like how many?   Three or four.   She like very weak at this point. And these crabs are like circling her like you imagine with pitchforks like around a witch at a stake or something.   Oh back! Back you devils!    And Bruce and his team are like Oh my God! Like whats going to happen? You know Could this be the end?   And all right so we -- we couldnt hang around and ...   Oh man! You are not the kind of people -- we would not hire you! If we -- if we were following somebody who was under attack by a group of crabs who had written -- drawn a circle of death around her and said No one shall pass! We would not go back upstairs. We would stay.    We had other things on our agenda.   Oh come on! They just -- they ...   I know!   They grabbed the crab last time.   I know -- I know!   Just like shoo them away with the arms.   Thats what -- I know. But they would come right back. I mean they cant guard her.   But they leave her there in the dark being circled by crabs? Oh!   That was at the beginning of a week-long trip.   So theyre out at sea doing their research. And all the while theyre thinking What happened to Octomom and the crabs?   So on our way back home we thought Lets go check. Lets see how things are.   They drop in the sub. They drop down. They drop down down down down down down. Biting their nails ...   As we try to find our way into the rock. And were searching searching searching.   And then there! A white blob in the darkness.   It was like Ah! Okay good. There she is. There she is. Still there.   And there are no crabs around her anymore. But ...   There were crab parts all over the sea floor below her.   So she killed them?   Yes.   So shes ...    Yes!   In her weakened state torn them apart with her arms.   Oh my God!   All the folks in the control room on this she and pilots were all going Yay!    So you left for a week and during that time she fought like the battle of her life.   Thats right.   Missed the whole thing.   And theyre counting the eggs every single time and she is still at 160.   We never saw any evidence that anybody had picked off one of the eggs.   Not a one?   Nope.   This is heroic!   It is heroic. She was wasting away and would eventually have to die but it would have to be timed right with the hatching of the babies.   Yeah.   Because if she were to lose her grip and drift off of the eggs then a crab could come and just you know have a huge brunch. I mean there was this tension of her holding on until ...   They were ready.   Yes.   Well doesnt it seem to you like theres people like you know say Im gonna be dying tonight but Im gonna wait for Johnny to come home.    Yeah.   And then Johnny bursts through the door and look and exchange a glance. And then poof! Mommy dies. It sort of feels a little like that.   Lets move on to year three.   What?   Shes still there.   Three years?   Yeah like ...   This is ...   I know! Shes getting worse and worse.   I cannot -- this is horrible and amazing at the same time.   I know! She has not eaten anything. They are like aghast. She is just like this titan. Year four -- we move onto year four. Like its just like unbelievable time.   Oh my God.   Let me give you a sense of like what is happening. So 2007. Thats when they saw her. Boris Yeltsin dies.      First iPhone released for sale in the USA. Big moments.      2008 the economy crashes. Obama is elected. Like these huge things are happening right up -- right upstairs from her. Shes just still doing that same thing.      2009. Usain Bolt breaks the world record for the 100-meter dash.   Bitcoin. I think bitcoin happened somewhere in there.   Bitcoin okay. 2009 Michael Jackson dies.   Wow.   2010 those Chilean miners are rescued after 69 days.   Oh my God.   I dont know if you remember that.   Yeah of course.   They were trapped underground.   Wow.   Haiti has a huge earthquake. The worst they ever had in 200 years. 2011 -- were moving onto 2011 now the Arab Spring.   Oh my God.   Same-sex marriage is legalized in New York state. Amy Winehouse Steve Jobs and Osama Bin Laden all die.   All the while Octomom has been sitting there withering but killing crabs that come for her babies.   Yeah.   Wow.   Like not eating but somehow remaining vigilant.   Just seems crazy to me. Like why would -- why would evolution make an animal that needs to gestate her babies that long?   Well we dont know. Bruce and Yan both said that maybe its because its so cold down there that everything happens more slowly. Or maybe you need super developed babies because its such a harsh environment. But basically its still a mystery. Like they dont even know if Octomom is like this crazy freak of nature or if shes ordinary. Like she is the only octopus of this species that anyone has ever watched do this.   Huh.   But my question was how. How can she survive this? Like how can she just sit there not eating for four years and not just -- just die?   Its just a totally bizarre thing right?   It sounds like magic.   Lucky for us this is exactly what Yan studied for her PhD. So when we come back from a quick break together with Yan we are gonna find out how she does it and how far she can go.   Jad. RadioLab. Back with Annie McEwen and Octomom.   So before the break we had landed on the very simple question of How? How does Octomom manage to stay alive and defend her eggs not moving no food for over four years?   Right so we just did not know ...   Well Yan says the answer lies in a very peculiar fact about the octopus's brain which helps her to pull off these last few deeply essential beats of her life.   If we were to think about the nervous system as say like an orchestra.   To understand how this works Yan says you can think of all the different parts of the octopuss brain as different section in an orchestra.   You know like the brass is going to take care of like vision or something like that. Or you know the strings are taking care of motor functions and things like that.   Maybe the bass is regulating heartbeat. The woodwinds taking care of memory. And as she swims along living her octopus life the whole orchestra is playing. All the instruments doing their job. But as she lays her eggs there is a shift.   A shutting down of processes that are normally functioning to keep the body going.   Every instrument in that orchestra starts to hush.   Everybody going quiet.   Except there is this one section of the orchestra ...   Yeah the optic glands. These are like two really tiny -- they are kind of the size of you know a grain of rice.   They sit right between her eyes.   They have their solo at this point.   And would that be the opera singer or who is that? Who is everyone quieting to hear?   Well let me think about this. It would not be you know a very common instrument. Its not a huge part of the brain. So it would not really be a string. I dont think it would be like a wind instrument. Or maybe it would be a weird one you know a bassoon or something like that. One where theres just one or two in a full orchestra.   Okay I like that.   So as all the other parts of the nervous system begin to drop away the bassoon these tiny grains of rice have their moment. They are playing a very complicated chemical song that Yan is only just beginning to piece together. But she knows that part of the work they are doing is triggering a bunch of different chemicals.   Things like steroids and its insulin that enable it to stay alive without additional food intake.   And so all the while shes down there years and years being visiting again and again by this robot on the outside she looks like a very old lady. Pale skin cataracts flabby muscles. A little pale blob in the darkness all alone. But on the inside she is very much alive. Alive in this incredibly centered focused way. Year after year after year after year she is playing her heart out.   Um Bruce? I just want to remind you about the chair thing.   Oh sorry.   No problem no problem.   All right. Dylans offered me a -- a better chair. Lets say a more silent chair so let me pick up my butt out of this one.   Okay.   Move it over to another one. Thank you Dylan.   Did you have -- did you have moments where you were like out buying eggs bicycling you know cleaning the car and just had this moment like oh! Shes there -- I know exactly where she is. Shes doing her job. Like these little moments of you living your life and her just constantly working as a mother?   Yeah I thought about her all the time.   Okay so we are at year four or -- is that where we are?   So were at year four and a half.   Four and a half years!    Is that the world record for longest brooding period on planet Earth?   Yeah it is.   Whoa!   We had -- we had been there a month before and she was still there looking pretty haggard Ive gotta say but she was hanging in there. And then one day we dropped down and were flying in towards the rock.   He is watching the screen up on the ship just seeing darkness. Then there is the rocky outcrop. There is her spot.   And she wasnt there. We could not see her.   What do you -- what does that mean? Does that mean ...?   We knew we were at the right place we could see the -- the patch on the rock. And there were all of these tattered egg cases just in the spot where she had been.   Tattered egg cases means that the babies had been born?   Well the first thing we did was search. Are there babies on the rock? Are the babies still here? Or did any of them survive? Or was it some sort of apocalyptic demise at the hands of all those hungry looking crabs?   So theyre frantically sort of searching around the rock. Searching and searching and searching. And then they begin to see little babies that are her species. And they see a little baby here ...   Aww. No way!   And a little baby there.   Little octopuses crawling around.   Oh!   Theyd been feeding and growing and it was pretty clear that they were hatchlings from that clutch of eggs that we had observed.   Did they look like her? Like all the same little -- there is the crescent -- the crescent shape and the ...     Sadly no. And they were quite a bit smaller.   Yeah.   But it was clear they were -- they were the same species.   And did you see her?   Nope. Im certain that she had been consumed by some scavenger.   Oh my God. But you just want -- you just want to give her a moment just to see it.   Yeah. Well we kinda asked Bruce like can you help us imagine what that moment might have been like for her?   Since you dont know because you missed it as usual the actual big moment. Could you ...    I must have gone out for a hamburger or something.   Yes!    Could you just in your minds eye imagine the last moment here? Like was she dusting the eggs or were the eggs beginning to hatch? Or what ...   We suspected she stayed there until the last one had hatched.   You mean watching them?   Mm maybe not watching them but feeling them. Guarding them.   Oh my gosh thats amazing!   They are -- they are devoted moms.   So she would feel this activity that was new underneath her and then know that it was time to finally let go?   Right. Okay relax Mom. Its over. You did -- you did your job.   So cool. Its like handing off the baton of life.   Yeah.   Yeah.   I love thinking about this story right now because were all like kind of -- I dont know just needing to like hold on. Theres this like sense of holding on.   Yeah.   And waiting and being patient. And just like I dont know having faith and that kind of thing. You know ...   Yeah.    just kind of like being still and holding on. That she is just like giving us such a great model for it.   Wow you know its -- what -- hold on one second I just have to put an end to this madness. Give me a second.   Yeah yeah yeah. Go for it.   Emil Taj dont come in here. Im working. Oh my God. You know what I think about is the ...   What?   ... its so interesting. This is like the op -- this is like the absolutely wrong soundtrack to the story that youre telling.   Oh the kids.    You were talking about a mother sort of lovingly ...   Oh ...   ... suffering and then dying on behalf of her jellybeans and I have these kids who are just like literally running around like savages right now because theyre stir crazy. No you know what I think? I think about it like it is so beautiful and heroic and poignant. But then I think about like shes not telling -- like  -- if you take the story away and you just imagine her experience shes in the darkness for five years. And like I wonder if she -- I wonder -- she has no conception of anything except -- that somehow the disconnect between the experience shes having and the story were telling about it is everything that I need to think about right now because were all trying to protect our jellybeans in a way. But -- but then if you think about the experience of that its just -- can feel frightening and lonely and dark you know?   Thanks Annie.   You are welcome.   This story was reported and produced by Annie McEwen with musical help from Alex Overington. Thanks to Kyle Wilson for playing the sexy saxophone for us. And a very big thank you to our bassoon player Brad Balliett who provided the soundtrack for Octomom's darkest hours and finest moment. And of course thanks to Bruce.   Okay well weve kept you. So we should let you go.   Yeah thank you so much Bruce.   Thank you.   I really appreciate it. Yeah again.   Okay.   I think we got everything. So ...   Yeah I think we did.   Good.   Yeah your squeaky chair and all it was perfect.   Oh you dont wanna do -- have him like rock on the chair a tiny bit?   Uh oh! Actually ...   Maybe you should! Might be useful.   Might be -- actually just in terms of mixing purposes.   Alright Ill wheel -- Ill wheel the other chair over and ...   Yes. And then just doodle with your body.   Yes.  A little dance routine.   Oh yeah go ahead. Oh I guess yeah.   So dont say anything. Just make squeaks.   Okay.    Sort of reminds me of what she might hear under the water. Whales communicating and ...   Okay thats fine.   Okay.   I am Jad Abumrad. Thanks for listening. Radiolab will be back with you next week.    Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.  -30- 