Gary did not want to become a football player no interest in the game at all. He was a timid kid the kind of kid who in baseball would close his eyes when he was up at bat he was so scared of getting hit by the ball. But when you are in high school your personality is still up for grabs. And at Gary's high school there was not one person but two people with a very different vision of who he was. They were assistant high school football coaches and very noticeable big personalities. And they were twins. And I did not really know their name. I would seen them around. They were super handsome and in great shape. I mean they were ripped. And they would wear Gold's Gym tank tops and Jams these shorts these Hawaiian shorts. They would wear those. And they had really long hair. And they were very charming charismatic funny. And they were known as the Jetsyns which was this self-proclaimed nickname I think. Wait they called themselves the Jetsyns? Yeah. They referred to themselves-- Yeah because the Jetsyns was people from the future. And they felt that they were like that. They were definitely the first people I ever noticed who referred to themselves in that-- is it the third person? Yeah yeah. So the Jetsyns are coming to get you. The Jetsyns will see you. The Jetsyns-- That is what they would say? Sometimes they would say Johnny Jetsyn will be with you today. Joe Jetsyn will be with you tomorrow. They are like magical figures. Yeah they really were.  And these magical figures these assistant football coaches they gave Gary his own nickname in the fall of junior year. It was not a glittery name like the Jetsyns kind of the opposite actually. Waste they called him. As in waste of talent to goad me into playing football. They told him that football would get him a college scholarship. It will get him girls. They said the newspaper would write about him. They wanted him on the team so badly because Gary was a giant compared to most of the kids playing football back then. This was in Peabody Massachusetts a Boston suburb near Salem in the late '80s. Most high school players back then were 5' 9 5' 10. Gary was 6' 6 200 pounds. And he was athletic played basketball on his high school team. Those coaches scolded him for his complete lack of aggression and for crying. What he really loved doing was art projects going to the arts and crafts store reading. He kept an enormous stuffed animal collection in his room even in high school. He was also pretty depressed at the time. Gary is a comedian today Gary Gulman. And on stage when he tries to describe what he was like as a kid-- I talk about being Charlie Brown. I say picture my childhood-- Charlie Brown if Snoopy had died. That was my--  That was my childhood. I felt so sorry for him. Because Charlie Brown the whole point of his character is that he is sad and lonely. Yeah. But even that was not lonely enough. You have to kill off his dog? Yes. Yes. So when the Jetsyns started telling him that they were going to make him into a star he laughed it off. He liked the attention from the Jetsyns sure but he did not consider this seriously at all. Football seemed brutal-- just nonstop violent physical contact. He did not think he could cut it. Guys he knew who played football they were so tough. Gary on the other hand he got picked on. He got bullied. He was bullied out of Little League. So football? No way. And then his junior year ended. And just a couple of days into summer break-- it was June 630 in the morning-- he got a phone call woke him up. It is the twins. They said Gulman this is the Jetsyns. Meet us at the Universe Gym at 730. We are going to train the Gulman this summer and get the Gulman a scholarship and make the Gulman into a star. By the end of the summer you will be 245 pounds and ripped like Arnold. It was so weird and bold. And on the spur of the moment he figures what the hell? And he has this thought that you have sometimes as a kid. He thinks these adults say I can do this. Maybe they are right. They were so convincing. They were so convincing. And then there was a part of you that thought like yes magical men.  It was intoxicating. It was? Because they were so cool. And my entire life my family was more of a do not get your hopes up type of attitude or philosophy if things do not always work out the way you want them to. And so it was a very negative house. And I remember asking them. I said you guys really think I am going to play on this high school football team? I do not have that much experience. And they are answering-- should I swear? Say what really happened. Every single time I would ask them any kind of question they would say fuck yeah. And not everybody was using that expression back then. That was the first instance of somebody saying that to me instead of do not get your hopes up and we will see. It was fuck yeah. And I was like oh my gosh. These guys are so so exciting. And they believe in me. So that summer every morning he works out with the Jetsyns from 730 to 930. Then they take him to a diner and they buy him a big breakfast with eggs and other proteins. At night sometimes they would teach him running routes. Remember Gary had never played football. And it was just like the Jetsyns said. It was incredible. It was like a Rocky montage. I was getting stronger and bigger. And they would say things. They had this thing The Gulman is getting huge. The Gulman is getting huge. And so by the end of the summer how did you look? I looked fantastic man. I would grown my hair long like them. And clothes started to look really cool on me as I was filling out. And they were right. I weighed 240 pounds. I could bench press 225 pounds. I ran a 48.40 which was very impressive to everybody. Everything about me had changed physically. I had built this really great costume. Why do you say costume? Because it covered up who I really was. I was still the same Gary who cried at movies. So you have this man costume-- Yeah. --that you are wearing which is your new body. Yes. I feel terrific. And as it came time to start practices you would think that he would be psyched to use this new body that he had created for the purpose it had been made for. Like OK he is Captain America. It is World War II. Bring on the Nazis. But in fact he was terrified of just getting hit of the physical contact that is just built into football. And a week before practice he talks to a friend. And he says to the friend he does not think he can do it. He does not think he can go through with it. Should he call the Jetsyns and tell them he is thought it over? It is not for him. I will never forget what he said. He said Gary they will kill you. They spent their entire summer training you and feeding you. You cannot. You have to go through with this. So he did. He went through with it. But the problem was as John Jetsyn put it he was a daisy in a field of wheat a lamb among conquerors. You can put a kid into a tough guy costume but it does not always make him into a tough guy. And of course adults are always trying to convince kids and inspire kids about who they can be. That is what good parents do. That is what good teachers do. But some kids like Gary just have trouble going along with the plan. They want to please the adults. They want to do what they are asked. But all the while they genuinely wonder can they actually become the person the adults are telling them to become? Is that them? Is that who they should be? And it is totally confusing for them. The adults in their lives seem to know what they are talking about. They are adults for God's sake. They are supposed to know better. But the kids end up wondering in a really primal way who am I? Well from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Our show today in two acts. In the second act adults make it so a woman cannot even decide what is true about some of the most basic facts about her own history. But we are going to start with this story act one Gary's story which we are calling Jersey? Sure. Gary went to his first football practice and it was just as bad as he would imagined it would be. Guys rush at him and smash into him on every play. It is totally painful. He is completely miserable bruised. He was in this one play. This guy hit me helmet to helmet. And it was so loud like a gunshot. And everybody noticed it. And they called it a biz. And the way it got its name was they said-- and the Jetsyns told me this-- they said the biz is the sound that it makes when you get hit in the head during a game which is--  And each week the guy who had the best hit on somebody else would get this T-shirt called the biz of the week T-shirt. And now we know that these things these bizzes they were concussions. But at the time in 1988 the concussion protocol was pretty much you good? You good? And that first time that I got bizzed the Jetsyns were so proud of me. They high-fived me and they patted my head. The Gulman got bizzed his first biz! I was laughing along with them but I was like I hope that never happens again. So every day Gary would show up at practice and hated it until finally they started to play real games. And these are just preseason scrimmages but they are against other high schools. There is a crowd in the stands. That changed everything from the very first time they put him in on offense. They set up a play for me. It is this pass where they just throw it over the middle. They throw it up high. And nobody can reach as high as I can jump. I catch it. It takes a couple of guys to bring me down just because I am big and I want to run away from contact. There were fans. And they were cheering. I will say that was exhilarating. Coaches try him out on defense. He barely knows what he is doing. And he sacks the other side's quarterback. I had no technique. Yeah. But I was just so much bigger than this kid that he could not outrun me because he was not as fast as me and he was not as strong as me. So I was able to wrestle him to the ground. Anyhow we go into the locker room. And the coach is berating the other players on the team for not being aggressive. And he says the only person out there sticking anybody-- which I do not know if they still use that expression but I like that expression-- sticking anybody is Gary Gulman a kid who never played football until this summer. And I had goose bumps. And it was like a movie. So it is all happening just like Jetsyns said. All happening just like the Jetsyns had said. It was uncanny. Opening game of the real season the coaches start him. This newbie player he sacks the opposing quarterback right away. And on offense-- They threw me the ball three times. I caught every single one. I mean that night I go to my first high school party. I would never-- Really? --gone to a high school party. And it was such a letdown. Because you see-- Oh really? --high school parties in movies. They are so exciting. And there is sex. Yeah. And I just sat on a couch because I did not drink. And it was an incredible letdown. But I was invited-- But you were in. You were in. That is what is important. Yeah. You were there. At the party. You were there at the bad party. Yeah. You made it. And then Sunday night the night before school a local newspaper reporter called me and interviewed me about this game. He said that I was the talk of the town. And it talked about how everybody knew the ball was coming to me and they could not stop me. And just like the Jetsyns had said there were going to be newspaper articles. There was a newspaper article in the Salem Evening News the next day that called me Mr. Raw Potential. Wow. Yeah. And it did not last. The season opener his first great game was also his last great game. I had one more decent game where I caught a pass and I made a really really good tackle. But the teams started to do this thing where they would send guys to block me and my legs. And they would send a couple of guys and they would just roll into my legs. I think it is called a cut block if I remember properly but that was how they would sort of neutralize me. And did not the Jetsyns have some technique you could use to get around that? No. Either they did not suggest one or I was not able to employ it. Opposing quarterbacks learned to stay away from the side of the line that Gary was on. So he was not sacking anyone anymore. And after this one time when Gary fumbled the ball on a big play at the goal line suddenly he says they stopped sending him out for passes. So no more heroic catches. He was not making big plays. He was not living up to all that bright potential. And some dark part of his personality kicked in like maybe he was a waste after all. The man costume had fooled them for a while but he was still the same person he had always been. He started to dread practices and games. I would throw up before every game. On the sideline I would throw up because I was overcome by nerves and anxiety. I started to feel really lousy about myself and my grades suffered. And I just knew that I was starting to disappoint these guys. And they never said anything. To their credit they never said wow we really had high hopes for you. It sounds crazy. I still have nightmares about it. His plan back then was make it through the season one game a week. Never play again. And in the middle of this a college football coach came into our locker room and introduced himself to me at my locker. And that was sort of a what the hell is going on here? Introduced himself to you? Yeah. And said what? He said you had a great game which I had not. And I am an assistant at Dartmouth College. And we would love for you to take a visit to Dartmouth. OK here's the thing that Gary did not know or understand at the time. As disheartened as he was his coaches did not think he was having a bad season. Sure they were not sending him out for passes but the main reason for that John Jetsyn told me on the phone was not the fumble that Gary had made-- like Gary obsessed over-- it was that the quarterback could not throw reliable passes. Their team was not that good that year. And sure yes Gary did not know how to stay on his feet when players threw themselves at his ankles but John Jetsyn says he would only been playing football a few months. Of course he had not mastered that. There was not time to teach him everything. The Jetsyns still saw Gary as a diamond in the rough. Gary was doing everything they asked ran his plays well. He was more reliable than most of the team. And so the coaches did what they did with any player with a ton of potential. They took video of Gary's best game that great first game made a bunch of copies and sent it around to colleges. And after seeing that video a parade of recruiters showed up at Gary's school. He would get called out of class to meet them. He was approached by Harvard Holy Cross UMass University of New Hampshire University of Maine and some top Division 1A schools Syracuse and Boston College his favorite who'd recently won the Cotton Bowl. And also there were players on the team who were All-Americans. I mean this was a big time program that played a big time schedule against Penn State and Notre Dame and Ohio State and USC. I mean they were big time football. And they had Heisman Trophy winner Doug Flutie. He was the hero to everybody in my neighborhood. And what do you remember of them recruiting you? I remember this man who I had seen on TV because he had recruited Doug Flutie. And he was a New England celebrity. His name was Jack Bicknell. I will never forget it because he had an office at Boston College and it overlooked the stadium. And he had a Heisman Trophy. And he said son-- I always loved being called son and I would just melt. It is like an arm around the shoulder. I do not know what it is about that word. He said son I am going to go ahead and offer you which meant a scholarship. I am going to offer you. And he said something to the effect of you are 17 years old-- or maybe I was 18. He said you have an NFL body. And I remember thinking wow I have really fooled another one. And part of me was thinking I was afraid this was going to happen because I am going to have to take this scholarship. And I know I am going to be in over my head. And then the other side of it was this is so exciting and somebody believes in me. And did part of you feel like oh my god I am going to be playing for this incredible coach? Whatever problems I had in high school this guy is the guy. He is a genius. He is going to fix whatever problem I had. I am going to be a star. Yeah. So he takes the scholarship. He says he has no idea how he would have paid for college without a football scholarship. He works out all summer. And by the time he gets to training camp he was bigger than ever 260 pounds. His speed and strength one of the best on the team. But it is clear right away. I just felt so small. I mean these guys really were supermen. Their aggressiveness their strength-- it was not the same sport. And it was quite clear early on to the other players that I was not like them. I did not talk like-- Oh is that true? Yeah. And I could be pushed around. And I could be bullied. There were guys who were going to go on to the NFL. There was one player who played for the Vikings. And I remember one time I was lollygagging on a play and he hit me and bizzed me. And he said to me afterwards-- and his nickname on the team was The Maniac which you really have to do something impressive to get a nickname like that amongst these lunatics. He said to me he said you cannot just stand there like that. I could have killed you. In the nicest way possible he said that he had let up even though he had hit me harder than I had ever been hit in my life. Gary went into a full-blown depressive crisis-- not eating when he should have been eating like a horse sleeping all the time crying. The prevailing thing going on in my head is I want to kill myself. I am worthless. I am useless. Everybody hates me. And did you have this feeling of oh I am actually as strong as any of these guys? You are stronger than most of them. You are faster than most of them. Yeah. Like I should be as good. Did you have a feeling of well if I just psych myself up in the right way I am going to be able to do this? Well I just knew-- I knew who I was. And the problem is I know who I am and I hate him. I hate him. He is so weak. And he disappoints. And he lets down. And I just wanted to go back to the room and sleep and cry. Yeah. Did you have your stuffed animals with you? No but I had brought my blankie. I grew up with a blankie that was in my crib and I could never sleep without it. But it was this thing that I was so ashamed of and never spoke about really to anybody because I thought that if anybody ever found that out they would just be like this guy's insane and also a woman. Did you have a roommate? I had a roommate yeah. That you had to hide the blankie from? Yeah. Yeah. And you would call it the blankie not the blanket? No I always-- I mean I referred to him-- I referred to him-- I called him blankie. And whatever happened to it? Oh I still have it. It is on my pillow right now in Harlem yeah. Wait. Wait. Seriously? Yeah. Wait. How old are you? I am 48. Do you need it? No but I-- it--  I love it. It is there with the pillow. I put it in my computer bag so I can carry it on planes when I travel. And is it a comfort? Yeah. It is a comfort. It helps me sleep. I do not know how common it is. And the fact that you keep asking me questions about it makes me think it is really odd. But you will have like-- people who you are sleeping with will come over and they will sleep in your bed. And there will be the blankie? Yeah my partner Shaday-- she is a woman-- she is been aware of it since we have been dating. Yeah. Not a problem? Not a problem not until today.  Sorry. I am not trying to blankie shame you.  I am not. Anyway back in college first time Gary goes home for the weekend he stays in his room cries and sleeps and will not talk to anybody. And his brother suggests he find a therapist. The football team actually has counseling services set up for anybody who needs it. And when he gets back to school Gary meets with the therapist who asked him a lot of questions. And he said-- point blank he said why do not you just quit the football team? And I-- like that was ludicrous to me. And the way I would explain it now is you have to understand my entire identity is wrapped up in this. And if I quit I will be proving the voice in my head that keeps telling me I am weak and soft and worthless right. So he made it through the season. The doctor prescribed him antidepressants and the sadness and ruminations lifted. And in the spring Gary's therapist asked what are you going to do about football for next year? And Gary was like I will continue till I graduate. And he said listen I never give advice. It is not my place to give advice but I am going to give you some advice. You need to quit the football team. I said if I quit the football team I do not get to wear the uniform. I do not get to wear that jacket that gets me special treatment in the cafeteria and makes me interesting to the other students and the professors. I said if I am not a football player then who am I? And he said-- and I will never forget it the best answer-- he said you will be a man. But he did not mean it you will be masculine you will be macho. He meant you will be an adult. Gary quit the team. He did keep the scholarship. The counselor went to bat for him and convinced the school to let him keep it for four years. And that same year the year he quit football Gary took the first real steps towards a different vision of who he would be as an adult a vision that was not handed to him by any of the grownups in his life not his coaches or his parents or his teachers but something he invented for himself. That is the year he started writing jokes. Do you know that I listen to your show and I have heard people reveal things about themselves that I would not reveal? Yeah. And I never thought that the blankie would be one of those things that there could be somebody being like huh I would never tell anybody about a blanket. I could care less that everybody knows now. So you feel no self-consciousness about it at all? Not anymore. I did for 47 years though. I only mentioned it on stage this this year. People laughed and it redeemed everything. No no no. Now that you say that I do not want to make you feel weird about it. No no. I think it is healthy. But you love Charlie Brown. Who was the wisest character on the Peanuts cartoons. Linus? Yeah. And he had a blankie. He was five.   He was not five. All right he is eight or whatever he is supposed to be. No you are right. He was old enough to have-- He is a child. No he is a child. Yeah yeah yeah. Gary has an HBO special coming out later this year called Gary Gulman The Great Depresh. If you are curious about his work you can find it at garygulman.com.  Coming up a 17-year-old tries to understand a moment that shaped her whole life. Fortunately for her there is video. Unfortunately for her it is more complicated than that. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Here's Looking at You Kid stories of adults telling kids what they should think of themselves and kids trying to make sense of what they are told. We have arrived at act two of our program act two Grownups Know Things. That act title was actually a line from Lord of the Flies. Piggy says it that grownups have a cup of tea and talk things through. And then everything is all right. That is how grownups do it. It is hopeful and of course wrongheaded. So often things do not work out that well here in the adult world. But in the story it is this moment where a bunch of the boys chime in with their desire that they could turn to adults. And in this next act a girl turns to an adult with that same kind of hope that the adult will set things right. But over time the adults that she turns to simply do not agree about some very fundamental things about her. Eleanor Gordon-Smith reported this story for a book she wrote. I got interested in uncertainty years ago. There is a kind of uncertainty that we all live with where you do not know the answer and it is not a big deal-- like what time the bus is coming who left the front door open where that pen went. But I wanted to know about the opposite-- high stakes uncertainty where the facts are not decisive and it hurts to not know what to think where there are big consequences it affects your whole life. I wanted to know is it possible to just sit in that kind of foundational doubt? Or do you just have to flip a coin and pick something anything to believe? Which is how I got interested in Nicole Kleumper. She is 40 now but this starts when she was 16. And she just could not catch a break. She was in foster care after her dad who had sole custody of her for most of her life had a stroke and died. She would bounced around between friends' houses but wound up in a group home. I just felt very adrift in the world and unanchored. Having lost my father my best friend I was so alone. And I just-- I was reaching out for something to feel connected to. She started really wanting to know about her mom. She lived nearby just a couple hours drive but they had not seen each other in more than 10 years. The custody court had not even allowed visits. And Nicole did not know why. A quick warning-- what I am about to go into mentions different kinds of abuse. Nicole had a foggy thought that her mom might have done something bad to her as a kid. She remembered saying something to someone when she was young about her mom burning her feet on a stove and remembered something about a sexual abuse allegation. But could that be right? Surely she would remember those things actually happening but she did not. What if her dad had just made her say those things about her mom? It had been a really ugly custody battle. Each parent said all kinds of things about the other. What if her dad wanted custody so bad he invented all these awful stories? There was so much about her mom that Nicole did not know so she arranged to meet her mom in person. They did. They started seeing each other more regularly but it always felt off. Once she remembers sitting next to her mom at dinner and putting her head down on the table in front of her. She rubbed my back and it was very very uncomfortable. And I had a pretty strong reaction to it. Nicole says they did not talk about any abuse. And then in the middle of that doubt a piece of evidence seemed to fall from the sky and with it the promise of knowing what had happened in the custody dispute. Dr. Dave Corwin phoned Nicole. He was the child psychiatrist in the custody battle that had split Nicole off from her mom. And he had videotapes of interviews he would done with her when she was a very young girl. It had been his job to investigate the abuse allegations. He would had a question. He was speaking at a conference. Would it be OK if he showed those people the tapes? Nicole remembered Corwin. She remembered that he would been nice to her as a kid. She said yeah he could use them but could she see those tapes too? He agreed and recorded their meeting. I do not know the effect-- because it is never been done to my knowledge-- this will have on you OK? So I am sitting across from Dr. Corwin and there is a video camera. I am getting ready to watch the tapes of myself at five years old. And he went through a very lengthy informed consent. At this stage you are 17 years old. What I am doing is I am doing this informed consent directly with you saying here's the issues as I understand them. And then it is up to you OK? Finally we got to the point where he was going to shut off the video camera so that I could watch my five-year-old self. And he asked me what do you recall? Why do not we start with if you could just tell me what you can recall of that time. I think I described one of the offices that he did one of the interviews in in a striped sweatshirt that I was wearing at the time. I was wearing a sweatshirt that was striped this way OK? I do not know why. When I think of these interviews that is the first thing I think of. 17-year-old Nicole says she cannot remember whether her mom really did hurt her. I told you I guess I told the court that my mom burned my feet on the stove. And I still do not remember if that is in fact how I was burned. Really that is the most serious accusation against her that I remember. That is what I am having a problem remembering. I have come here trying not to determine already that she is done it or that she is guilty. And I have come here trying not to say well she is innocent. She did not do anything. I refuse to believe she is done anything. I really want to know. And then Corwin brings up the allegation of sex abuse. David Corwin literally asks me do you remember any allegations of sexual abuse? Concerns about possible sexual abuse? No. And my initial reaction is actually no. I mean I remember that was part of the accusation. And then he starts to speak and I say wait. Hold on a second. You do not remember any--  I do. 17-year-old Nicole's whole demeanor changes at this moment. It is instant and kind of strange to watch. She becomes completely still and she is staring into middle distance. What do you remember? Oh my gosh. That is really really weird. I accused her of when she was bathing me here whatever hurting me. And that is when I started to recount some details of a memory that came back to me. As you are saying that to me do you remember having said those things? Or you remember having experienced those things? I remember it happening that she hurt me. Hurt you where how? She hurt me. There is tissues right here right over there. But see I do not know if it was intentional hurt. She was bathing me. And I only remember one instance. And she hurt me. She put her fingers too far where she should not have and she hurt me. That is the first time I have remembered that since saying that when I was six years old but I remember. You remember being-- Yeah I remember it happening. OK. It was like a movie set where the walls-- there is no roof like I was sitting up on the walls looking down into a bathroom and my biological mother bathing younger me. And she touches me inappropriately. That is where the memory stops. So it is like you are watching it from outside of yourself from above? Yes. But I could feel the pain though. And I remember saying it is like I took a snapshot of the pain. A picture of the pain and what was inflicting the pain. It was my biological mother. Even before she saw the tapes Nicole at 17 felt she would got the certainty she wanted. She remembered her mother actually hurting her. She watched the videos of herself as a small girl anyway. Corwin shut off the recorder while she did. And this remarkable thing happened. Nicole saw herself as a young girl describing the very same abuse almost verbatim. I have seen the videos. It is the '80s. A very small Nicole is in pigtails and white stockings. Corwin's in a big plaid shirt and shaggy hair. And he asks right away about Nicole's mom. What is she like? Mean. Why is she mean? Hurts me. How does she hurt you? Like sticks her finger up my vagina about up to there on my finger. When did she do that? All the time when she gives me a bath. Uh-huh. What did you say to her when she did that to you? I said do not do that. I said ouch. She says her mom burned her feet over a hot stove. Corwin tries to figure out if Nicole knows the difference between what is real and what is make believe. He asks her to separate things like President Reagan-- real which she knows-- from things like Superman-- make believe which she also knows. He gets her to swear on her oath as a Brownie that what she said about her mother is real. She does. She holds three little fingers up in the Brownie salute. On my honor I will try to serve God and my country. There are other concerning details about Nicole's mom. Once she had dropped Nicole off to see Dr. Corwin for one of their recorded sessions. And Nicole who'd seemed happy to be recorded and speak clearly into the microphone when her dad dropped her off is suddenly concerned that the microphone would broadcast what she is saying into the waiting room where her mom sits. Corwin asks her about the abuse she described the week before. Did she remember talking about that? A little bit Nicole says quietly. I do not. OK. Tell me the little bit that you remember.