 Now I was one of those kids for whom the world I invented in my own mind was so much more real to me than anything that teachers my parents or even my classmates could bring to bear. It was a land that I could get lost in. And we are going to kick off today's episode with a story - well it sounds a lot worse than it turns out. Parents I would give a warning as this story does allude to a sensitive subject. But do not worry over much it is all right SNAP JUDGMENT.  I am going to sound terrible. This is making me into such a terrible human being.  So that is my friend Monica and what she is talking about is this story she told me a while back about this time as a kid when she told this one really really damning lie.  I do not know I mean I hate to think of - like I hate to think of myself as like a terrible little liar but I must have been. You know I got to I guess face the facts. When I was 8 years old this was in Brooklyn New York in a yeshiva. One day the school class guy called to go to an auditorium presentation of some sort. It is this big auditorium massive it is like 300 kids. The principal comes on and says OK everyone get quiet. We have a very important presentation. And I am just like psyched because I am out of class and I hated the Hebrew classes we were missing as much Hebrew time as possible. And before I even know it the curtains like part on this big stage and out comes this big yellow furry and feathery costume - it is Big Bird of course followed by the Cookie Monster followed by Bert and Ernie. I was dying. I - you have to understand how much I love Sesame Street. See growing up in South Brooklyn with Russian parents the only thing that my parents knew they could clearly understand was good for us was Sesame Street so that is all I watched. So to have them all of a sudden on stage in front of me in the room I was all ears. But now I see that they are like talking about something that involves touching. They talk about how like if that is OK and they reenact something that I am very confused. But I am watching I am really attentive and I am like OK Sesame Street. They are sitting on each other's laps right now they are touching each other and they are telling me something's OK and something's not. And at the end of the presentation they are kind of like OK everyone well thank you very much for your attention. You have been an excellent audience and if anyone has anything to add to this feel free to share it with us and stay behind essentially while everybody else goes back to class. I am like man I am not going back to class I am a smart 8-year-old. And then I precisely remember them saying and if anybody wants to you know talk to Bert and Ernie about this feel free to raise your hand. And I just shot my hand up straight up into the air like I do. Chance to talk to Bert and Ernie I am staying back. The teacher looks at me Mora Utaz  was like Merium Sender are you OK not to go back to class? You have something to share? I am like yes I have something to share. And then you know it is pretty silent there is only like one person up at the front. And this teacher's approaching me with like someone else and the clipboard in her hand. And comes up to me and says OK Monica this must be very sensitive and it is really courageous of you to want to stay back and talk to someone about it. I am listening to her I am like looking at her in her eyes and she is like of all the things that were discussed today on stage what happened to you? And I just said all of it.  Now just to be clear Monica's parents did not abuse her as a child. This is just a complete and utter fabrication but it does get her exactly what she wants. A few minutes later lo and behold she is ushered into a small room and there she meets Bert and Ernie.  You know I am like wow. Bert and Ernie like oh my God I can touch their costumes. This is amazing. So they started asking me questions but I figured it out pretty easily all I had to do was just say yes. So does your mom or dad ever hit you? And I am like yes. And they are like do they strike you with a fist? Yes. Do they spank you? Yes. Do they use tools? Yes. Anything they could have asked me I just said yes. They could of just been like is the house on fire at home? I would have just said yes to anything at this point. I was just like looking at this big smiling face with googly eyes and I was just like awesome. And then a teacher comes in followed by two other teachers. And all three of them are saying you have a younger sibling in school? And I am like yeah. They are like well does she experience the same things you do? And I am like well I do not know. They are like do you think she wants to talk to Bert and Ernie? And I am like yes she does. They bring back Donna my younger little sister she is in first grade she has no idea what this is. So of course she comes in and they start asking her questions and she is getting scared. She is like in that - kind of like crying. And now all the administrators come up to my sister and are like oh no maybe this is too much for her. We should take her out of the room 'ecause they are thinking she is sobbing because she is like an abused child. And now I am starting to realize oh my God what am I causing? Like the snowball is just growing. And all of a sudden I see through the like the little square window of like the classroom. I see my mom's in the hallway. And I am like wait why is mom here? And then I hear my dad's voice like you cannot mistake his Russian accent. And I am like wait why is my dad here? Next behind him I see the police are escorting him. I am like wait officers? Why are the officers here? And then it clicks. I see it in my parents' eyes that they are like really worried and really confused. And Donna's like oh mom and papa. And she runs to them but of course they are like no no no no no. You cannot run to them and hug them. And I only find out later all the repercussions of this about the fact that like a social work is going to have to check in with them now look up on me I am going to have to see the school nurse make sure there is no like bruises on me all of this kind of stuff. But next thing I remember is that we are in the car and we are going home and we are sitting in the car and it is like dead silent. And I could only imagine what my parents must be thinking about because they could not do anything. Like they could not scream they - I think they themselves felt like for a second scared of my power like over them. So it is like they could not punish me..  Well yes and no. Monica tell me what happened. You said that after this incident that you had to see a - the school psychologist.  Did I?  Yes.  Did I tell you about this?  Yes.  Here's the thing I cannot recall what I told you and what I do not. And now I am stuck I cannot even back out. I wonder if maybe my mom will just completely deny this story ever happened maybe?  It is possible. It is possible.  She will not. She remembers it.  Hello?  Oh hi mom?  Yes. Hi Monyitchka .  Hi mommy.  Hi Momala .  This is Monica's mom Irene.  How are you?  Good good honey.  We called her to help us set the record straight. She said yes it did happen. Monica did accuse her and her husband of physical abuse but her adult recollection of events has one slight difference.  Nobody really bought into it that she was abused at home.  Why is that?  Well because Monica prior to this incident there were so many other incidents where she would put kids together on the playground and she would tell them stories. And there were always children around her listening to her. So I think everybody knew she made it up.  And she would finally took it too far with this Bert and Ernie thing with the Sesame Street...  Oh yeah Bert and Ernie was too far because I do not think she realized that we were going to be called in and I think she got scared a little bit.  Did this scare her straight? Do you think that...  No. This scared her I do not know for an hour. I do not know not really.  You see I remember everything very differently.  Well you cannot get your facts straight at all.  I cannot - exactly. I cannot even tell the same story a few times because just like - I think this story happened I cannot even - I cannot see the facts anymore. All I see is the memory and the realization of what a great story that makes. And if there was a better way or if there was a more interesting way to tell something that essentially had the same point I would just do it that way. Even though if - even if it really was not true why not make the whole process just a little bit more interesting? Why not just fatten it up a little with some more like zest and spices?  So Irene in light of that do you think Monica has improved?  Improved - improved in her storytelling? Well that is what makes Monica Monica. No Monica - she will tell you stories you will never be bored.  Big thanks to Monica and her mom we appreciate it. That piece comes to us from KCRW's UnFictional. Every week they find some of the weirdest and most beautiful stories from around the world. Check them out on iTunes or KCRW.com. That story was produced by Joe Rosenberg with sound design by Renzo Gorrio. Now then when SNAP JUDGMENT returns we are going to reveal a very special talent. We are going to uncover a mystery and we are going to follow the dictates of a goddess. For real. When SNAP JUDGMENT the it is All in your Head episode continues. Stay tuned. 