Me I am not crazy about the beach. It is hard to think of a less comfortable place to read a book than flat on a blanket under the scorching sun. Going in the waves-- totally fine for a little bit but like all day? And like many people over 40 I have no desire to ever be seen in a bathing suit by anyone ever for the rest of my life. But know how many times I have been to the beach this summer? OK there were two quickie day trips and a seven-day beach vacation. I do not like the beach but because we live in a world with no movies or plays or live music or family get-togethers I think maybe socially distanced beachgoing has been my number one recreational activity for the year. And why? Well because people I love love the beach. Hating the beach during summer-- and I believe I can say this with authority from personal experience. Hating the beach in summer is like being a Jew at Christmas. You can try to sit it out but it is just too big. At some point you are going to drink some eggnog. And you know what? When I go to the beach I try-- I really try-- to get into it to have a nice time to appreciate the waves and the sand and the heat. And I think about the many hundreds and thousands of years that families have brought their kids to the water's edge to play pretty much exactly the same dumb way that we play in the sand and waves today. How many ways are there to do that anyway? And you know some people really love it so much. A while back here on our radio show we also had this article about somebody like that. At the time he was a 66-year-old lifeguard who was suing New York state for age discrimination. And I just want to pause on that for a second-- a 66-year-old lifeguard. All of us here on our staff we had no idea that could even exist. We all thought lifeguarding is something you do when you are in high school maybe a couple years after into your 20s. Like who is still lifeguarding at 66? And then it was even more of a question when we realized that the lifeguard in the story he has another job. He is a lawyer. He is a working lawyer. His name is Roy Lester. He is a bankruptcy attorney. He is got his own firm on Long Island. And then he lifeguards every weekend in the summer. And can I just say today on our program we have stories about people like him-- people who love the beach not people like me. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. We prepared today a program to listen to with the sun beating down on you the humidity through the roof a show of people embracing the beach people who are sons of the beach. And let us just get right to it with Act One. Act One the Grapes of Wrath. So one of our producers Dana Chivvis she went out to Long Island and met that guy Roy Lester the 66-year-old attorney lifeguard who was suing New York state. Basically the deal is that they tried to make him wear a Speedo. He refused. He lost his job. Here's Dana. If you asked Roy why are you still lifeguarding at 66 he barely understands the question. It is so self-evident to him. It is been his life since he was 16. He and his buddies were kings of the beach. He lived with other lifeguards. His best man at his wedding was a lifeguard. Their kids grew up playing together on the beach while they were on duty. He never wanted to leave this job. Even when he went to law school in California he came back to lifeguard every summer. In law school are not you supposed to have an internship in a law firm or something like that? You are supposed to. Did you not do that? No I did not do that. I never took it quite that seriously. The idea of giving up the summer was something I just could not do. He is not alone. At Jones Beach where he worked for 40 years there are dozens of guys-- teachers firemen police-- who stayed with it into their 60s. Lifeguarding at Jones Beach is such a thing that a former lifeguard made a film about it. It is called Jones Beach Boys. Roy insisted I watch it. I did. It was awesome. Here's my favorite song from it.  SINGING We are going for the rescue and getting to the victim. We are going for the rescue and getting to the victim. I never really appreciated how thrilling lifeguarding is until Roy talked about rescues. We were sitting in his law office. The exhilaration of a good rescue is unlike anything you have ever had. And you do not get that. I sit here and I shuffle papers. I would not call it exciting. I would not call it rewarding. But this is-- you are actually accomplishing something. You are up there and all of a sudden you are going out in the water and the rest of world is behind you. There is nothing else except between you getting from your stand to that victim. That is the only thing and it is great. It is a great feeling. How many people do you think you have rescued in your career? Over 1000. 1000? Yeah. You have to remember there were times we would have 40 rescues in an hour. What? Why? What? Why? Because you have people that come down to Jones Beach who really do not know about swimming. So-- especially when you have a current. And you can get a very strong current at Jones Beach. 1000 rescues that is way more rescues than David Hasselhoff did on Baywatch. I figure two rescues per episode 10 years on the air Roy would still beat him by 560 rescues. Which is to say Roy is one of the lifeguardiest lifeguards there is. He had two wins at the national lifeguard competition. He served as an expert lifeguard witness in court cases. And all was well in his happy lifeguarding world until the Speedo mishegoss began in 2007. Here's what happened. If you are a lifeguard at Jones Beach you have to take a physical fitness test every year to prove that you are still able to do the job. It includes a speed test in a pool. You have to swim 100 yards in a minute 20 which is actually pretty fast. A lot of these guys train all year for it. For 15 years Roy took the swim test in his preferred swimsuit a pair of jammers. They look like bike shorts without the butt cushion. If you are watching the Olympics right now all the male swimmers are wearing them. They are tight and they go down to just above the knee. But when Roy showed up for the test in 2007 he was told no jammers. His bosses at the office of parks and recreation said you can only do the test in one of the official Jones Beach lifeguard swimsuits which means you have three choices-- board shorts trunks or Speedo. Board shorts and trunks are loose so nobody really takes a swim test in them because they create more drag and slow you down. So in effect state officials were saying to Roy you have to take the test in a Speedo. Roy said no way. I will not do it. And he has not been a lifeguard at Jones Beach since. It was one of those feelings like am I making the right decision? I am throwing away a 40-year career over a principle. It was a difficult decision a very difficult decision. How long did it take you to decide? A second. I really need to point out he would only have to wear the Speedo for the test which lasts a minute and 20 seconds. On the job he would wear board shorts. Most of the lifeguards do young and old. Why not just put it on for the test though? Why did not Rosa Parks just go to the back of the bus? There were plenty of seats. Of course what Roy was fighting for is quite different from what Rosa Parks was fighting for. But to Roy it is the principle of the thing standing up to age discrimination. When I read about all this in The New York Times I really did not understand. What is the connection between a Speedo and age discrimination? I have certainly seen older dudes in Speedos. So I went out and met Roy on a beach not far from his house in Long Island. It was 645 in the morning. He was about to go for a mile swim before work. So Roy can you describe what you are wearing right now? Well it is a wetsuit. It is a short-sleeve wetsuit. And I have my jammers on underneath. Roy brought one of his official Jones Beach Speedos to the beach to show me. Just describe it for me. It is an exaggerated thong for lack of a better word. But it is full coverage in the back. So it is not quite a thong right? No not quite a thong right. But to Roy and lots of guys it might as well be a thong which is why the Speedo has earned a stable of nicknames-- the weenie bikini the dingaling sling the Speed-do not the banana hammock the grape smuggler the Miami meat tent the Saint-Tropez truffle duffle the scrote tote. The reason the jammer is preferred by older lifeguards is that you are saying it is more discreet? Modest. More modest-- Yes. --than the Speedo. Yes. Because it covers your thighs. I do not want to get graphic but you are-- the word begins with B. Basically you are hanging out with the Speedo. I get it now I think. And you do not really-- with the jammers it is not like that. There is like a little bit more of a roof over your house. Yes yes. I see. This is the nut of his argument. Roy says once he passed 50 he felt self-conscious in a Speedo. And nobody should have to feel self-conscious to get a job. So Roy refuses to put on the grape smuggler to take the swim test. A few weeks later there is another chance to take the test. He shows up and this time he is wearing the official Speedo. He is just got it on over his jammers. He showed me a video of a conversation he recorded on the pool deck that day. It was a little windy so the sound is not great. But he is standing in front of Sue Giuliani who was the director of Jones Beach State Park at the time. And there he is in his jammers plus Speedo outfit challenging her to turn him away. I have made a compromise. That is not going to be acceptable. You are not going to let me swim like this? No. How come? Because you still have jammers on. So that you cannot wear. All right. And is there any reason why they are not allowed? We are not going to-- how many times do you want me to repeat it? What? You know why they are not allowed. No I do not. I have never been able to-- I have pretty much-- Joe Scalise the director of water safety for the state beaches cuts in. Are you going to comply or not? I am complying. I am wearing my official suit. Are you complying with what we want or not? I am wearing my official suit. So you are not swimming now? All right let us go. Did you just go home then? Basically. Well I stayed around and I watched everybody take the test. Were there other people taking the test in jammers? No. No nobody was allowed to take the test in jammers. So everybody else either put on a Speedo or put on the board shorts something like that. Now Roy says he could have worn board shorts or trunks and still passed the test. He says he could have worn dungarees and passed. The guy is in ridiculous shape. He does triathlons now coaches a swim team. In 2012 he had a hip replaced and seven weeks later he came in first in his age group in Bermuda's Round the Sound swim race a 1.2-mile open water swim. He was still using a cane to walk. So the easy thing for Roy to do would be just take the test in board shorts or Speedo and keep the job he loved. Let bureaucrats be bureaucrats. Just get on with it. That is not Roy. Roy does not back down from a fight. So he sued. He sued the New York State Office of Parks Recreation and Historic Preservation for 5 million. Now the easy thing for the state would have been to just let Jones Beach lifeguards wear jammers. Presumably if they are good enough for the Olympic swim team they are good enough for New York's lifeguards. But that is not New York state. It decided to fight. The lawsuit has worked its way through the lower court which dismissed it to the appellate court which ruled in May that it should go to trial. This has been going on for seven years-- seven years. Roy sent me a PDF of his exhibits in the case. It was 1300 pages long. And the thing I really want to know-- because I live in New York and pay taxes in New York-- is why is the state using taxpayer dollars to fight the Speedo suit? This could all have been resolved very easily years ago if they just changed the rule allowed the jammers. Why are Roy and the state fighting each other when they should unite against the real enemy jellyfish? Officials from the state of New York would not talk to me for this story. The attorney general's office would not talk. Neither would parks and rec. But they did send me the affidavit of a guy named George Gorman. He oversees all the parks in Long Island. And it lays out their side of the story. Around 2006 some of the Jones Beach lifeguards started taking the swim test in full-body swimsuits. Management became concerned that those guys were only passing because they were wearing the full-body swimsuits. So they decided to change the rules. Starting in 2007 lifeguards could only take the test in one of the three official Jones Beach uniform swimsuits-- no more full body suits and also no jammers because jammers are not part of the uniform. In his deposition George Gorman said quote We determined it was best that the lifeguards wear the uniforms that they are assigned to wear while they are on duty. Seems reasonable right? Not if your Roy. He points out if jammers really are significantly faster would not you want your lifeguards to wear a faster suit get them out to drowning victim sooner? And as it happens New York Parks and Rec allows lifeguards to take their qualifying test in jammers in the rest of the state. Upstate! I went upstate to take the test and I wore my jammers. You took the test upstate? Yes and I wore my jammers. And people wore their jammers and I have pictures of that. And that is part of the exhibit of guys taking the test in their jammers. Upstate? Yes the same employer. New York State Department of Recreation the same employer allows the jammers. So your theory about this is that they are targeting Long Island because why? Because 90 of the older the over-50 lifeguards work on Long Island. It is the biggest group of older lifeguards anywhere. For what it is worth the state told me that the rules are different on Long Island because it is a more strenuous job lifeguarding on the ocean. Upstate it is all lakes and pools. Why do you think it is that they do not want older lifeguards? Well I think they do not like the fact that older lifeguards have influence over the younger guys. And when you are a member of management you do not want anybody having influence over your employees except you. And when you have to deal with a union and you have to deal with the officers of the unions who are all older guys and they know the beach you do not want that. Yep there is a lifeguard union. Roy was the president of the union for years. And at that point in 2007 when he refused to wear the Speedo he was the union's chief negotiator. When Sue Giuliani tells him to follow the rules-- So that you cannot wear. --she knows him. He is the guy the union sends to argue its side. And these guys telling him he cannot wear his jammers they are management. This is a scantily clad labor dispute. I asked some other older lifeguards about this and three out of the four of them agreed. This is about the union which actually has a history of fighting age discrimination. In 1966 they went on strike because the state tried to impose an age limit of 35 for Jones Beach lifeguards. So they walked off the beach. A week later the state caved. Knowing this that the suits and the swimsuits have a history with each other that helped me understand what Roy's fight was really about. Roy told me one reason he took a stand was that management was supposed to tell the union if they wanted to change a rule like this. And this time they did not. Roy's got a weekend job now at a private beach club but it is not the same. I like where I am working now. I really do. But you get one rescue a year if you are lucky. And then it is what is called a puddle jumper. What is a puddle jumper? A puddle jumper is where you really do not even need to get your head wet. And at Jones Beach in the old days we would have these tremendous rescues just these great rescues. His friends from Jones Beach tease him that he is in exile now. How often do you go visit them? Not that often. I keep in touch with them constantly. But I do not go down there that often. To be honest it does hurt. It hurts to go down there. That was my beach. It was my home for so many years. If Roy's theory is true then the state is trying to get rid of the older lifeguards on Long Island by forcing them into Speedos. But if that is true as far as I can tell the only lifeguard they have managed to get rid of is Roy. Dani Chivvis is one of the producers of our program. Since we first broadcast this story Roy is back at Jones Beach. After 12 years of fighting them over his right not to wear Speedos New York state has granted him an exception. He passed his test and he is back working as a lifeguard. He is 70 years old.   Act Two Beach Doctor. Oh hello? Yep I am here now. Hey Alex. Hello little buddy. How are you? Hi other little buddy. This next story takes place on a beach in Mexico. Shane DuBow told it to producer Alex Blumberg a couple years ago. They are old friends. And basically as we were putting our show together Alex remembered this thing that happened to Shane decades before when Shane was out kayaking on a trip in Mexico down in Baja California. Shane and his friends took a month-long vacation. And every day they would head out into the Gulf of California and go sea kayaking. They were really kind of in the middle of nowhere. There is little beach communities and some little tourist centers. But mostly what we were doing was finding deserted open beaches and camping. So there was nobody around for most of the time. Wow. So it was just like-- it was you and there was like-- how many of them was it you said? Seven? Six seven? There was six or seven. And some people might go fishing. Some people might play cards. Some people might snorkel. I think we slept outside a lot. It felt like we were 12 years old pretending to be Robinson Crusoe living off the land. So we carried all our own water all our own food camping supplies tents sleeping bags cooking supplies Sunscreen I hope. Sunscreen? No we were young then. We just figured it would be fine.  Are you serious? You did not bring any sunscreen? I am sure I did not. So we are in Baja. We are on a layover which means we are just camped somewhere and we are not trying to kayak right now. And we have been clamming all day. And my neck locks up and I cannot turn my head to one side. And this is bad for lots of reasons. But when you are kayaking you have to be able to paddle. You got to be able to use both arms. And this neck locking up this is something that is happened to you periodically throughout your life. Yeah this happens six to eight times a year. It usually lasts three or four days. But so no one wants to be stuck on the beach while I am working out my neck for three or four days. So we had run into a little expat community on a beach pretty close to where we were camping these folks who were living in campers and had set up little cantinas which are really just sort of stakes with a tarp over them. And they would serve beers or in our case they showed us how to clam. And then they made us a clam feast. So we went back to the guy that had shown us how to do that to his camper on the beach. And I said there is not any chiropractors anywhere nearby which was just a ridiculous question because there was nothing nearby. I mean this is where it kind of gets apocryphal but is actually true because he gets this sort of wistful look in his eye and he says no there is no chiropractor. But there is an amateur chiropractor who helps some of the local people. And his name is Johnny Tequila. And he lives on a boat two coves over from where you are staying. And if you go to this man he may help you. It was very mystical. And you were like well you had me at amateur chiropractor but once I find out that his name is Dr. Johnny Tequila--   So you said how do you get there? How do I get there? I do not want to miss it. And he is like you will not miss it. I was like well tell me where he is. And so he grabs a bar napkin and in black ballpoint pen I think sketches me a rough outline of the coast and puts an X. There is an X marks the spot. That is where Johnny Tequila is two coves over. No one wants to go with me. They are all going to chill out play cards. Oh so you had to kayak up to this guy? Yes so I have to kayak to him. I see. My friends had taken to teasing me about my paddle stroke which was at this point one-armed and half-crippled and they were calling it the chicken wing. Because of your neck. Because of my neck. So I chicken wing for two coves worth maybe a mile paddle. And you are really close to the shore. And the beach is right on your right and the open ocean is on your left. And you are chicken winging-- one cove OK. And I am looking at my-- and my napkin gets wet so my map gets all destroyed comes apart. Because the water is running down your paddle handle? So I chicken wing on over. And there in the second cove is a catamaran in the middle of an empty cove. And I do not want you to get the idea that this is a harbor or a dock or anything man-made-- nothing around. And it is docked in the water maybe 20 or 30 yards from shore. And as I paddled closer I do not see anyone. It is got a cabin. But the mast is up. No sail is up. And as I get closer and closer I can see around the mast lined up are empty Cuervo Gold tequila bottles but kind of orderly. That was the weird thing. Usually you do not associate empty tequila bottles with order but these had been meticulously kind of lined up. Ringing the mast. Ringing the mast. And again I am paddling up on a boat in the middle of nowhere with no one else around. And I do not really know how to even start. And from some deep place the word that comes to me is ahoy which I have certainly never used in normal conversation. So I say ahoy. And from out of the cabin comes a completely naked woman. She looks American and blond hair tanned so deeply. It is like the tan that goes to your liver. It is just tan all the way through. Really muscly-- her shoulders looked like she was probably a rafting guide in Colorado. So she is completely naked and completely unfazed about being completely naked just greets me and talks to me as if she were wearing clothes. And she is above me so I am just looking up at her being naked from my kayak holding onto the side of their boat. And I am in my kayak. And I said is Johnny Tequila here? And she is very nice. And she goes no he went to town for supplies but he will be back shortly. Why do not you wait until he comes back? And then eventually Johnny Tequila we see him on the beach near us. And he is got a little rowboat. And he rows back to us. And he looks exactly like her. I mean he is got on shorts but he is got that tan. He looks kind of muscly in his shoulders and chest. And they both have kind of wild bleached out blond hair and real scruffy-- maybe 30s although the sun makes everyone look older so who knows? And I tell him my story. And he is like yeah of course I will perform some amateur chiropractory on your neck. He did not say that. He said just yeah of course I will help you. Follow me to shore. So he rose and I chicken wing to the shore. And we pull our boats up. And then he said follow me. And now we are going-- I want to say jungle but it was not jungle. But it is dense scrub. I mean there is bushes all around us. There is cacti winding around in the middle of Mexico with no one else for miles. And I am following him on this path a really faint path. And we come to a clearing. And in the clearing there is a table exactly like a massage table or a chiropractic table you would see in a real chiropractor's office with the center part that is open. And you can put your face down there and the neck part articulates and comes up. It is the real deal. And a life-sized human skeleton hanging from a tree which I assume is a replica but it looks like it-- a skeleton and the table in a clearing in the middle of the desert in Mexico. And then he has me lie on my back looking up at his face and his crazy hair. And he is shirtless. Did I tell you my chiropractor was shirtless? He is shirtless. And he puts his hands around my neck in the middle of Mexico in a clearing with a skeleton. My amateur chiropractor now has my neck in his hands. And he gives me a chiropractic exam that resembles every other chiropractic exam I have received. And then he does an adjustment that also passes as any other chiropractic adjustment I have received. And I say Johnny Tequila thank you for adjusting my neck. Can I pay you? And he said no. I just do this to help people. There will be no payment. But if you ever see me in a bar you can buy me a shot of tequila. Then the next day was in fact your neck better? Well it is possible I am collapsing time but the way I remember it I chicken wing back and over the next few hours I start to feel much much better. And my neck is OK. Do you think that Johnny Tequila-- when you think of Johnny Tequila is he an argument for chucking it all and moving to some quiet beach in some distant land or is he an argument against it? He is 100 an argument for. I cannot believe you asked me that question. A simpler life-- just crack people's necks drink tequila sing in the cantina and go home to my naked lady. Did I not tell the story to make it seem good? It seemed great. Shane DuBow talking to Alex Blumberg. Alex by the way has a brand new show that he is co-hosting. It is a podcast that launches next week. It is called How to Save a Planet about climate solutions on August 20. Look for it wherever you get your podcasts.   Act Three The Beachcomber. OK so the absolute beachiest radio show I think maybe that has ever been made-- I believe anyway-- was done by my first boss at NPR this documentary producer named Keith Talbot. He made this back in 1979. It was called Ocean Hour. And I love that show. Like I say I think it is the beachiest radio show mankind will ever produce. And here is one of my favorite parts. Before I play this I should say this is such a piece of 1970s-era public radio that there is no narration on the show giving the name of the interviewee who you are about to hear or where he is. That is how we rolled back then. Anyway I hope you like this. Here is a scrounger's life just like a beachcomber. I have lived as poor as a man can live and still survive in the United States of America in the 1970s because everything comes here somehow sooner or later-- wood oysters the various other fish that you can get for the asking-- mullet which is the big good eating fish around here along with trout and catfish which come from the rivers. You have the river cat and the saltwater cat. They seem to be cousins but they taste a little different. And in addition to all of that you get the kinds of things that the sea brings which is from boats. There is always a certain amount of movement of cargo in boats as well as fish. And firewood around here is for the asking. In a city like New York or Washington firewood I am sure costs 100 a truckload 200. Around here you can go out and fill it up for nothing. There is a theory for example in archaeology that all of the early settlements were on the coast of man that that is where the easiest life has always been where everything was for the taking. And you had the sea and you had the land together and the various mutations between them. And that is where food chains like to start where you have that melting land or that solidifying water. That is where the organisms get their start especially if you have the right climate. As a poor man it means that things are coming to me which do not happen very much on the prairie or in the big cities. Nothing comes to your door in a big city except a cop or a taxi driver or something. But here things actually come to your door. An excerpt from Ocean Hour in 1979. A link to that entire program is at our website and I do recommend it. It is thisamericanlife.org. Coming up David Sedaris and his family go to the beach except for one of them. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today for everybody who is far from the beach for everybody who is avoiding the beach because of coronavirus for everybody who needs the beach we take you there with stories about the beach. We have arrived at Act Four-- Act Four Now We Are Five. OK so if you are a beach family you go to the beach every year. Good years bad years whatever happens in your family that year it is just what you do. David Sedaris has this story about his family heading to the beach together one year. This was first published in The New Yorker a few years back. And here at our program we all really loved it. So here's David. In late May of last year a few weeks shy of her 50th birthday my youngest sister Tiffany committed suicide. She was living in a room in a beat-up house on the hard side of Somerville Massachusetts and had been dead the coroner guessed for at least five days before her door was battered down. I was given the news over a white courtesy phone while at the Dallas airport. Then because my plane to Baton Rouge was boarding and I was not sure what else to do I got on it. The following morning I boarded another plane this one to Atlanta. And the day after that I flew to Nashville thinking all the while about my ever-shrinking family. A person expects his parents to die but a sibling? I felt I would lost the identity I would enjoyed since 1968 when my brother was born. Six kids! people would say. How do your poor folks manage? There were a lot of big families in the neighborhood I grew up in. Every other house was a fiefdom so I never gave it much thought until I became an adult and my friends started having children. One or two seemed reasonable but anything beyond that struck me as outrageous. A couple Hugh and I knew in Normandy would occasionally come to dinner with their wrecking crew of three. When they would leave several hours later every last part of me would feel violated. Take those kids double them and subtract the cable TV-- that is what my parents had to deal with. Now though there were not six only five. And you cannot really say 'There used to be six' I told my sister Lisa. It just makes people uncomfortable. I recalled a father and son I would met in California a few years back. So are there other children? I asked. There are the man said. Three who are living and a daughter Chloe who died before she was born 18 years ago. That is not fair I remember thinking. Because I mean what is a person supposed to do with that? Compared to most 49-year-olds or even most 49-month-olds Tiffany did not have much. She did leave a will though. In it she decreed that we her family could not have her body or attend her memorial service. So put that in your pipe and smoke it her mother would have said. A few days after getting the news my sister Amy drove to Somerville with a friend and collected two boxes of things from Tiffany's room-- family photos many of which had been ripped into pieces comment cards from a neighborhood grocery store notebooks receipts. The bed a mattress on the floor had been taken away and a large industrial fan had been set up. Amy snapped some pictures while she was there. And individually and in groups those of us left studied them for clues-- a paper plate on a dresser that had several drawers missing a phone number written on a wall a collection of mop handles each one a different color arranged like cattails in a barrel painted green. Six months before our sister killed herself I had made plans for us all to gather at a beach house on Emerald Isle off the coast of North Carolina. My family used to vacation there every summer but after my mother died we stopped going-- not because we lost interest but because it was she who always made the arrangements and more importantly paid for it. The place I found with the help of my sister-in-law Kathy had six bedrooms and a small swimming pool. Our week-long rental period began on Saturday June 8 and we arrived to find a delivery woman standing in the driveway with seven pounds of seafood a sympathy gift sent by friends. There is slaw in there too she said handing over the bags. In the past when my family rented a cottage my sisters and I would crowd the door like puppies around a food dish. Our father would unlock it and we would tear through the house claiming rooms. I always picked the biggest one facing the ocean. A