Some kids are at a rest stop parking lot in the middle of August waiting to get back in the car-- Logan William and Kieran. A reporter approaches them. I could not help but notice that there is three of you guys. So the first question that pops into my head is who is going to have to ride in the middle? Unfortunately me. And how come you are the guy who has to ride in-- Because those two um basically-- I do not know. They fight when they are in the middle. He does not even want to sit next to him. Ow. Stop that! He is pinching your cheek right now. Pressure pointing actually. So do you feel like this is going to be-- this is always going to be your job? As you guys get older you are always going to be the brother sitting in the middle brokering the peace? Yeah. And basically I am the mediator. How do you mean? I am not sure what you are talking about. How do you mean you are the mediator? I am actually not sure what mediator means. I just felt like saying it. I think it means a guy who keeps peace. Like keeping them from killing each other. They can use a guy like you in the Middle East maybe. One of the little brothers signals for the microphone. Get it? Middle East. Because he is in the middle and he is out east. Get it? Middle East. There is nothing particularly notable about this rest stop. It is one of thousands all over the country the kind of place we would stop for 10 minutes on a holiday weekend run inside use the restroom buy a burger or a coffee head back out on the road. But if you stayed for more than 10 minutes you might end up talking to one of these kids or to one of the couples who are dropping off children at college like this reporter did. --the last kid off to school so now we are the new empty nesters right now. I know. How do you feel about that? I am cooking things that I have never tried. Yeah and I am eating things that I have never tried. There is some folks on the way back from a family reunion might complain about the traffic. And suddenly a clown truck filled with clowns cut us off. Or there is this guy whose entertainment on his weekly four-hour drive is not the radio or the CD player. Well truthfully so none of the police folk out there are listening I usually read the newspaper on the way up or a book. Are you kidding me? Here and there on the way up. And you have been doing it for six or seven years and you have not had an accident? No. That seems to me to be pure luck. There is a family driving six hours to visit their dad in prison a young couple looking for a place to have their wedding two brothers on the way to compete in the rodeo a 16-year-old standing inside the rest stop nursing a tea taking a break from her own family. She is on an eight-hour car trip with her dad her grandma her sister and a couple of brothers. She explains to a reporter. Well it is very noisy you could say that. Because everybody's arguing or talking about sports. We were just having an argument on who is better Muhammad Ali or Mike Tyson? And Mike Tyson won. So my dad nearly stopped the car to argue and say no Mike Tyson is better. So it was just very hectic. Coincidentally a little later Mike Tyson's name comes up again in conversation with the prep cook named Ozzy who works at the rest stop. Sometimes I see movie stars. I see Tyson in person. Mike Tyson. Mike Tyson was here. He has a tiny voice. How are you doing man? Can I get ice cream? You know? So I see Mario Cuomo. I see this old lady who got a lot of plastic surgeries. Joan Rivers. Yes she was here too. Poor Joan Rivers. The two strangers can get her name across simply by saying the old lady who got a lot of plastic surgery. Nine of us came to this rest stop with tape recorders on a weekend in the middle of August all the way back in 2009. Today's show is a rerun. It was two weeks before Labor Day the time of year when over 10000 people pass through this rest stop each day. We thought that for once we would not leave after just 10 minutes. Stick around and find out who all these people are where they are going what they are thinking about. We found love stories and hardcore partiers and inexplicably angry people and all kinds of others. We bring you those stories in this special hour of our show for this holiday weekend when so many of us are on the road. WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  The name of this particular rest stop is the Plattekill Travel Plaza. It is on the New York Thruway I-87 about an hour and a half north of New York City on the northbound side of the highway. It is shiny and recently renovated with five restaurants in the food court-- Nathan's Hot Dog Arthur Treacher's Fish and Chips Roy Rogers a Canadian sandwich shop called Brioche Duree and a Starbucks-- plus a travel mart that sells sodas and chips and gum and stuff like that. All these concessions and the cleaning crews and everything else are run by a company called HMS Host which does this kind of thing in airports and travel plazas across the country. They have 120 employees here and a half dozen managers and a general manager. I think we have a very strong weekend as we get into the end of summer. This is the general manager Robert Woodill a friendly upbeat guy who carries a folded piece of paper that he pulls out and unfolds and refers to constantly through the day which has a list of sales figures for every half hour of the day. All it simply is is it is my half hour reports of last year on this day so I can compare my sales the last year and see where we are at. And we do it usually at like 11 oclock and then every hour or so we take a quick reading just to see where we are at. And explain when is the crazy time. Today it will be probably from like 12 oclock till 7 oclock very solid and steady. And then tomorrow morning it will pick up again. And I think as we are getting to the end of summer there is a big race in Saratoga this week. People have booked their rooms for Lake George and it is the end of summer. People want to go and go on vacation. So I think we are going to have a good weekend. We did our taping on Friday and Saturday two weeks before Labor Day because those are the biggest days and the biggest month here. In August the rest stop makes a fourth of its money for the whole year. And it is crucial that Robert makes his goals this weekend because it is built into the rest stop business that there are a couple months every year when he just breaks even or loses money. Also he wants to do better than his rival-- his rival a rest stop in Maine run by a guy named Andy Tucci. Kennebunk North usually and I are neck and neck. And we never place any wagers but you know they are Red Sox fans we are Yankee fans. And we go back and forth on that as well as discussing who is going to have the record sales for the day. Who won last weekend? Andy. Andy beat me red like a lobster if you want. That is what I told him. He beat me both days but I think I am going to get it back this weekend so. I hope this week the Yankees sweep the Red Sox and then he will be really quiet. Robert was fully staffed for the rush. He had his best cashiers on. And now he just needed the crowds the big summer weekend crowds. We chose this particular rest stop because a couple years ago I came here on the way to a wedding and I noticed that a couple of the college students working at the Starbucks were speaking Polish. When I asked they said yeah they were from Poland here for the summer on a special visa program called the J-1 program where they live in the United States and work for three months at the rest stop and then get to travel for a month in America before flying home. And it seemed like such a crazy thing to fly all the way to America and then be stuck behind a counter in the middle of nowhere for the summer. I wondered if they felt cheated. I wanted to come back and find out. I am Sandy and I am from Taiwan. And I work at Starbucks in Plattekill Travel Plaza. There are no Polish students this summer. It is mostly Taiwanese and Ukrainians working in Plattekill. Sandy's name back home is Moche Cho. She is a college junior and English major. This is her second year doing this summer work program. Last year she was one of hundreds of foreign students who got jobs at Cedar Point Amusement Park in Sandusky Ohio. But this year she wanted to see a different part of the country and signed up for this location because of two magic words-- New York. I love New York. Last year I went to New York City just three days. So this time I want to stay in New York City more. And then when you got here were you surprised how far it was from New York City? Yes very surprised. Yeah. So actually I am a little regret about I choose this place yeah. She knew the rest stop was not in New York City. She just thought it would be a little closer and easier to get to. Without a car everything's a hassle. So she has not seen New York at all this summer. The only place she is gone is some outlet stores. When she is not at work she hangs around the apartment with five other students all women who came over from Asia this summer to work at the rest stop. When we have day off we will go to a supermarket to buy grocery. Yeah. That is it? Maybe go to a restaurant to eat something. What is the best thing that is happened this summer on your trip? This summer? So far I did not make happiness in this trip. So far no. Wait you have not had much that is been so good this trip? No so far. So this seemed frankly a little sad. A bunch of students quietly tolerating their summers counting the days until they could finally travel the country. Cooking food they do not eat like hamburgers and drinks they would never heard of before arriving here like frappucinos all for people who have cars at a place that is all about cars on the side of the highway but without cars of their own. I felt bad for them. And then I started talking to the Ukrainian students. And how is it going? Very good. I think that I really get a very big huge experience here because I like this place and I want to come back here. It is really true. I am happy that I am here. Evgenia Trekasa goes by the name Jane or Angelina here in the States. She is 18 entering her junior year of college. It is her first time away so long from her parents and she misses them terribly but it is also very exciting. She says that in the first week or two in Plattekill she and the other Ukrainians felt stranded same as the girls from Taiwan and Hong Kong felt. Because that we do not have a car we cannot drive. We just can take a bus so that is why. But then we find friends that like when we have a day off they always can take us. Like all the guys it is OK. We will show you beautiful places. So when we have a day off we always go to somewhere. We never stay at home. What happened is that the Ukrainians befriended a couple of the American teenagers who work at the rest stop and those teenagers introduced them to other young people. And before they knew it they had rides to the mall to Six Flags Amusement Park to New York City. My name is Adelaide Giron. I am 19. I work at Roy Rogers. Adelaide is a big cheerful fun-loving guy and probably the American who is gotten closest to the Ukrainians. In two years working at the Roy Rogers at the rest stop he is seen lots of foreign students come through. I think this group has definitely by far been my favorite. Why? I felt like the other groups before I have gotten attached to them. But this group I think it is since I am in college and they are in college. And we drink and I drink and they drink. And it is a fun experience. I just recently got my license about two years ago-- actually a year and a half ago. Before that I was driving illegally so I really could not drive all over the place. But now that I got my license so like  I am driving everywhere. So I hang out with them. I take them shopping. At night we go like swimming at this lake trespassing. Who cares though? Just having a good time. We are young. The cops showed up one time. We had alcohol on us. It was a pretty bad story. For a while he says he was going over to their apartment three times a week-- Fridays Saturdays and Wednesdays for parties-- parties he taught them how to throw. Here's one of his students in this matter Peter Molov one of the Ukrainians. What is your favorite thing that you have done so far since you have been here? Favorite thing? Probably the parties. Parties. They are a lot different than in our country. If we want to have parties we just go to the club in our country in Ukraine. Go to the club loud music and stuff you know. But since we came here we get to know other Americans and they said let us have a party. Well OK let us go to the club. Why to the club? Let us do it at home. OK. We go to home. They showed us games they play. Beer pong. Introduced them to my beer funnel-- they would never seen that before. We showed them flip cup. We showed them how to play flip cup and-- I do not even know what that is. Really? It is a good buzz-getter. It is fun. A lot of people play so it is really fun. And you did not have beer pong back in Ukraine? No. I never knew. Will you be taking that back to show your friends back home? Oh yeah. We even want to buy a beer pong table you know? Special for it. I am not sure they call it a beer pong table. They are pretty good for not knowing what beer pong is. Like we just introduced them to beer pong two months ago and yet they are better than me. So yeah we actually have like tournaments going on sometimes and the Ukrainians end up on top most of the time. So yeah. It is impossible to drink so much as Americans do. Americans really drink very much. This is Dasha another 19-year-old from Ukraine. She said most of the parties here in America in their apartment or out by the lake went until dawn. At 600 AM 700 AM. And then the most fun is then when you work from 900 AM and you do not sleep at all. Like one day I just slept 30 minutes. I woke up and went to work. That was the most fun? Yeah. As for me I was dying at work. Fortunately she works at a Starbucks. The Plattekill Rest Stop has employed foreign students for nearly a decade. They are hard workers and easier to schedule into shifts than American teenagers who are always needing time off for family vacations and sports practice and other activities. There is a group in the summer and then smaller groups in the winter and spring. And the Plattekill Rest Stop is a close knit enough place that people cry when they leave. One of the managers told me how she still emails kids from Brazil and Peru who worked here years ago. At least one marriage has come out of this between an American worker and a Bulgarian girl. Though all the managers of the rest stop agreed that they like the Ukrainians they are good kids but the Ukrainians are the rowdiest group with the most issues they have ever had hands down. Probably because the Ukrainians are the first group that were friends back in their home country. They came to Plattekill for a summer adventure. They are having too much fun one manager told me. Fireworks after 200 AM complaints from neighbors. The police have come out a few times because of the noise. Robert the general manager has no idea where he is going to find them housing if their landlord evicts them. It is been a little bit of a rough summer with them. They are enjoying it. They are college kids. And I think the thing is they forget that they are not living in the dorms. They live in an apartment complex where there is families and kids and little kids. So they just have to be more respectful at times. It is not like we do not want them have a good time. You got to make sure you draw the line someplace and say OK maybe 1 oclock is late enough. Or the people are going to work because it is a Tuesday and you just got to kind of be good neighbors. As it turned out everything came to a head the night before we arrived to record with an all-night party that Adelaide says was their craziest ever-- a party that was not thrown by the Ukrainians. It was the very first party thrown by the girls from Taiwan total turnaround for them. Adelaide says before this he and the Ukrainians had only invited them to one party. And they really do not drink so they got drunk off a couple of beers. And we just-- they could not hang so we just did not invite them anymore. But now they threw this party a goodbye party for one of the girls who was leaving early and they partied with the best of them everybody dancing and making noise. After the second beer run there was a late night beer fight with people pouring their drinks on each other. As usual all this bothering the neighbors. Then what was it they complained to the landlord? Yeah. The landlord does not like me or my other friends hanging around there. He actually refers to me as a big crazy Mexican that walks around but. So I do not know. I do not think I am a big crazy Mexican at all. I am a gentle giant really. And so then Robert had a talk with everybody? Yeah. He had a talk with everybody. And it was kind of time to play the heavy-handed dad and just to make sure that they get the full message that this cannot go on. That we should not have any more parties here. We should be quiet because if there will be one more party they will send us home. They will like break our contract with Plaza and then there will be no more students in Plaza the next year. And what do you think of that? I do not know. Just I do not really care they will have any other students next summer. Because I will not be there. The American kids also got a warning from their boss. Again here's Adelaide. You know just to stop going over there. The landlord does not want me on his property. He sees me or my car it is getting towed at my expense. I am going to get charged for trespassing. And so what are you going to do? Well I will probably still go over.  it. There is really nothing-- I mean if they say anything I will just be like oh OK. It will not happen again officer. And of course it will happen again but. And do you worry that you could get the Ukrainians in trouble in a way that they would get sent back early? I hope not but if they do it is all a good time. And I told them if anything happens I am deeply sorry but whatever happens happens. There is nothing we can do. And that everybody says was the last big party of the year. But no matter. It was still a great summer. I asked Evgenia if she ever felt jealous of all the travelers she saw pass through the rest stop people on the way to vacations while she was stuck working. And she said never. She would come so far to get here. They should be jealous of me because I am here. Inside the rest stop right when you enter the lobby between the bathroom and the food court is this room full of racks of brochures. Lisa Pollak is one of the gang of nine reporters that we had at Plattekill. You know those brochures you will see in the lobby of a discount hotel the ones advertising local attractions that inevitably no matter where in the country you are include a water park and an underground cavern tour? It is that floor to ceiling. This is the New York State Information Center. It confusingly is run not by New York State but by a private company that charges businesses to display their pamphlets here. The manager of the center is a guy named Lenny Wheat. He also stands behind a counter offering travel advice to the lost. When I talk to Lenny he gets this look on his face almost like he feels a little sorry for me. Because I think I am in the middle of nowhere and he thinks I have no idea what I am missing. Right here the next exit alone you have best rock climbing in the country here. Oh seriously? Yeah. It is the Napa Valley of the east around here. We have the oldest vineyards the oldest winery one of the best wineries. You have the best hotel resort spa in the United States in the area here too. Wait how do you know it is the best in the-- That is according to Mobil Travel Guide and Day Spa Magazine. I got one of the best dude ranches in the country up here by New Paltz too. No you do not. Yes Rocking Horse Ranch Resort. Yeah great place to take a family. By the time Lenny tells me about something called the Catamount Adventure Park-- largest adventure park in North America according to the brochure-- There is 120 things to do there. --I am so overwhelmed by superlatives that I just take his word for it. Lenny knows this area. He is a local lives eight minutes away. And he used to drive for a messenger service so he is an expert at getting directions. I found it especially impressive when he told travelers the exact number of miles between highway exits by memory. But Lenny actually ended up in this job by accident. His neighbor used to work here and Lenny would visit him from time to time to help out. And he was feeling ill one day and I was like-- he says you think you can stay here and do this? And I am like sure why not? I mean I know my way around. I know the roads so. And he had some issues and stuff diabetes and stuff and wound up taking time out and stuff. He recently passed away and stuff. I am so sorry. So but kind of like sometimes you feel like what you have done in your life is-- and it comes together that it is like you were meant to do something you know? So you are saying it kind of seemed like it was meant to be? Sometimes it feels that way. I hung out with Lenny for a couple hours. I saw him cheerfully field dozens of information requests everything from where to buy beer-- nowhere at the rest stop but try New Paltz there is a lot of college kids there-- to how to get to Maryland. A crucial first step-- turn around. Maryland is south of here. You are headed north. When anyone wanders in to browse Lenny pounces. What is your destination of today? Lake George the guy says. OK. Can I get you anything for Lake George? We just got in the fall events guide too. Sure if you want to. Anything for Washington County on the other side of the lake? Anything on hiking? No. Waterways? Whitewater rafting? Waterways. Waterways OK. Even though all these places are paying to advertise here Lenny gets genuinely excited when he is pitching them. If he does not believe the Plattekill Rest Stop is the gateway to vacation gold he sure fooled me. And if he did not know it in Karo there is bear statues all around the village and there is a treasure hunt going on with that OK? Here's another one. And that is also the best concert facility in the world. Loggins and Messina's playing tonight. Who? Loggins and Messina. Oh. Messina the comedian? No. No. And one more. And the world's largest kaleidoscope there too. Oh beautiful. Yes. At a time when people plan their trips on computers and drive to them using GPS it is a little surprising that a place like this even exists. I actually watched Lenny pull out a magnifying glass for a guy having trouble seeing a map. By the time I left Lenny had me almost convinced that what he has to offer is better than the internet. You can sit here in 10 15 minutes flip through the pages and seen most everything every county might have to offer you. You know how long it would take you to find all that on the internet? You turn the page you got shopping. You turn the page you got your fishing your antiquing. How're you doing guys? Where are you going to? You know you do not really go on a long car trip with strangers. Usually you are with people who you know really really well. And being confined in the car together in a tiny space staring ahead at the road that is one of the nicest places to talk have a long long talk. One woman told us that she actually plans things to discuss with her husband and her kids when she knows that they are going to be in the car for hours. Another woman this mom named Elizabeth McMann was driving from DC to Albany with her 9-year-old. It is a long drive. And the son decided that he was going to use the time to get to the bottom of some things. He is been on this whole QA thing where Mom who do you like better your sister or your brother? Uncle Jenny or Uncle Chad? Or how long would you cry if I died? Or would you rather be married to your old boyfriend or to Daddy who is-- we are divorced. He is been kind of weird. So that stimulates some conversation. He just asked for example Mom are you really Santa Claus? The reporter who talked to that woman was Jonathan Goldstein. He mostly stationed himself outside the rest stop in the parking lot by the picnic benches. Somehow everybody Jonathan talked to seemed to be enjoying their time on the road to the max. Stan is sitting on the bench in front of the parking lot. Unlike everyone else you see-- people looking to eat looking to get to a washroom-- Stan looks perfectly at home smoking a cigar like he is got the world on a string. Like hanging out at a rest stop is the best part of any vacation. He is waiting for his girlfriend who he likes to call-- The War Department. And by which you mean? It is my girlfriend. The War Department or the wife is the War Department. Get with it baby. Let us go baby. It is always sort of the sky is very clear and blue today. That is not blue. That is not blue. That is not clear. Have you guys been arguing a lot in the car? No we never argue. She told me to say that. This is me. See this under the thumb? Yes dear. Yes dear. That is me right there. Yes dear. And yet in spite of Stan's take on couplehood-- one perhaps modeled on Warner Brothers cartoons of the '50s-- it looks like there is still a never ending line of people all too eager to sign up. Case in point-- a group of four women come striding across the parking lot in the midst of a bachelorette party. Oh. It is a surprise because it is a bachelorette party. We are taking her away somewhere she is never been before. And how do you feel about that? I feel like I need to know where I am going pretty soon. Do you even know in what direction you are heading? North. And that is it? That is all you know? Well the only thing I know is that I need flip-flops a whistle and something else. Yeah flip-flops and a whistle. Now does that really come into play or are you just messing with her mind at this point? It is very important. It is very important to the whole evening. Flip-flops and a whistle I am thinking some-- And comfortable clothes. All right now I am going to ask you guys-- I will ask you to step over there. I am going to ask these guys what they have got planned. And I will not tell anything and by the time this airs it will not make a difference. So you are just going to go stand over there I am sorry. Because now I am going to get this scoop. All right just crowd in here. All right so flip-flops and a whistle what is that all about? It is all crap. It is complete crap. We are making the whole thing up. My name's Jack man. And where are you coming from? I am coming from mother  Boston heading to West Virginia. What is your last name? I as not getting into that right now. No last names on this. I have been drinking. As it turns out Jack is not the one driving. He is traveling with a couple friends back from mother  Boston where he is dropped off his four-year-old who he spent the summer with in West Virginia. Jack has four kids in three different states. Each of their names are tattooed across his upper torso. Jack is on his way home. Got lost a couple times so it took us like 12 hours. So how long was he with you? Probably like three four months. And you only get to see him during the summer? Nah I get him for Christmas. You know how the women are. They do not want to pay for all the Christmas presents and stuff. You know what I mean? They all make sure the kids are with me for Christmas. And you saw his mom too when you pick him up and drop him off? Oh yeah. I still got the big red marks on my back where she tried to beat me up. Are you kidding? Nah man. I am for real. Hey do not bring your new girlfriend to your ex-wife's house. That is all I got to say. That baby's mama drama stuff you know. Seeing how she is on crutches and she broke her leg a few weeks ago she tried to beat me up with her crutches. Your new girlfriend's in the car with you now? Yeah man yes. That is the pretty blonde over there in that black car. You walk over there you would be surprised though. Her and my buddy driving we call him Hot Wheels. He is a handicapped kid in a wheelchair so you know what I mean? We nicknamed his ass Hot Wheels. I walk across the parking lot to a big black rusty car. Jack told me they call you Hot Wheels. Yeah 'ecause I am always in a wheelchair. Tore my foot off. How did that happen? A car crash back in 2006. Hit a wall at about 100. What do you expect? You do not expect to walk away from something like that. And you are-- you are in the back seat here. Krissy. You are also from West Virginia? Yes. And how old are you guys? I am 21. And Krissy? 24. Do you do much traveling? No not at all. I am a stay-at-home mom so. How old are your kids? I have one. He is nine. So you do not get a chance to travel very much. Right. It is been a long trip. Is this the furthest you have been? Yes. I went to New Jersey once before but other than that this is definitely the farthest and longest. And have you been in a lot of like parking lots like this a lot of rest stops? Actually no. I think this is probably the first like rest stop I have ever come to. Not in your life? Yes. Really? Yes. I do not just live in West Virginia. I live in West Virginia and I do not ever go anywhere. Coming up love in the middle of the night and much more. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues.  It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our show of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Rest Stop. Nine of us stayed for two days in the middle of August at the Plattekill Travel Plaza on the northbound side of I-87 in New York State. This was back in 2009 that we did this. Today's show is a rerun. We were talking with the people passing through most of them on vacation and of course with the people who stay at the rest stop working. I am still waiting for Andy's report back. Let me see if he sent anything back. 3 oclock Friday. Robert the general manager at the rest stop checks his BlackBerry for an email from his rival in Maine Andy Tucci. Noon to 300 was supposed to be some of the busiest hours of the year for Robert but he does not look happy. He is not hitting the half hourly goals on that piece of paper that he carries around with him. I am down a bunch from last year about 3300 behind last year and 600 behind last week which is not a normal thing. And so it is a little cause for concern right now. So right now we are not sure why. There does not seem to be a lot of traffic problems. We can make it up. In an hour and a half we can make it all back and be right where we are supposed to be so. Every couple hours when I check with Robert this is what he says. We can still make it up. The rush still can come. Robert is optimistic mostly. I wonder how it is going in Maine. I have not emailed Andy yet but I am afraid to email Andy right now. I am sure it is going very well. But maybe that is a good thing I have not heard back from Andy. Now it is starting to get a little overcast outside. So what are you wishing for rain here? Actually he tells me rain is not always bad. If it rains at the right time people get backed up in traffic then they gotta stop. 'ecause now they have been in traffic a little longer so perfect timed rainstorms will be nice and maybe not too hard. I think that'ill be good because people will get out of their car and walk in a light rain but they do not want to walk in a downpour. If it is a downpour they do not come out of the car. We will keep our fingers crossed. Still got a lot of night to go so. Fingers crossed. You are killing me man. Within 25 minutes the skies literally blacken.  And it is the wrong kind of rain the kind that includes tornado warnings one county over the kind where you do not run from your car across the parking lot to buy a nice sandwich or a hot coffee from Robert. The kind that I figured would just please one person on this earth and that person was in Maine. I would say probably by his last email we are probably right in the same boat right in the same area. Ladies and gentlemen Andy Tucci Roberts' rival general manager of the Kennebunkport Travel Plazas. And his day actually was not going great either yet. Yeah I just shot him an email letting him know that we would be busy later on after the Red Sox game. Oh I 