Jad Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert I am Robert Krulwich. Jad This is Radiolab and today a story that we have been working on for close to two years. Just before we are about to put it on the air this happened.  Our next story in perspective it is as if someone had killed Lassie. Robert As you probably know over this past summer a Minnesota dentist named Walter Palmer paid- Jad 55 grand- Robert -to get permission to hunt and kill a lion.  A lion named Cecil.  An African lion considered to be a national treasure in the country of Zimbabwe. Jad This is a pretty famous lion the star of that park. Had been in a few studies. Immediately there were allegations of poaching. Zimbabwe where Cecil was killed opened up an investigation. What really caught our eye- Robert Was the reaction from the public.  Lion killer the words painted on the home of Dr. Walter Palmer. Jad People found out his home address started sharing it online.  Backlash threatening his livelihood now. Robert Protesters gathered outside his office.  Posting signs on the locked doors branding him a coward and a killer. Robert He was forced to temporarily close his business.  Vilified across the internet. Jad There were attacks all over social media and YouTube and warning this next minute contains some pretty strong language.  You are truly scum of the earth wrote one.  Walter fucking Palmer.  Do you know how fucking demented this motherfucker is?  May you fucking burn to death.  I want somebody to take fucking revenge.  What would happen if you were being hunted motherfucker?  Sick son of a bitch. Jad Today we bring you a story that we hope will be a little bit of signal in all that noise. This is a story about the strange relationship between wanting to hunt and kill an animal and wanting to save it. Robert It comes from our producer Simon Adler. Simon One two three four five. This story really started from the in Salt Lake City. This past February I went to the Western hunting and conservation expo sometimes referred to as the Super Bowl of hunting. I am walking through this airplane hangar-sized room. It is at this massive convention center called The Salt Palace. Over 40000 people there gun manufacturers there were bow makers there were duck call makers.  This one's a single reed. Simon Camouflage clothing apparel companies.  Well this place is rocking and I hope you are having a good time. If you are having a good time I want to hear a big yeehaw. Simon As part of the expo off this main floor there was a banquet hall where there was an MC who was working in the crowd.  Well tonight I want to continue on a couple of thoughts that we touched on last night. Our greatest conservation president Theodore Roosevelt said the wildlife and its habitat cannot speak for itself so we must. Let me tell you we have and we will continue to speak but we have got to go further than speaking. We are going to have to suit up in our armor to go into battle to protect our wildlife and our way of life. Let me tell you we are at war brought on by the extreme radical environmental movement. If we are not vigilant and engage this enemy the most endangered species in America could be the American hunter. Simon Now one of the things that surprised me right off the bat was talking to people. Everybody kept coming back to this idea and hitting on this idea that if it were not for us if it were not for the hunters-  The animals would not be alive without us hunting them. They would go extinct. Simon I got that line over and over again.  There would be no animals out there to hunt. Simon Basically what they mean by this is they are the ones that are paying to keep these animals around. They are the ones who are funding conservation. I saw what that looked on the final night of the expo Saturday night when the organizers held this auction.  Now's the time to open your wallets get out your chequebooks your credit cards. In fact we will even take IOUs written on the back of a napkin.  Let us make some money for wildlife buddy.  Let us do it. Our first auction items tonight presented- Simon First couple of items they were just guns-  -is an American made Ruger- Simon -rifles. But then-  Item number three we are going to full curl stone. Simon A picture of the sheep pops up on this jumbo screen up on the stage.  Big stone sheep. As you can see right there big ones. Simon Huge curling horns thick Brown coat.  Beautiful color. That is on the bucket list brother. That is on the bucket list. Simon The winner of this auction item what they are actually buying is the chance to go up to Canada on this very specific area and to shoot one of these sheep to get a tag to shoot one of these sheep.  I have an opening bid of 30000. That is what I am talking about. Let us go 32500. 32500 for one of the best stone units there is. I am 32500 down the middle. Need 35. 35000 last call. Sold to them right over here 35000. Simon A few items later-  Let us keep it rolling. We are on number six. Simon -a picture of a moose comes on the screen.  All of you moose hunters want a great Cyrus moose. Simon The kind of moose that their antlers fan out like giant wings.  Ladies and gentlemen I got 10000. Somebody give me 12500. 12500. 15. 17500. 20. 22500. 25. 30. 35. 40000. Jad How does the conservation angle work? Simon Basically how this works is each state has an agency that is responsible for managing its wildlife. If you are a hunter you basically have to buy a tag from that state agency in order to shoot just about any animal. For example in Arizona Arizona is this grid of hunting areas and you apply to a lottery for Zone B. I would really like to be able to shoot a moose. You put your 20 in and this was typical. If your name comes up you get your tag for 20. I's possible that you are not going to get one and sometimes you have to wait 10 or 20 years especially for these big game animals. What these agencies do they set aside a certain number of these tags every year which are called conservation tags. What these conservation tags are is like If you just give a bunch of money right now you have free range to do what you want. Hop the line shoot the animal you want no waiting.  80000 he did it. He freaking did it. Simon Then all that money goes back to those state agencies for land management habitat restoration we are talking millions of dollars that get raised this way. One auction item that I saw sold that night-  Special big game enhancement package. Simon -which basically gave whoever wanted the right to shoot just about any animal in the entire state of New Mexico for a year.  I am 175. I will go 80 180. 180 now. I am going to get 90. Sold it 230000 ladies and gentlemen. Simon That is close to you. Corey You can do a sound fit. Simon I will just do some levels. The whole reason I had come to this convention was to talk to a guy who had done an auction like this but in his case it blew up on him. Corey Honestly did not expect to be in the position that I am today. My name is Corey Knowlton C-O-R-E-Y K-N-O-W-L-T-O-N. Simon Is that how you are going to sit or are you going to lean back? Corey I will probably move around a lot. Simon Corey Knowlton has become the poster child of this idea of hunter conservation. He is a Texas millionaire. I met him in his hotel room right across the street from the expo. He was in a white t-shirt blue jeans a little bit of stubble on his face. The story goes back in January of 2014 he was at an expo super similar to this one put on by the Dallas Safari Club. Corey I had my wife with me. Simon He was just walking the floor when he bumped into a friend of his. Corey Gentleman by the name of John Jackson. John Jackson heads up a group called the Conservation Force. Anyway John came to me. Simon He told Corey that he was worried that the Dallas Safari Club- Corey They were auctioning off an opportunity to hunt a black rhino in Namibia. Simon The Namibian ministry of Environment and Tourism had given them one tag to hunt one black rhino and they were going to auction it off. Now the black rhino is a critically endangered species. There are about 5000 of them in the world about 2000 in Namibia. What the Namibian government does is they auction off the older males. Corey What happens is the black rhino gets older it sees other rhinos it wants to attack them oftentimes and kill them. Simon The government will offer up those problem rhinos for trophy hunting and then use the money to protect the others from poachers. Jad Is poaching of the black rhinos is a real issue? Simon Huge issue. Rhino horn right now it goes what is the number? 60000 a pound. Jad Oh my God. Simon It is worth three times as much as gold per ounce. In any case Cory says the reason that John was so worried- Corey John said Cory there is been a giant push of people coming out against this.  It is literally a license to kill. Corey People do not want it to happen.  A permit to hunt down and kill one of the most endangered animals. Corey He said I am really worried that we are not going to have someone to bid this minimum bid. Simon His friend was worried that there were going to be these Namibian ministers there. They just did not want to be embarrassed. Corey John asked me Would you at least bid the minimum bid. Simon Just to get the auction rolling. Corey As a friend it is somebody that I have been friends with for over a decade I said Yes I will do that. Simon Night of the auction. Corey They started this auction just like any other auction. Simon Eventually Cory makes his bid- Corey 350000. Simon -thinking that would just go to the other bidders. Corey That is right. I was like I am going to do what I told you. I am going to follow through with my commitment. That is when all of a sudden- Simon Going once going twice. Corey -boom it happens. I am just me. I am just Corey Knowlton. I am just a guy that takes people hunting. Immediately I have got people surrounding me. A giant line of people congratulating me. Simon He is like I did not expect to be the guy who did it but okay. Corey The next 48 hours-  We now know who paid 350000 for a hunting permit to kill an endangered black rhino in Namibia. Corey -a barrage of threats started coming.  He is being bombarded with death threats.  Among the thousands of postings I hope the rhino rips you in half. Do your children know what a monster their father is? I hope you get what you deserve a short and painful existence. Simon Corey says people threatened to murder his parents to rape his wife to death. Corey I am coming to your house. I am going to burn it down. I am going to put your kids in a wood chipper and I am going to do it in front of you. Simon At any point in this have you been enthralled by the idea? Have you always wanted to shoot a black rhino? Corey Hey Nate? Nate Yes? Corey Now we are going to have to be quiet. I definitely have not always wanted to shoot a black rhino. Have I always wanted to hunt? For as long as I remember yes. I had a big journey in life. When I was born we had literally nothing. Simon He told me he grew up in rural Missouri in a small house then a trailer home. His mom raised the family. His dad loaded trucks at Safeway. Corey We were trying to survive as a family. Simon When Corey was eight- Corey We left Missouri in a Monte Carlo with 2500 in the bank and a dream to make it in this world. By the time I was 15 we had moved all over the United States. Simon His dad picked up jobs in Arizona Texas. Corey I am going from school to school to school. I did not really have the benefit of getting into any sports teams or whatever. The one thing I did is I had a dad that worked his butt off every day. I did not get to spend much time with him. Then when I would want to go do things Hey dad let us go to dove hunting. It is dove season. He loved that. Simon He mentioned this one time when he was 11. Corey We would go out I have a shotgun in my hand two doves fly up and I shoot and both of them died in one shot fell right there. I went over there got the doves went through cleaning them and preparing to cook them. Just being in that moment and not worrying about other problems that we all go through in life and just having a nice quiet time with my dad. I looked at it as a privilege to go hunting. I did not look at it like Hey it is my right to go out and take some animal's life. I looked at it like This is an awesome opportunity I get to go spend with my dad outside. Now as I became older I became more interested in hunting. I wanted to learn about bows I wanted to learn about hunting. I was ate up with it. Simon By the time he was in his mid-twenties he says and his is right around the time his dad hit it big in the oil industry he was leading hunts all around the world. Corey From the North Pole to as far south as you could hunt in New Zealand. Simon Nepal. Corey Papua New Guinea. I have seen the whole world. Simon He says somewhere in the middle of all of those trips he realized- Corey That there is a big fight out there. This large biomass of humanity is taking over the world and wildlife does not exist by accident anymore. Simon He started thinking about not just hunting these animals. Corey But preserving them and keeping them here. Simon All of which is to say when he won that auction without meaning to and started getting all those death threats he did not turn back. What on earth is keeping you so steadfast in going ahead and doing this? I think I would have thought I should not have done this. Corey It may not have been what I had planned on but I was willing to do this based on a commitment that I made to a friend. I made a commitment to my family. I made a commitment to conservation as a whole. This was never about me going over and taking a black rhino's life like Finally I get to achieve the zenith of life in killing this black rhino. Give me a break. It was about a method of conservation to keep black rhinos on the face of this earth. Simon You are saying that you were doing this for conservation. Your detractors they will say you say you are only doing it for conservation when you are really doing it for- Corey I did not say I was only doing it for conservation. Simon No I am not saying that is what you have said. I am saying that this is what they will throw at you. You were saying you are only doing it for conservation. All you actually getting out of it is some sort of satisfaction. Can you talk for a minute about- Corey I can talk for more than a minute about it. All right sure. I enjoy the act of hunting. Can I tell you why? Could I wrap that up in a real pretty burrito for you to be able to eat and understand and it tastes good? No. I can tell you that I care about the survival of these species. Simon Do you understand why people have a hard time wrapping their mind around that you believing that and simultaneously wanting to kill an animal? Does it not compute to you at all? Simon At what point? We are getting redundant they are missing the whole boat. We do not have one without the other. If we want wildlife to be around for future generations we have to understand that that wildlife has to have a value. If it does not have a value especially in the continent of Africa it is going to be gone. Simon Here he made a sort of economic argument. He said you got to keep in mind that living next to a black rhino not just talking about it but actually living next to a black rhino it is a nightmare. Corey Who wants to live next door to a raging psychopathic beast that is killing things? No one. Simon In just very purely economic terms it has a negative value. What Cory will tell you and what conservation organizations like World Wildlife Fund and various others will tell you is by him paying 350000 to shoot one he is creating a positive value for that animal. He is creating jobs for game wardens he is creating jobs for trackers. Corey You have got to look at the net benefit. It is there. Simon What is the common ground here? You guys want the same things and yet there is somehow this- Corey No we do not want the same thing. Simon Conservationists in general do. Corey The common ground has to be Do you or do you not want to see black rhinos on the face of the earth? Simon I think everyone agrees that they do. Corey No they do not. Simon No I think they do. Corey Their actions are speaking louder than their words. Simon I think to a lot of people there are these neocolonial sentiments here. That you are this guy who has a lot of money and you are paying a lot of money to go to Africa to shoot this thing. I think that causes a reaction in certain people. Do you think the amount of money plays into it or no? Corey I am going to take a break for one second. Simon You can say you do not want to answer anything. Corey No I want to give you the best possible answer. Do you understand that I am trying? Simon I do get it. Corey I am really trying to an emotional level where I am like God dang man. I do not want these people get so fucking bad. I just do not know if I am going to be able. Simon We can stop. Corey No you do not have to stop. Just give me a second. I know that the words I put out mean something and I do not want to do a disservice. I feel like I am letting people down. I am not a radical psychopath you can see that. It is just something I believe in. I can believe in these animals and I believe that I want them here. I also understand that death is inevitable but the death of this species does not have to be. I am putting myself through this because I believe that it is right because I have seen that it is right. I will go down and I will sit next to people in Africa both indigenous and non-indigenous that have the exact same belief. They want these animals they love them and they want their kids to see it. They know that one night when the stars are above and they are sitting there with their family and a lion roars in a distance they feel that. They feel what it means to be afraid of it. They feel what it means to respect it. They feel what it means to love it and they want that to continue. I want that to continue in a realistic view a realist view. I believe I have a grasp on what it takes for that to continue. Simon Thank you for being so honest there. I do not have any extra questions. That conversation happened over six months ago. At that point the hunt was totally in limbo. He was still receiving death threats. Animal welfare organizations like Humane Society of the United States were lobbying and petitioning to try to stop the hunt. What it all really hinged on was a decision to be made by US Fish and Wildlife. Under the Endangered Species Act it is illegal to import the carcass of an endangered species into the United States unless you can prove that by killing and importing that animal you are helping the species as a whole. That is what US Fish and Wildlife had to decide would Corey killing and importing that one black rhino help black rhinos as a whole? March went by. April. Then in early May I got a text from Corey that just read Let us talk tomorrow. Jad Coming up we take a trip.   Pleasure. Bye-bye. Simon We are off the plane walking into the airport. I suppose this would be the first time we have actually stepped foot in Namibia the destination. Jad I am Jad Abumrad. Robert I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Back to our reporter Simon Adler. Simon Days after getting that text message I landed in Namibia to meet back up with Corey. Corey Today we are in Windhoek Namibia it is the 13th of May 2015. This is Simon's big day to interview local officials professional hunters and any bum on the street  that wants to comment. Simon How long we have been traveling for? Corey Probably closer to 48 hours now. Simon You are feeling all right at this point? Corey I feel a lot better now. Just getting off the plane and feeling the wind. Simon The airport is tiny. We get through customs and everything and immediately- Henti Simon I am Henti. Nice to meet you man. Simon -were met by the PH Henti Van Heerden. Jad The PH. Henti I am a professional hunter. Simon The professional hunter. Henti Requested by Corey Knowlton to assist him on his hunt. Simon He is sort of the manager of this entire project. Big dude scraggly beard short shorts. Henti We need to go and pick up our stuff. Simon He leads us out of the airport. What does the day's agenda hold for us? Henti Sort chaos out. Simon Sorting chaos out?  Henti Your chaos just started my friend. Simon We get into his truck start driving. Do you mind if I ask you some questions while we drive here? Henti Bring it on. Simon I immediately just realize what a headache putting all this together has been for him. Henti Ten million phone calls meetings after meetings with the Minister of Environment and Tourism head office checking with local offices. Simon All to help them figure out which is the best rhino for Corey to shoot. Henti They have their list. Simon At this point do you know exactly which one you will be going after or there are a couple? Henti the main place we have identified that has two rhinos we can remove from that area. Simon Both male aggressive post-reproductive. Henti We are going to try to get on one of these two animals and try to remove it as professionally as we can possibly do. Simon We are at the Ministry of Environment and Tourism. This is apparently a meet and greet. Later that day we stopped to shake hands with the permanent secretary Simeon Ngombo. Simeon I want to welcome you all to Namibia. Simon He gave this prepared speech about how trophy hunting is a big part of why Namibia is considered the gold standard of conservation in Africa. Simeon This program assists us to have a wildlife growing. Previously our wildlife was almost declining. Elephants were less than 1000 but now we have plenty of them. We do not know where to put them in.  Simeon There are 20-something thousand. There are many now. Corey You have been so successful that you have to deal with the surplus? Simeon Yes. All types of species we have here they are growing fast. Simon Fast forward to the next morning. Corey It is 46 AM. I doubt that Simon nor I got any sleep last night. Simon Despite all that- Corey Someone's going to get hurt before you are through. Simon -he was in high spirits. Corey I woke up this morning it was drizzling rain. Around the curve came a passenger train. The first thing I am bringing down to the truck is a firearm and ammunition big knives and things so we can skin the rhino. Henti Morning morning. How are you? Simon Henti was on the phone taking care of final details. Much to my chagrin there was this crew of CNN reporters hanging around. Once everything was loaded. we took off for the airport. Should I leave you here Corey? Corey Yes. Simon I wave them off. Happy hunting. Good luck. Corey Thanks man. Jad You what? Robert What was that again? Jad You waved? I do not understand. Simon I was not able to go on the rhino hunt itself. Jad What? Robert What? Simon I know. I know. Robert Are you serious? Simon You seem disappointed. Jad What happened? Simon Number one a hunting party can only be so large in Namibia and with these three CNN guys there the party was just full. You also have to understand I was in the country illegally. I had no press pass. I had no press visa. This was like I have got to keep my head down. Robert That is our fault. Are you telling me the story's over? Is that what you are basically saying? Simon No do not worry. Corey's personal cameraman he promised to give me all of his audio. We do have the audio and we will get to that. While they were headed up north I actually ended up going east. Where I went totally unexpectedly made this model of conservation and how it works really finally clicked into place for me. Do you mind just telling me your name and where we are? Andre Well my name is Andre Swanepoel Estelle My name is Estelle Swanepoel. Andre I am the owner of these conserves. Estelle I am going to keep you company. Simon Sounds good. Simon Andre and Estelle Swanepoel own the Aru game farms which are a series of huge swaths of land that they have fenced in. In total they have over 200 square miles of land that actually used to be filled with cattle. Estelle 15 16 years ago we converted it into a game farm. Simon Basically they decided to get rid of all the cattle and bring in all these animals. They have got giraffes they have got two different species of zebra wildebeests hartebeests. In all they have got 29 different species including-- Simon How many black rhinos are around the property here? Andre Up until about three weeks ago there were 10 and now we have got 11. Simon One of the hunting guides Steph- Steph Steph Jubeh at the Aru Game Lodges in Namibia. Simon -told me that they actually just had a rhino born on the property and in fact they have had several throughout the years born on this property. He took me out to find one. Steph We are going to look for signs and keep our eyes peeled. Simon What should I be looking for if I am going to be of any help here? Steph On the distance it will just look like a big gray rock. You really got to have a keen eye.  Simon We are driving through this really tall thick grass that enveloped the car. It was almost like we are driving through a cloud. Steph This is the Kalahari sourgrass it is real thick. It is almost like the mice can run on top of it. Simon After searching and searching and searching- Steph We have just spotted the rhino. Simon Shit. There it is like 100 yards away. Man. Shit. It is pointing at us. Steph He is noticed us now. He is probably heard the vehicle. We are still at a very safe distance. I want to get us into the shade then we can have a closer look and you can put the binoculars up and take a real good look at it. Simon Man. Looking through with the binoculars and he is just pointed straight at us. His head's moving left to right left to right. Steph I think this is a bull by the looks of things. Simon God. It looks like a dinosaur does not it? Steph It is a very prehistoric-looking animal. Jad He knew you were there? Simon Yes. He was totally looking at us. I am going to put the binoculars on and see. He is trotting away from us. It started moving away from us. They have got these tiny-looking legs so when they run they have to shuffle along. Steph I think if the grass was not there you would laugh at them for the way they move.  It is quite comical. Very lucky to have found one. Simon Jesus. We were tailing behind it and the crazy thing is this huge animal that weighs over a ton it is on the move. They can move 30 miles per hour. Steph We are currently driving at about 15 kilometers an hour and he is getting away from us. Simon Left us behind. Steph He wants nothing to do with us. He is moving off. Simon At one point before it took off we actually got close enough that with the binoculars on Steph was able to get a good look at its ear. Steph The bulls that were put here initially have all got earmarks and this one does not actually have an earmark in it. Perhaps this one was born on this property. Simon How does that work? How did the rhinos get to be on this property? Steph The Ministry of Environment and Tourism has been in touch with the owner of Art Game Lodges. Simon Government said Hey you have got all this land. Will you take a couple of these rhinos and protect them for us? They said Sure. Steph Started off with a couple three rhino and the numbers grew. Simon It becomes this strange foster care-type situation. Steph Each year we have to take photos of them and we build up a portfolio. Then we can send it to MET. Simon It is interesting that they are breeding here. There are more of them now than there would have been if they had not been moved here. Steph Exactly. Another thing we were unlucky last year. Actually we lost two rhinos. Simon Steph said he wanted to show me something drove for about 10 minutes. Then he stopped the car at this small clearing almost no grass one lone tree. Steph An eerie feeling as to what I feel when I stumble across this place. Simon Man. Can you just describe what we are looking at right here? Steph Bones scattered all over the red sand of the Kalahari. Simon Bleach white bones against red red sand. Steph See a female. We can see some bulls' spine as well. Simon Is that a rhino skull? Steph Yes. The sheer size of it is just unreal. Simon Wow. Steph You see that there? Simon We got out of the car and actually held these bones. Steph Oh God. Simon Wow. How did that happen? Steph It was a dominant bull and was fighting with a younger bull. Simon The two squared off and the older one ended up goring the younger one with its horn or at least we think. Steph Unfortunately the young bull passed away. Simon It killed it? Steph Yes. Simon Then there is this older bull that had just killed the younger one Stef told me it then went up to this female. Steph It wanted to reproduce and the young female was not ready. She was not mature enough yet. Simon He kept forcing himself on her over and over. Steph Until she could not any longer. I guess it would happen in nature as well. It is just unfortunate that it had to be here. They would have been even more but nature took its course we did not get involved so it is. Simon Steph explained to me that it was these type of black rhinos these older aggressive bulls that get auctioned up for guys like Corey to come over and shoot. Steph Then all the money that is been paid for it is all going back into anti-poaching units it is going back into conserving rhinos. It is nice to see such a large sum of money coming in for a good cause. Simon He believes in this program. Steph Personally I would never be able to shoot a black rhino. I do not know. Simon What about you personally would not shoot a rhino? Steph For me I cannot really explain why. I do not know. It is difficult to say but no it does not tickle me. Simon Over the next couple of days at the lodge as I was hanging out with these tourists from all over the world who had come here to be wined and dined and then go out and shoot stuff in the morning and afternoon Steph's ambivalence started to make a deep sense. Steph Tommy Tommy Tommy. Simon For instance I spent a lot of time with this guy. Stefan Stefan Lindstrm. I am from Sweden. Simon Middle-aged there with his family on vacation. Stefan We decided six years ago that we will go to Africa so I am very happy to be here today. Simon This is six years in the making for you? Stefan Yes. You can say so. Simon He works in Volvo's corporate office and he is a big trophy hunter. Stefan Maybe I can show you some picture from my home. Simon Do you have lots on the wall already? Stefan At home it is 40 and at the camp we have at least 50 more. Simon I got to follow him on a few hunts him and his guide. Panjamas My name is Panjamas Skriva. Skriva is my surname. Simon In one of the hunts we spent about two and a half hours searching for different animals stalking different animals and then in the distance- Panjamas We saw a very nice waterbuck bull there? Simon -we finally found a waterbuck. Jad Which is what? Simon It is like a reindeer but it has these two big long horns that shoot backwards almost like spears. Big animal. Panjamas Yes big animal. I guess do not know how old he is so we are just going to close and see. Simon We hopped down from the car and just started slowly moving towards it through the grass. Stefan This type of animal is the top for me this holiday. Simon Stefan told me he had a list of animals he was hoping to shoot and this was at the top of his. Stefan He is such a beautiful big animal that is why. Simon The game lodge charges 2800 to shoot one. Panjamas Again the waterbuck is just this side. Let us go and see. Simon At the moment there is light wind. We are walking through shin-length grass. There are shrubs to the left and the right. Every 10 minutes we have stopped to measure how far away it was. Stefan It is about 600 meters. I think we will take about twenty minutes to go rather close to them. Panjamas Just wait. Simon Eventually we got just a couple of hundred feet away from the animal source. In the distance is just pacing. Pan pulls out this tripod sets it up and Stefan gets into position. Stefan He is towing behind. He is towing behind. Stop. Stop. Please stop.  Stefan That is the right one? Panjamas Yes. Simon The buck stumbled a few paces. Panjamas He is down. Simon Falls down but then it gets right back up and stumbles forward. Panjamas Put another bullet in. Stefan No need. Panjamas There is one in? Stefan Yes that is good. Simon The first shot did not kill it. Stefan We needed to shoot rather high because there was a lot of grass. Simon At this point Pan seems tense. Stefan He does not like that I think. Simon He knows that the animal is suffering. The dog takes off runs after it and just keeps it at bay by circling it and we start moving towards it. Panjamas Let us go closer. Stefan . Panjamas Just wait. Just wait. Relax relax relax. Go slowly.  Simon Again second shot does not kill it. Falls down gets back up fall down again. Stefan It is down. It is down. Shit. Panjamas Just relax. Relax. Simon It is writhing in the grass. Pan now seemed pretty upset. Panjamas I do not know where you shot it the first time? Stefan Rather high. Panjamas He is looking at the right.  Simon The third shot does not kill it. Panjamas Let us wait. Stefan Fuck. Shit. This is not fun. This is not fun. Panjamas Shoot him in the neck. Stefan I will try.  Simon Finally fourth shot. It goes limp. Stefan Damn. There was so many shots. Simon It is lying on the ground. Its leg is still kicking a little bit but it is done. Stefan It is so nice. Panjamas It is. Stefan I am so happy. I am so happy. This was the top of the list for me this weekend so this hunt is perfect. This is very nice feelings. Simon Seeing it up close it can be emotionally difficult but when you pan out it is pretty clear. The numbers show that this Namibian model is working. Wildlife numbers on private land have gone up by almost 80 since the government allowed people to buy sell and shoot wildlife on their land. Since trophy hunting of the black rhino was legalized that population has grown by like 30. Not all African conservationists are onboard. I talked to a guy named Richard Leakey super famous anthropologist who also directed Kenya's wildlife program for a while. I asked What is your stance on this idea of sustainable use of wildlife? Richard Listen to me I think it is utterly ridiculous. If a father cannot afford to pay school fees for his children does he say to somebody You can rape my daughter so I can get the money to pay for her school fees? I think we have got to set some standards in life. I think this is nonsense what this argument is about. Killing wild animals so that they can be looked after absolutely sends the wrong message. Simon This was the big issue he took with Namibia's strategy. Richard Yes you can afford to lose five rhinos from a breeding perspective but does that send the right message? Simon He then told me a story about when he took over Kenya's Wildlife Service in 1989. At the time things were dire. Richard Elephants were being killed at an alarming number and we were going to lose our elephants totally. Simon Poaching was on the rise and his predecessors had actually confiscated a huge number of elephant tusks from these poachers. Richard 12 tons. If you saw it you would have thought That is a lot of ivory. Simon They recommended to him Sell this ivory make about 3 million and then use that money to help fight poaching but Leakey said No. What he did instead was he built a giant tower out of that ivory. Richard Set fire to it.  Millions of dollars in ivory taken by poachers burned.  More than 12 tons of contraband elephant tusks.  12 tons of illegally poached ivory of worth several million dollars. Richard It burned for three days. It got to television it got newspaper it got magazine it got radio. Simon It was this massive PR stunt to draw the world's attention to the plight of elephants. Part of what he was saying in that was we have to value these things beyond their dollar value. We have to respect the intrinsic value of these creatures. Jad Wait a second if you are burning a bunch of ivory are not you in effect increasing the value of the ivory because now there is just less of it out there? Simon Well you are looking at the supply end of it. Yes by reducing supply that would push up price. Leakey was attacking the demand side. Richard What an impact it had around the world. Opinion changed overnight. Simon He said it woke the public up. People stopped buying ivory and the market for ivory it just crashed. Richard Up to that time we would been losing about 3500 elephants to 4000 elephants a year. A year later we were losing at most 60. Simon Really? Richard It had an enormous impact my friend. Getting a public that supports conservation of wildlife that is a huge challenge and we just cannot afford I think to send out the wrong messages. Simon The problem with that is finding the right message is getting harder and harder. I called various conservation organizations and one guy who I talked to told me that their average age of donor is getting older more and more people are just living in cities less people are having positive experiences in the natural world at a young age. He said that they are going to have to continue focusing on people focusing on us this message of what does wildlife give us? What does it do for people? Corey This is our third day up in the area. Still no luck but we are just going to keep at it. Simon Back in Namibia. After three days of bushwhacking through this dense vegetation up in the north of the country Corey and his crew finally got on the tracks of the right rhino. Corey The local guy says we found a rhino that had killed another rhino that had killed another rhino. We are going to follow this one make100 sure that it is the right one and then we will try to take it if we can. Simon For the next couple hours they track the animal looking for basically footprints. Anywhere that it would marked its territory. Corey We have been tracking this for probably a couple of hours now. We have bumped into it at least twice. We had walked at this point just about 12 miles. It was very hot. You can see how thick it is right here pretty intense. Simon The grass was so thick that they really could not see more than about 30 feet in front of them. Eventually they find- Corey You can see this is the rhino's. Simon -a pile of rhino feces that is still warm. Corey Still very moist. This means we are not more than an hour behind that animal. Right there and you can see the dung beetles and everything in it. Henti This animal is already angry. Corey We sat there for a few minutes and gathered our thoughts. Heni Not a single down this thing. Corey You line it out we are going to do what you say. Then- Simon About two hours later. Corey -I heard some noise from my left. All I see is a running beast with a giant saber on its head.  Corey It was like lightning.  Jad He also did not get it with thee first shot? Simon The first several shots did not kill this thing. It ran off and then they had to start tracking it again. Robert Was it just wounded? Corey Yes. We followed it I would say 10 minutes I do not know. I looked over there I saw it. Simon Was it lying down at this point? Corey It was standing up but it had already fallen down twice. It was dying and then  I shot it a few more times. The last thing you do is once you are really assured it is dead you touch its eye and if it does not blink it is gone. Robert Did you go touch its eye? Corey Absolutely. Robert In a moment like that is there a conversation going on now that the animal is dead and you are not? Corey No. We just looked at everybody looked at each other made sure we were okay. There was not a whole lot of talk right then in this case but it was an emotional moment for me. The meat we have been sitting here skinning this animal so far this morning and now we are about to roll it over skin the other side. Then just take the quarters off just like any other animal that you would if you were on a hunting trip. Hunters Let us go one two three. Simon They loaded up all the meat to be shipped off to a local village and they kept a little bit of it for themselves. Corey Cooking my first piece of black rhino meat here on the coals next to the carcass. Right here is the moment when everybody here has started eating some of this black rhino. It is just a part of hunting and a part of being a human. It is a pretty unique and awesome moment right here. Robert I am not really morally outraged by it maybe I am a little but I think you might be vulnerable if you insist that your enthusiasm for hunting is part of the balance of nature. I think it is perfectly- Corey Robert you do not have those canine teeth for eating salad. I understand that people do not like it any more than they would not like going and killing the lamb of the lamb chops they eat but that does not mean that it is wrong. Hunting it is part of who we are. Now it may be a bigger part of who I am than you are and that is fine but when wildlife populations abound is when they are managed by human beings. Robert The alternate model might be a view of humans that is different from yours. I think you assume that because we are smart and because there are so many of us that inevitably we will bump into them and when we do we will win. Thus your calculations. The alternate model might be that because we are smart we might create a space where we will not bump into them. Corey Now you are not in a real world we are dealing not in reality. I am living in a world that matters and that is real. It is not a dream scenario and it is not saying Let us just create this. Unfortunately these animals do not have that time. I am not trying to outsmart anybody it is just a traditional method that is worked. Until somebody comes up with a methodology that we could look at and say This is a better way I am going to continue to fight and believe in the traditional model. Now we are going to ask ourselves these questions. How do we really on an individual basis value these animals' survival on earth? Do you really value it? Do you value it past making 75 characters into your iPhone and tweeting about it? Do you value it past watching Animal Planet? To me I know and I care and I placed an extreme value financially physically emotionally on the survival of the black rhino.  Jad Reporter and producer Simon Adler. We had a considerable production support for this piece from Matthew Kielty who also contributed some original music. Special thanks to Chris Weaver Ian Wallace Mark Barrow Ryan Tarbet the Lindstrom family and everyone at the Aru Game Lodge in Namibia. We also want to take a moment right now to say- Robert Yes we do. Jad -goodbye and good luck to our dear dear dear longtime collaborator Ellen Horne. Robert She is been with Radiolab longer than me. I remember when you were bringing her on but we were still having breakfast. Jad You and I were just about to work together. She was the first person I brought in as an intern and then hired and then she became the executive producer. Robert If you have been to any of the tours she made those tours happen. If you have seen us on stage she made the stage things happen when we were on the tours. Jad She is just been that third partner from the beginning. Now she takes her awesomeness to audible.com and we think they made a smart move. Robert You should watch your ears because they are about to get another blast of beauty from her on some other source somehow. That is good because the world can only use more. Jad Absolutely. We are so proud and happy and grateful and we love you Ellen.  Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.