From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Zoe Chace. Ira is away this week. He is actually doing a dance performance in Australia. So I am hosting the show and it happens that this week's show is about something I am not very good at-- getting your money's worth. This is something I know about myself. I am bad at saving money. I do not haggle. I never comparison shop. It is been an especially acute problem for me because I used to report on economics and so I am aware that in economics terms I am wildly inefficient with my money. I waste it. I am not good with it and I have been trying to get better for years. My friend Jacob Goldstein on the other hand is a master. We worked on the Planet Money podcast together. Jacob's ability to navigate spending is impressive. He just always seems like an expert in this area of life. We are at a grocery store. I came with Jacob both because I needed food and I wanted to watch how he shops how he spends his money. Going through the aisles Jacob talks like we are on a trading floor. He uses the word commodity for the basic food staples which is fair. It is just technical. He has an idea about a reasonable price for each item based on a running catalog in his head of what those items cost at nearby stores and online-- the market. Organic baby carrots 2 a pound. Bananas 0.79 a bunch. This is a reference price. So like commodity cheddar cheese-- 5 a pound is my reference price. For sharp cheese-- that is 8.50 a pound. No. Yeah yeah. Not for-- that is not a-- no. It was too expensive. It is just commodity cheddar cheese which I know I can get for 5 a pound at my grocery store. If there is not an obvious way to measure what the best price is for my friend it is a little maddening. It is an unsolvable puzzle. Paper towels are complicated. They make it hard to compare because they are different size rolls. This says 6 huge equals 15 regular. And then this says 8 giant equals 12 regular. So clearly it is not the same math? And they do not have any that are regular so it is really hard to compare. It is like buying mattresses or something. I am going to buy this coffee purely because it says New Orleans. You like chicory? I am going to guess it is going to have like that chicory flavor. When I am in a grocery store I choose the canned tomatoes that look the most authentically Italian. I pick the olive oil with the fancy name which in front of Jacob I find embarrassing obviously. So regarding coffee I go like middle. So this is 10 a pound. Expensive coffee is 20 a pound. So we go through about a pound of coffee a week so that is like 500 a year difference. And how often are you annualizing costs?  Just tell me. That question is almost mean. That question is almost mean he says. That I did not expect-- that he would think I was being mean. I was impressed. Taking your friend to the grocery store it is like showering with them. Both of you get really vulnerable. Like he is good at this. I am bad at this. Why is he embarrassed? Oh I am not proud at all. You are not? No. But you get good deals. So what? It is not a moral virtue to get good deals. It seems like it is smarter. I think so. There is an interesting thing I think here. I think people conflate getting good deals with like being moral or virtuous-- virtuous right like thrift or whatever. And I think that is wrong. I do not think it is virtuous to get a better deal on cashews. When you put it like that I see. I do not know but I-- I really do not unless like every dollar I am not spending on cashews I am sending to the poor which I am not. I give some amount of money to charity but it is not like the more I save the more I am giving to charity. But there is something about it that just-- it does seem like something to aspire to. I do not think-- I mean look this does not really matter. This is just a thing that I do. It is not a choice he is saying. It is how he was brought up. So at this point it is just him. It is not just grocery shopping. Jacob does this in all areas of his life. It can be paralyzing. He feels some shame that he is like this. And I feel shame that I am not like this. Money is a practical thing. How much do I have? What do I need? Can I afford it? But getting your money's worth? That is much more personal because it is emotional. That is when you ask yourself what is the most important thing to me? What might I regret? What should I sacrifice? We have three stories about this today-- people trying to figure out if they are getting their money's worth trying to figure out if they are getting one over on the world or if the world is getting one over on them. First up a man tries to get his money's worth out of the presidential election. Stay with us. Act One The Final Countdown. OK so for the past six months I have been covering the presidential election. And I have been particularly interested in this group of people who are trying to get the biggest bang for their buck out of this election season-- Republican donors people who are in a rare position to put enormous sums into campaigns and watch what the money can do. People like this. So are you a billionaire? No I am not. My father is. This is Doug Deason. He is a millionaire. His dad Darwin Deason is the billionaire. Years ago the dad started a computer services company and made a ton of money in the 20 years since rolling up and selling off companies. Just money making money. Five years ago he sold it to Xerox. Now Doug the son manages their money and their political strategy. Doug is the one in charge of translating money into political power. He does not think of himself as a donor exactly. There is much more thought and strategy than just throwing money at a campaign. He is more like an investor. He is looking around for the best place to put their money-- the best Republican place. Doug is a dedicated Republican the kind who does not miss an opportunity to insult Democrats in any context. Take our first conversation. We were talking about his daily routine. He is 54. He is trim. He sees his trainer a few times a week. He just had a protein shake for breakfast same as every morning. Every morning? Every morning. I feel like this is like a common thread. Some of the other donors I talked to they are always running off to meet with their trainer or whatever and eating almond milk and blueberries for breakfast. But you are talking about Republicans who are winners and know how to run their life not Democrats who are losers and do not know how to run their life and want the government to give them a food pyramid to tell them how to eat right? How did you know? I started talking to Doug at the beginning of the primaries back in February. Hey Zoe. Hey. What is happening? Not much. What is happening with you? He and his dad budgeted 2 million for this election cycle. And over the last five months over many phone calls and visits I watched Doug try to figure out how to make the most of that money in one of the most confusing elections of his political life. His usual tricks failed not because he was doing it wrong but because the Republican donor playbook was being rewritten. For the Democrats money and politics went pretty much as expected during the primaries. It was not like that at all for the Republicans. Here's the story of how it went down from the money's perspective. To set the scene Doug lives in one of the Republican capitals of the world Dallas Texas. He walks past former presidents while chatting on his cell phone. Literally the reason I was hanging up so quick was President Bush was coming towards me as I was walking out of the garage in the office building. Dallas is one of the best places in the world to raise Republican dollars. Like Doug says hands down nothing-- nothing-- compares to Dallas. This election year started like usual. Every election cycle the major candidates come to Dallas in search of big money and support from guys like Doug. Think of it like a cotillion ball. You have got the big Texas donors on one side of the room. On the other side the candidates trying to find dance partners. Doug and his dad started out as Rick Perry supporters-- he would been their governor-- but he dropped out. They started taking other meetings. Ben Carson. Super guy very interesting. But not savvy enough. Carly Fiorina. Brilliant. She would be a great vice president. So no. Jeb Bush. We went out got in the car and somebody said well that was thoroughly unimpressive. Some of the meetings got testy. Doug fought with Marco Rubio over sugar subsidies. In a meeting with Ohio Governor John Kasich Doug says he got in the governor's face because he thought Kasich implied that if they donated to his campaign they would get access to him when he became president. We do not care if you ever call us or we ever see you or you ever invite us to the White House. I will never spend the night in the Lincoln Bedroom. Neither will Dad. And we could give a  if we ever do. That is not the point. For the most part though business as usual. Some candidates got money and kept going. Some candidates flamed out. All this is happening in close consultation with people like Doug. One notable exception-- Donald Trump. While Doug was meeting with candidates Trump was making a big show of not being one of those puppets-- his word-- who depended on other rich people's money. And those PACs control the candidates OK? They totally control. Carson is controlled by his PAC. Bush is controlled by his PAC. Rubio is controlled by his PAC and he needs a lot of water on top of everything else. Did you ever see a guy-- did you ever see a guy sweat like Rubio? I have never seen anything like it. Trump was out there conspicuously ignoring the donors. Doug was ignoring Trump too. If you fast-forward through the debates you can get through pretty fast. And when Trump's talking I will fast-forward through most of that because he can talk all day but you do not really learn anything. This situation cannot stand. No Republican nominee in recent history has made it to the presidency without Texas money without the help of people like Doug. And Trump is going to be the nominee. But in March 2016 deep into the primaries they are still paying no attention to each other. April 2016 Doug and his dad have done their due diligence. They took all the meetings. They have their guy Ted Cruz. They put in a couple hundred thousand dollars into a super PAC for him and Doug has put in some time. He is calling other donors as candidates drop out trying to win them to Cruz. Three days before the all-important Indiana primary Doug helps pull off a big endorsement. He gets Indiana Governor Mike Pence to back Cruz. I talked to him right as it was happening. Oh here they are announcing it on Fox right now. I think he is about to do his-- looks like he is about to do his-- is he about to do it? We will see. Yep. Yep yep yep yep yep. He is just about to announce. Yeah we are holding a fundraiser for him. Mike and I are pretty good friends and we are doing a big fundraiser for him here in Dallas on May 31. And-- oh look. There is Ted and Carly with him. Pretty cool. Oh and that -off Hannity. Sean Hannity. What a lame-- gah. I cannot stand him. Doug's guy endorses Cruz. Primary night arrives and Ted Cruz drops out of the race. May 2016 there is one man standing and it is Donald Trump the one guy Doug has not vetted. Mike Pence has reappeared recently as Trump's vice presidential pick. Doug's money seems to have done nothing. In fact after 645 million dollars spent by these candidates and their super PACs over the course of the primary race the money did not pick the candidate. It was a brand-new unwritten chapter. Beginning of June Trump's got 1.3 million in cash. That is nothing in this world. Hillary Clinton's campaign has 43 million in the bank. GOP donors are holding back unsure if Trump even needs the money. Is he going to just keep funding his own campaign? Is he going to start raising money from other rich people? Once one jumps in with a lot of money more jump in. Millions beget millions. In short Trump needs Doug now. Am I excited about Trump? No I am not. You might be able to tell from the tone of my voice I am not enthusiastic about Trump. I am disappointed that Governor Perry's not going to be our next president of the United States. I am disappointed that Ted Cruz is not going to be our next president of the United States. You know I think Jeb would have made a fine president. He did not have a chance of getting there obviously. But I think that we have some really good options. I do not know what we are going to get with Trump. The moneyed Republicans start choosing sides just like the Republican voters did after Trump won the primary-- Yes Trump or Never Trump. Doug has to figure out what to do next with his money. One of the most influential Republican donors in the country comes out in April and says he cannot do it-- Charles Koch. He cannot stand Trump. Asked about Trump's idea to register Muslims Koch said That is monstrous. This is not Nazi Germany. He said that Trump's behavior is the opposite of what the Koch network stands for. This complicates Doug's decision about whether to invest in Trump because Doug thinks of Charles Koch as his mentor his guru almost. Charles Koch has certainly been one of the most influential people in my life. I admire everything that he does and what he stands for. You know I say that I often get accused of drinking the Charles Koch Kool-Aid. And I said as a matter of fact I have it for breakfast instead of orange juice. I drink it at lunch instead of iced tea. And I have it with vodka at night. It is pretty nice. You might already know about the Koch brothers. David and Charles are the famous ones. There is been a lot of reporting about them. The main agenda of the Kochs is this-- smaller government. That means no EPA no Department of Education little regulation low taxes cut back on Medicare Medicaid Social Security basically get rid of all the programs that have been put in place since LBJ's War on Poverty no corporate subsidies. During those days of back-to-back candidate interviews with Carson Bush Rubio Fiorina Doug and his dad asked everyone the same questions. They had this checklist based on the Koch way of thinking. What did the candidate intend to do about corporate subsidies any kind of subsidies getting power back to the states? Doug went to his first Koch seminar in 2011 and that is where he got religion. Before Charles Koch came into his life Doug and his dad gave money locally and yeah to presidential candidates but not to PACs. Instead he and his dad would meet a candidate. If they seemed nice and conservative they would throw money at the candidate. It was all about the people. Now he talks about it like this. So this is a battle not a war. So short term we give directly to the candidates' campaigns. The candidates are just there to fight the battle. It is not only about the candidates anymore. The candidates are the soldiers fighting to put in place the big ideas. The big ideas come from the think tanks. And that is what the war is over the big ideas. And then the war is influencing legislation influencing the way things are taught history is taught economics is taught at universities-- getting a conservative footprint on liberal universities. So that is the think tanks. Now that is where most of the Deason money goes-- to the war to their favorite think tank the Texas Public Policy Foundation and also to Freedom Partners the umbrella organization run by the Koch brothers. The one bipartisan issue the Kochs and Doug support is criminal justice reform especially regarding sentencing. And Doug is really into this one. This was high on the list of questions he asked candidates. He recently wrote an op-ed about how his own arrest when he was young could have ruined his chances for success if he would been charged with a felony. It was a big spread in the New York Times even though he claims the paper bursts into flames whenever he touches it. Also it is an economic issue. Locking up so many people costs Texas a lot of money. The Deasons and the Kochs funded a new criminal justice research center in Dallas. Doug was hugely influential in getting a new law passed in Texas last year to seal certain criminal records. So that is how he thinks of his political spending now like his money is part of this long-term change-the-world strategy. His money has meaning. That checklist of priorities-- small government criminal justice reform ending government subsidies-- Trump has not said anything about those things. At least nothing that seems like it would appeal to Doug and his dad. I watched as he came in. How did I know he was coming? Because there were a bunch of helicopters and they were hovering over his entourage. Of course Trump does show up in Dallas in the middle of June. He is got no money and a brand new deal with the RNC and they got him to suck up his pride and realize that what serious candidates do is they go ask for money. Trump Force One is landing in Love Field. You could watch it all the way from Love Field all the way through Highland Park right past down here across that little bridge down there. And then there were news helicopters just following along. Trump's got three meetings scheduled with rich guys including Doug and his dad. It is set for Friday June 17. I talked to Doug the night before. So we are not going to make a commitment to him until we meet him. So Dad and his wife Katerina and I are headed over in the morning to his hotel to spend 30 minutes with him in private just ask him some questions. Where do you stand on criminal justice reform corporate cronyism entitlement programs Social Security that kind of thing-- you know food stamps which is part of the farm subsidies for some stupid reason. How do you feel about farm subsidies?  What is it actually going to be like? Are you going to sit down with him in a room and just say to him how do you feel about corporate subsidies? Just like that? Right. Here are the options. He can donate to the campaign itself up to 5400. He will probably do at least that much but he can do way more. He can donate to the Trump Victory Fund which was set up by the RNC to raise money for Trump in some congressional races. The cap is for 450000. And he can donate as much as he likes of course to a super PAC that is supporting Trump. What about Charles Koch? Have you talked to him about meeting with Trump? No we have not. No. Why? Dad-- we will. We probably will. Dad voiced his frustration over the Charles interview a few Sundays ago. And his statement that he could not support Trump-- and he kind of insinuated that if Hillary softened her rhetoric and did certain things he might even consider supporting andor voting for her. And obviously Dad did not take that very well. And so he let the Koch team know. So Charles sent him a very detailed letter. Before his involvement with the Kochs Doug was just a rich Republican. Post-Koch he is a warrior and that feels good. The Kochs have provided a map for political donors and a community for billionaires. It is called the Koch network. The idea is they can act as one unit leveraging hundreds of millions of dollars toward their goals. Doug loves being part of that. He believes in it. And now Trump is rattling the unity of the Koch network. This letter from Charles to Doug's dad confirms that. So Dad got it. He read it. Called me. They cc'ed me. He said what do you think I should do? I said I do not know. Let us meet Trump first and see how passionate we are about him what we think about him. Maybe we ask Charles to meet with him at least give him a chance. Does it feel weird like your two dads are fighting? Well no. I mean Charles is not my dad. He is obviously hugely influential on me and what I focus on in life and my political thinking. I know your analysis but I mean does it feel bad to have your dad and Charles Koch disagree? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah it does. Why? I do not know. We have always been-- Dad and I are 99.9 of the time on the same page and I kind of see where Charles is coming from. The day Doug met with Trump I meet up with him in his office right after. So what happened? We just went over and-- went over to the Park Cities Hilton. And we met with Donald Trump. So to start from the beginning Trump kept them waiting. They are sitting in the hotel lobby. At one point Doug checks in with his dad. I go what are you going to talk to him about? He said oh I do not know whatever pops up. He goes I am kind of counting on you. I said OK. Well here's-- and I had a piece of paper read through it. He said perfect. Where is that piece of paper? Right here in front of me. Can I see it? Admit you are not perfect not without sin but who is not? Stop racial remarks. OK it is criminal justice reform corporate cronyism federalism. How does he feel about big government and states and stuff? Getting power back to the states yeah. Did you ask him about that? No. Did not get a chance. He is just such a nice guy. He is so pleasant and so personable in person. Did you ask any of your questions about your issues? No not really. I did some. I would kind of research some online a little bit and I felt pretty good about them. But I did not expect Dad to talk as much as he did. What did he say? The reason he did is because Trump just engaged him asked him about Dad's business how did he make his money. And they talked about-- he kept complimenting down on me that he is got-- I know how great it is to be able to turn something over to your kids and let them run it and let them do it which obviously is what I do. So it was nice to be complimented right? By Trump or by your dad? By anybody. They were both saying that so that was really nice. They did not discuss subsidies or criminal justice reform or any of the other issues because something else was at work on Doug in that room. Something more visceral than long-term strategizing about conservative ideas. From the sounds of it Trump just charmed him. And suddenly it is morning in Dallas. You know he said many times things are just great. Things are really great. Things are really great. Things are really going good. If there was a pause in the discussion it would come out with that. Things are really good. And you walked out of that meeting and what did you and your dad say to each other? Just hey that went really well. He is a really nice guy and seems to think a lot like we do. He believes that a businessman-- at the end of the day a country is a business. What made you think he believes that? You did not ask him about that stuff. No but he said it. I mean he just talked about hey you guys are businessmen. You understand how a business works. Really that is how a country works. And this country needs to be run like a business. We need to cut costs and support people where they need to be supported and cut fat out and bloat. I am a businessman. I have run businesses. That is what I intend to do. And that is why we voted for Ross Perot twice. Threw away our vote there. Then Doug pulls out his phone. There we are. So that is Dad Trump and me. Three businessmen-- Doug Dad Trump-- suits and ties thumbs up. There you go. That is the decision. To be clear Doug and his father do not have any special insight into Trump's policies or thinking. They know the same things regular voters know about what he is going to do. But in this meeting Doug was not choosing between Republicans. He would set aside the war of big ideas in that room. He focused on the battle against Hillary Clinton. This has turned into a team sport for him and there is really only one team that Doug can be on. The Deasons are going to do a lot more than 5400. Here's the plan. Between Doug and his dad they are giving 900000 to the Trump Victory Fund. Dad's going to throw a fundraiser at Laguna Beach. Doug's going to call around to find the right super PAC for supporting Trump and then maybe give the PAC a million or two or three. I had my Trump jerseys dropped off today. Oh gosh. What are these? Trump jerseys. I saw a bunch of these for Ted Cruz. Yeah same guys made them. It is Toby Neugebauer. You are like those guys. You just move on to the next one. Well no. It is a Republican. I know. Yeah. I know. You are right. There are a lot of Republicans like Doug apparently. Trump's gone from that million dollars at the beginning of June when he had not figured anything out to 51 million just last week according to The Washington Post. Half of that money is grassroots-- people getting online. Half of that is the Dougs of the world maxing out with the RNC and Charles Koch. So you are going to call Charles and say you met with Trump. And you are going to say-- We will probably send him a letter back. Uh-huh. And what are you going to say? Just say hey we met with him. We had the opportunity to meet with him. We were withholding judgment on him until we met with him. Now that we have had time to spend time with him we intend to support him financially. We think that it would be in everyone's best interest and your own and the network's if you would meet with him. But I just got an email from Doug last weekend. He wrote Charles is not ready to meet with Trump yet. He may never be. Coming up a high school principal loses his morals over boots. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Zoe Chace sitting in for Ira Glass. Today we are talking about getting your money's worth for things and just how powerful that drive can be to spend our money wisely. Sometimes it is millions of dollars but now we are at Act Two Bean Counters. There is a way to calculate how satisfied we are as a country with all of our things. It is done by the American Customer Satisfaction Index. Of course we are never satisfied but in the last two years this little index has been in a nosedive which is weird. Like what was so great about two years ago? Apparently we are epically dissatisfied with all the things-- health insurance cable government airlines. This is why I like this next story. It is a test. What happens if you guarantee complete eternal 100 satisfaction to the habitually unsatisfied? Sara Corbett has this story. Here's a story my friend Derek tells for penance-- those are his words for penance-- a story in which he says he is-- Being a dirtbag. Maybe even more than a dirtbag. Total sleazebag. Because we are in America this morality tale takes place in a customer service department at LL Bean in Maine where we both live. This story involves a pair of cross-country ski boots. I had these boots that were given when we were first married. When was that? '92. And so this was maybe-- we will say 2007 or something maybe later than that. And one of the boots gave out. And it had LL Bean written right on it so I knew where it came from. What had you heard? Yeah the understanding is that they will accept returns at any time for no reason at all for any reason. So I decided I had to test if this was true. So I went and I remember the woman pretty clearly. And she asked a few questions. And she says so when did you get the boots? And I said I do not recall exactly. They were a gift. And she said roughly how long ago? And I said I do not know maybe 15 years? She said thank you. So what is your reason for return? They just fell apart. After 15 years. Thank you. So were you satisfied with their performance? Yeah they were great. They just wore out. Thank you. You get the sense I could say anything and they would say thank you. Here you go. And with each kind of bit of her gratitude my shame just expanded till it was supersize. And then she gave me the check for the amount of the boots and I went and got new boots. Technically speaking this is allowed at LL Bean under their return policy. Technically. No one at the store was going to tell Derek to his face that he had done anything wrong. But that did not make it feel right. I had the long drive home of shame. It felt like every police officer was on notice and they would now know who I really was as a human being because I returned boots and got a free pair for no good reason. And tell us what you do for a living Derek. I am a high school principal. I try to shape the young minds of tomorrow to make correct moral choices. I started asking around just curious to see who else had sailed into the moral Bermuda Triangle that is the LL Bean returns desk. A different friend of mine told me he had been returning his elementary school backpack every five years or so since sixth grade. He is now 30. I made a quick phone call to another guy about another backpack. Hey Matt. Sara hey. How is it going? This is my brother Matt. He bought his backpack at the beginning of one summer in college then spent three months camping in the woods of New Hampshire doing trail maintenance for a summer job. He lived out of that backpack-- an LL Bean backpack-- for three months before deciding it was not roomy enough. So he took himself and it to the returns desk. It was trashed but it was still usable. And it was all greasy from like-- they get all greasy and smelly and stuff like that. The bug dope we use is Old Woodsman. This particular bug dope is made with pine tar which is very sticky. Sticks to everything. And then everything sticks to it-- pine needles dirt dead bugs. So all of this was on Matt's backpack along with three months of young man back sweat. Matt is clear-- and was clear at the time-- that it was not LL Bean's fault that he bought a too-small backpack. It was his fault. Oh absolutely. Yeah. But then again I had heard that you could return stuff. And I was like well would they really take this back? Yes they did and so so much more. LL Bean sells a lot of stuff all kinds. It is sort of like Target but for outdoorsy New Englanders and a lot more expensive. Part of the reason it is more expensive is because the company which has been around since 1912 claims their products are extra high quality built to last. And the company's return policy is built to last too. Other stores give you a week a month maybe a year. LL Bean gives you forever. And I sort of knew that. I knew the gist of their policy or at least the urban legend version of it. For 19 years I have lived down the highway from the flagship store in Freeport Maine. I have friends who work there. But I did not know that people were truly truly returning 15-year-old boots and getting away with it. Is anyone calling bull- on this? Is anyone on either side of these transactions drawing the line? Once I started looking into it it felt more and more like LL Bean's return policy is this giant 100-year-old psych experiment. You just bring it back and we will give you-- honestly give you-- as much money for it as humanly possible. That was told to me by the guy who trained me. This is Jonathan Woodward. He worked at the LL Bean returns desk seasonally up until last year. He says the store used to give out cash for returns. Now it is store credit but the principle is the same. Jonathan explained that the return policy is called with reverence the guarantee. And within the company it is not so much policy as sacred foundational text. It is printed on every receipt and on the store's website. It reads our products are guaranteed to give 100 satisfaction in every way. Return anything purchased from us at any time if it proves otherwise. Jonathan says for him behind the returns desk the guarantee means not just that the customer is always right not just that the customer is going to walk away satisfied that they are right but also that they are going to walk away with-- As much money for whatever they bring in as you can possibly figure out how to do. Wow. Yeah. It is the Magic Kingdom in flannel. LL Bean does sell a lot of flannel-- flannel sheets flannel shirts flannel pajamas. Also non-flannel-- fishing rods mountain bikes luggage bathing suits food moccasins watches books hunting rifles sleds furniture canoes socks. They sold a total of 1.6 billion worth of those things last year all of which of course can be brought back. And Jonathan says at the returns desk people are trained to keep their face and tone neutral to not register any judgement whatsoever. Like when someone shows up at the front of the line wanting to return a half-eaten cookie. This actually happened to Jonathan once. You cannot even look at them meaningfully when they are returning. What do you read on their faces? Is it a certain kind of person who-- No. It is anybody? Oh no. It is everybody. And here we are Monday morning