Benjamin Gilmer was finishing his training to be a doctor and he was applying for jobs. And there was this one job that he was really excited about at a small rural clinic in North Carolina a place called Cane Creek about 15 miles outside of Asheville. But there were two slightly strange things about this job. The first was that his predecessor at the position-- who was the guy who started the clinic-- had left the job after murdering his own father strangling him and sawing off his fingers. And the other strange thing? At first I did not make the connection that his name was the same as mine. This is Benjamin Gilmer. And then during my interview they reminded me well his name was actually Dr. Gilmer. That is right. The murderer was Dr. Vince Gilmer. He was Dr. Benjamin Gilmer no relation at all. And there was concern from the boards my presence out there might potentially even be harmful because I share the same name. You know whether some patients would just elect not to come. I mean there was confusion. People think it is strange just very-- it is very strange. This is Robin Whiteside who works at the clinic. Benjamin Gilmer must be a very qualified young man because they did give him the job. And sure enough it did cause confusion among the patients freaked a few out. A patient called. I said I can schedule you with Dr. Gilmer. Terry Ippilito sits at the front desk of the clinic. And they said is this a-- it was near Halloween. And they said is this a Halloween joke? As if there is such a thing as a Halloween joke. Anyway one patient Benjamin was meeting her for the very first time. He walks into the exam room. And she literally was having a panic attack. Hyperventilating heart palpitations. She thought maybe the other Dr. Gilmer the murderer was going to be seeing her. But as Benjamin settled in at the clinic and people got to know him something interesting happened. Many of Vince's former patients who were now Benjamin's patients started talking to him about Vince. Each one of them felt like they needed to say something to clear the-- clear the air I suppose. But they wanted me to know who he was who was absolutely not what the papers were describing or just an ax murderer. Which was the thought that I had going into this job was that I am following the footsteps of an ax murderer. But that is not the story that increasingly was being described his patients. For instance Ruth Tracy. When she first came to Vince for treatment she had just lost her job. Her husband was not working either. No insurance. She told Vince do not do tests. I cannot afford it. Vince would not hear of it. And he did not charge me for my appointments for almost six months. He gave me my medication out of samples. And he listened to me. I could cry on his shoulder. He would give me a hug. I mean he always made me feel better. I would say how can you treat me like this and not collect money? And he said we have to help each other out. This is not an exceptional story about Vince Gilmer. Lots of people would tell you what a great guy he was. Generous to a fault he would help you pay to get your car repaired buy you a present for no reason. If you had no money he would take a bushel of corn as payment. He was a big burly man. His nickname was Bear. He hugged everybody. He was a solid guy a gentle guy. He gave free annual checkups to the local firefighters. He made house calls. House calls! Did not charge for them. And when one of our producers Sarah Koenig went around asking about Vince she heard that some people still had a hard time believing that Vince would be capable of cold-blooded murder even though he is serving in prison for it-- like Jerol Davis one of his former patients. He told Sarah it made no sense. And thinking back see his father had Alzheimer's. And I wondered if he did not kinda consider it a mercy killing. Oh really? To get his father out of his misery. That is the only answer I could think of. If it was a mercy killing does not it seem strange that he would strangle him? Because if he is a doctor he would have access to whatever drugs you would need to-- I did not say he strangled him. I have no idea how he died. Oh he strangled him. Oh? I did not know that. You did not? No. I did not know how he killed him. I did not. Does it-- does that make you think differently about maybe why he did it knowing that he strangled him? Well not necessarily. So Benjamin's doing this job. And like every few weeks somebody is telling him some glowing story about Vince. I do not know. I do not know why I started identifying with him but I could not help myself. I mean I feel like I am sort of a continuation of him which I did not expect to experience at all. He and Vince Gilmer had the same specialty same job same clinic same last name. They were even the same age. Vince Gilmer was 41 when he murdered his father the same age as Benjamin when he came to work at the clinic. And at some point-- and maybe you see where this is going-- Dr. Benjamin Gilmer started to get very curious about the murder that Dr. Vincent Gilmer committed. He began asking questions poking around talking to people. He developed his own theories theories to explain the murder that had never come up at Vince's trial. He gets pulled in deeper and deeper. And by the end-- and I do not think this is a spoiler alert-- things are very very different from the way they look here at the beginning of the story. It is an amazing story. From WEBC Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. We are rerunning the show this week-- it was first broadcast five years ago-- because I have been thinking about it so much lately. The third season of the podcast Serial just ended where Sarah Koenig looked into everyday cases in the court system and found I would say amazing and compelling stories. Just one after another stories that make your blood boil. It is infuriating what happens every day all over the country in our courts. If you have not heard it serialpodcast.org. Anyway as we were finishing season three I thought a lot about this episode of This American Life this one we are playing now which we made before Sarah ever started Serial. And the thing I keep thinking about is like how the murder case in this episode is so far from ordinary. But how certain things about the tone and approach of Serial you can hear in nascent form in the story she did about Dr. Gilmer five years ago. OK. So with that I will pass things off to Sarah Koenig who went to North Carolina and watched things unfold with Dr. Gilmer. Here's Sarah. When Benjamin first told me that he identified with Vince Gilmer felt connected to him I did not really get it until I went there to the Cane Creek Clinic and hung around and watched Benjamin with his patients. What I had not understood is that Benjamin is the same kind of doctor Vince was. I do not know how else to say this but he cares about his patients really cares. And they can tell so they confess things. The morning I spent there a pregnant woman told him she did not want the baby's grandfather at the hospital when she gave birth. And so they crafted a plan for how to keep him at bay. A young mother of two said she would just left her husband which is better for everyone even though she now had to work all the time and put her kids in daycare. You are doing good work with your children Benjamin told her. And she almost started to cry. There was an older patient who came in anxious about a lump in her groin that Benjamin had already assured her was benign. He gives her a sonogram. So see? See that black area? I do. That black area is fluid. OK. It is not a solid mass. Masses-- for example like cancer-- are solid and become white. So that is black which we call anechoic. So that means-- She does not need the sonogram. And he will not charge her for the sonogram. But he knows it is the one thing that is going to make her feel better if she can just visualize this harmless thing. And it works. By the end of the appointment she is laughing.  This doctor-patient trust it is so intimate in a little practice like this one. And now Benjamin Gilmer and Vince Gilmer know some of the same intimate things about the same people. And that is why Benjamin started to feel connected to Vince. And then one day last fall one of Vince's former patients said something that rattled Benjamin. It was an older man. He just caught me in the hall and said hey you know that Dr. Gilmer knows you are here? He knows-- he knows you are practicing. You know that do not you? And at that moment I had-- I really had never thought about that that of course he knows exactly what my name was where I live and that I am working his home. You know this clinic was his baby. He built it. He dedicated his life to it. And my sort of neurosis was that I had taken over his life in a way that felt very new and strange. The thought of being this close to a murderer he said was terrifying. And Benjamin started to cook up irrational fears. He could not help it. He worried Vince would get out of prison and come after him in some way. At one point a patient mentioned that Vince was in fact out on parole. It turned out not to be true but for weeks afterward Benjamin was on alert scanning the outside of the building when he arrived. I come in right after him. And you know he would be like looking at the door who is coming in and stuff. This is Laura Lira Hernandez medical assistant at the clinic. And so for like a week we are in panic mode thinking that somebody-- that he was going to show up here. He was telling me-- Dr. Gilmer was telling me that he was having nightmares and stuff. You were? You were having nightmares? For a few days after that that came out. When I met Benjamin this is where he stood confused about the two versions of Vince Gilmer coexisting in his head the murderer and the good doctor. I mean he obviously was crazy when he did this act. Did not sound like it was an intentional thing that he was a premeditated as I understand it. This is the trouble. Like I am still confused by whether he was good or not. You know it is kind of like living with a ghost in your house. And you tell your kids it is a friendly ghost but you never know where the ghost is coming from. So I am planning to spend my professional life in that building. It is not going to go away. And until I know more I am not going to be able to let it go. Benjamin needed to sort out this mystery of how a beloved family doctor with no criminal history suddenly ups and strangles his own dad how a good man seems to turn into a bad man. So you have never seen a picture of him before? I have never seen a picture. The only thing I have heard from a couple of patients is I kind of look like him. He started with Terry Worley. She was office manager at the Cane Creek Clinic and good friends with Vince and his wife Karen who was also a physician. They would started the clinic together and worked together. Vince and Karen did not have kids of their own but Vince would come to Terry's kids' basketball games. She said he was like part of their family. He is bald. There is a picture of him. That was our staff when everything happened. And that is him kneeling? That is him kneeling. Terry told us two interesting things about the year leading up to the murder. First Vince had a bad car accident. He flipped his truck just off an exit ramp. He hit a light pole and it-- the light pole came down and kind of went across his truck. They took him to the hospital. And I guess he had ID on him is how they knew who he was. And they called Karen. But he told me at the hospital that he was Bobby Brown. He did not know who he was. He did not know who Karen was when she got there. He did not know he was married. And then that lasted for about 24 hours. And then they let him come home and he was kind of back to himself. But I think he had a pretty good bang to the head. Here's the strangest part. Terry said she thought Vince had maybe crashed his truck on purpose. He was scheduled to take his medical board exams at that time. And he was exceedingly anxious about them. He would always been a bad test-taker. His mother told us he had attention deficit disorder as a kid. And Terry says it occurred to her that the accident was a way to avoid taking the boards. And I think it was his way of getting out of it. Which at the same time he had wanted a new truck too. And Karen-- Karen had told him he could not have a new truck. I mean she was the one that kind of kept the you know the handle on the money. And he had his eye on this Toyota Tundra truck and a Toyota Tacoma. Anyway he ended up with a new truck after the fact. So it could have been one of the two. I am just saying. But that is crazy though. That is like the riskiest behavior ever. It is crazy. Another friend who did not want to go on tape also told us unsolicited that he thought Vince might have crashed his truck on purpose possibly as a suicide attempt. Then not too long after the truck accident Vince and Karen split up which floored their friends. Terry says it came out of nowhere. Just out of the blue he came in one day and said him and Karen were getting a divorce. Nobody had a clue that they were even have any problems. She says I asked him to go to counseling and everything. And he is like no I have already got a place to live. He went and found a place to live and moved out that weekend. So you are saying everything seemed normal until that pronouncement? Like he comes in and says like Karen and I are splitting? And then things changed from that moment it feels like? Yeah. It was just like a-- it was like a light switch. But he just-- it is-- I thought it was a mid-life crisis. You know sometimes men go through a midlife crisis and they go out and buy a car go out and have an affair or something. We figured it would just blow over. And then that is when he went out and started drinking and we saw a side of him we had not seen before. Vince's his friends said he was drinking three or four nights a week mostly at a bar in downtown Nashville called Jack of the Wood. But Terry says he is still seemed fine at work and that he was fine the Monday they closed the clinic early June 28 2004 so that Vince could go pick up his father Dalton Gilmer. Dalton was at a psychiatric hospital. It is called Broughton Hospital. It is not clear what exactly was wrong with Dalton. But according to court records he was taking antipsychotic medication and he needed help taking care of himself-- dressing bathing even eating sometimes. And he could barely walk. He needed a wheelchair or a walker. He was 60 years old. Vince had made arrangements to transfer his father from Broughton to a nursing home very close to the Cane Creek Clinic. So that Monday afternoon he drove up to Broughton and collected his father. I had every intention of taking him to the nursing home Vince said at trial. But Vince says he promised to first take his dad to a favorite lake several hours out of the way. He did have a big green kayak in the back of his truck but remember his dad cannot walk. And Vince has no walker in the truck. Plus it is getting late. So this plan did not make much sense. The heart of Vince's story about the crime is probably something that if you are listening with little kids right now you might not want them to hear. Vince says his father sexually abused him and his younger sister from the time they were 6 and three years old respectively. The abuse he describes is maybe the most horrific I have ever heard of. Vince's sister apparently corroborated the abuse but she disappeared just before the trial in 2005. And her family has not seen or heard from her since. Vince's mother claims she never knew about the sexual abuse not until after the murder. She said her husband was a Vietnam vet who came back from the war changed and sporadically violent man. Vince says his father was apt to make inappropriate sexual remarks and gropes and that is what happened in the truck that day. He kept saying filthy filthy things Vince said at trial. And that is when he lost it he says. Vince said a voice in his head like a compulsion was telling him to kill his father. I reach over with the rope and I place the rope around his neck and pull on it and pull on it and pull on it. Then Vince says he drove around for hours panicked trying to figure out what to do with the body which he would moved to the bed of the pickup. Eventually he carried it onto the side of Good Hope Road near the VirginiaTennessee border. And he performed what the Virginia medical examiner would later describe as traumatic amputations of all 10 fingers. He cut off his father's fingers and thumbs. Vince says he used a little saw he had in the back of his truck for trees around the house. Vince said he did this to prevent the body from being identified. And then Vince went home. The body was quickly found still warm and quickly identified. In the pocket of his tanned shorts in the inside color of his polo shirt stamped in black ink D. Gilmer. Name tags that Vince says he himself had arranged for. After learning this much Benjamin started conjuring a hypothesis about Vince. Benjamin did his master's thesis on traumatic brain injuries prior to Med school. To him the truck accident was key to the whole thing. Maybe Vince had some lurking hereditary craziness that was unmasked by big bonk to the head. Or in Benjamin's words latent neurologic sequelae triggered by brain trauma. He was unconscious and did not recognize his own wife afterwards. And then after that period there was a demarcation between this strange behavior that started happening. I think he had to be going crazy. I think the craziness started a year before the murder. Leaving a wife who loved him after so many years and assuming that she would stay in the practice and work side by side with him? That is not rational thinking. If Vince snapped as he claimed then it is hard to square his behavior immediately following the crime. Because from the sound of it he told a cascade of lies coolly no bead of sweat running down his temple. On Tuesday the day after the murder Vince told his office manager Terry Worley and everyone else that he brought his father home. And that sometime during the night his father had wandered off. He said he had people out looking. He filled out a police report did not cancel any appointments. In fact the very first patient he saw was Terry's son for asthma. He was totally normal. He was totally normal the whole time. Really? He never broke down seemed overly anxious because his dad was missing nothing. Vince kept seeing patients all week. Then on Friday Vince invited the staff out to lunch at a favorite restaurant called Iannucci's. While they were there he got a phone call from a detective telling him they would found a body in Virginia. Again Terry Worley. And he just-- all color he lost complete color and just-- he was in shock. I mean he literally about passed out. He had to lay down on the bench at Iannucci's. And the woman got him a cold compress for his head. I do not know what was going through his head if he was thinking oh crap I am caught. Or now I have got to cover my tracks. I do not know what he thought. And he just-- as he was handing me the phone he says you have to talk to my office manager. And kind of shoved the phone to me. Benjamin and I talked to this detective. His name is Mike Martin. Benjamin was on speaker phone. Does this case stand out to you in your professional life? It is a unique case as in he was able to kill his father and show no remorse. Detective Martin says when he showed up at Vince's door Vince was cordial and composed. During the interview at Mr. Gilmer's home he told me that he had brought his father to North Carolina to stay with him. And that upon their arrival that Daddy was so delighted to be there that he had went out into the yard and played with the dog throwing a Frisbee. I already knew that could not be true because the people at Broughton Hospital told me that Mr. Gilmer senior could not have walked on his own at any time. He said you do not believe what I am telling you. I said no sir. Not at all. Not in the least. I do not believe you. I said the very questions that any person would be asking in reference to his parent death you have not asked which is an excellent indicator that you already know. He was not scared. He was not agitated. He told me he said look. He said you do not know who you are messing with. He said I am a doctor of medicine. I am well respected in the state of North Carolina. And I will have your damned job. I said sir it is my job to do the investigation. And based on what I know I will consult with the Commonwealth attorney. And I will ask for a warrant for your arrest for murder. When we left we said sir thank you for your time. And he closed the door and never said a word. Before Detective Martin could get back to Cane Creek with a warrant Vince ran took some camping equipment and hid out. The cops finally caught up with him in the woods near the Lowe's hardware store at the Asheville mall. Did you come away thinking this was a premeditated-- like he planned this murder in advance and then executed it? That is exactly what I think. Really? Yes madam. That it was not a spur of the moment he kind of lost control and years of abuse and anger welled up and overpowered him? Spur of the moment did not buy the gloves. It did not buy the rope. And it did not put the pruning shears in the pickup truck. Other things Benjamin and I learned from Terry Worley. Vince was his father's guardian. He was supposed to be paying his father's bills out of his father's money but he did not. By the time he killed his father he owed the psychiatric hospital where his father had been staying more than 270000. A motive maybe. Also Vince had planned a two week vacation to Alaska that coincided with his father's killing. Terry says the investigators questioned her about it. They asked me if I knew it was a one way ticket. I said no I helped him book it. And they showed me where it had been changed to a one-way flight. So he was not planning on coming back. He thought he was going to get gone.  By the time we would finished talking to Terry Benjamin was deflated. Vince was sounding more and more like this cold-blooded killer. We debriefed. It just seems like he is lying. It just seems to me like he is lying. You really believe that? I think he is lying about this having snapped. I do. I think I do. I mean it just does not-- it does not make sense with all the things that Terry said. This is a guy who had made a plan no? It seems that way now does not it? To me it does. Yeah. That is a total game changer. That is-- that is not crazy. That is rational planning with a motive. I was kind of hoping not to hear that. Soon after Vince Gilmer was caught by the police he confessed to strangling his father. His defense boiled down to one word serotonin. That was his excuse his disease his all-purpose defect serotonin. Or rather lack of serotonin in his brain. Serotonin is a hormone a neurotransmitter. If you do not have the right level of it in your brain it can affect your mood which is why many antidepressants increase your serotonin level. These drugs are called SSRIs Selective Serotonin Reuptake Inhibitors. If you stop taking them abruptly you can have suicidal thoughts severe agitation even psychosis. What you believe about Vince's crime depends on whether you believe he was out of his mind at the time of the killing whether you believe that missing his SSRI pills could transform him from a loving doctor into a psycho. Here's Vince's explanation for what happened. He would been struggling with anxiety for years. And after he and Karen split up in the months leading up to the murder he would been taking Lexapro an SSRI. He says a day or two before he went to pick up his dad he stopped the Lexapro. Did not taper it off like you are supposed to he just stopped. And he reacted very badly. He became extraordinarily irritable heard voices. His brain did not work right. He said he felt quote mentally retarded. In a letter to a doctor he wrote from jail this is how he describes the voices he heard when he was off the Lexapro. These are not voices that make a suggestion. This is a compulsion. The compulsion is trying to take over my consciousness. I fight the compulsion in the front part of my head. It is a hyperanxious state. Pacing becomes mandatory trying to walk off the pressure. The battle hurts badly. One of the phrases he kept using over and over was that my brain was not working right. You know my head was not working right. This is reporter Matt Lakin. Back in 2004 he was covering crime for the Bristol Herald Courier. He spoke to Vince soon after the murder both on the phone and in person. And Matt says Vince seemed like an intelligent guy a nice guy pleasant to talk to. Not obviously crazy maybe just eccentric and a little manipulative. He would go into these bizarre-- he would make these strange gestures where he would bob his head up and down and just sort of kind of shake. He would-- it was just almost you know I almost had a sense that he was hamming it up sometimes. Like doing it for your benefit. Right. I mean whenever I would point out a flaw in his story for example he would suddenly get emotional and start to cry. So either he was having tremendous mood swings or he was trying to avoid the question. Which one do you think it was? This question lurked throughout Vince's initial incarceration and court appearances. Was he crazy? Or was he crazy like a fox? We asked Mike Martin the Virginia detective in charge of the murder investigation whether he ever saw evidence of mental illness in Vince whether he ever questioned if the cops had gotten it wrong. I can tell you what we done for Mr. Gilmer. We got to watching him. And each time police officers would come around him he would-- Detective Martin said he and his fellow officers had noticed Vince shaking his arm and his head and that he only seemed to do it around them not around the other inmates. They were suspicious. So we set up a camera on the rec yard and invited the inmates out on the rec yard to play. And they played basketball. Mr. Gilmer participated in play in basketball as the rest did. He participated in the walks around the yards as the rest did. And then we purposely sent the officer James Blevins who was assisting me in this case. When Mr. Gilmer seen the officer he automatically started to shake the head and arm. And he did that until such time that Detective Blevins left the rec yard. Mr. Gilmer is not somebody that is been controlled by some demon. He is very self-controlled. A clinical psychologist named Jeffrey Feix came to a similar conclusion. Feix evaluated Vince to find out if he was sane at the time of the crime. He reported that Vince was agitated quote spoke in a halting fashion fidgeted while sitting stood with a stooped posture occasionally paced and gesticulated broadly with his hands while talking. This presentation was very dramatic and not consistent with known anxiety or psychotic disorders. Feix went on it appeared that the patient was exaggerating his symptoms for the benefit of the evaluator and treatment team. It is respectfully recommended that Dr. Gilmer be considered legally sane at the time of the offense. Later that fall another psychiatrist found Vince to be quote evasive dramatic and manipulative. And by mid-2006 the prison doctors had settled on a two-pronged diagnosis-- atypical depression and malingering. In other words lying.  From jury selection forward the trial was a disaster for Vince. His performance his explanations they appeared to move no one. I talked to a man named Robert Hughes who was called to serve on the jury though eventually excused. When he would talk to us Mr. Hughes said of Vince he would act like he was nuts. Then when he turned around to talk to his lawyers he was as cool as anything. We argued at trial that he was planning his defense essentially prior to committing the crime in the first place. Nicole Price was one of the prosecutors. When she lists all the evidence the state's case sounds pretty straightforward. Vince had made careful plans to pick his father up. He had all the materials he needed to carry out the crime right there in his truck. He mutilated the body to hide the identity and then dumped it in Virginia far from where he himself lived. And the other evidence that we had were conversations recorded conversations that he had with friends. And in those conversations he talks about using the-- you know playing the good doctor card as hard as we can. He talks about that he would prefer to be tried in Tennessee because he felt that his sentence would be less. And so at different times he advised law enforcement that the murder occurred in North Carolina that it occurred in Virginia and that it occurred in Tennessee. And that was calculated to let him determine where this trial would be had. So I think the evidence from his own mouth is that he was manipulating in the hopes that he would convince a jury that he was not responsible for his criminal actions because of some type of-- I do not know. That he was insane. And what is the craziest thing a man accused of first degree murder can do? The craziest most stark-raving lunatic thing a man facing life in prison can do? The answer is dismiss his lawyers and choose to represent himself. And so yes that is what Vince Gilmer did. I used to be a court reporter. And so I read a lot of court transcripts but none as farcical as this one. It makes you wonder if maybe he really was crazy because any casual watcher of Law  Order could have built a better case for himself than Vince Gilmer. His witnesses are beside the point. His own testimony favors the nonsensical. Vince can barely string together a sentence before a prosecutor objects. At one point Vince called his ex-girlfriend Susan Garren to the stand. He asks her to the best of your knowledge have I hurt anyone or killed anyone? Just have I hurt or killed anyone that you know of? Susan your father. Vince OK that-- have I besides what happened with my dad? Susan can you repeat the question please? His court-appointed attorney who was there only to answer Vince's questions about court procedure said it was agonizing to watch like someone trying to commit suicide with a butter knife. Toward the end of the trial Vince Gilmer says Your Honor I would like to call Vince Gilmer. He talks and he talks and he talks for nearly two hours. And by the end he loses his thread. The prison docs have stopped his SSRIs meds he said. So when I came in here I am confused. I had trouble-- I have had trouble with the confusion all the way through this. I know you are the jury and I know he is the judge so that makes me in Virginia-- you are-- I am capable to-- I am able to say I am competent to be here. This has not been the brightest of ideas being my own lawyer. A little later prosecutor Nicole Price interjects. Is not it true that you have been found competent to represent yourself? I am says Vince. Are you fine right now? Price asks. No says Vince.  The jury took about an hour to convict Vince Gilmer of first degree murder. The judge the Honorable C. Randall Lowe concurred. Quote it was clear that it was malingering and faking he said at a post-trial hearing. The defendant would go into an act. He would look up and see if the jury was buying it. When the jury was not buying it he would go back to normal. It was clear. Judge Lowe sentenced Vince to life in prison without the possibility of parole. So that is where it ended. The entire law enforcement medical and legal community declared Vince a liar. He went to a maximum security prison called Wallens Ridge in the mountains of far Western Virginia. Coming up Benjamin does not take premeditated for an answer. A hunch a blood test and DNA evidence. And not the kind you are thinking of. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program Dr. Gilmer and Mr. Hyde. If you just tuned in Dr. Benjamin Gilmer is looking into a murder committed by Dr. Vince Gilmer no relation. Where we left off before the break Vince Gilmer was claiming that his brain was not functioning properly at the time of the murder. Two psychiatrists and psychologists thought he was faking his supposed symptoms of a mental disturbance. A jury thought he was faking a judge thought he was faking. Our reporter on the case Sarah Koenig was inclined to think that all these peop