OK real estate shoppers-- some important factors to take into account when you are choosing a neighborhood-- price how long your commute will be schools safety does Mos Def live nearby? That last one was a factor for Adam when he was looking at this one neighborhood in New York. The fact that Mos Def allegedly lived there. I think at the time he and Erykah Badu might have been together. I did run into Mos Def at the overpriced bodega on the corner and did the creepy thing of like seeing him through the window waiting for him outside and accosting him the second he came outside and being like yo man. Your album was really significant to me. And he looked terrified. You know he could not wait to get out of there with like his 12 mangoes or whatever. This was a Brooklyn neighborhood called Fort Greene. It was the year 2000 and the neighborhood was in the early stages of gentrifying. Adam left his cell number with a bunch of real estate brokers. And Fort Greene was very real estate broker intensive. You know it is not a big neighborhood. There were possibly more brokers than there were blocks. So I left my phone number with a bunch of these brokers. And I was walking up Fulton Street probably an hour after dropping all these phone numbers off when I got a call from one of these brokers. And she was a British lady. And she started describing to me an apartment. And it had high ceilings and wood floors and lots of natural light. And it sounded great. But the only problem was the apartment was not in Forte Greene. It was in Bed-Stuy Bedford-Stuyvesant. Bed-Stuy-- further from Manhattan more crime less gentrified. For instance Adam says if you visited both neighborhoods Fort Greene and Bed-Stuy and compared what the fake businesses were like that marijuana dealers worked out of-- Like how plausible are they as businesses? You know? So if it is the kind of thing where you walk into a bodega and there is like one can of grape soda and a box of baking powder and a shady looking dude behind six inches of reinforced bulletproof glass then your neighborhood is far from gentrified. Whereas Fort Greene at that point had businesses which I went to because I wanted to actually partake of their legal goods and services and did not even know that they were weed spots. Like there was this hat shop that I actually bought a hat at. And everybody looked at me like you knot that is not really a hat shop right? So that was the level that Fort Greene was at. OK. So transitional. Yes transitional. But less transitional than Bed-Stuy. So he bought records in Bed-Stuy he ate dinner in Bed-Stuy and as he told the real estate broker did not want to live in Bed-Stuy. And so I said you know the apartment sounds cool. But I am going to pass. Bed-Stuy's a little bit Boondocksickle for me. So call me if you get a Fort Greene listing. And very quickly and professionally she switched gears and started trying to convince me that I should check out the Bed-Stuy apartment. So she said look I do not know what you have heard about Bed-Stuy. But it is really very nice. It is very safe. It is changing very fast. A lot of white people are moving there. And I stopped dead in my tracks offended and surprised that after about 10 seconds on the phone with me this woman wanted to have this kind of conspiratorial nudge-nudge-wink-wink conversation as a way of letting me know that Bed-Stuy was safe for people like me. I was mostly offended by it. So I figured that I should end that line of conversation as forcefully as possible and kind of shock her back. So I said I do not like white people that much and I am not trying to live around too many of them. And there was like silence on the phone. And then she said something along the lines of you-- you do not like white people? And I was like no. You know I do not hate them or anything. But they walk around like they own the planet. They are really entitled. They do not make particularly good neighbors. So no I am not really trying to live around too many of them. And there was more silence on the phone. And then very slowly and deliberately she said sir I am very sorry. I did not mean to offend you. I can tell from your voice that you are obviously African American. And I cut her off. And I was like no no no. You got it wrong. I am white. And then I add something like no offense. She says oh I am not offended. I get it. I am black which because of her British accent had not occurred to me. And the next thing I remember about the conversation is basically that the two of us both start laughing because in the space of about a minute we had both made so many assumptions and cycled through so many identities. The absurdity of it just I think hit us both at once. I assumed that he was black. Well does he sound black to you in this recording? Yes he does. And it is just-- I realize it is the way he spreads his words out for me. After talking to Adam I got in touch with the real estate broker Noreen Sumpter. And she remembers this incident the same way he does with one exception. She says she would not have said I am sorry. I did not mean to offend you. Are you African American? No I did not say that. I just directly-- oh so you black. Do I sound like I would be AMERICAN ACCENT sir are you sorry? I am sorry. DROPS ACCENT No I am not that. I am like oh really? You do not like white people? Are you black? She is no longer in real estate these days. She is a life coach. But she says the thing that set Adam off-- the race-baiting wink wink do not-worry-a-lot-of-white-people-are-moving-there-- was not something she said to white clients or to anybody else. She only said it to him because-- I assumed that he was black and he was scared to move into a black neighborhood with black people is why I said it to him. Right? Like what is this guy? You are a black guy. What are you-- so that is why I said there is a lot of white people moving there meaning that you are black. If you are a black man you should be comfortable in that neighborhood. Like white people are not scared to live there. Why cannot you? Yeah. Like what is going on? What is over there with you why you would not move there? But he was not a black man. He was a white guy. I love the efficiency of this story. Like I like how we all have people in our lives who it takes years to figure like oh I totally misjudged this person. And this is the most efficient version of getting somebody wrong and realizing you have gotten it wrong. Like you could not do it in fewer sentences. Look I am the queen of the world. You know what? The people in my building call me Queen Nor Goddess of the Universe. So that makes me realize that I can solve anything. Anything can be solved through a conversation. I did assume and he assumed and we both assumed back and forth. But we resolved it in like a heartbeat. So hey kudos for us. Sometimes people's answers to questions really surprise me. Well today on our program people who are in this same situation where they realize oh no. I thought you were one thing and I got it wrong. You are not that person. Except in these other cases they do not have Queen Nor to help them wrap it up so quickly. And so some of these misunderstandings and misperceptions they drag on for years with a lot more feelings attached to them. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  Act One Who is Really On Line Two? And now a radio host discovering things about his listeners that he wishes were not true obviously one of the worst things that could ever happen to a person. I think we can all agree on that. I am saying this as if this is a problem in my life. I do not-- it is not at all. Anyway it recently happened to Tony Beam host of the radio show Christian Worldview Today in South Carolina. Zoe Chace tells the story. Tony's on early mornings 92.9 FM 660 AM weekdays. His show is for and by the evangelical community. Politics news a little sports God-- that is his show. All right welcome back. Hour number two of Christian Worldview Today is coming off the shelf and it is coming straight at you. But just receive it. It is a good thing. Tony and his callers speak the same language. They hate Obamacare deficit spending. They feel the Christian right gets no respect from the Republican establishment. And when Tony endorses a presidential candidate enough of his listeners agree with him that candidates seek him out. They come on the air with him. He went with Huckabee in '08 Santorum in 2012. Last spring Ted Cruz invited Tony and his wife up to DC. He sat them down in a private Washington apartment and made a pitch. He was going to unite the Tea Party the libertarians the evangelicals and win. Tony told me how much he liked him. Not only did he have the principles and convictions that I have but he had a political strategy that I thought would succeed. And when we walked out of that meeting my wife who is not near as involved in politics or fascinated by as I am she looked at me and she says you do what you want. I am voting for that guy. Not long after he went on the radio and endorsed Cruz a lifelong evangelical conservative. I believe he is the right man for the job. I believe he is the right person that is got insider knowledge. But he is an outsider within his own party because he is willing to call out his party. That impresses me. Tony knows this scene-- anti-establishment Christian Republicans in South Carolina. Year after year he goes to the state political gatherings the Silver Elephant dinner Jeff Duncan's Faith in Freedom BBQ. He grew up listening to Ronald Reagan on the radio sitting in the kitchen with his dad. And he was telling me you know this guy has got the answer for the future. That is a real American Republican origin story. It is. It really is. You and your dad in the kitchen the eggs frying listening to Ronald Reagan on the radio. I can hear it. And I can actually I can smell the-- I mean most people it was bacon and eggs. My dad loved livermush believe it or not. And he would fry livermush and make like livermush and egg sandwiches. Tony was especially excited this election year. As the establishment candidates Bush and Scott Walker flamed out his guy Ted Cruz was on the rise. It looked like he had a real shot at being the nominee. Obviously there is also this other candidate in the race-- Donald Trump. But Tony was not worried about Trump. He figured Trump does not fit in with people built on livermush and the Bible. When Donald Trump got in the race I said pssh. In three weeks we will be done here because there is no way that people are going to go chasing after him. Then came the first Republican debate the one where Megyn Kelly the Fox News anchor asked Trump about some stuff he would said about women. And unlike this week Trump was there to answer those questions. You have called women you do not like fat pigs dogs slobs and disgusting animals. Your Twitter account-- Only Rosie O'Donnell.  No it was not. I will point out over this 16 seconds of cheering and applause that this turned out to be a very controversial line of questioning.   OK still going. Thank you. For the record it was well beyond Rosie O'Donnell. Yes I am sure it was. Your Twitter account has several disparaging comments about women's looks. You once told a contestant on Celebrity Apprentice it would be a pretty picture to see her on her knees. Does that sound to you like the temperament of a man we should elect as president? I thought it was fair game. I mean this is-- Democrats do pound Republicans with a war on women. And now we have got a guy who is kind of the front-runner who is attacking the way a woman looks and attacking other women by name? Are you kidding me? And frankly what I say-- and oftentimes it is fun. It is kidding. We have a good time. What I say is what I say. I come and crack the microphone after that first debate. And I am like  Trump's done. This is it. He is really stepped in it now. And I am plastered with people calling me telling me how glad they are the way Trump handled himself and that he won that debate. And I was stunned. I thought I was doing somebody else's talk show that they had switched frequencies on me and not told me and that I was actually doing a show from a different location. This is crazy. This is not who we are. And that was just the beginning. And I have been waiting for years to hear a politician that talks the way Donald Trump talks. Now is he going to deliver? I do not know. But I am telling you I am a Trumpeter. I mean unless he is a liar he is saying all the right things. Yeah. And whether his conservative credentials are bona fide or not that is not the point. See anybody can change. Ronald Reagan did as we all know. Alex Alex. I hate to interrupt a great rant and that was a great rant. And as far as rants goes that was right up there. But you said it does not-- I do not know if his conservative credentials are true or not. But it does not matter. It does not? Calls like these got under Tony's skin real quick. Donald Trump made a statement a couple of weeks ago that he wants to pursue the families of the-- Yes yes. --of these jihadists. Yeah wants to kill them. And it was sixth-grade outrage. And I can give you examples of two presidents who actually did that. One was the third president of the United States. And the other was the 39th president of the United States. OK. So you think that is a good idea? And by the way so did Harry Truman when he dropped the atom bombs. You think it is a good idea? You think it is a good idea. I am not asking you-- no. I did not say it was a good idea Tony. Put a stake in the ground Gene. But this is warfare. This is what happens. If you are gonna call and do this put a stake in the ground. I am asking you. I am calling you out. I am calling you out. Do you want to ban all Muslims from the United States and do you want to kill all the family members of anybody who is ever been involved in terrorism? Is that what you want? Is that what you want? I want-- No no no! Tony's a pastor a doctor of ministry from Southern Baptist Theological Seminary. And his big problem with Trump is that he is not a good Christian. He does not share the values that govern Tony's entire life. For instance last summer an interviewer asked Trump if he would ever asked God for forgiveness of his sins. And Trump was like why should I? I do not make mistakes. I mean I drink the wine. I eat the cracker. Some people thought it was funny. Tony did not. Given that nothing drives him crazier than when his listeners try to defend Trump along biblical lines like when that guy Gene calls in to talk about Trump and the Second Book of Kings. When I sit here and listen to Trump I agree with a lot of what he is saying. And I want to remind your audience of a person in the Bible. Oh my gosh. Who took down Jezebel? What was the name-- OK what Gene is talking about is in the Second Book of Kings this guy Jehu murdered Queen Jezebel because she had pagan idols around the kingdom. Then he threw her body to the dogs. Jehu was like a warrior against a corrupt culture. His name was Jehu. Do you remember that? I remember. And you think-- The Book of Kings. --Donald Trump is Jehu? Yes. Yes. You do? Yes. Remember Jehu was not a righteous man in God's eyes. And God used Jehu to fulfill Elijah's prophecy regarding Jezebel. But you believe that God-- yeah whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa! Whoa Gene. We have such chaos in this country that we would look to a man like Donald Trump who has no core value system to lead us back to the place that we need to be as a country. I think Trump is gonna realize that he may well have to work with the Congress-- In a recent poll of South Carolina evangelical voters Trump is leading eight points ahead of Ted Cruz. Nationally he is ahead by more than 15 with evangelical voters. Tony is in this very real struggle that I would say a lot of anti-establishment Republicans are in. There is a part of the Donald Trump thing that appeals to him. Take this moment from the South Carolina Republican debate. And I can say oh I am not angry. I am very angry because our country is being run horribly. And I will gladly accept the mantle of anger. Our military is a disaster. Our health care is a horror show. Obamacare we are gonna repeal it-- I got to admit when I hear stuff like that I am like yeah! Go! Just yeah hit him again harder! And then I step back and go wait a minute. Do I really want him to be president? This is insane because the emotional part of me cannot take control over the thought process that is going to be what carries us in the long run. And that is what scares me about this whole thing. All of this is being wrought out on pure emotion. It is just been building. Obama is getting his way. Nobody's standing against him. He is ruining this country. He does not love America. And we do not have people that are pushing back. And it just-- that mindset turns and people get madder and madder. And I am afraid we are gonna split the party and be in real trouble. Do you have a specific memory of somebody calling in the show and you think oh wait a minute. This is not going away. Yeah Barry. Yeah. He called. He calls my show a lot. And I call him the Trump interpreter. All right. Barry's on the phone. Hello Barry. Hey Tony. I got a couple questions on the Donald for you. OK sure. Go ahead. Barry is an evangelical Christian. He is very strong in his faith. And when he called and was all about Trump I was like oh my gosh. Now the pushback that is he is doing against the media various different reporters and so forth-- good or bad? It is good and bad. Donald Trump is bullying-- Bullying. --the GOP establishment. Oh. Hm. Is that a good or bad thing? Well I think it is a good thing for his campaign. And I think it is a good thing for the people who are tired of the GOP establishment going to Washington and doing squat to make changes. Sounds like you are on the Trump train. No. I am not on the Trump train. Then what is going on? I did not say that he is not doing things that are helpful. I know. I know. And I am saying-- look what I am saying is I do not want to get into all the reasons why I think it is a problem. But anyway Barry thanks. We do not have time. We got to take a break. We will come back. We have got a couple of guests in the studios we want to-- Notice how much Tony and Barry agree on. The media is unfair to their candidates. The Republican establishment dismisses them. But still-- So you have gotten to know Barry. Well I would not recognize him if he walked in the room. But I have talked to him enough on the air where over the years-- I mean he is been calling this show for years. And I felt like I knew him pretty well. But he is gone in a direction that I would have said would not have happened. I thought we agreed that the person that we wanted to lead us would agree with our principles and have that at their core. So you are willing to lay all that aside? Oh I think he has those principles whether he is a Christian or not. I just raise the white flag and go line two because I do not know what to do about that. So after months of squabbling with Barry and the other callers over Trump Tony remembers vividly the moment he was sure the ongoing argument with his listeners would finally end. It was the moment he was sure Trump had lost the evangelical vote. It was when Trump said we needed to ban all Muslims from coming to America. My first thought was no. That-- no. Somebody's got that messed up. So then I find a video where he actually makes that statement. Donald J. Trump is calling for a total and complete shutdown of Muslims entering the United States until our country's representatives can figure out what the hell is going on. And I was horrified. You want to know my initial reaction? I was horrified. I am thinking to myself this is so opposed to everything that are my core values. Were you nervous to come in and do the show after that happened because you knew-- No because I am an idiot. Because I came in and thought man this may help Trump overall. But Christians they are going to be appalled by this. Barry's on the line. Go ahead Barry. He did not say their religious expression. He said Muslims which-- It is a religion! Their ideology is absolutely a conquering ideology. But-- He is saying Muslims have a conquering ideology. --until we can find out what is going on. So you know-- OK. Well why do not we ban Christians? Why do not we-- you know Christians have in their background an ideological conquering mentality. I mean you look at that Old Testament man you have got the Jews that were taking over the entire country. Christianity rose out of Judaism in the Christian-- now I am talking. I am talking now Barry. See this is the way this works. We do not talk at the same time. So we need to be-- what I am trying to get you to see is that once we start down a road where we tell people that because of their religious expression we are going to deny them entry into the country we are setting a precedent. Yeah I disagree because that is not what he is saying. It is their ideology. It is the connection with terror is what he is talking about. But all Muslims are not terrorist. All Muslims are not terrorist. All Christians do not shoot abortion doctors and bomb abortion clinics. I do not want to get lumped in with them because I am a Christian any more than there are Muslims that do not want to be lumped into the idea of terrorism because there are radical Islamic extremists who are trying to kill people. Barry thanks for the call. Robbie I am gonna have to hold you. We got to take a break. We will come back. We will talk to Robbie. So I went to Barry in person to understand yes why he loves Trump so much but really how he would strayed so far from Tony. Is it you? Hello there. How are you? Hi Barry. This is my son David. I am Zoe. It is just I am thrilled to meet you. You are like a celebrity to me. Oh really? I do not understand. How is that? I do not get it. Barry Chisholm in the flesh. He works 20 minutes away from Tony's radio studio. He runs a small business managing employee benefits. This means he is up close and personal with Obamacare which he is not a fan of. Barry is what you might have pictured-- hyper older white guy in a baseball cap. He is indeed an evangelical Christian from Boston. It takes him just a few seconds to wind himself up. Is that part of why you would move down here? Like it seems like a more friendly environment to evangelicals than Boston is. No actually. No I miss being up in Boston because the difference up there is if you are a Christian you stand out like crazy. If you are a Christian down here it is a cultural thing. And I like being around people that have strong opinions because it is fun. Because you know what? I know what I believe. And what I believe is not what I made up. It is this guy Jesus Christ who started it. So I am globbing on to what he taught. So it is fun. I miss being up around people who do not know about Christ and what he taught. So no I miss that. That is probably the most fun part is I like to engage people. And I like to turn people on. Hey go check it out. If you do not believe me go find out for yourself. That is the journey I had to take. And so no I would never move down here just because-- So I mean also it sounds like you kind of like living a little bit as a contrarian. Is that fair to say? Yeah that is real kind of accurate. You know? Yeah it is kind of accurate I guess. I mean yeah. Barry is the guy who loves to stir the pot. Barry is a mischief maker. He is a scamp kind of like Donald Trump. Tony and Barry though they started out this election season in the very same place. Well I mean I supported the Huck-- Mike Huckabee Rick Santorum before that and then held my nose and voted for Mitt Romney. And I way back supported Reagan. So when this came around and you had not the seven dwarfs the 14 dwarfs out there I mean I just waited to see all the dust settle. One thing about Donald Trump I said it will be entertaining if he gets in. It will be fun to watch because he is not a politician. I did not realize how much fun it would be. But it is gone way beyond my expectations. It is been the most enjoyable election I have ever seen watching all these people's heads implode. It is been a fun time. It is been fun to watch all the establishments come unhinged because they cannot control it. It is fun to watch the liberal media come out with the big hits the names and he is this he is racist and all that. I just never knew someone could take the heat and just punch back. So it is like yeah this is fun. This is different. As for Ted Cruz Barry says forget it. He would be killed in the mainstream media. He saw it with other strong evangelical candidates. They will just make fun of him. But Donald Trump he will make fun of the mainstream media. That is such a joy to Barry. By the time the first debate happened-- you know Megyn Kelly the Rosie O'Donnell question-- Barry and Tony had completely opposite experiences. Tony's like are you kidding me about Trump? But that is what Barry says about Megyn Kelly. Megyn Kelly had to spend a lot of time to dig up that little piece and he made a cavalier joke. Are you kidding me? She was digging for stuff. We have got so politically correct just like when Donald Trump said about Carly Fiorina's face. Look at that face. Look Donald Trump-- look if you are going to be a woman you are going to get in the thing then go for it. Do not be do not be-- he is an equal opportunity basher. He will bash guys as well as women. Stop with the baby stuff. And the Megyn Kelly thing it became more about her than-- this is a presidential debate. Did not he say blood coming out of her wherever? Oh that. Oh that too. And that-- oh that was afterwards. Yeah oh yeah. That was stupidity. I mean there is no doubt about it. You know is all this stuff presidential? I do not know. But you know what this guy's not a politician. Megyn Kelly the wall the ban on Muslims all the stuff that Tony was sure would drive everyone away Barry loves those things. Barry loves the idea not necessarily the practice but the fact of the statement of banning all Muslims. All he is bringing up is do we have a problem? And if we do can we talk about it? Or are we gonna just everybody's a bigot now. I mean that is all. So Donald Trump-- we just want-- it needs to be addressed. What I found out upon meeting Barry is one of the things he loves most about Donald Trump is arguing about Donald Trump. The conversation that is freaking Tony out so much about the state of the country that conversation itself is the thing that Barry is relishing. And Barry's diabolical about it. Barry has eight sons all Trump fans he says. And he is deployed his son David in his pro-Trump battles against Tony. What will happen is my dad will get on there. Tony will get all flustered and upset. And every once in a while if he is having a bad day he will cut him off short. So then I call right in and just kind of continue the conversation because he thinks it is a whole 'nother caller or-- It is. It is. But the whole-- so he cannot avoid the Trump mindset sometimes. Why do you do that to him? It is just the challenge of it. Because they have the authority to just kick people off and make people feel stupid when they call in. A lot of people be like well I do not really like Trump. I am not a Trump supporter but you know he is pretty good on this issue. And Tony will be just oh! Jump all over that. I thought the Trump supporters I would meet in South Carolina would be angry. But a lot of them are like Barry-- angry but having such a great time. The people I met they are more happy than angry. Like at this biker rally for Trump. Thanks everybody coming out for this. We are going to line our bikes up facing Market Common. So when he comes through we are going to be about an eighth mile wide. And he will be able to see us see what is going on. If you are a felon or anything leave your guns behind. You never know. They might have Secret Service there. You got a permit by all means carry it. That is all I got. Thanks everybody coming out.   The rally was held at a biker bar in Myrtle Beach called Suck Bang Blow. It was explained to me that those are the mechanics of a combustion engine. I asked this guy Kool-Aid about Trump-- leather vest and tattoos. So why do you like Trump so much? Well because I mean he is just down to Earth. I know he is kind of loud and obnoxious. But so are all of us bikers. Kool-Aid's never voted in his life. Today he is throwing a Trump rally to welcome him to town. And he has voter registration cards stacked up at the bar. Steve he would never voted before either. Never ever did I give two craps who ran because I figure we are gonna get screwed anyway. But there is a difference now. When did you register? Three days ago. For Trump? Absolutely. Just figured I got to do it because you know what? Every little bit helps. My one vote might not be much but you know what? It might be the one that makes it rock. I went registered last week so I can vote me some Trump. Vote me some Trump? Heck yeah. We need somebody or it is going to hell in a hand basket. I knew these guys first time voters would not care that they might split the Republican Party. They never felt at home there. But Barry Tony's radio nemesisradio frenemy is different. So I asked him if you go for Trump are you going to split the party? Who cares? I do not care. The Republican Party needed to be split a long time ago. They troll the evangelicals. They pandered to the conservatives. And when they get in there they do what their lobbyists tell them to do. So if the Republican Party splits so what? All I care about America at the end of the day. Tony though really cares. He does not want to lose the election. And he wonders what does it mean about his listeners if they follow this pied piper? I think that is what is led to my current level of frustration. And I admit to you that it is greater than in the past. And I probably quite frankly need to dial it back a little bit because I do not need to be consumed by this. And for the last couple of weeks I have probably been-- I mean this has been very heavy on my mind. And then he has this other worry this other way of thinking about it. This worry is so personal at first he did not want to talk about it. I want to tell you something off the record. Oh OK. Oh. But after we talked a little he agreed to go back on mic. I mean there've been times when I have thought about just giving up the radio show because I do not want to be one who fosters the unreasonable level of anger that is out there. Do you think that by giving airtime to some of this stuff-- Well I have callers who call in that are very angry now. And they express things that-- and I push back. But I just wonder how many people are hearing that and going he is right. And Dr. Beam needs to get with the program. You know? And so I debate sometimes with myself am I not doing anything except giving a platform? Look Jesus Christ when he walked this earth condemned the zealots. He condemned the establishment the Pharisees and the Sadducees because they were hypocrites. But he also condemned those who wanted to march against Rome in a violent way. That was not the path that Jesus talked about. Jesus was the Prince of Peace. He was a reconciler. I know that is what he is done in my life. And I want to be that to represent him in the world. I do not want to be somebody that pours gas on a fire. I want to be a reconciler who brings peace in a situation where anger seems to be the prevailing thought process. And I do not know how best to do that. But if I cannot do it with a microphone I would just rather turn it off. It is not Trump that bothers me. What bothers me is that Trump is popular. That story from Zoe Chace one of the produces of our show. She will be doing campaign coverage for us all this year. Coming up mistaking a guy who does exist for one who does not exist. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. This is American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show I Thought I Knew You-- stories of people misperceiving other people. Sometimes it slowly dawns on them that they have it wrong. Sometimes it comes out quickly. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two My Little Bruce Dupe. Well so far on our program we have focused on people who are misperceived. But they do not want to 