Ajmal can you hear me? Hello? Hello? Yes I can hear you. OK so are you still in front of the Canadian or not? Yeah in front of the Canadian in the water. You are in the water right now? Yeah. This is a phone call between a man in California and a man standing in a canal outside the airport in Kabul Afghanistan. That'ill all make more sense in a minute. We had a totally different show planned for you today. But then we came across this phone call. And it just seemed important to put it on the air now. It is from Monday before the explosions around the airport that killed dozens of people. But it is a snapshot in a way from the last hours of this war as the US leaves Afghanistan when who would get out and who would not was all still being decided hour by hour. So what we are going to do on the show today is we are going to hear the story of that phone call. And then we are going to play you some other stories about getting out-- about people trying to extricate themselves from seemingly impossible situations. So the first guy you heard on the call the guy in California is Kirk Johnson. We have had him on the show before. And when things started to fall apart in Afghanistan he reached out to us because years ago he did reconstruction work in Iraq for the US government. And since then for a long time now he is been trying to get people in Iraq and Afghanistan who have worked with the US government and who are in danger out of those countries. He started an organization back in 2007 called The List Project. So these past weeks Kirk has been on the phone constantly. And on Monday night with his kids asleep in the other room he had this series of phone calls which he recorded with the man you heard. His name is Ajmal. And Kirk is trying to talk him through the crowds and the confusion and chaos around the airport in Afghanistan to try to get Ajmal and his family past all the barriers hopefully onto a plane and out of the country. All of this is happening over the phone from half a world away. Nancy Updike here has known Kirk for many years. She talked to him about what happened. Here's Nancy. Kirk did not know Ajmal before Monday night. He never met him. He just heard this was a person who needed help-- one of the many people who needed help whose names have been piling up in these threads Kirk has been on all week-- group chats with US veterans active military current and former diplomats and aid workers some Afghan citizens of the US and other countries all on their phones day and night trying to help Afghans get out.