From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. All right you are turning your laptop so we can both look? Turning the laptop so that we can both watch this. That is my co-worker Emanuele Berry standing up to show me a clip from an old film on her computer. This is something that she is shown lots of people since she first saw it. It is from an old Soviet movie from 1936. OK so this is a film called The Circus. It is kind of like the Russian version of It is a Wonderful Life. It is that classic black and white movie that comes on TV all the time that is heartwarming that everybody knows. But then when I saw what was happening I was like what is happening? Um yeah I am going to hit Play. OK.  So there is this beautiful blonde woman. She is singing in the center of the circus tent. She is an American who has come to Russia to perform. And then this man just starts screaming stop the show stop the show.  So let me explain who he is. He is German. To be honest he looks a little like Hitler-- the mustache or whatever. Oh and it is 1936 so Hitler's on the rise. Yes. And he is in love with this American circus star but she is rejected him. And so to get revenge he is going to reveal her secret to the world the secret that she is been keeping throughout the entire film. And then he brings out this Black baby.  Then the baby's like a toddler size. Yeah maybe two. And then the German he runs up the stairs and he holds the baby up almost like Simba. And he starts shaking the baby and screaming she slept with a Negro.  She gave birth to a Black child. You are reading the subtitles? Now he is shaking this child over and over again. He is like a Black child a Black child.   And then this guy comes up to him this Russian guy in the audience. And he is like what is the problem? And the German guy says it is a Black child. A white woman gave birth to a Black child. And while the Russian guy just literally shrugged his shoulders. Yeah he shrugged his shoulders. And he says so what?  And the German guy goes off on this speech and puts the baby down. And the toddler he just sort of walks off. And people in the audience they sweep the baby up in their arms. To protect the baby from this guy. Yeah. And so they are passing this Black kid around all of these white Russian folks. And they are laughing at the guy. Yeah. He is like why are you laughing? Why is this funny? Remember it is 1936. In the US we are more than 30 years before interracial marriage is legal everywhere. I mean it is Jim Crow. Black people are still being lynched. And to see this scene where this guy is being told by all these white people mind you you are crazy this is no big deal I am like what is happening here? And as I started to do more research I learned that this was part of Soviet propaganda for decades-- this message America is racist WE are not. In the 1920s and 1930s African-Americans they actually moved to the Soviet Union because it was promising a better life. The boy in the film that Black baby is actually the son of an African-American who moved to the Soviet Union in the 1930s. Wow. And I have not gotten to the last bit of the scene which is actually my favorite part of the whole thing. So this Russian woman is cradling the baby rocking it back and forth. And then she starts singing to him. Mr. Dreams stepping soft maketh he no noise. Yeah. So she is totally putting this baby to sleep. Yeah they are putting the baby to sleep. Yeah. And then she passes the baby to this next person. And it just becomes this thing where they are embracing this child one from the next rocking it back and forth and singing to it. The other thing that is happening in the scene is that they are all singing in different languages. The Soviet Union at this time there are all these different ethnic groups. And then there they are all embracing this Black baby.   When I am watching this Black baby being embraced I wonder was it true? Would Black people really be embraced like that? And for the-- In the Soviet Union? In the Soviet Union. And for the African-Americans who went over there and left to escape racism did they somehow actually escape racism? Because that is a question that I think about a lot. Can I go somewhere in the world and escape racism? Yeah. I had a year or two where I really thought about this a lot. I was working as a journalist in Ferguson covering months of protests and a community-- really I was covering a community that was in crisis after the shooting death of Michael Brown. And I just had this experience where I felt like I would just seen some of the worst parts of American racism from watching people threaten other people because of the color of their skin to just looking day after day at the social inequalities that exist in St. Louis and the structural things like redlining. And it was kind of hopeless. I really felt kind of hopeless about it at least at the time. And I was a little bit like I think I just have to leave here. I used to almost play this game as a coping mechanism where I would think about where in the world can I go? I would talk to my friends about Ghana or Central America or places in the Caribbean. I am like do you think it is better there? Would it be better there to be a Black person there? And so seeing this film made you wonder about Russia and did it work out for the Black Americans who moved there? I do not necessarily think that Russia is a better place to live as a Black person. But for those people who did move there in the 1930s and their kids and their grandkids what role did race end up playing in their lives? How did it work out for them? That is actually the thing that we are going to be talking about in general in today's program. We have stories of people who decide I am going to go somewhere I am going to move there I am going to try to fit in. And we see what happens. And for Act One an act we are calling Black in the USSR-- Aw that is cheesy. You came up with that name. I know but I was joking.  But it is good.  Anyway for that act Emanuele you looked for descendants of those African-American expats in Russia and just explain who you found. OK. So the woman that I found her name is Yelena Khanga. And she wrote this book called Soul to Soul. She is a Black Russian born and raised there. And I do not know I sort of felt a connection to her the more I read about her because she is a college athlete like I was. She is a journalist like I am. Her grandfather is from the same county in Mississippi that my grandmother is from. Wow. And I do not know I sort of just felt connected in a way. How did you find me? Like originally? Yeah. Uh your book. Oh you read the book OK. I read the book yeah. So like I said Yelena is a journalist. She had a successful talk show in Moscow. They call her the Russian Oprah which is almost definitely because she is Black and had a talk show. It was her grandparents who moved to Russia back in the 1930s. They had a leftist New York version of a rom-com meet-cute. Her grandmother Bertha was a Polish Jew who'd been arrested at a women's rights demonstration. Her grandfather Oliver Golden was Black and had been arrested down the street at a human rights demonstration. And they met at the jail. And in the morning the rabbi came to bail my grandmother out. And my grandmother said oh wonderful. Could you please bail me out together with my new friend Oliver Golden. The rabbi her father saw that Oliver was Black. And her father looked at her and said well you are staying in jail with your new friend and left them there. And that is how their love story began. That is a weird matchmaker situation.  But it worked. The couple did not see a future for themselves in America so they decided to go to the Soviet Union. Oliver had visited before and they wanted to help build Lenin's great new society one that promised no racism. Oliver and Bertha settled in Uzbekistan. My grandfather thought there would be some kind of a kinship between African-Americans and dark-skinned Uzbek people. That is why he chose to go there. And he worked as an expert in cotton. Yes her grandfather left the American South and traveled halfway around the world to work in cotton. He developed a new breed of cotton that would work for Uzbekistan's short growing season. And life was good. They made good money had a nice apartment a nanny for when their daughter Lily was born in 1934. Oliver wanted her to have everything he thought white kids got in the United States so Lily had language tutors music and tennis lessons. But their lives got harder after they became full Soviet citizens and lost their foreigner status. And after Stalin began to solidify his power they started to live like everybody else. Oliver died in 1940. Lily grew up and went to college in Moscow. She married a politician from Zanzibar Yelena's dad. He died shortly after Yelena's birth so the only consistent Black presence in her life was her mom. The neighborhood she grew up in-- all white. From a very young age being Black meant constantly explaining herself to the world. My best friend was Sasha. He was a neighbor. And since my childhood I thought he was my brother because we were together all the time. So in the street when somebody would ask me why are you Black he would say number one she is my sister. Number two she is Black because her father was from Africa. And guess what? Everybody's Black in Africa. And they would say yeah but she was born in Moscow. She is supposed to be white. And he says OK Yelena if somebody else asks you the question about color we are just beating them right away. So we were known in the neighborhood as the most cruel fighter. He taught me how to fight. He told me you take a bottle you break the bottle and with whatever is left you just put in their face. So we were bad kids in the neighborhood. This was when she was only seven years old. So Russia was not some racism-free utopia. People like Yelena obviously came up against what I would call racism. But when I asked Yelena about it-- That was not racism. That was curiosity. That was ignorance but not racism. This happened a lot in our conversation. Yelena would tell a story about some experience that sounded honestly horrible to me but she would always insist that it was not racism or discrimination. It was ignorance. I think that ignorance can be and often is racism. But I did not want to debate that fact so much as understand how she thought about it. Although people commented on it Yelena did not think too much about the color of her skin when she was a child. She did not feel different because she was Black but because her family came from America. It was not until she started thinking about boys and love that she thought more and more about the way she looked how much she stood out from everyone else. And I would ask my mother Mom why am I so ugly? Why is my nose so big? Why are my lips so huge? And she would say no you are beautiful. And then she would ask her American friends to bring American magazines Black and Lovely-- I think it was called Black and Lovely. And my mom would show me those magazines and say look those beautiful women you look just like them. And I would take this. I was so proud I would take this magazine bring it to Sasha and other friends in the street and say look I am just like them. And they would say Yelena this is a very strange magazine. Why is everybody Black in it? Do not bring those magazines anymore. And I felt so lonely because I did not have anybody just like me. I had assumed that there would be a little community of all the Black Russians that they would stick together and hang out all the time. But it sounds like Yelena did not have that was not around people that looked like her not even her mom really. Lily was much lighter and gorgeous according to Yelena. Just for the record when I met Yelena I thought she was gorgeous. There is something regal about her. It is hard to imagine her as a self-conscious teenager but she was. My mother would always remind me. Let us say she would tell me be careful with boys. They would not date you because they love you but because they would want to try dating a Black girl. And that is why my self-esteem was damaged probably because I did not trust any Russian guy that would approach me. And I did not believe that somebody would fall in love with me at all sincerely. I wanted to know the ways in which being Black shaped Yelena's life in Russia. And to hear her tell it her family was never denied an apartment because of their race. She was never put into an inferior school because of her race. She was never singled out by law enforcement because of her race. There was not that kind of institutional racism. But she was lonely. She felt undesirable. Being Black made it hard for her to imagine a future with a partner. So much of my conversation with her was about wanting to find her person her strong desire to find someone and her fear that she would not. Despite her insecurities Yelena was popular and accomplished. She took music lessons spoke perfect English and was an excellent tennis player just as her grandfather would have wanted. Her mother constantly reminded her that she had to be better than everyone else. Apparently you still have to be twice as good in the Soviet Union. She was recruited to play tennis at one of the country's top universities and accepted into their prestigious journalism program. She had so much going for her but she still felt like no boy would ever want to date her until she met Vaisa. He was a chess champion. And well I started in Moscow State University so I was a tennis player. He was a chess player. And LAUGHING we were a beautiful couple. And he had a very rough time dating me. Then the coach physical training coach of the university called his parents and said do you know that he is dating a Black girl? And they said well yes. Why? What is wrong? And he said because she will get pregnant and she will marry him. Then his parents called my mother and said if you think that your daughter will make our son marry your daughter you are wrong. And then my mom said if you think that my daughter will marry your son you are damn wrong. There is no way my gorgeous daughter will marry your ugly son. And it was just going back and forth back and forth. So he felt that he had to demonstrate that no matter what he will be with me. So he started missing his classes. And he would come to my classes and sit there. So the teachers from his classes would write him you have to attend. You have to attend. Boom boom boom. So the end of the story was very sad. He was kicked out of university for missing classes and he was taken to the army. Wait he had to go to the army? Yeah yeah. If you are kicked out of university you have to go to the army. Wow. So that was my first experience dating a Russian boy. Yeah-- a pretty dramatic end to a first relationship. But the drama did not stop there for Yelena. A few years later she dated a Russian guy from Veronezh a small town about a day's drive away from Moscow. They went to visit his parents and stay for the weekend. One morning she came back from the shower and caught her boyfriend's mother examining the bed sheets. And later I asked my boyfriend what was she looking? And he said well she never saw people of color so she thought that the sheets would be turned to-- and she was very surprised that they were clean. But again it was not racism it was pure ignorance-- pure ignorance. And this woman adored me later. So but I felt that enough is enough and it is time for me to be with people that knows who I am that do not look at my sheets and do not ask stupid questions. Something was missing for Yelena in Russia. And like me and her grandparents she decided to look elsewhere for answers. She thought she would find them in the very country that her grandparents had fled-- America. Yelena had heard about American racism but she still thought she would be better off in the USA. When we saw Eddie Murphy when we heard about Arthur Ash when we heard about those brilliant musicians and jazz musicians and all of them were Black and very very very successful. So when my grandmother would start telling me about racism I would say yeah yeah yeah right and think about all those very famous African-American athletes that would be laughing all the way to the bank. So I felt that I would be understood much better by people like me. And in fact yes I was dreaming about going to United States and marrying an African-American. When you pictured and dreamed of going to America what did that life look like? How would this guy look like? The man of my dream?  I said life but I guess we could also get a description of the guy. Uh yeah. See I was not really dreaming about skyscrapers and you know capitalism and all that. I did not understand about that but I just felt that-- what is this song? SINGING One day da da da dum he will be tall and Black. Da da da dum. Whose song was that? One Day Your Prince Will Come The Sleeping Beauty. Yeah. Yes. Actually It is The Man I Love. It is Gershwin not Disney. But what do I know? My parents almost exclusively listened to Stevie Wonder's Inner Visions for most of my childhood. I was expecting to meet a prince that would look like me. And he would look at me and he would say oh my God you are so gorgeous. Because even the guy that really really loved me Vaisa in the university he used to call me Monkey. He called me Monkey with love. He did not realize that that was insulting. And I never told him that in America that would be insulting. But you know in Russia guys would call their girls Rabbit-- I do not know-- my cat. Well he called me My Monkey. And I could not explain to him that that was racist because I knew he was not a racist. That is just how he called me. And I felt OK if I look like a monkey and so what? Wait. So this guy called you Monkey and you did not say hey you cannot do that? But he did not insult me. He did not mean to insult me he loved me. And as I told you he was punished for this love.  I would have trouble with that one.  I know. I know. I know it sounds terrible to you. I know. Yelena moved to America in 1989. She was 27 years old and she built a life for herself there. She worked as a journalist. She made friends Black friends. She loved to go to Black churches and listen to gospel music live. She went to salons that actually knew how to style Black hair. And she found her Black Prince Charming. He was perfect. He was perfect. He was playing tennis. He loved jazz. He liked classical music. He was just perfect for me. They dated for a few years. Yelena was sure he was going to propose. And then one night he invited her out to a fancy restaurant. So I got dressed. I prepared. I knew how I will answer him. So we go to this restaurant very fancy restaurant. And the reception they tell us that we are sorry it is packed. But there is just one place near the bathroom. And he says no no no we are not taking it. And I said no? Why not? He says well I want to sit near the window. I said well it does not really matter-- window bathroom. I mean it is clean. The food is the same. Because I wanted to hear the proposal OK? I did not care where we were sitting. Fair. Yes. Yeah. So he said no. And he said Yelena you do not understand. Our grandparents were fighting they were dying for the right to sit at the window not at the bathroom. And I said you know in Russia unless you bribe you will not get a table regardless of your color. As long as you are green you will get it. So please stop feeling so insecure. And he said you know what? We would never understand each other. You are Black outside but you are white inside. You do not understand what we went through. And that was the end of our proposal. Was that the end of your relationship? Yes. Yes yes because it showed that we were so different. And he said that we would never understand each other. She agreed. They had different pain points. In Russia she had not experienced the kind of institutional racism he had. And she said her boyfriend could not possibly feel the things that upset her as a Russian the way she felt them. Do you feel like you fully understand African-American-- the sort of pain points? Or no? I understand them but I do not feel them. That is the difference. The things that upsets let us say African-Americans I can see why that upsets but it does not hurt. When he said to you you are Black on the outside but you are white on the inside what was your reaction to that? I thought he was stupid. I said how could I be Black and white inside? I mean I am who I am. And the things that I went through you do not understand. Did you guys ever talk about race before the argument that you had in the restaurant? Was that a conversation you guys had or not at all? No he-- no we did not talk about that. No. Did it surprise you when it came up in the restaurant? Yes it did because I still do not believe that if they did not offer us a place near the window it meant that it was racism. I still do not believe so. So for you it feels easier just to sort of give a little bit of the benefit of the doubt or be like I cannot know for sure what the intention was so I have to let it go. Yes I do not know for sure and I do not want to think about it. I do not want to damage my nerve system by thinking about that. I will never know the truth number one. Number two it can be both. Number two it can be both. And number three what difference does it make? It is so interesting that you say that just because I feel like it is a thing we do all the time in America is that we replay out these moments of discomfort for each other in the Black community over and over and over again. What for? What for? What are you gaining? If you told me that I did that and as a result this restaurant was closed for example or as a result this waiter was kicked out that makes sense. But why going through that again and again and again without any results? Why scratching the place until the first blood on your body? But I think part of the reason we do it is to recognize that this is happening. Like we must acknowledge that this is happening. We cannot pretend it is not happening. Yes I acknowledge it. But again if I would sit down at home and start oh they did it because I am Jewish no they did it because I am Black. No they did it because my grandparents are American. No they did it because of that and that and that. You know there is no end to that. I think for many Black Americans there is a curiosity a need to understand and explore that constant unease we experience. Because I am Black is my doctor giving me proper care? Because I am Black am I here to fill a diversity quota? Because I am Black am I being pulled over? Part of what it means to be Black here part of what draws us together is investigation of that discomfort. There is communal reassurance in that. I know that Black people are not a monolith. Yet the fact that Yelena did not have this curiosity surprised me. But it also made sense. Yelena did not have an echo chamber of injustices growing up. I can talk to my hairstylist my trainer my family and say hey this thing happened. Yelena had no community to share with nobody to co-sign. Her problems were not those of Black people but her own. I want to be clear. Being Black is not some joyless exercise for me. I would not trade it for the world. I am not moping about. But Yelena's right about one thing-- thinking about race all the time is exhausting. But I cannot let it go and I tried to explain to her why. I feel like part of it is like there are small things that I feel like in some ways add up to one really big problem that just still has not been solved. That it is like it is small things that add up to feeling like you do not belong here that the country that you have always existed in does not want you. And I do not know. I feel-- See I had this dream that yes somewhere there was another world where I belonged to. And this is America. Now with you I do not understand where your dream house is. I do not know where my dream house is. I do not know exactly where this place is. Back to Africa right? Are you talking about going to Africa? I do not think so. I do not even think it is necessarily back to Africa. I think I do not know if this place exists. I think it is just this place in some ways still does not accept me after all of this time and that maybe this is as good as it gets and maybe there is not another place or a better option. Do you think it is silly that I think about these things so much? Yes. I think it is silly that you think about it so much. There are more important things in your life that you do not have to waste your time on things that you cannot change. And you do not have to change those people. If that is how they are I do not think you have to waste your life on changing them. You just drop them and go on with your life. Do not worry about the things you cannot change. Sometimes I think Yelena's right that I am silly for obsessing over this stuff. And I wonder if maybe she is better off for not having spent her entire life puzzling and picking over every interaction with white people that maybe her grandparents moving to the USSR helped her bypass parts of America's particular brand of racism. But maybe I never really had a choice. Race specifically Black and white is such an integral part of living in this country. Yelena insists I have bigger things to worry about. But honestly I cannot think of anything that affects me more. Being a Black American is what keeps me from feeling like I truly belong in this country. Have you ever felt like you belonged somewhere? Have you ever found that place? You know what? For me it is not where it is more with whom. That is what was important for me when I lived in the United States. It was important that I was surrounded by people I really loved. It does not matter where I am. As long as I am surrounded by love that is all that matters. I wish that surrounding myself with people I love solved my problem. I am surrounded by people I love. A lot of those people are Black. And as long as I feel threatened on behalf of all of them I cannot stop wishing there was a better place for us. Yelena's better place turned out to be right where she started. She lived in the USA for 12 years and might have stayed but then she met her husband-- a white Russian man. And they moved to Moscow where he did treat her like a princess. It was hard to find a Black salon in Moscow back then so he would fly her to Paris just to get her hair done. Emanuele Berry is one of the producers of our show. Thanks to Yelena Demikovsky who is making a documentary about Black Russians that includes Yelena Khanga. Coming up a guy gets kicked out of a thing he had no idea he could get kicked out of. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Get Back to Where You Once Belonged stories of people who do not feel quite at home where they are searching for their place and their people. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two Nowhere Man. So this story is about somebody who felt like he really had found his place in the world-- a job he was good at a group of people that he liked and admired. And then he got kicked out and kicked out in this way he did not even know was a possibility. Reporter Jeremy Raff explains. Raul Rodriguez is like a lot of the dads I grew up with in Texas but somehow even more so. He fixes his own truck kills his own goats. And when you walk into his living room there is two buck heads on the wall a big TV and in the middle of it all the thing he is most proud of on a little shelf encased in plexiglass. This is my Department of Justice badge or the Immigration Inspector badge that was-- It is kind of surprising that Raul ended up working for immigration given how he first met those guys. He grew up in Mission Texas right by the border. He would go back and forth between Mexico and the US all the time. And when he crossed the border agents would always stop him bust his chops ask for his papers. He would always show them-- here's my birth certificate born in Brownsville Texas. But they were jerks about it. By the time Raul was a teenager he says it was like a ritual. The officer usually kind of looks at you and then starts saying OK what is your name? Says you know why we are bringing you in here? And I go yeah pretty much. He wanted to know if I am a citizen or not. And I says well I am. And he says well we know you are not. And I says OK well show me. Oh you know we cannot show you. And I tell him come on man. I have been here many times and it is not right for you to harass me like this. I do not know why because I do not look the part. I do not look as US citizen-y enough as you want me to. My features are very Hispanic very Mexican. Eventually after a bit they would let him go every time. He was going back and forth across the border so much because his parents were in Mexico and he lived with his aunt and uncle in Texas. It was not a great situation. His cousins never really accepted him. They beat him up. At family functions his aunt and uncle would introduce their own kids first then him. He says he was an afterthought at best. I got called from bastard to a Negro because I was different from their color. I was very dark compared to them. They were very light-skinned. And I do not know what the translation would be a arrimado. Do you know what I am talking about? Arrimado that word arrimado it is a relative that just stays there like a leech. When Raul would visit his parents during the summers he would beg to stay. He hated living in Texas but they always sent him back. Your mom gave birth to you on the US side so you could be a citizen they would say. It is going to be better for you there. Trust us. Eventually Raul says it did get better. After high school when he joined the Navy the structure the order the authority he liked it which led him to law enforcement. After the Navy he became an immigration officer just like the officers who harassed him when he was a teenager. He even got assigned to the same bridge he used to cross back then. Some of the very same officers who doubted his citizenship were now his co-workers. I had this one inspector that is a female. And when I showed up for work for the first day I told her remember me? She says no I do not remember you. Oh you used to take me inside and you wanted to break me. And she says was I mean? I go yes you were very mean-- tried to intimidate me a lot. And oh I am sorry. From the beginning Raul was a very thorough officer. For example one day this guy comes through who Raul knows really well. He used to work with him in a furniture factory. The guy was like an uncle to him. He is coming from Mexico into the United States. Raul checks his papers and it turns out the guy had a tourist visa which does not let you work. Raul revoked the visa-- took it away did not let the guy in. For a while at one point they called me El Gacho. Kind of like pain in the ass. Because I would not let anything through. I had to do it. I did not let anybody slack. Raul was not just thorough. His wife told me there are a lot of slugs in federal government. Raul was not one of them. He is an above and beyond guy a standout. And he stood out more and more because it is pretty well documented Customs and Border Protection or CBP had some ugly instances of corruption bribery drug smugglers infiltrating. By contrast Raul was a total Boy Scout. He even won an award. In 2006 a woman approached him while he was buying cigarettes at the gas station. She asked him if he would look the other way while she smuggled in a kid and pushed a little piece of paper in his hand with her number on it. Raul set up a sting. And the next time they met he wore a wire. She was later arrested. CBP gave Raul its integrity award one of their highest honors. His bosses flew him to Washington for a big ceremony. Raul got to wear his finest uniform. His kids were there. They got to see him walk across the stage and shake the commissioner's hand. And they gave him a plaque which these days sits in a place of honor near the deer heads in his living room. And in his personal life too he was totally by the book. He was taught not to fraternize with anyone breaking immigration laws. It could cost you your job. So you have to cut ties with anybody that is had that kind of a history. Well everybody has people who are illegally in the US so you have to cut 