OK so there is of course a seismic historic change going on right now in the Republican Party this year. And one of our producers Zoe Chace told me about this place where you can eavesdrop on a group of friends idealistic Republican friends as they fret and cope and argue about that change week after week. And there is a lot of pain. Zoe has been covering Donald Trump and the Republican Party for our show all year and every week she listens to this podcast called Ricochet as soon as it goes up. The three hosts of Ricochet describe themselves as center-right. They are basically Reagan Republicans. In fact one of them was actually a Reagan speechwriter. And like old school Republicans all over the country this year they have been trying to square their old school conservative ideals with their game changing nominee and with what they see their party turning into. Here's Zoe. And the thing that is emerged is one of the hosts Rob Long he cannot be convinced to get behind Donald Trump. And he is in pain over the whole thing. And then one of the other hosts Peter Robinson is a reluctant Trump supporter. And he brings on people that try to make all of them feel OK about supporting the Republican nominee for president. And Rob Long just is not buying it. Like one time this scholar named Larry Arnn who is also president of Hillsdale College he came on the show with research into Donald Trump's writings and statements going back years. And we find things going back to 1990 or in '91 and they are consistent. Donald Trump is engaged in a major assault upon the regulatory state. And it is the most full-throated one that I have heard since Ronald Reagan. Rob Long is also on the line. I am having a mini stroke here. Rob we will come to you in a moment. And then Rob comes in always in pain. I guess I would start by saying something from the movie Jaws-- I would be worried a lot less if I thought you were worried a little more. The idea that you have used the word consistent to describe Donald Trump is to me ludicrous. Have you followed Donald Trump's business career? He has been an emphatic full-throated supporter of government intervention. He has used those levers to get buildings built and to get bankruptcies disposed of. I do not know what-- Rob is now curled into a little ball I think. I retreat to my Never-Trump safe room. Zoe and I invited Rob Long into our studio to talk about how Donald Trump is changing the party. Rob Long says that it is pained him hearing his friends say we have to win this year. Winning under those principles is really not worth it. I mean win? Win and what? Raise tariffs 25 on imports? It is crazy. That is a crazy crazy crazy ignorant idea. And I think that Trump is not even-- I mean this thing on the bus the audio on the bus I mean anyone who was surprised by that? I mean give me a break. We knew he talks like that. To me it is more like at any point Trump could have chosen to be a big person. He could have chosen. He could have just sat there in Trump Tower and said You know I am going to have a speech about how great Martin Luther King was and how great America is and how we all need to come together. I am going to give a big-- somebody write me a big speech. I do not know the words. You give me the words but I want a big big big speech. He could have done that. It would have cost him zero. He just chose each time the small route. And I just find that offensive. I just am offended by that. I think it is a great great great gift to run for president. It is a great gift to be an American. And for him to do that and to treat it that way callously that is wrong. But it is not just Trump. For all three Ricochet guys what is disturbing is the issues that Republican voters are abandoning this year and the issues they have decided to move towards. In one of their episodes the Ricochet hosts had this Republican political guy Avik Roy who is been a policy adviser to Marco Rubio and Rick Perry and Mitt Romney during their presidential campaigns. I interviewed him too. Roy has gotten some attention in the press for saying how dismayed he is that traditional Republican ideals have been cast aside this year. He says the issue these days that really animates Republican voters is immigration. What the party is about is racial resentment. What I saw the Republican Party becoming was a vehicle for the grievance of disaffected whites who believed that the Republican Party should be an interest group for whites. Do you feel like this is your party the party that you see now? No I do not. And I do not know if I consider myself a Republican anymore. I think the Republican Party is a lost cause. I do not think the Republican party is capable of fixing itself because the people who are most passionate about voting Republican today are the Trump voters. And what politician is going to want to throw those voters away to attract some unknown coalition of the future? This is the big question for all these guys- what is their party going to be after November 8? What is it going to stand for? Again here's Rob Long. Look everybody I know who is in my position is just sitting there waiting and seeing. We are going to sit and wait and see. December 1 we will probably start climbing out from the smoking ruin and say anybody else alive around here? It will be like The Walking Dead right? We are going to try to come up with bands of people and walk across the country and just not get ourselves killed or eaten and hook up with people we think are not insane or horrible or in some way murderous. That is exactly what it is going to be like. The problem for old school traditional Republicans like Rob Long and Avik Roy is that all the things that they saw as the central tenants of their party-- free trade cut entitlements shrink government- what they learned this election is that their fellow Republicans do not care about that stuff. Well lots of them do not anyway. The ones who voted for Trump in the primaries which was 45 of Republican primary votes what those people voted for instead was pull the drawbridge up close the borders protect American jobs. Very different from the old Republican values. Rob Long says that after the election the two sides are going to have to rethink what the party is. It is going to be a fight for the soul of their party right? Those two groups cannot occupy the party at the same time. And does rethinking mean that it makes you think oh well maybe let us get rid of the entitlement reform. Let us not argue for cutting Medicare and Social Security. People do not like that. Yeah but the whole point of being Republican is that you are supposed to say things that people do not like but that are true anyway. Like nobody wants to put missiles in West Germany but that is how you beat back the Soviet menace. Nobody wants to say to a 35- or 30-year-old wage earner by the way your retirement age is going to be 73 or 75. So just take care of yourself or do not. But in any case you better save something. Nobody wants to say those things. Nobody really wants to be the party of that. Yeah. But that is what being a Republican means-- you are supposed to say the stuff that is true even if nobody wants to hear it. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life.. I am Ira Glass. The fact is this fight over what the Republican Party is going to be it is already happening. It is not waiting for the election. It is happening right now. The battlegrounds are all over the country. And that is what our program is about today. We take you to one town. It is one of the front lines. Meanwhile in Washington like right now the Republican leadership well for months Zoe's been saying that basically they seem to be going through the same thing the Ricochet guys are. They are looking at their own party and they are saying wait. Is that us? Like what is happening? So you look at somebody like Paul Ryan Speaker of the House right or Reince Priebus who is head of the RNC and even somebody like John McCain. It is like they have been fighting this battle for their ideals to run the country. And they thought they had this big band of voters behind them. And then with Paul Ryan in particular it feels like he just turned around and he is like oh my god. Nobody's there. Right Republican voters rejected those ideas when they voted for Trump. But then Ryan is still going around trying to sell them on cutting Social Security and the kind of traditional Republican stuff which Ryan has put together into a plan he calls A Better Way. Yeah in this election people do not want that. Also at the personal level-- Ryan is this super disciplined guy who exercises and he is careful about his diet and he is a policy nerd and he is polite and he is kind of proper. And he is watching his voters cheering this guy who is the total opposite. It seems incredibly lonely for Ryan. And it looks incredibly sad and it looks very very painful. And for months Zoe you have been saying that these Republican leaders just seemed like tragic figures to you like somebody should write a tragic opera. Someone should. As you know because of your wish we considered commissioning a tragic opera about Paul Ryan or Reince Priebus. Mhm. And then we decided as a staff-- You preferred a musical. A musical is more fun than an opera. That is correct. And with that in mind I am pleased to present now not a musical but a song a world premiere by Robert Lopez and Kristen Anderson-Lopez. They did the songs in Frozen. And basically we told them that Paul Ryan has all kinds of feelings that he cannot express publicly right now but they are the sort of feelings that a person might sing. Could they help us imagine those feelings? Neil Patrick Harris sings the part of Paul Ryan. SINGING I knew some time ago you did not want what I could give you anymore. I knew some time ago this was not the party that it was for us before. The truth sets in but the dream persists. I do not believe you are all white nationalists. It hurt to see you running to him. I hope in time you will see right through him. And I will be there when the nightmare has ended. Yes I will be there in the light of day. Turn your back on that troll you befriended. Then come on back to me when you are ready for a better way. I know he is what you want. I know he says the things that make your passions flare. I know he is fun and all. Maybe I am no fun but it is because I truly care. It is only for your sake that I endorsed. I am sure you could tell it was completely forced. Now the guy is calling me a wussy. I wish I could grab him by the lapels and tell him-- I will be there to pick up all the pieces. I will be there no matter what they say. Cut him loose and do not let him near your nieces. Then come on back to me because you will be ready for a better way. Cut Medicare. A better way! More fossil fuels! A better way! Social Security privatization! Get the poor off welfare for good. Defund Planned Parenthood. Gay marriage abortion and gun control are all unconstitutional. Your conservative ideals no spending tastes as good as a balanced budget feels. And I will be there with policies a plenty. Yes I will be there rising above the fray. You will see me one fine day in 2020. At least I hope you will. God I hope there is still a better way. Neil Patrick Harris. The orchestrator and music director for our song was Stephen Oremus. Which leads us to Act 1 Party in the USA. One way to track the changes in the Republican Party and understand the split inside the party is to look at immigration. Obviously it was Donald Trump's biggest issue during the primaries. There was the wall. There was the ban on Muslims. He even opposed certain forms of legal immigration like the H-1b visa program. Remember that guy Avik Roy the one you heard a little earlier who advised Marco Rubio and Rick Perry and Mitt Romney during their presidential campaigns? Avik Roy believes that immigration is the issue that is deciding Republican presidential primaries now. He says that he watched two of his candidates Rick Perry and Marco Rubio get into situations where Republicans simply would not forgive them because of their positions on immigration. They were seen as soft. Rubio would get booed at grassroots events. Perry went from being the frontrunner in the Republican primaries back in 2011. He was far ahead of the other candidates in fact but got knocked out of first place after a debate on September 22 that year where Romney attacked Perry on this issue and Perry was booed. The crowd booed and overnight Rick Perry went from first to fifth in the race. What was remarkable about that was that Rick Perry in every other way was a rock-ribbed conservative on every other issue. But because of that one issue immigration the equation flipped and the voters went with Romney over Perry. He was sunk. So immigration is this urgent emotional issue for much of the Republican Party these days. But why? The facts on the ground on this issue are not changing dramatically. There is not a big surge of new immigrants into the country all of a sudden. As we talked about last week on our show illegal immigration has been flat since 2009. Legal immigration has fallen in the last decade. So why is this the issue now? Why not the deficit or the slow economic recovery or the squeeze on the middle class or taxes? Like why a wall? All this year when our producer Zoe Chace was at Trump rallies and Republican events around the country she would ask voters why is this your issue? Did you lose your job to a foreigner? Do you live in a place that is been negatively impacted by immigrants? And people were like no. It is hard to understand how this became the issue for so many people this year. And then in July when Zoe was at the Republican National Convention she met somebody. And she heard about a place that gave her a better sense of why. The person is Bobby Benson. The place is Minnesota. I first met Bobby at a barbecue at the convention right outside the arena. He was drinking beers at a picnic table with the rest of the Minnesota delegation. And he would brought along his best friend Scott. These two grew up together in Hugo Minnesota. They used to have similar views but they have split recently. Scott's saying stuff that drives Bobby crazy. For instance they disagree on that thing that is splitting the party the main plank of Trump's platform-- immigration. Scott addresses the whole picnic table. The wall's coming. And who is going to pay for it everybody? Mexico! Your friend just choked on his beer. I know. Bobby basically does a spit take. He is anti-wall. I guess I just believe that America is for everyone. And the symbolism of a wall is just-- it is not me. Scott Bobby points out had a wall around his house when they were kids. So maybe that is why he loves it so much. You should have seen this guy's house growing up. He had a nine-foot fence. I am not lying at all. A nine-foot wooden fence. You could not even see between the slats. I am not lying at all! They just wanted us to be safe and secure. Bobby's very Minnesotan to me what I have in my head as Minnesotan anyway. He is got this round pleasant face. He cannot handle hot sauce or anything spicy. He actually says I do not like anything with flavor. And he is really really nice. He does not like to disagree or call people out. This has put him in a hard position lately. The GOP just wrote build a wall into its platform. Which means Bobby's views on immigration are in no way represented at this convention. It is uncomfortable for him because he loves being a Republican like really loves it. He is got school spirit. This should be a fun party for him but he is feeling weird about it. Bobby's friends go into the arena. We stay outside and watch Newt Gingrich on this huge television screen. He is scrupulously listing all the terrorist attacks committed by Muslims over the past 37 days. Let me refresh your memory. And that is when Bobby spills what is bothering him. He is like speaking of Muslims there is a large Somali population in St. Cloud Minnesota right near where Bobby lives. And people are furious. It is insane up there. I feel so bad. He is dodging the mic at first but then he tells me this upsetting story. A few months ago Bobby was at an Applebee's in Coon Rapids. It is like an hour away from St. Cloud. And this hate crime unfolded right in front of him. This woman this-- I do not know if she was Somali-- this African woman was with two of her friends and their children just minding their business. And they happened to be speaking Somali or whatever language. And this other white woman and her husband took offense to it and just started cursing at them in the restaurant like speak English you are awful this that. And one thing leads to another. And the management in Applebee's great people they kicked the angry couple out. And they are working on that. And the woman has one of those big beer glasses and just sloshes it in her face. And again strictly because a group of people were not speaking English. And then she sets her drink down. They start walking out and she picks up her drink and smashes it in the woman's face. And then just pandemonium erupts. The kids are crying. The African woman's face was cut up and bloody from the glass. The incident made the news. Lots of people heard about it and talked about it. What happened that night was horrifying enough but what really started upsetting Bobby was the conversation about it afterwards. Some people around him were siding with the woman who smashed the glass not the victim. Talking to other people about it they say simple things like well you know she could have just been speaking English. And it is like oh well they could have just left well enough alone. It is like no! Every time I asked Bobby to explain who exactly was talking this way Bobby would squirm in his seat and hold his breath like a kid scared to tattle tale. Like he was being disloyal. I have to choose my words very carefully. A lot of them are my friends and they are like good people. I know people who-- I am trying to think of the most-- no well can we pause this for a second. Basically he does not want other Republicans in St. Cloud Minnesota to think he thinks they are being racist. These are his friends and family he is talking about. He let me start recording again. I do not know. You understand where I am at the precarious wanting to be-- I definitely do not want to have it out there like look this is Bobby Benson saying these people are wrong. Even though they are wrong I do not-- And just why? Because I want to be part of steering the party at least at a local level to a better place. You cannot change things if you are not at the table. And that is what Bobby wants to do. He wants to change things in his party. I have been looking to understand better how Republicans were dividing over this immigration stuff. And here were Bobby and Scott and this whole city of Republicans who used to mostly agree on stuff. And now these Republicans have ended up on opposite sides of a wall. Bobby told me he started freaking out about this exactly one year ago. It was in July of 2015 at a town hall meeting in St. Cloud. And I wish all of you guys would give him a big hand here at Aces. This is Bobby's local congressman Tom Emmer. They are at the Aces Bar in downtown St. Cloud. The room is packed. People are squished in around the bar. This is one of many town halls Emmer does regularly all over the district. And it is going normally a little awkwardly till this guy says I think most of us are here to find out how you feel about assimilation of immigrants. Assimilation of immigrants. The congressman is confused so the questioner clarifies. We did not ask for those Somalis. Nobody asked us if we in St. Cloud want those Somalis. And we understand that social groups like the Lutheran social service and the Catholic charities they are dumping them in areas like St. Cloud. OK and so the question is how many more are coming? We did not ask for these people. Everybody that you read about is talking about this. So that is a main issue in this city. There is no control. The people have no control over any immigration. The mayor does not. I do not know. Congressman Emmer is like what are you even talking about it? If someone's here legally you do not get a say in whether they come into your city. And he fires a warning shot at the implicit racism here against Somalis as if to say do not go further down this road you guys. And if you are asking me how I feel about immigrant populations who are in this country legally and who are actually trying to find a better way for themselves and their families I support it wholeheartedly. I mean the Germans had the same problem when they came over. The Polish had the problem. The Chinese had the problem. They did it on their own though. We have a different problem. They did not come to subvert the Constitution. You are not addressing the idea that they are not being assimilated. The other-- I am going to tell you the Somalis according to the measurements that have been used over time are some of the fastest-assimilating populations that we have had.  Oh you gotta be kidding me. There are Somalis in the room too. I hear all the time the word assimilation. I feel myself assimilated. I speak English. I have a job. I have a family. I drive the same streets every day just like you. What is the thing that is missing? You should not be afraid of Muslims here. If you guys have any questions anything to talk about come to us. We will answer all your questions. We will address your fears. But I do not think there is nothing we have to fear in America. Some people in the room do not buy it. They push back and demand a vote on refugees. Emmer pushes back too. I am going to say it out loud-- when you move to a community as long as you are here legally I am very sorry but you do not get to slam the gate behind you and tell nobody else that they are welcome. That is not the way this country works. And if we are going to talk about-- I did not think it was a problem until somebody I knew really well because they got upset-- This is Tom Emmer talking about that night. They said it sounds like you are telling us. You are not listening to us. We also work hard and we also pay our taxes. And we also have kids to raise and go to school. And there is a huge economic burden placed on us now. And I think part of the fear-- some of you talked about our fear-- is that we do not feel in control of what is happening in our city. It is out of our control. Where is our say on what happens to our schools? I do not know that you have heard us. I feel you told us.   And I thought I had been listening all night. So I stopped because then I thought this is a problem because this person is not that way. Say what you mean this person is not that way. What does that mean? They are reasonable. They listen. They are compassionate. They have definite strong views right? Their views are much like mine. I have known them for a long time. And this person was clearly frustrated so I stopped. And I said I apologize. What is it that you would like your congressman to do? You are our only chance. For what Sue? What is it that you want? OK What is it that want from me? I think I speak for a lot of people. I think the city of St. Cloud needs a breather. And we need to assimilate with the people that are-- What does that mean? What does that mean? It is a break on the influx for a period of time so we could take a little breather. Here's the thing your last statement though take a little breather.  You guys could you just hold on. Say it out loud. Are you suggesting that no more immigrants should be allowed to come to St. Cloud? A moratorium for a short time. For the whole United States! The whole United States yes. All right. All right here's the thing. All I can do is respond as open and honest as I can Sue. That is not something that I can do. That is not something that our constitution says that we do with people who are-- That was the first time that I think I realized that even good people really good people because I know this person. This person is not a xenophobe not a racist. I know this person for several years. This was a big moment for Tom Emmer. This is when he understood two surprising things. First his voters want a ban on Muslims. They want no more Somali immigrants coming to their town. And second the voters who want this they are not fringe weirdos. These are people he knows and likes and respects. Some background here. There are a lot more Somalis in town than there used to be over a short period of time. 15 years ago there were only a handful of Somali residents in St. Cloud. Now there are approximately 10000 about 5 of the St. Cloud metro population which is 190000. But still almost 90 of St. Cloud is white majority Catholic or Lutheran. It was and still is relatively speaking a monolithic place. People up there are always saying this thing. Yeah this place used to be called White Cloud because it was so white. A place that was closed off and suspicious of outsiders. Now there is this whole big new group of Somalis there too. The reason Somalis came to St. Cloud is because there was civil war and famine in Somalia 25 years ago which forced people into refugee camps mostly in Kenya. The US government contracts with different non-profits that specialize in refugee resettlement. One of those is based in St. Paul with an office in St. Cloud. And so a lot of the refugees end up in towns and cities in Minnesota after years spent in a camp. The Aces Bar town hall back in 2015 felt like a dress rehearsal of the anti-immigration feelings that fuel the Trump campaign. They were calling for the Muslim ban before he was. It was hard at first to get the long time residents of St. Cloud to talk about when did they first start to resent the growing population of Somalis in their town. It is a sensitive and awkward thing to confess. Some people hung up on me. I was thrown out of a meeting. I finally got some answers from Carol Rupar head of the County Republican Party. She kindly did some research printed out some old emails and marched into Caribou Coffee with a stack of papers for our interview. She had a time line. OK well I looked back at the first information that I had where this started. And I wrote down some thoughts on that. Anti-refugee resettlement feeling. When this whole thing started. According to Carol it started in 2013 when the Islamic Center of St. Cloud tried to build this mosquecommunity center on Clearwater Road. This would be the fourth mosque in town but the location was pretty controversial. It was a residential area and that if they were going to build this big complex that was going to change the whole-- I mean there is a lot of traffic on Clearwater Road. Carol says she was not involved in opposing the mosque. She just knew some people who were. And those people formed a little group. They started calling themselves St. Cloud Citizens for Reasonable Zoning. And their complaints about it were in part all the normal things you hear in a zoning hearing-- traffic congestion when I bought my house I did not know about or want this kind of thing. When the time came for the hearing 300-odd people showed up at the city council meeting. It was a contentious night. Lots of Somalis and non-Somalis showed up with big signs for and against. Please try to remember that the religion of this group is not the issue tonight. Mr. President. Sit down please. Your statement-- If you would like to get in line get in line. There is people waiting to speak. The whole meeting was bitter enough that by the end of the night the Islamic Center had withdrawn its proposal. In fact they said they could find a better place for it. They did and it exists today. Out of this organizing against the mosque some people in this group decided to keep meeting. It was like after being in that room together and actually getting what they wanted they realized oh lots of us feel this way. We should stick together. St. Cloud Citizens for Reasonable Zoning morphed into another group-- Peace in St. Cloud. And it was in July of 2015 when the situation started ramping up according to what I could come up with. Yeah. And the residents in the area were feeling intimidated by the behavior. One quiet Sunday afternoon there were a group of Somali women they described as a mini parade. On three occasions that afternoon just parading through making loud noises taking pictures and so that some of the little old ladies in the area got intimidated by that. I tried to run this down. It seems like it might have just been a handful of people out for a walk. People in the group were noting all sorts of situations where suddenly they white people were in the minority. And they did not like it. White kids were outnumbered by Somali kids in music class four or five to one. Someone in the group actually counted them up. Someone in the group described going by Schmidt Park and seeing 20 to 30 Somali boys on the basketball court mothers and kids and quote no white people. This person wrote the entire area looked and felt taken over. It was eerie. They also found-- one gentleman found some Somali boys in his garage and going into neighbor's garages. And so that did not sit well. So that is when they called a neighborhood discussion from what I understand. OK and they said look you know there is an awful lot of these people here. We need to get together and do something. We feel that our neighborhood is being taken over. Carol and most people I talked to insist this is not about race. I heard this over and over. It is not about race. They say it is about money. How much are the refugees costing taxpayers? What is the drain on our county and on our school? That was the issue the group Peace in St. Cloud got organized around. Can we see an audit of how much is being spent on these Somalis? I feel that they are reasonable people with legitimate concerns. And they have a right to find out what this is costing. They have a right to find out how this works because they just do. And what I got from it is that people felt they had no say in this that here this whole group of people from a different culture descends on the town and it is changed forever. And Governor Dayton has made the comment at least four times that Well if you do not like it you can leave. Well no. I would not leave. That same month as the intimidation parade and the basketball court was the town hall where they asked their congressman Tom Emmer for a ban on Muslims moving to St. Cloud and he told them No that is un-American. Soon enough someone stepped forward saying No no no. That is perfectly American. This local opinion writer for The St. Cloud Times a woman named AJ Kern started going around talking to Republican groups gearing up to run for Congress to challenge Tom Emmer over this issue. She starts calling for a moratorium on refugees coming to Minnesota and to the US. AJ Kern spent time in Iran in the '70s and she wrote some opinion pieces about how potentially dangerous Muslims can be. The Peace in St. Cloud group asked her to speak with them about life in Muslim countries. Kern officially announced her candidacy in February of 2016. In her speeches she talked about the terrorist attacks happening in France and Belgium the one in San Bernardino the Syrian migrant crisis. She warned there is no way for the US or foreign governments to vet which refugee might be a terrorist. If there is no government office in Syria with a computer in some corner office that has a database to say who each Muhammad is-- was there one in Somalia? It is the same war-torn terrorist hotbed country. That is from her announcement speech at the Pickled Loon a bar in downtown St. Cloud. Bobby my Minnesota Republican worrier from the convention he went to some of her events and they disturbed him. She told this imaginary story to everyone. And it was just-- it was an older crowd. And so it was imagine your granddaughter comes home now one day from school and she says 'Grandma I am in love with my new boyfriend. He is right here. He is little Muhammad.' And I immediately start like-- But then she went on saying well what happens if they fall in love and they get married? Are they going to have a Christian wedding or are they going to have a Muslim wedding? And the people there were like oh my god what kind of wedding would they have? And then she just took it up a notch and said what happens when little Muhammad and your granddaughter have children of their own? And