From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. And I could say a lot of things right now to explain what we are doing on the program today. But honestly I think everything you need to know can be explained with this phone call.  Hey Bill here. Hey Bill. Hey. I had a fellow-- he was walking across the country like a dummy. And it is cold weather. And I was going to put him up at the barbecue shed. But I got to thinking about it. And it was warm out here in my shop. So I just brought him on down to my shop. He looked like a clean cut guy. And I did not want no bum staying here. But I believe he will be all right. Huh? . He just walking across the country. He said he is going to-- where you going to wind up at? New Orleans and then California. He is going to walk from New Orleans. And then he is going on to California. And he just bumming around. Look like his pants are pretty clean. Now where did you come from? Philadelphia. He come from Philadelphia. Got to  this morning and walked to right here. You do not know his name? Yeah. What is your name? Andrew Forsthoefel. Andrew Forsthoefel. Now as not that a name? Andrew Forsthoefel. Yeah you ever heard of that? Forsthoefel? Now that is a crazy name as not it? That is different. We as not got nobody around here that name have we? I frisked him down. He as not got no gun on him or no pistol. Huh? . I do not know why he is doing it. He is just crazy I think. So to hear Andrew Forsthoefel tell it last year he found himself walking across America by accident. He took a job when he got out of college. Three months in he got fired. Was not sure what to do next. And he just figured he would start walking. He did not have much money did not have a plan. He walked out of his back door near Philadelphia down to New Orleans. And then he figured he would just see if he felt like going further. And he did all the way to the Pacific. He walked 4000 miles. Today on our program we have three stories of people hitting the road. And they are full of hope. And they are not sure what to expect. And they are launching themselves into the future. And I will tell you truthfully I am not so keen on this kind of story. On the radio I think this kind of story usually sucks because where is the surprise? What is there to say about the thrill of the open highway that is not already in the lyrics to Thunder Road or in Jack Kerouac or in every road trip movie ever made from Easy Rider to National Lampoon's Vacation. Andrew did the thing that should not work at all as a radio story. He started walking across America did not know exactly why he wanted to do it. But he did have a mission sort of. He was 23. And he had a vague kind of sense that he was going to ask people what advice they would give their 23-year-old selves? And that is pretty good actually. He took a recorder with him just in case and ended up recording 85 hours of stuff. When he got done he got help from this website that exists to encourage people to make their own audio stories. It is called transom.org. That is where to go by the way if you are ever thinking of making a radio story yourself. The guy who runs the site Jay Allison helped Andrew shape his 85 hours of audio into a story. Some friends wrote and played original music. That is the music you are going to hear throughout. And what I like about it is you actually get a sense of what it would be like to walk across America. We had a story on our show a couple months ago about a guy who tried this and lasted only three days. That is actually what made the story interesting is that he quit so fast. But Andrew did the whole thing walked the whole country. His rule on the trip was no rides. He would walk. OK so October 14 2011 having my last breakfast at home. I feel my chest right now just racing. How do you feel Mom?  I am mad at you. I feel like I am being blown open again like when you were born. So something big is happening. You are taking risks. No I feel that. And it is something-- and we-- you know. Oh man. You are working me hard. I walked out my back door that day with a 50 pound backpack a mandolin and a sign that said walking to listen. I was on the train tracks. And about a half mile from my house a car pulled off on the side of the road nearby. It was Bob our landlord. I could not believe the coincidence. It is not a coincidence he said. Your mom's a wreck back at the house. You do not have to do this. When I told him I was going to keep walking he pulled a big knife out of his pocket and gave it to me. Do not trust anybody he said. Seven miles later I saw some guys on the train tracks up ahead. There was no one else in sight not even in shouting distance. I felt Bob's knife in my pocket. They were four Latino men. And when I got to them they looked me up and down and asked what I was doing. I told them I was walking across America which sounded ridiculous because I would been walking for about two hours. But they gave me apple juice and cookies. And when I played a song for them on the mandolin they gave me some vodka too. Well Martin new friends. Yeah new friends. New friends. Out of nowhere it started raining on us. And the one named Martin said I could come with them to escape the storm. I thought what the hell. Why not? I am walking across America. I followed them into the woods. And their camp was behind a shopping center I would been to a lot. We waited out the rain in the shacks they had built there. When it cleared up the men gave me some home grown chilies and cactus fruit. Martin shook my hand. God bless you he said and be careful. Sleep with a knife by your side. I am in Rising Sun Maryland. Day two. My legs my hips feel as if they have some sort of hot iron in them. I have got ungodly blisters on both heels now. I was on the highway the only person in sight who was not in a car. But it was just-- you know. I was in a place where it felt like no one else was. Oh wow. What am I doing? What am I doing? If you could go back and taking all of what you have learned in your life tell your 23-year-old self something what might you say? What might be one of-- Yeah I would not worry so much. I used to worry myself to death. And then now I realize the things you worry about how many of them come true? Very seldom. I would go barefoot more. I would not be nice. I would not be the nice little Southern girl. I would be a bitch. All right. I was not passive aggressive. I was just passive.   All right you all want to do ? Yeah sounds good. When you are walking across the country you get a lot of questions. Where do you sleep? And what do you eat? How much money do you have? What are you carrying? Are you taking rides or walking the whole way? Why are you walking? So for the record I planned as little as possible. Although I never expected it most of the time somebody would offer to put me up for the night. When that did not happen I slept outside under bridges or in the woods wherever no one would see me. I figured my 3000 in savings would get me through a whole year if I did not stay in hotels or eat in restaurants much. I had a food bag I kept stocked with jerky tuna fish and PBJ. But people cooked for me all the time. And I never ate so well. In my pack I carried camping gear my mandolin an old laptop a camera and a recorder for taping interviews. Maps no smartphone. My policy was not to take rides that would shorten the walk. And as for why well I wanted to listen. After all I was wearing a sign that said walking to listen. And people told me about their lives what they would done what they wish they would done whatever they thought I needed to hear. In Louisiana a guy who let me camp out behind his trailer told me all you are doing is reading a book just with your feet. I just want to raise him to-- I mean if he wants to play sports play sports. If he wants to sit there and be like me a mechanic welder whatever hey I am not going to sit you and force you into something you are not-- you do not want. Why? Do you have any fears as a parent? Honestly no. Take it day by day. I mean would you have fears? I think for me in some ways maybe it is kind of like this walk. It is like I had a lot of fears before. But now that I am doing it I do not have too many fears. I think it would be the same if I have a kid. Well the thing about it is you know you find out you had a kid right now. It would make you want to drop everything and go back home. That is cool man. Part of me feels happy doing what I am doing. But it is not how I want to spend my life. Like I want-- Doing what? Just living alone kind of wandering searching traveling. I love it all. But it feels in the end a little bit empty. Oh it is. But you know after you have done walked this whole way and have met different people and learned so much about everything and then took in all this knowledge at the end it is going to make you a different person. Everything that everybody tells you it might be able to help you out to become this person-- a better father a better husband whatever. Walking walking walking walking walking. Here's a little lumber truck. The lumber trucks have been zooming by on this road. It is a tiny narrow little road. Oh two cars now. All right. Got a honk. That is awesome. He was driving the Humvee. And there was a roadside bomb or IED. He got the worst of it. He was kind of like a cool dude. So he would drive with his leg propped up on the steering wheel just cruisin'. And I guess when it blew up his leg gotten tangled. And in his words it was like a noodle. When he woke up it was completely backwards and flopped over his shoulder. But eventually a year and a half later infection set in. So he ended up having to amputate. He was the life of the party. And even when I was 13 that was what attracted me to him because I just felt like you know I was new. You have this person that has all these friends. And he just seemed so happy and bouncy. And he was just great. And when he came back it was like slowly but surely you could just see his soul almost being sucked out of him if it had not been already. Because he started out fairly optimistic about his injuries. But eventually we had been in and out of hospitals for years because it just was not ending. And he started to get mean. And he did not care about much anymore. He would not bathe for weeks. He started getting addicted to his pain medications that he was on all the time. And he just-- I do not know. It is like he got lost somewhere in Iraq and never really came back. And when he first died all I could do when I first found out about it after realizing it had even happened-- because I had talked to him the night before. And everything sounded good. He sounded like he was getting things together. And everything was going to maybe get better. And finally a little ounce of hope. And then I found out he died. Did not really believe it. Once I did the next day I was at my friend's condo. And I just sat out in the sun no sunscreen or anything. I just laid there and was hoping that the wind was him or the bird flying by was him. And I was trying to-- hopefully he would hear me because I just felt like I had to say I am sorry. Sorry. And there is a part of me that is like why did he have to suffer for so long? And why did we have to treat each other the way that we did? Like why could not it have just ended in Iraq? And he would have been a hero. And we would not have all these crazy times like all these struggles that did not have to be there. I just did not understand. So yeah I had a lot of guilt. But I have come to terms with it for the most part. Because again I just feel like there is only so much you can do. And someone dying does not change that. It does not make them perfect. After everything there is a part of me that is kind of shut off a little bit because there is a tiny fear. It is like the more people I get close to the closer I get to someone if they were to die I would just hurt all over again. I know that is so morbid. But on a day to day basis I just try to appreciate things. You know if I want to meet someone on the side of the road I am just going to do it. If I want to go somewhere I just try to appreciate everything. If you care about someone tell them. Do not leave anything behind that you would not want someone to see if you were to die. There is so many little lessons. But I do not now. I do not know what the big life lesson is. But I definitely know to think before I speak. And when I talk to people keep in mind that I might not talk to them again. And is that what I want to leave them with or them to leave me with? I do not know. I loved the South-- the swamps and the farmland getting called baby and sugar at the diners. It was winter. But the cold was not too bad. And people were taking me in all the time. It seemed like every day there was some moment of grace. There was another side too though. A woman in Georgia told me I should not walk through the next town because the whites had left the help had stayed. And the southern black was a whole different animal than the northern black. Those were the words she used. This would happen a lot people warning me about those others. They are not friendly like us. They will shoot you for the shirt off your back. Do not trust them. I never knew how to deal with the prejudice especially when it came from someone who took me into their home and fed me. More often than I would like to admit I would not say anything. And I still feel ashamed of that. What I wish is that these people could have experienced what I did and seen that the people they warned me about were the very ones who took me in later on and fed me and told me their stories. So what was it like back in the old days? Oh god honey. I have done got old and forgetful. And I have done forgot I used to know about that stuff. But all I can tell you is it was scary. I never will forget we were picking butter beans. And we had picked a bag that was in the garden for a white man. And the wife told us to go bring in some water. And we got the buckets out of the kitchen and went sailing through the hole to the well. Got the buckets full. And when we got back to the steps he said you niggers do not you all come back up those steps. Go and run in the house with that water to the kitchen. And we said yes sir. Now what do you think about those people who are so mean and hateful? What do you feel about them? I feel like they as not looking for a great day. I am looking for a great day you know when I see my Jesus face to face. You do not do evil for evil. They hate you all. You all love them. And I thought how could I love somebody tell me you nigger do not you come back up them steps go round the house? Now how could I love somebody Lord? And he said that is the rule. That is the golden rule. Love thy neighbor as thyself. And I got to do what he says. I have got to love them. I have been traveling traveling. That is enough. Oh come on. Come on. No no no. That was good. I can play this one. I saw my first mesa in April in central Texas. I could not believe it. I had walked into the West. I bought a used baby stroller so I could push my pack instead of caring it. It looked strange. But this way I could carry all the water I needed. It was getting hot. And there were long stretches between towns now. But without a backpack on my shoulders it felt like I could walk forever. My friend gave me a hand crank radio. And I have been using it every once in a while. And I am going to crank this baby up. There we go. So basically there is one station. Yep. And that is all we got. Through New Mexico and Arizona I was walking 30 sometimes 40 miles a day. It was kind of magical to be so alone and tiny in this huge desert day after day. I would lose myself out there. And I kind of liked it. But when somebody did take me in I felt human again. So being an older man-- Thank you.  Yeah I will be an older man. And looking back what is it like to look back? And you were saying before you cannot do some of the things you used to be able to do. Oh yeah. It breaks my heart too. To put your foot up in a stirrup and just step up on a horse I cannot do that anymore. And it is embarrassing to lead a horse to a fence and get up on the fence and get on the horse. You know I hate to give up my independence that way. Dependent upon a fence to get me on a horse that is dumb. But I am satisfied doing what I did because I always tried to be the best hand in the pasture or the best hand in the pen. I could do the work. And I could pick sick cattle. And I could doctor them. But as far as wishing I could do it again sure I do. I wish I did not get old. I wish my body would do what I tell it to. And the reason I ask is because God willing I will be there someday too. I understand. It had not been I do not know the day before yesterday or something I was in my 20s. And it just goes by. Whenever you are young and you are waiting to get 16 to get your driver's license the years go by kind of like highline posts. And then you get that. And you get out and you go to work and all that stuff. And then they get a little faster. They get like fence posts. And then pretty soon you get up to 65 years old. And things change in your life so much so drastically of putting your feet where you want them and your body where it needs to be. It is gone. And time goes by like cross ties on a railroad track-- just tch-tch-tch-tch. These days are gone. So while you have got it use it. Your mind your strength your agility use it. If I can call back forty years-- I am looking forward to going to heaven. And I would not want to go through all my youth again. But I miss what I could do. I miss it. If I got 10 more years in me that'ill be plenty. I will be 83. I do not want to live past 83. I do not want to be where somebody has to take care of me or lead me around or slobbering all my belly in a restaurant somewhere from a stroke. I would just of course fall. And I would break my neck. I really would. So you come back through here 10 years from now I might be around. I might not. If I as not it is all all right. I have had a good life. I know 23 73 looks pretty old. That is 50 years difference son. 50 years makes a lot of difference. But I relate. I can remember 23. Ho. It is amazing walking because I have never-- I am just going to stop for a second. Besides the wind there is nothing no sound. And when the wind dies down it is complete silence like nothing I have heard before. And it is incredible. I love it. It feels very freeing. You can sing as loud as you want. You can say whatever you want. You can pull your pants down and moon the wind. You can dance around and make a fool of yourself.  is one of those words that is really difficult to translate. It is really a condition in your mind. It is when you are balanced. You are living your life in the way that you are supposed to be that the good Lord the creator had meant you to be who you are supposed to be. And that is what  is. It is the ultimate goal of what Navajo people strive for. And it is something I struggle with every day. With you right now it would be like you look around you. Everything's happy. You might not have enough to drink. Your shoes might be worn out. But you yourself inside you you are feeling well. And you are happy. That is what  is. Hello. Hello. I am camped out underneath a bridge in Nevada just outside of Mesquite. This heat-- it is a totally different ball game than anything I have really had to deal with. Basically it feels dangerous. I feel like I am on the brink you know? And I could either fall into that sense of calm. Or I could freak out. I see how the desert does what it does to people. Because if I did not have this water-- well if I did not have this water that would be a whole other story. But yeah I can see how it could drive you a little nuts. I hit the wall in Nevada. It was near 110 degrees every day. So I started walking at night. I was sleep deprived and a little delirious. Very few people stopped on the road to say hello. They must have thought it was best to just keep driving when they saw a man pushing a baby carriage in the middle of the desert. There is all kinds of walking. There is float walking when it is the easiest thing in the world. And there is urge walking when you are just desperate to stop. There is high walking when you are high and hurt walking when you are hurt. I like weep walking the best when all you can do is cry. I was doing two types of walking at night in Nevada. The first was dream walking which happens when everything seems like a hallucination. The second was fear walking. I almost got lost one night in a long stretch of desert outside Mesquite. I took a back road which turned into a dirt trail. And it kept splitting into forks. I had no idea where I was on the map. I was low on water. And when the sun came there would be no shade. But I kept going down the dirt trail. Finally it hit me. I could actually die out here. In fact if I could not find my way back to the main road I probably would. Before dawn I managed to find the main road again. But I could not get it out of my head the image of that desert trail winding into the darkness. From then on I was fear walking.  Whoo. When I finally climbed up into the Sierras I almost did not believe it. There were trees and lakes. And the nights were actually cold. The ocean was 200 miles away. So I could count on two hands the number of days I had until the end. I expected to feel some sort of euphoria in the last two weeks of the walk. But it was not that at all. I was terrified especially when I realized there was no escaping the end. I have always known I am going to die some day like we all do. But I think it was only in the last two weeks of the walk that I really believed it. All the things people had been telling me about aging and grief and loss someday my turn would actually come. And my turn with death would come too. I had just turned 24. And death was as far away as the Pacific Ocean was from my home when I first started walking. But someday I would get there just like I was going to get to the ocean. I stopped recording audio and taking notes. I walked each day in a weepy daze of disbelief. This is it I kept saying. This is it. The last night I spent on the road I was camped out in the forest 20 miles from the ocean. I set up the tent for the last time. And I ate my last dinner from the food bag. There were cars passing me on the road. And I had this thought if I were in one of those cars right now looking into this dark forest I would probably think it was a scary place. But I am in the forest. And I know it is not a scary place. In that moment I did not feel so afraid of the end. On the afternoon of September 8 2012 I saw the Pacific Ocean. An hour more of walking and I was there on the beach. Mom was waiting for me and Dad was too. And so many friends all of them surrounding me in a big circle. Even some people I would met along the way mad it. The men from Navajo country drove from the reservation. And they led me to the water drumming and singing a chant. And I was weep walking. I was in the water. I was floating in this dream. And there were so many voices 4000 miles of them. It is been six months since the ocean and the end. I am not walking anymore or not like that. And so sometimes I find myself forgetting everything the walk was to me. When I listen though I remember. And then I forget again. When I was on the road I loved asking people what they would say to their 23-year-old self if they could go back in time. I would tell myself three things. You know exactly what to do. There is no need to be afraid. Keep walking. Andrew Forsthoefel. He spent 11 months on the road wore through five pairs of shoes spend a little less than 1000. He is now writing a book about the trip. He produced the radio story with Jay Allison thanks to Viki Merrick. An hour long version of the story and photos of the trip are at transom.org. transom.org is a free nonprofit website that explains how to record and produce your own stories. Coming up two more road trips. And they are nothing like Andrew's. They are in cars one with a lady who is about to give birth one with the kid who really really really needs to pee. We floor it. And we do not stop for anything in one minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show Hit the Road stories of heading out into the unknown during the time in your life when it means the most specifically when you are still figuring out who you are. We have arrived at Act 2 of our program. Act 2 Car Pool. The actual distance covered by the car in this next story is not very far. But as you will hear the kid in the car really cares about how things work out. It was recorded by Sierra Teller-Ornelas in front of a live audience. She changed some of the names in this story. Hello everybody. Can you hear me OK? Awesome. Before I start . I am Navajo. And it is traditional in our culture to begin by alienating the entire audience. So you are welcome. So I was born and raised in Tucson Arizona. What up? When I was around 11 I lived in this apartment complex called Christopher City which was like a dorm for families. My dad was in college. And it was mostly international students who brought their families. So my neighbors were from Korea the Middle East Japan all over. And then it was also single moms who could not live off campus could not afford to. So get home from school one day. And my mom is like get ready. You are going out. And I was like who am I going out with? And she was like my friend Jeanette who had just moved into town wants to take you to a baseball game AAA Tucson Toros pretty exciting. And I was like wait a minute. And she is going to take her daughter Candace and her new boyfriend Ahmed. And I was like Candace Simms? And Candace Simms was like the coolest girl. She had just moved into town. And she was just wild. She would flip off the teachers when they were writing and you could not see. And she wore nail polish. And she claimed to do downstairs stuff with guys. And she cursed. And it was just amazing. I was like oh my god this is my chance. I am going to be best friends with Candace Simms. This could happen. I just need to be around her. And I had a plan. And so my mom was like well the plan was that you are going to go to this game. Then you are going to come spend the night at my house. And then tomorrow you are going to go to Shandy Castelary's pool party. And so I was like this is the dream. When you are 10 that is like an 8-ball worth of fun. It does not get any better. So I go. And it becomes immediately clear that the motivations that we all had were very different. Mine was clear make Candace my best friend. Jeanette was sort of constantly trying to find Mr. Can You Pay Half the Rent. She was just an exhausted single mom. She just wanted to get married. And then Ahmed was this guy from Iran nice enough. The long con was probably like a green card marriage. But the short con was definitely just  Jeanette you know? And he could not have hated us more. He was so disinterested in me and Candace which I do not totally blame him for. Because every time he would be like would you like a hot dog? I would be like yes whereas Candace would be like  you Ahmed. I  think you have AIDS. And we would just be like holy  because I had never heard a little girl talk like that. But she did not have a lot of parenting. It was not a two parent home. So anyway the mom was just sort of like I could marry a pharmacist. So she threw 20 at us. And we left and drank a bunch of soda and ate a bunch hot dogs and enjoyed the game. So we get back into Ahmed's car. And we are driving home. And I am like OK Tuscon Toros were a bust. But we got the sleep over. We got the pool party. This is going to be awesome. And it becomes clear that Ahmed does not know how to get back to the apartment complex. And so he starts going around and around. But Jeanette being like the woman does not want emasculate him. So she does not give him directions. And then it just is clear that he is lost. And he is frustrated. And so from the back Candace just starts doing this impression where it is like I am Ahmed. I eat lentils. I do not know where I am going. That was her by the way. It was not me. No offense to the Middle Eastern community. And now I feel super bad for this poor guy. But when you are 10 that is the funniest  you have ever heard. I could not stop laughing. I laughed so hard. And I was trying so badly to stifle it. And I laughed so hard that I relieved 64 ounces of Pepsi all over Ahmed's Tercel. And between the screaming and the impressions and Jeanette nobody noticed. It was nighttime. And so I am like all right. All right this has happened. And I was peeing-- it was like minutes. I mean it was so long that I went on a journey. I went from like shock to that ecstasy of how good it feels to pee to shame and then back to the ecstasy and then rounded out with some shame. It was just so bad. So I am sitting there. And I am like OK hope is not lost. I can make this work. And so from the darkness I am like oh no Ahmed. I just spilled Pepsi on your car seat and my pants like I was in some kind of commercial for a detergent that worked on clothing and upholstery. And it just was bad. I did not have a cup. I had no props to support my assertion. He immediately called me out. He flipped on the light. And he looked back while driving. And he like flipped out because he had been white knuckle driving this whole time. He would kept it all in. And he was like you pee in my car. You pee in my car you dirty American. And I was like no I did not. No I did not. He is like you are a car-peer in exactly the same accent that Candace had been doing like three minutes ago. So I lose my  again. And I am laughing uncontrollably. It is a tough break guys. So he pulls into Christopher City. I bolt to my mom's house. Obviously Candace is not spending the night. And the next morning my mom is like well you gotta go to this pool party. And I am like oh no. I am a car-peer. That is what I am. Car-peers do not get to go to pool parties. They stay home and die alone. But my mom was like well I may plans. So you are going to this  party. So I go. And I show up. And I am just like this is my life. She is going to tell everybody. She is the popular girl at school. And I get there. And she comes up to me. And before I could say I am sorry she was like that was amazing. For her it was like the most baller move I could do. He freaking was sopping up for two hours. Dude did not get any play. And thanks to her hatred for Ahmed I was only a car-peer for one night. So thank you. Sierra Teller-Ornelas is a TV writer in Los Angeles. Her performance was recorded at the LA Storytelling Series Public School. Their website publicschool.com. It also aired on the CBC radio show WireTap with Jonathan Goldstein which can be found at cbc.cawiretap. ACT 3 Let us See How Fast This Baby Can Go? So let us close on this story about hitting the road and needing to hit the road for a straightforward maybe even a traditional kind of reason to change every single thing in your life. This story is from Gloria Harrison. I wake up before 7 oclock on the morning of Tuesday June 4 1996. And I know three things instantly. I am in labor. I have to return the car to that awful man. And I have to go buy another car. If I do not I will not have any way to get myself to the hospital. I am 20 years old. The pain in my belly and lower back is intense. And I flop over onto my knees and bounce up and down which wakes up my roommate Tim who sort of doubles as my boyfriend. I am in labor I tell him. Are you sure he asks having just spent the last week listening to me declare the same concern regularly. Tim's on standby as is my sister Kim who has a flight arranged from Kansas City. The moment she hears word that I am at the hospital delivering she will grab her packed luggage and the diaper bag she is had waiting probably since the moment I agreed to let her and her new husband adopt my child. Yes I am sure I tell Tim. I am going to go buy a car. He considers me through half opened eyes for a moment says OK then rolls back over and goes back to sleep. The first order of business is to return the used car that I picked up the day before. My contractions are about 10 