Well it is June. Weddings everywhere brides in white little three-year-old nieces sent waddling down aisles throwing rose petals vows that go on perhaps a bit too long. And how many of these happy couples are actually underneath all of it mismatched? A huge number. It is frightening going to weddings. Meet Alain de Botton author of articles with titles like Why You Will Marry the Wrong Person and How We End Up Marrying the Wrong Person and two books about love. I was interested in talking to him because our radio show today is about making wrong choices. And he believes that when it comes to making the single most important decision many of us ever make in our lives it is incredibly easy to screw it up-- much easier than we generally acknowledge. You know some of the reason why we marry the wrong people is that we do not really understand ourselves. I mean sometimes I say to people do you think you are easy to live with? People who are single. And the ones who say yeah yeah I am pretty easy to live with it is just a question of finding the right person massive alarm bell rings in my mind. He says the problem is that it is not until we are actually married that we are in a situation where all the ways that we are hard to live with are truly revealed. All of our neuroses and flaws all the tiny little things that vaguely remind us of our childhoods and thus trigger peculiar and inappropriate behavior towards those we live with that is what gets revealed by the marriage itself. Even if you lived together before marriage he says it is not the same. It does not give you that self-knowledge. And so we go into marriage unable to convey that knowledge to a partner. We do not understand them. They do not understand us. We do not understand what marriage is. Let us stress that. So what would you say to all the people getting married this month? What would you tell them? Be incredibly forgiving for the weird behavior that is going to start coming out. You will be very unhappy in lots of ways. Your partner will fail to understand you. If you are understood in maybe I do not know 60 of your soul by your partner that is fantastic. Do not expect that it is going to be 100. Of course you will be lonely. You will often be in despair. You will sometimes think it is the worst decision in your life. That is fine. That is not a sign your marriage has gone wrong. It is a sign that it is normal it is on track. And many of the hopes that took you into the marriage will have to die in order for the marriage to continue. That some of the headiness and expectations will have to die.  Most of all-- I am laughing cause this is so dark. It is very dark. But in love darkness is a real friend of relationships. Because so many of the problems of love come from unwarranted optimism. And so we need to be dark about so many things. OK I am going to stop the tape right there and come in to say I know he is going on a little bit here. And by the way mazel tov to everybody getting married this month. But I am a married person. And OK just speaking for myself I find this tear that he is on to be one of the most accurate descriptions of marriage I have ever heard-- no judging please-- and also in its own way kind of hopeful. But we will get to that. Anyway back to the tape. Let me say you will have noticed that I have got a British accent. Now Britain does not do many things well. We fail at a lot of things. But one of the things we excel at-- perhaps almost on an international scale-- is melancholy. We do melancholy really well. The weather helps. And I think that there are aspects of a good marriage that should encompass a kind of melancholy as we realize that we are trying to do such a complex thing with someone. We are trying to find our best friend our ideal sexual partner our co-household manager perhaps our co-parent. And we are expecting that all this will miraculously go well together. Of course it can. We are not going to be able to get it all right. There will be many areas of misunderstanding and failure. And a certain amount of sober melancholy is a real asset when heading forth into the land of love.  And so to sum up he says we choose the wrong spouse because we do not actually understand what marriage is really going to be like. Because we do not know ourselves. And in addition we idealize our spouse. We make hasty choices about who we will marry because being single can be so unpleasant. And because rather than analyzing and thinking all those things through instead we just follow our feelings. We go on gut. We go on instinct. Which to Alain's way of thinking is obviously inadequate to the task at hand. I mean imagine if I said I am going to try to land a 777 tomorrow I am going to touch down at San Francisco airpot by intuition. Or if I said I am going to perform quite a complicated surgical procedure this afternoon by intuition sounds mad. Nevertheless we accept that people are going to say I am going to run this major part of my life called my love life by intuition. Now I know that we have all heard some of these things OK? I think every couple now knows that it is not going be great all the time. Every couple is told it is going to be hard. You are going to have to work at it. But the radical message that Alain de Botton brings is even if you work at it you are not going to be that successful. It is going to be a mix of unhappiness and happiness with way more unhappiness than you think before you get married. And a good partnership is one where both people have realistic expectations about all that. A good partnership he writes Is not so much between two healthy people. There are not many of those on the planet. It is one between two demented people who have had the skill or luck to find a non-threatening conscious accommodation between their relative insanities. The standard question on an early dinner date he says should be simply And how are you crazy? I mean relationships markedly improve when two people can make almost a blanket avowal-- we are both kind of crazy. You are married right? I am married. What is your wife say about all this? Look she is very funny. She is a pessimistic realist. On our 10th wedding anniversary she dressed in black. And she said it was a funeral for many of her hopes. So she is quite dark too. But we are actually very hopeful about the course of love. And in your marriage did you both go through a process of entering the marriage with one idea a very idealized idea of what marriage would be and then you came to this other idea? Yes. I had absolutely no idea about how to love. I had not had many relationships. And I literally used to think that the only problem the only difficulty of love was finding this person called the right person. And they would come into my life and then we would just understand one another totally. We would understand each other without needing to speak. We would not have any arguments. We would not have any arguments over money or practicalities. And I think we had a succession of crises and moments of fear where we really thought we had married the wrong person. Is there a more general rule here? Do most of us make mistakes in other huge decisions in our lives because we do not know ourselves? The other area where we make major bad decisions based on a lack of self knowledge-- and it is exactly the same principle-- is work. Work and love and the two very similar. Because in both areas we abandon the field totally to intuition. You are supposed to find your work by a kind of special calling by a special pull. And in fact in order to find a job that you can love you have to understand so much about yourself your own character your own nature let alone the world of work itself. And so he says we choose wrong in not one but two of the biggest things we ever decide in our lives. And then we muddle our way through. Today on our show as some of Alain's countrymen who voted for the Brexit are telling reporters they regret their votes now that they see the reality of what it is we have stories of people making the wrong choices. And in the stories we have today the stakes are high-- like for instance the career of one of the greatest basketball players who ever lived like the outcome of the presidential election. And in every story it could have gone differently. The right choice was out there right in front of them. They saw it and they rejected the right choice. Something stopped them. What stops us from choosing the best thing for us? So interesting right? Answers from WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  Act 1-- Swish Miss. So this first wrong choice we are going to talk about in our show it was made by an athlete who absolutely knew what the right choice could do for him. This story comes from Malcolm Gladwell who is best known as the author of books like The Tipping Point. Malcolm has started a new podcast called Revisionist History. And he let us adapt one of his stories to play for you now. Here he is. The greatest game of basketball anyone has ever played was in Hershey Pennsylvania March 2nd 1962. Here's the big fourth quarter. And everybody's thinking how many does Wilt got to get? He is got 69 gone in. Here's the pass to him. He is got another one. Any time-- Cold winter night just over 4000 people in the stands. Philadelphia Warriors vs. The New York Knicks. --defense honest. When  that have the good shot they are taking it. But mostly they are setting up the big man. The star of the Warriors was a man named Wilt Chamberlain-- no doubt you have heard of him-- 7'1 275 pounds. For sheer physical presence there has probably never been anyone like Wilt. There are lots of seven footers who play basketball who are basically on the court purely because they are seven feet tall. They are clumsy and ungainly. Chamberlain was not like that. He was as big as an oak tree and as graceful as a ballet dancer. That season 1961 to 1962 he ended up averaging more than 50 points a game. That record will never be broken. Chamberlain with a rebound. Taps it in. Chamberlain taps it in-- So March 2nd Wilt was hungover. He would been out all night with a woman he picked up at a bar. That is classic Wilt too. He would later claim to have slept with 20000 women in his life. And when he said that lots of people did the math and said there was no way that was possible given the fact that there are only 24 hours in a day and Wilt only lived to the age of 63. But even the skeptics were like well maybe it is 10000 or 8000. It was an argument over whether it was an unbelievably high number or merely an incredibly high number.  happy to be with you on this historic occasion. So back to the game in question. Chamberlain makes his first five shots and has 23 points at the end of the first quarter. At halftime he has 41 points. No one's thinking history just yet. But then by the end of the third quarter he has 69 points. And he keeps going and going and going. The rebound . That is directly into Chamber-- he made it! He made it! He made it! A different dunk! He made it! The fans are all over the floor! 100 points the most anyone has ever scored in a professional basketball game. And here is the most incredible thing about it-- he shot brilliantly from the foul line made 87.5 of his shots. The reason that is incredible is that Chamberlain was a horrendous free throw shooter the worst. He was a man who could score at will with two and sometimes three defenders draped all over his body. But put him all alone 15 feet from the basket and he was hopeless. There were seasons in his career where he shot 40 from the free throw line. That is terrible. But this season Chamberlain changes tactics. He starts to shoot his foul shots underhanded. He does not release the ball up by his forehead. He holds the ball between his knees and flicks it towards the basket from a slight crouch. Some people call that a granny shot. And all of a sudden he is a pretty good free throw shooter. He gets up to more than 60. And that special night in Hershey Pennsylvania he is an incredible free throw shooter. Chamberlain on the line. Foul shot up in the air. He has 84. He makes 28 free throws the most anyone has ever made in a regular season game in NBA history. 20? What? 28. He made 28 out of 30. You beat that? It is 30 or 32 yeah. That is Rick Barry speaking. He played in the NBA at the same time as Chamberlain also a Hall of Famer an absolutely unstoppable scorer from almost anywhere on the court especially the foul line. I met him at his condo in South Carolina earlier this year. He was living there so he could follow his son Canyon who was playing basketball for the College of Charleston at the time. Barry is 72 6'8 tall barrel chest legs that look like he had special extensions put on them. And that thing that great athletes have and never seem to lose which is that they kind of glide across the floor like they have wheels on. What Rick Barry will tell you is that shooting underhanded is simply a better way to make foul shots. And he knows that because he was one of the greatest foul shooters of all time. I missed 10 in one season and 9 in another in the whole season. To put that in perspective if LeBron James-- who may be the greatest player of his generation-- if he was as good from the foul line as Rick Barry he would have scored hundreds-- in fact-- over 1000 more points over the course of his career. I think I shot 93.5 or something and 94.7 something like that. And Rick Barry only shot underhanded. From the physics standpoint it is a much better way to shoot. Less things that can go wrong less things that you have to worry about repeating properly in order for it to be successful. But the other thing is is that who walks around like this? Barry put his hands up in the air holding an imaginary ball mimicking the way everyone else shoots free throws. This is not a natural position. When I shoot underhand in free throws where are my arms? Hanging straight down the way they are normally. And so I am totally and completely relaxed. It is not in the situation where I have to worry about my muscles getting tense or tight. And then the shot itself it is a much softer shot. So many of my shots even if they are a little off they hit so nice and soft and they will still fall in the basket. The soft bounce. Much softer touch. And so you have a little bit more margin for error than when you shoot overhand. So Wilt Chamberlain switches to a better shooting technique. It pays off in the greatest basketball game ever played. He is playing the way that Rick Barry proved basketball players ought to play. Then inexplicably Wilt Chamberlain stops shooting underhanded. And what happens? He goes back to being a terrible foul shooter. Let us think about what he did for a moment. Chamberlain had a problem. He tested out a possible solution. The solution worked. And all of a sudden he is fixed his biggest weakness as a player. This is not a trivial matter. If you are a basketball player and you cannot hit your free throws you are an incredible liability to your team particularly at the end of close games. The other side simply fouls you every time you touch the ball because they know you will miss your free throw and they will get the ball back. If you cannot hit your foul shots it means you cannot be used in a tight game. You know what Chamberlain's coach said to him about his free throws? If you were a 90 shooter we might never lose. They did not play on the same team but Rick Barry got to know Chamberlain pretty well. I got to know him you know? And I just joked with him and said your technique was terrible. But I mean had you stuck with it-- I mean there is no telling what he would have done. I mean the numbers he would have put up would have been insane. Because the only way they defended him was to foul him. Chamberlain had every incentive in the world to keep shooting free throws underhanded and he did not. I think when people do not do the thing they ought to do we assume it is because of ignorance. This is not that. This is doing something dumb even though you are fully aware that you are doing something dumb. By the way there had been countless players like Chamberlain players who could have been transcendent devastating if only they had been open to taking foul shots a different way. Take Shaquille O'Neal up there with Wilt Chamberlain as one of the greatest NBA centers of all time but an absolutely horrendous free throw shooter. Shaq even inspired a term Hack-a-Shaq which means intentionally fouling Shaquille O'Neal-- or any other terrible free throw shooter-- in order to put them on the foul line where they are likely to miss their shots. Shaq's inability to shoot free throws drove Rick Barry nuts. Barry tried to reason with him. Oh you actually talked to Shaquille O'Neal? Oh I tried to get Shaq to change. Shaquille O'Neal? Shaquille O'Neal when I tried to get him to do it he said forget it. I would rather shoot 0 than shoot underhanded. And I am just fascinated by that. I do not understand that. No one shoots underhanded. Not even Barry's teammates followed his lead people who saw him shoot that way every day and never miss. One guy only-- One man who is that? George Johnson my teammate with the Warriors. I think he was like 48 50 something like that. And I worked with him for one season. I did not get to stay with him. He did not get the technique down as much as I would like it. But I think eventually a season or two later I think George actually shot 80. I could actually look it up. It would be interesting to see what he did. I will get George Johnson's stats here. Let me see. George Johnson's stats. Sorry Rick I did not get that. Whoops. OK. Stats for George Johnson NBA. Here are George Johnson's stats from the 2015 NFL season. NFL. That is great. Wrong guy wrong season. But anyway we will look it up. It is interesting. It is actually more dramatic than Barry said. Johnson was once a 40 free throw shooter. And he ended up over 80-- twice as good. But I mean what about one your high school team? Did anyone throw underhand? Oh no nobody. No. I have only had one guy ever come to me. An NBA guy came to me. I will not tell you his name. But he came to me he asked me to work with him. I did it. I worked with him. I had him shooting really well. And he never had the nerve to go back and do it when he went back. Can you tell me his name? Nah I do not want to tell his name. It is not fair to him. I do not want to say his name. It is not fair to him like it is some kind of dark shameful secret. College basketball is no different. Out of the thousands of college basketball players last season there were-- as far as I can tell-- just two who shot underhanded. One is a Nigerian-American who played for Louisville named Chinanu Onuaku. The other is Canyon Barry who played for the College of Charleston and who-- in case you missed this earlier-- happens to be Rick Barry's son. In other words there are only two conditions under which people will try the underhanded free throw. One if their family is from another continent and two if they are an offspring of Rick Barry. Here's why I went all the way to South Carolina to talk to Rick Barry-- not because I am obsessed with basketball although I am-- but because the strange story of the underhanded free throw is a really good way of thinking about something that has always puzzled me. Why do some good ideas spread and others go nowhere? We like to think that good ideas will spread because they are good because their advantages are obvious. But that is plainly not true. So why do not they? Or to put it another way what is it about Rick Barry that allowed him to shoot this way? And what is it about Wilt Chamberlain and all the others that made them resist? Let me try out a theory on you. It is from a sociologist named Mark Granovetter. Granovetter is one of the greatest social theorists of his generation. If you are an academic groupie like I am Granovetter is like James Dean. So Granovetter came up with something called the Threshold Model of Collective Behavior. He was trying to answer the question of why people do things out of character. He used riots as his big example. Why do otherwise law-abiding citizens suddenly throw rocks through windows? Before Granovetter came along sociologists tried to explain that kind of puzzling behavior in terms of beliefs. So the thinking went-- you and I have a set of beliefs. But when you throw the rock through the window something powerful must have happened in the moment to change your beliefs. Something about the crowd transforms the way you think. Here's Granovetter explaining that idea. There was a lot of intellectual tradition that said that when people got into a crowd their independent judgment went out the window and that they somehow became creatures of the crowd and that there was some kind of miasma of irrationality that would settle over people. And they would act in ways that they would never act if they were by themselves or they were not influenced by the mob mentality. But Granovetter does not buy it. He does not think that being part of the mob casts some kind of spell that makes everyone irrational. He says it is all about thresholds. Now what does Granovetter mean by that word threshold? A belief is an internal thing. It is a position we have taken in our head or in our heart. But unlike beliefs thresholds are external. They are about peer pressure. Your threshold is the number of people who have to do something before you join in. Granovetter makes two crucial arguments. The first is that thresholds and beliefs sometimes overlap. But a lot of the time they do not. When your teenage son is driving 100 miles an hour at midnight with three of his friends in your Toyota Camry it is not because he believes that driving 100 miles per hour is a good idea. In that moment his beliefs are irrelevant. His behavior is guided by his threshold. An 18-year-old may be drunk at midnight in a car with three of his friends. That person has a really really low threshold. It does not take a lot of encouragement to get him to do something stupid. Granovetter's second point is just as important. Everyone's threshold is different. There are plenty of radicals and troublemakers who might need only slight encouragement to throw that rock. Their threshold is really low. But think about your grandmother. She might well need her sister her grandchildren her neighbors her friends from church all of them to be throwing rocks before she would even dream of joining in. She is got a high threshold. The riot has to be going on for a very long time and has to involve a whole lot of people before grandma will join in. But there are times when even grandmothers might throw rocks through windows. Granovetter's theory explained a lot of things that had been puzzling to me. So here's a good example-- it is from an interview I did at the 92nd Street Y in New York with the economist Richard Thaler who is one of the leading lights in what is called Behavioral Economics. He had a book coming out called Misbehaving. And I really liked it. And we thought it would be fun if we did an event together.  You and I have met before. Well the first time we met was at a hotel bar in Rochester? Yes. Thaler's the kind of guy who is interested in everything including sports. And there was a point in our conversation when he started to talk about the fact that the owners of professional football teams do things on occasion that are really stupid and inexplicable. Take the professional football draft. For those of you who are not football fans let me explain. Every year all the draft-eligible college football players are thrown into a big pool. And the 32 professional football teams pick the players they want one by one. The first player taken is the one that people think will be the best professional player. That person gets the biggest salary. The second player taken is the one predicted to be the second-best professional player and so on. And after every team has picked one player each they all start again and do another round. Because the players selected in the first round are considered the most valuable all the teams fight over them. They pay enormous sums of money and construct elaborate deals to try and acquire those high draft picks. The interesting thing about that is there is a market for picks. So you can trade the first pick for say half a dozen second-round picks. That is what the market says. Now that implies that the first pick is five times more valuable than an early pick in the second round. Thaler and a colleague named Cade Massey decide to analyze this assumption. Was it really true that a first-round pick was worth half a dozen second-round picks? If you compute the surplus a player provides to his team-- meaning how good his performance is-- minus how much you have to pay him what we found is these second-round picks are actually more valuable than that first pick. But you could get five of those for that pick. It is the biggest anomaly I have ever found. The implication of Thaler and Massey's work is that teams should trade away their first-round picks. They should stockpile players in the second and third rounds who can be paid a lot less and are nearly as good. This is how you build a winning football team. So what was the reaction of NFL teams to Thaler's idea? Well not long after he and Cade Massey did their research they got a call from the Washington Redskins. It was early in Dan Snyder's tenure as owner. And I met him. And he said oh we want to know about this. And he introduced me. He said I am going to send my people to see you. And they flew out to Chicago and met with Cade and me. And so anyway we taught his guys-- Dan's guys-- what to do. And then we watched the draft eagerly that year. And what did they see? The Redskins did the exact opposite of what they should have done if they were rational. And they were not the only ones. Thaler and Massey have consulted for three NFL franchises now and no one has ever followed their advice. It gets worse. There is a very respected economist named David Romer who famously proved that football teams would win more games if they did not punt if they simply used all four downs to try and gain 10 yards as opposed to giving the ball away to their opponents. So since Romer published his work are NFL teams less likely to punt on fourth down? You guessed it. No. And to tell you how big this is if you did this right we think you would win one game a year more. If you also learned to go for it more often on fourth down another game and a half. So just being smart you would win at least two games a year on average. Two extra wins in a 16-game season just by acting a little bit differently. Who would not do that? But nobody would! Now is that because they are stupid because they have irrational beliefs? That was my first thought when I was listening to Thaler talk about his football research. Those dumb football owners. But that cannot be right. You do not get to their level by being dumb. Surely this is about thresholds. Football owners and coaches are a small group of people. They all know each other. They have all done things a certain way for a long time. And doing things that way has made them a lot of money. They have a high threshold. These are a bunch of grandmothers. The only way any of them is going to change their behavior is if some radical goes first. And there are no radical owners in the NFL. There is just Richard Thaler a geeky middle-aged economist from the University of Chicago with a bunch of equations that you need a PhD to understand. There is some geek at every team who is read our paper. You know think of the Jonah Hill character in the movie Moneyball right? And nobody pays attention to that guy. Apparently there are not a lot of radicals in basketball either. Just the Barrys and Chinanu Onuaku the Nigerian-American who played for Louisville. This I think gets us a little closer to the puzzle of Wilt Chamberlain. In his autobiography he has this throwaway comment on the subject of shooting underhanded. Chamberlain wrote-- I felt silly like a sissy shooting underhanded. I know I was wrong. I know some of the best foul shooters in history shot that way. Even now the best one in the NBA Rick Barry shoots underhanded. I just could not do it. Two key things here. First he writes I know I was wrong. Just as Granovetter would say it is not Chamberlain's beliefs that are getting in the way. He knows it is wrong. Then I felt silly like a sissy. His does not want to look foolish. He is a high-threshold guy. He needs everyone to be doing something new before he is willing to join in. But Rick Barry? He is different. Rick Barry's dad comes to him when he is a junior in high school and says you really ought to shoot underhanded. Rick's a pretty good free throw shooter at that point maybe 70 or so. But his dad tells him he can do better. And your initial reaction is I do not want to do it? Right. Because it seemed to you like-- I said dad--I always remember it and I tell people-- Dad they are going to make fun of me. That is the way the girls shoot. I cannot do that. He said son-- and I remember this so clearly like it was yesterday-- son they cannot make fun of you if you are making them. And the first game I remember where I did it it was on the road in Scotch Plains New Jersey. I shot the free throw. Guy in the stands yells out Hey Barry you big sissy shooting like that! And the guy next to him-- and I heard him very clearly-- he says what are you making fun of him for? He does not miss. So my dad's prophecy came true. And I was cool from that point forward. So I did not care anymore what they said. If I am making 'em that is all that really matters. What is interesting is that Barry actually has the same initial reaction as Wilt Chamberlain-- I am going to look like a sissy. But he thinks about it and he decides it does not bother him. Or rather his drive to be a better shooter is stronger than his worry about what others think of him. That is exactly what it means to have a low threshold. If you have a threshold of 0 you are someone who does not need the support or the approval or the company of others to do what you think is right. Now here's the catch-- the person who thinks this way is not always easy to be around. Barry was never embraced by his fellow players. There were a couple of notorious articles about him in the 1980s full of quotes like this from a former teammate-- If you would got to know Rick you would realize what a good guy he was. But around the league they thought of him as the most arrogant guy ever. Half the players disliked Rick. The other half hated him. Here's another quote He lacks diplomacy. If they sent him to the UN he would end up starting World War III. Yeah well I was about winning. I was about giving my best effort. And I had a very difficult time accepting the fact-- I would not accept the fact-- if a teammate is not going to play his hardest. Barry's been out of the game for more than 30 years. But just talking about basketball made him tense. There was a right way to play the game. And when people did not play it the right way it drove him crazy. Watch a game right? Guy shoots free throw misses. Everybody goes up slaps his hand. What the-- where the hell did that come from? I want to know who the guy is that started doing that and who was the genius that said man that is a great idea. Let us go up and slap the guy's hand. And let us go up disturb his concentration when he is supposed to be focusing on shooting his free throws and worry about having to slap the hands of his teammates. Do you hear what upsets him? The social part of the game. Players paying attention to each other's feelings as opposed to their own performance. Plus the fact if he misses it you should go up and smack him in the head for missing the free throw not slap him on the hands and saying it is OK. Because it is not OK. You just cost us a point. I mean I go nuts when I watch this kind of stuff. And nobody even talks about that. And it is something that somebody brought up somebody copied and now everybody does it. And it is stupid. I just have a real problem with that. Barry wrote an autobiography in 1972 called Confessions of a Basketball Gypsy which I have to say is one of the strangest autobiographies I have ever read. There are sections of the book Barry gives over to various people in his life. They each write a few pages. And he seems to care not one iota about what these people say about him. So her