So Parker let us talk about our disagreement about the Jews. It is not a disagreement about Jewish people Ira. Listen to how you said that. What did I say? I said Jewish people. You mean the Jews? Jewish people. The Jews. Jewish people. I mean I get the irony of me telling you it is Jewish people but it is Jewish people. That is Parker one of my coworkers here at This American Life and our disagreement about the JewsJewish people started a couple of months ago here at our radio show. A bunch of us including Parker were going through a script together. It was about white nationalists and the script had a sentence where the reporter used the word Jews. The reporter is not a Jew. Parker and another young staffer both literally gasped. Well yeah because the term Jew depending on the person can be viewed as a slur. Can I just say buddy. Yeah. I am a Jew. I know. I am over 50. That is true. And can I just say I did not get the memo on this one. It is a generational thing man. When did you hear it? I think all my life. I do not know how I missed out on this one. As a Jew-- excuse me. As one of the Jewish people you would think I would be the first to know. I do not find the word Jew offensive. Apparently though I am out of step on this one. Noted. There were in this case no dire consequences. Nobody's feelings were hurt. Nobody felt judged. That is not how the story usually goes. And today on our program we have the more typical thing. We have two stories where people used the wrong word and there are big consequences. Big angry judgy divisive fights. And what is interesting in both of these stories is that these fights are among people who basically agree about most things-- who basically are allies. They want the same things but then somebody uses a word and it is like boom! I am on this side. You are on that side. We are not on the same side. It is war and we just get there so fast these days. This happens so often. The first half of our show today is about words that have to do with sex. The second half is words that have to do with guns. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act 1 Video Killed the Video Star. Laci Green is a YouTube star in her 20s. Because of that people take shots at her. No surprise. Perhaps you have heard how the internet works. What is surprising is how over time the kinds of people taking shots at her changed until she was under fire from the last people she expected because they objected to certain words that she was saying. Before we start this story I want to pile up the warnings here OK? This is a story about offensive language so it is just chock-full of potentially offensive words. If you are not into that do not listen to the story. This story not only acknowledges the existence of sex it specifies some of the body parts involved-- probably not right for little kids. We have un-beeped the story here on the podcast. If you prefer the beeped version there is one at our website. Our reporter is Kelefa Sanneh. So if you want to be a YouTube celebrity it helps to have a niche. Here's Laci Green's niche. Well hi babes. Let us talk about losing your virginity. The first thing you need to know about losing your virginity-- the foreskin is a highly elastic piece of skin that covers the head of the penis and it is amazing. Aha! You have come to the right place. I am kind of a vibrator connoisseur. When do I not want to talk about boobs? Boobs are great. Everyone loves them. I think if there is one thing that could bring world peace it is probably boobs. You can tell she loves this stuff. She gets animated when she talks about sex and relationships and genitalia. It feels like her face was designed for YouTube-- very expressive features and she includes footnotes on screen like each video is a cheerful little seminar. My producer Zoe Chace and I called her to talk about her first big hit. Yeah the first sex ed video that I made that went viral was called You Cannot Pop Your Cherry and it was about the hymen. The hymen does not completely cover the vagina at all. It does not need to be popped. It does not need to be broken. The hymen is a very thin-- And it was about basic anatomy-- what the hymen is and also a little bit of cultural analysis about the hymen myth and some of the sexism that drives it. The hymen myth? Yeah that you have to break your hymen when you first have penetrative sex. So let us talk for a second about this misconception that the hymen covers the whole vagina and needs to be broken. Not only is it outright false-- wrong! It is also kind of violent. Ah! Big bad penis needs to come in and pop your hymen and make you bleed and-- Laci talks about sex like an enthusiastic nerd-- excited totally unembarrassed. She started getting hundreds of thousands of views-- millions of views. The videos brought in steady money and opportunities. She went on Dr. Phil. She was the host of MTV's first YouTube series-- it was called Braless. All of this-- this whole sex ed career-- was basically an outgrowth of her childhood or really a reaction to it. She grew up in a small town near Sacramento raised within the Mormon church which she found stifling. This is relevant because the Mormon church is strictly anti-masturbation which absolutely did not stop me from doing it. It just made me feel really bad when I did. In my early teens I was overcome with shame and guilt and anger-- anger at myself. Which brings us to the first word that got Laci in trouble. It is not the kind of word you bleep in a radio story. Yeah I made this video called 50 Reasons Why I am a Feminist. That is kind of when the storm began I would say. Feminist. She said it on purpose and she knew it would provoke a reaction online not just from people who watch her videos but from people who cannot stand feminism-- people who go searching for feminist videos to criticize. She knew she was about to get sucked into an endless cycle of reactions and counter-reactions. And I waited a long time-- actually sat on that video. I recorded the video and did not upload it for nearly six months. I just sat on it and waited until I felt ready to post it. And I never do that. That is not a common thing for me. I just was a little bit scared of what was about to happen. The rumors are true-- what they have been saying about me. I have to come clean. I Laci Green am a feminist. What? You are a lesbian now? Man hater? Hairy armpits? Say it as not so! It covered the basics. Women are always judged on their appearance. Girls are called sluts while boys are called players. But still the people who loved this video-- they really loved it. The women's website Bustle said that it was quote awesomely on point and HuffPost wrote Laci Green reminds us why we all need to be feminists. But there was also a torrent of abusive messages-- messages that still show up at Laci's inbox every day telling her that someone's going to kill her or that she should do it herself. It was immediate-- just this immediate reaction. It started getting tons of response videos from all over the internet blog posts tweets. My Twitter timeline became a nightmare of people calling me names and calling me a feminazi and all this stuff. And all these people who were making these reply videos-- collectively they had a pretty big audience. They would send their audience to my channel. Laci's video was supposed to empower young women but it also did a pretty good job empowering guys who like to criticize young women-- guys who proudly call themselves anti-feminists. The whole point of being an anti-feminist is to mock and criticize feminism which means that the anti-feminists on YouTube need to find feminists to mock and criticize. I have not actually watched this video yet but I know by the title it is going to be fucking great. Here's Why I am a Feminist by Laci Green. The rumors are true. Anti-feminists can mean lots of different things. It might refer to someone who obsessively harasses and insults women on the internet or it might refer to someone who likes to crack jokes about the perceived excesses of feminist discourse. And on the internet of course it is not always easy to draw a bright line between harmless jokes and pernicious harassment. This guy for instance Sargon of Akkad. Back to the yucks. He is mainly known for acerbic videos about how liberals are irrational but he did once tweet I would not even rape you at a female politician he disagreed with. He made a video where he mocked Laci's video and it got nearly a million views. I think that feminism is both kick ass and super important and here are a few of my reasons why. Because feminist supremacy would make you a primary beneficiary of all the benefits it would bring to a privileged class? Oh I am sure that is not it Laci. I am sure it is not. Here's another video by a guy named Chris Ray Gun. He used Laci's picture to illustrate a satirical song. SINGING Women infantilized every day. But not by the men who the feminists blame but instead by the motto that constantly claims. The patriarchy is raging. Around the same time Laci started taking a lot of heat from a different group-- the people who were supposed to be on her side. The people at the heart of her fan base-- college kids. She still remembers the moment when she first came face to face with it. She would been touring colleges as a speaker. Lots of students knew her from YouTube so they would show up to hear her talk about healthy relationships and they would submit anonymous questions that they were too embarrassed to ask anyone else. So this was four years ago-- 2014. Laci does not even want to mention the college's name. And I walk in and there is a bunch of students there. And some of the students are clapping and saying yay but there is a ton of boos in the audience. And I have never had that happen before. She was confused. She did not know why they were mad at her. I do not know what to do. These are my peers. I am not that much older than them. I mostly ignored it. I actually could not even-- when I was up there I could not even really hear what they were saying. I just knew that they were shouting things while I was talking. It is like what are you doing? It is never happened to me before. I have never had students just yell. How rude. She gave her talk despite the push back. But some of the things she said made it worse. Afterwards the school newspaper described the scene. I am looking at a picture of you in a plaid flannel shirt it looks like. They quote one of the students that was upset and she says-- this is one of the students speaking saying some of the things that she said meaning you were very alienating to me at least and I think that one of them was that she used the homophobic slur dyke a couple of times and not as a self-referential thing. Not as a self-identity but as a way to describe a party she did not like. I think I know where she is-- That is not true at all. What the fuck? And the student said I think that she does not mean to be homophobic but that is still a slur and I still associate it at least with homophobia and with violence. So it sounds like you had mentioned in your talk dyke parties. But the parties are called dyke parties. Right. That was definitely a thing that would happen in San Francisco and at Berkeley where people would have dyke parties where only women were invited and it was just like a thing that happened. What do you want me to say? D-word party? My problem is the way that she framed it as if I was calling people dykes or something. And it is just the deliberate sort of twisting of what you say and what you do all the time to make it seem like you are just this evil deep down homophobe who is just-- you are revealing your evil nature when you use various words or whatever and taking things out of context all the time. Dyke was the second word that got her in trouble. But that is not even the reason they were upset with her from the moment she got there. That was probably because of the fallout from a third word she would said way back in 2009. I had this video way back in the day where I said the T-word. The T-word. I am not going to say it either. But it is spelled T-R-A-N-N-Y. A word for transgender people widely seen these days as derogatory. So the short story is I had made this fan video for Chris Crocker who is a self-proclaimed T-word. I made a fan video saying I love him blah blah blah. I used the T-word in the video then later on a bunch of social justice types dragged it up to prove that I am a evil transphobe. Chris Crocker. He is a YouTube personality who went viral back in 2007 when he made a video saying leave Britney alone! Back in 2009 Laci made a video saying that she loved him and she used the T-word. She thought it was OK because that is a word Chris had used about himself. When someone asked Laci about it in 2012 she apologized. She unpublished the video. She said she had learned how harmful the word was but some people objected that she used the word again in her written apology. And Laci says she was targeted and harassed by people who saw her as a symbol of transphobia. It was really really really horrible. People came to my house. They took pictures of my door. They took pictures of me while I was in public and sent it to me through my email. It was nuts. That was absolutely insane. That is what kick-started the perception that Laci was transphobic and problematic and that perception followed her to the stage of that college. Laci was stumbling across all these words you cannot say and of course the modern archetype for what is supposed to happen with these words is the N-word. Lots of people feel like the N-word is so ugly so damaging so scary that non-black people are not allowed to say it ever. It does not matter if they are quoting a song. It does not matter if they are reading from an antebellum novel. It does not matter the context. They cannot say it. Then the question is how many other words are like the N-word? How many other words cannot be said? That was kind of when I started to notice the more social justice warrior side of things. OK so just in case you have not heard this one social justice warrior-- an insult that can be thrown at anyone who speaks up against racism sexism transphobia homophobia all the other -isms and phobias. Students felt like it was OK to be rude to call names to degrade and disrespect people because they were not woke enough or something. This idea that the words themselves have more meaning than the context that they are in. There were other words she could not say-- words that were more fundamental to the kinds of videos she made. People got mad when I would say male or female in a video to refer to anatomical stuff like female orgasm or male sexuality or whatever. Yeah people said can you not say male or female? That is the thing. She makes sex ed videos so she talks all the time about genitals about reproductive health about sex. There is basically no way for her to avoid these words without making some pretty fundamental changes to the way she talks like how do you talk about someone who is intersex? Born with sex organs or traits that do not fit traditional definitions of female or male? Yeah I made a video about intersex conditions. And in the video I talked about sex development in the womb and sex differentiation and how we become male and female and they are somewhere in between. And people did not like that I used the terms male and female but literally how do you explain intersex without male or female? I have thought about it so many times. I do not even know. You have to use anatomical terms. And how do you talk about sex and anatomy without saying male and female? Well I start using the terms vagina-owner and penis-owner. I was trying to be creative. I want to address the genitals. If you have a penis is it applicable? And that is kind of the route that I have taken since. Did you get positive feedback when you started talking about penis-havers and vagina-havers as opposed to males and females? No. I mean yes. But also no. Some people liked it. I would say more people did not like it. They are like why are you calling me a vagina-owner? And I am like ugh. So if this is new to you and you are wondering why some people want to avoid the words male and female the idea is this. When you call a penis a male sex organ you are kind of implying that having a penis makes you a man and that is not true for everyone. You are leaving out some transgender people for instance. None of this satisfied the growing number of people who thought Laci was totally problematic. On Tumblr someone put together a list. It was called Masterpost-- Why Laci Green Sucks. It had 93 entries accusing her of hypocrisy ignorance insensitivity. It explained why her commentary had been hurtful not just to trans people but to women people suffering from mental illness Muslims millennials vegans of color. When she first started making videos it felt like freedom and now it felt like the opposite. It started to feel like being back in Mormonism. You have got this sort of doctrine-- the social justice doctrine that you hold on to. The intention is good-- to make us better people to do better by each other to become more moral. They are both moral systems and they operate in similar ways. Using shaming when you get out of line. There is just sort of this feeling of repression on your chest where you just cannot speak freely or be freely in the world. And it felt exactly the same to me like I was policing my own thoughts and words. I felt like a bad person all the time. After being mocked by the anti-feminists and then being assailed by the social justice crowd she scaled up. She started attracting the hostility of a much bigger louder group-- Trump supporters. Well I tweeted that night of the election. I said fuck white America when Trump won. The tweet went viral. Conservatives passed it around to make fun of liberals who were losing their mind over Trump. Here's what her original tweet actually said. We are now under total Republican rule. Textbook fascism. Fuck you white America. Fuck you you racist misogynist pieces of shit. Good night. Oopsie. And some people noticed that the day before or on election day or the day before you had tweeted regardless of the outcome we are clearly a deeply divided and broken country. So much work ahead to mend heal and restore the U in USA. And some people noticed that there had been a change in tone and thought that that was funny or revealing. And one person actually wrote to you on Twitter Hey Laci do you like not see how you are acting like the very thing you claim to be opposed to? Do you remember who wrote that tweet? No. It was a guy who is known as Chris Ray Gun online. I knew you were going to zing with that. I knew it was coming. Chris Ray Gun-- an anti-feminist with a YouTube channel. A guy who liked to make fun of people like Laci. A guy who liked to make fun of Laci herself. Chris is the one who made up that song. SINGING The patriarchy is raging. Laci is giggling because Chris Ray Gun the YouTubing anti-feminist is now her boyfriend which is a pretty wild twist in Laci Green's story considering the trolling that she went through from him and from his friends. And to explain it we have to back up. Laci had booked a series of talks on college campuses in the weeks after the election. As soon as I came out on stage people started screaming fuck you cunt. Fuck you bitch. You lost. Trump Trump Trump. Started throwing pencils and paper and whatever crap had in their backpack at me. I was really scared. I was scared that one of these students was going to rush the stage and hurt me. That is all I could think about. I cannot do this. My mind's not in this place. It is not worth it. Online the vitriol against her and her feminist allies got 10 times worse after the election. And after a few months of that Laci decided she would had enough of everyone ranting at each other especially ranting at her. She would try something different. She would reach out directly to one of the antagonists Blaire White. Now Blaire is a conservative who is also a trans woman and she would become an unlikely hero to anti-feminists. Blaire had been making nasty videos about one of Laci's friends so Laci began a careful approach to Blaire. First she followed her on Twitter. Blaire noticed and she tweeted Laci Green just followed me. Was that an accident girl? lol. Ha ha nope. Been watching your vids and appreciate your perspective. Sometimes I agree. Sometimes I am confused. Want to chat? Nerd face emoji. Yes honey. Let us talk. The people on Twitter could not decide whether this was a good idea. More than one of Blaire's followers responded with an image of Admiral Ackbar from Return of the Jedi saying It is a trap! In fact when Laci and Blaire finally streamed their 2 and 12 hour long video chat it was pretty civilized. Do these opinions and feelings need to be expressed in such a mean cruel way? Yeah I mean-- I do not think it does. Yeah like I said there are certain content creators where their MO is just to destroy a person and others who-- I knew when I was talking to Blaire that I was basically speaking to that entire community because they were all watching. Laci started hearing from other people in the anti-feminist world. They wanted to talk too. Very very eager to have these conversations and not even publicly-- wanted to just sit down and have lunch at Chipotle have a Skype on a Friday night when we are all just bumming around. Talking to a celebrity YouTube feminist like Laci was a good way to get viewers. The idea was that Laci was making friends with her enemies-- people from the other tribe. In this world of YouTubers it was a major plot development. Everyone wanted to see what would happen next. Was Laci undergoing some kind of conversion? Was she switching teams? Talked to Andy Warski. He is a hyper-aggressive YouTuber. He once said that social justice warriors should be shot-- metaphorically he added for legal reasons. Yeah I talked to Sargon. That is the guy who got almost a million hits on his video making fun of Laci's feminism video. I talked to Bunty King who is now one of my best friends. He is a Canadian guy of Indian descent who loves to mock social justice warriors. All of them. I have had conversations in some capacity with all of them. Take 45. Take 41. Take 97. Take fuck my ass. You have got a friend in me! Hey everybody. Welcome back to the Ray Gun Recap. Chris Ray Gun here coming at you live from an unyielding whirlwind of physically and emotionally crippling stress. OK so this is Chris Ray Gun the patriarchy is raging guy. After Laci made a video about all these conversations he made a video about her video using her video in his video. That is how this world works. People have been pretty kind to me and I will be honest. I did not really expect that. No judgment no vitriol. I even feel like I have a really good connection with a couple of new friends-- couple of new friends-- couple of new friends. At this point the screen goes black and white and we see a close-up of Chris popping his collar in slow motion. Yeah that is right guys. That is the main part of the video that a lot of social justice types seem to have a problem with. And there is certainly more to that video than just that but this appears to be the main point of contention. It is essentially just a video where Laci Green says hey you know not all anti-SJW YouTubers are sub-human Nazi pieces of filth and I am actually open to having a dialogue with them. Then he makes fun of some of the feminist men who criticized Laci but there is also a moment of journalistic disclosure. Now with all that said what do I think about this whole Laci Green thing? First I should let all you guys know that I have actually become pretty good friends with Laci Green. We have been hanging out quite a bit recently. So that is a thing that people should be aware of-- ethical standards and all that. I am letting you guys know that there is a bit of a conflict of interest here. But here's what I really think. He just cracks me up. He is so funny and he is such a sweetie. He really is. He is got the biggest heart. You might not know it from his YouTube channel. Chris and Laci had lunch at Chipotle for four hours then they kept hanging out and Laci made a decision. She would not Google him. She knew he was part of the anti-feminist tribe more or less. But that was about it. After all those years of straining to take everyone seriously she liked the fact that he did not even try. To him and to many anti-feminists it was all a big game-- people trolling each other making dumb jokes sometimes arguing. He did not take it so personally. And that is why she liked him. Also they like each other's company. Some debates over dinner or breakfast. And sometimes they talk about the same things they talk about in their videos. We have talked a lot about what rape culture is the extent to which the United States is a rape culture. He actually does see it pretty much the same way as I do and once we change the language we talk about it as not rape culture but as coercion culture. The ways that our-- And of course once people found out she was dating Chris Ray Gun it was kind of a big deal. The website Vox published a story that accused Laci of dating an alt-right troll. The story quoted an activist on Twitter who had written do not date alt right. Do not date white supremacists. And it quoted a popular Facebook post that accused Laci of turning her back on people of color. It should be said that it is kind of strange to describe Chris Ray Gun as a white supremacist or a member of the alt-right. He is more like a sarcastic Puerto Rican guy from the Bronx who loves video games and thinks the social justice movement is ridiculous. More and more Laci found herself hanging out with Chris and his friends the anti-feminists. This made some feminist YouTubers really upset. If you are happy to associate with people who have sent their mob of shit heads toward me then I just do not care about you. Like Riley J. Dennis the old friend of Laci's who had been targeted by Blaire White on YouTube. Maybe it is a this is our group and this is your group thing. But that group has done so many terrible things to me that even if you have not directly done it if you are still buddy-buddy with all these people that hurts. That is like you are basically cosigning it. Some people were saying that maybe Laci had never been a real feminist. This seems to have had much more fallout for you than it has for him. Yeah it definitely had more fallout for me. It kind of feels like you are the one who paid the price for this. Yes. That is definitely true because none of his followers care. They did not turn around and be like Chris Ray Gun is dating a feminazi and she is just like this evil horrible man hater baby killer. That just did not happen. They just did not respond in that way at all. I feel like the feminist side of things is just much more negative and eager to bring people down. And that was my perceived tribe so of course it makes sense that I paid the bigger price for it. And that is one of the things that is bothered me all along is this sort of gleeful willingness to just try to destroy people. But you do still identify as a feminist. Yeah. I do feel sort of squished in between these two rocks that are just getting closer and closer. I do not always know how to handle it-- what to do. In the last year Laci has not posted many videos and the ones she makes now do not have that same bubbly confidence and clarity. Lately she presents an issue like whether toxic masculinity exists or whether it is OK for little boys to be drag queens and tries to look at it from different angles. She does not sound as if she is teaching-- more like she is trying to translate between two groups that do not talk to each other. This term toxic masculinity sounds like you are saying masculinity is toxic. And I think that this is a bigger problem in social justice land. A lot of the language that is used to communicate sounds kind of shamey. Personally I do not care if we call it-- Here's the thing about words you cannot say. You can say them if you want. It is just that there are consequences-- consequences you might not be able to predict. Like Laci said feminist and that set off a chain of events that ended with her dating an anti-feminist and leaving some of her feminist allies behind. Kelefa Sanneh is a staff writer at The New Yorker magazine. Coming up you should not bring a toy to a gun fight especially a gun fight in the state legislature. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life I am Ira Glass. Today's program Words You Cannot Say. Stories of people saying the wrong thing and accidentally picking a fight with the very people they thought they agreed with. We have arrived at Act 2 of our program Trigger Warning. So in this story a politician uses a word that she loves-- a word her constituents love in fact and it backfires. Dana Chivvis tells what happened. Dodie Horton is in her first term as a state representative in Louisiana and last year she made kind of a rookie mistake. She is a Republican who describes herself this way. I am just a regular Joe representing regular people like me. Dodie's version of regular Joe is pretty far to the right. She is pro-life pro-gun voted for a bill to prohibit the removal of Confederate statues in Louisiana. She supports a travel ban still thinks Barack Obama was born in Kenya and after Donald Trump was elected President she felt like-- America's-- it is rejuvenated again. I saw that in my own district. I see that when I go to the capitol. The excitement of being an American again he has brought. God had mercy on us. He had mercy on our country because we were headed straight into socialism. But last spring something happened that she never expected-- she got beat up for not being conservative enough. It all started at a school in Bossier Parish. They call counties parishes in Louisiana. Bossier Parish is the area that Dodie represents and back in March 2016 a high school student was caught with a handgun at a school there. No one was shot but word went around there were other guns at the school. The Sheriff's department the local police department and the fire department all showed up. They put the school on lock down brought in gun sniffing dogs and searched some of the students. They even flew a drone over the roof to see if anyone had tossed a gun up there and they did find another gun in a trash can. When Sheriff Julian Whittington arrived at the scene he asked one of his deputies to show him the two guns they would found. They were locked in the deputy's squad car. The sheriff studied them closely. There was something weird about them. Here's Sheriff Whittington. Well I went and got my deputy that had secured it in his vehicle and I said I thought you told me both of these were real. And he said well they are. I said no they are not. Let us look at them closely here. As it turned out one of the two guns was not real. It was an imitation of a real gun. But the imitation was so good the deputies had not noticed it was fake. It even fooled the Sheriff at first. I am telling you I have handled guns all my life and have a bunch of them and these things are so real you literally cannot tell the difference until you literally try to find the clip and what caliber weapon it is. That is how real they are. So even holding the fake one in your hand it has the weight and sort of the metal feel of a real gun? After about three or four minutes of holding it and turning it over and looking you finally determine for certain that it is not a real weapon. That is how real they look. Oh my God. It takes you three or four minutes? It does. Wow. What if that weapon were in a kid's hand pointing at you? You do not have three or four minutes. Meaning the cop will shoot whoever is pointing that fake gun at them even if that person is a kid. And I should pause for a minute to explain something I had not truly understood before reporting this story. These fake guns the Sheriff is worried about-- they are not colorful plastic guns like a Nerf gun or a Super Soaker or even one of those plastic cap guns that make a loud bang. Those are what I would call toy guns. These fake guns like the one the Sheriff's deputy thought was real-- these are basically guns except they do not use gunpowder to shoot a bullet. I am sure lots of people are familiar with