It started as something that she was doing in her spare time and kind of took over her life. Lissa Yellow Bird searches for missing people people nobody else is looking for people the police have given up looking for. A reporter Sierra Crane Murdoch met Lissa in 2014 when Sierra was looking into the disappearance of a young white oil worker KC Clarke. He would vanished a couple years before on the reservation Lissa's from in North Dakota. Lissa was investigating it too. She had just gotten out of prison. She was looking for a distraction a way to stay sober. And she basically opened up her files to me and allowed me to see the degree to which she had involved herself in this case. She had actually spent years. And she cracked that case through really really non-traditional means like by basically waging this campaign against the person who she believed had murdered KC Clarke. She mailed tens and tens of thousands of fliers around western North Dakota. The flyer said Beware with a photo of the guy she thought murdered KC Clarke and his wife. And they did turn people against him. But at the same time Lissa befriended the wife. They were texting each other almost every day. They were talking on the phone constantly. And so she had this really intimate window into the lives of these people she was trying to investigate. And through that window she was able to see their vulnerabilities. So at the same time that she was maintaining this faux friendship with this woman she was also completely undermining her and her husband. And the case broke open. Sierra spent years with Lissa watching this play out and ended up writing a book about Lissa and the case. They got close. Sierra would stay at Lissa's apartment for months. They would drive through the badlands running down leads talked for hours every week when Sierra was not in North Dakota. And during those years this thing happened. Native American families started asking Lissa to look for their loved ones. Lissa's Arikara a member of the Mandan Hidatsa Arikara Nation. Remember Lissa was just kind of inventing how she did this work. Before this she would been a welder a prison guard a social worker did some law enforcement work and studied criminal justice in college but she would also been a drug dealer. Lissa has lived on both sides of the law which is what makes her so good at what she does. She is gone to prison. She knows how law enforcement operates from a perpetrator's point of view as well. In dozens of cases now sometimes on her own sometimes with law enforcement. Lissa has deployed the same doggedness and resourcefulness that she marshaled in that first case. Like for example when a woman named Olivia Lone Bear went missing from Lissa's reservation in 2017 there was this national search for her. But Lissa's theory was she might not be far from home where she was last seen. And one day she decided to take a boat out on the lake near Olivia's house with some fishing sonar that she would bought years earlier thinking someday it might come in handy to find missing people. She just launched the boat. And yeah within about 10 minutes her younger relative spotted some shape on the fishing sonar and said hey Auntie what is that? And Lissa looked at it and it was a truck. And Olivia was inside. Months before this Lissa and Olivia's family had tried to convince law enforcement authorities to look in that lake. Lots of Native Americans go missing and are never found. We do not even have good statistics on this because the cases are so underreported and poorly tracked. A big part of the problem? There are these federal laws that limit who can investigate cases and how they can investigate them on reservations which leads to a jurisdictional tangle. And it is often not clear which law enforcement agency is supposed to take a case. If you do not know if they disappeared from on a reservation or off a reservation it is really hard to say whose responsibility that case is. On the reservation tribal police or the federal authorities. Off the reservation city or county or state police. But because it is so unclear those cases can become a lot lower priority or those cases can be ignored by all jurisdictions. And that is where Lissa Yellow Bird comes in. She searches for the people who slip through these jurisdictional cracks. So what is the story you are about to tell? So in 2016 Lissa's own niece went missing. And this was the first time that she went searching for someone who was not a stranger. She just never expected that it would happen to her own relative. But this case is really remarkable for a lot of reasons. For one she figured it out in just five days. She also recorded all of her conversations which is something that Lissa does a lot. She saves everything. She photographs everything. She records everything. And Lissa gave me these phone calls that she would recorded over the course of these five days. And they were just incredible because they really showed how she was able to break this case open in a minute-by-minute way. Sierra says another thing about this case-- she and Lissa talked for hours all the time about everything. But after those five days when Lissa was working this case-- She just kind of went quiet about it. We did not talk about it for years which is really unusual because Lissa is always talking about her cases. She just never talked about this case again though. And I knew that-- I knew because she was so quiet about it and I knew also because it was her own relative that it had affected her in a way that no other case had. But I did not really know why entirely. I thought there was something else going on. And three years passed and that was when she finally said OK yeah I am ready to talk about it. She wanted to talk about it. Sierra suggested doing a story and Lissa said yes. She wanted people to hear it. And that is what we are bringing you today. We listen in on this exceptional investigator Lissa Yellow Bird. Those phone calls they are really amazing. She just knows how to read people and how to pull information out of them that other people cannot get. And we hear her crack this case in five very intense days. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. And before we get to this story a heads up. This story mentions violence including sexual violence. Here's Sierra Crane Murdoch. The last time I saw Lissa we were at her grandma's house on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation. This was in February. Her mom had called her over to find their missing cat not something Lissa usually searches for but she drove over right away in her hot pink pajamas. And while everyone's eating breakfast Lissa walks to the window stares out with binoculars. Lissa thinks some coyotes got the cat. A few days earlier her mom bought a hunting rifle and everyone's cracking up at the idea of Lissa's mom a retired professor who does not like to be outside and who is never had a gun taking to the porch with her rifle. Lissa asks her nephew Mercury to teach her mom how to use it. Yeah it is a scary situation Mercury. We need your help. Lissa goes to the bedroom to get the rifle. She comes back holding a guitar case and hands it to Mercury. This is perfect.   I was not even paying attention. It is like oh.  I picked it up by the neck and I thought it was a barrel and stuff. It was a Fender guitar. Sing some songs to those coyotes.  Ooh-- you will be out there with the chair just singing away.   My bad. OK everybody got the laugh of the day. The Yellow Birds are really close. At any time you will find four generations of them just hanging out at Lissa's grandma's house for days on end. And it was at this house-- everyone eating laughing watching television-- where they last saw Lissa's niece Carla Yellow Bird before she went missing. That was in August of 2016. At first they were not that worried. Carla did not live with the Yellow Birds. She lived about two hours away off the reservation but she was always stopping by sometimes stayed the night. She was 27 had lots of energy confident. She would walk into her family's house plug her iPhone into their speakers and start jamming hip hop. And it was not unusual for Carla to take off for a few days not answer when they called. When she stopped coming around her family told Lissa do not worry. We were like oh she is just out doing her thing or she is probably doing something she should not be. So she will come out. Lissa was starting to worry though. Carla was the daughter of one of Lissa's favorite relatives Uncle Chucky. He died a few years earlier. One of the last things he would asked Lissa was to look out for Carla. Then one morning Lissa had a dream about Chucky. It was not long. He just kind of appeared and he said you need to go get Carla now. Lissa called her family and found out the night before they would asked a holy woman to come to the house and pray for Carla. They had not wanted to tell Lissa. And I was like what do you mean you had a ceremony? So if you guys did not think anything was wrong what would you be having a ceremony for? And I said look somebody needs to come clean with me and tell me what the hell is really going on. Her mom told her they actually were really worried. At this point no one had heard from Carla in weeks. And I said why did you guys lie to me? Well we did not lie we just do not want you to put all this stuff out on social media and we know that is probably what will happen. Lissa's family told her they did not want it on social media out of protectiveness for Carla. Carla had been in some legal trouble. She was addicted to meth. They did not want to make things harder for her. Lissa thought maybe they were also embarrassed. In the Yellow Bird family are professors anthropologists social workers all very aware of the stereotypes used to shame native communities. Being drunken being filthy being all these labels that they give us that when something of that nature takes over one of our family members the last thing we want to admit is that it is hit us. I think what it boils down to is trying to keep a good reputation. So I think that played a major role of shame. Lissa's seen this firsthand with how the family treated her. She was addicted to meth spent three years in prison for dealing. For a while her family avoided her. Even now Lissa's been sober 15 years and they do not like to talk about it. Lissa's mom does not even use the word prison. She calls it Lissa's other college. Lissa could not disagree more with this attitude. She believes that when someone goes missing that is the worst possible time to hide the facts. Often the things someone is trying to cover up can be part of what led them to go missing in the first place. Lissa called Carla's mom Loretta. Loretta lived a few hours away on another reservation and the Yellow Birds did not know her very well. Carla's parents were not together long. Loretta told Lissa she would reported Carla missing a few weeks earlier. Lissa offered to help find Carla and Loretta said yes. So Lissa got to work. One of the first people she called was the officer responsible for the case April Jose a detective for the city of Mandan where Carla lived. April said she would learned that in the days before Carla disappeared Carla was on the Fort Berthold Reservation and she might have gone to a second reservation called Spirit Lake. But April did not have jurisdiction on reservations. She was a city cop. This is another part of the jurisdictional tangle in these cases. April was trying to follow every lead but she could only go so far. To interview suspects on the reservation she needed the cooperation of law enforcement there. It is part of the Bureau of Indian Affairs. But no one was calling her back. She did tell me this spans five states and three reservations. My hands are tied. And I said mine are not. I will go wherever. This is my niece. So Lissa did exactly the thing her family did not want her to do. She opened Facebook and wrote Carla Yellow Bird has been missing and I want to know any and all info related to her disappearance before I take this to the next level. People in the broader native community know Lissa the work she does. When she puts something on Facebook people respond give her leads they might be more cautious about giving police. She started getting calls right away and she learned Carla was last seen driving around with two men on the Spirit Lake Indian Reservation. And they just describe it was an older car. It was smaller. It had two different kinds of paint maybe a replacement front quarter panel. And it had plastic on one window. So when I put that out there people from Spirit Lake people from Bismarck were like hey we saw that car. We saw these people. We know Carla. That car belongs to Suna Guy's father. Suna Guy she hears this name a few times. He is a member of the Spirit Lake Tribe. So Lissa posts again on Facebook says her niece was last seen with Suna Guy gives his full name. And within a few hours she gets a call from a blocked number. Why is my name being put in stuff when I do not even know what is going on? OK that is fine. I appreciate that. It is Suna. I am not a bad guy you know what I mean? If there is a way I can help anybody I try. I mean-- what is your name again? I do not even know your name but I am calling you. Here I will spell it for you OK? Yeah. It is L-I-S-S-A. Lisa? Lissa? Lissa. Lissa. Say it 16 times and you will not forget it.  Yeah. So do you have any other insight into what happened to Carla? Do I? No I do not. I am just trying to clear up the air where-- hey I made contact with you guys. I am just letting you guys know only what I know. That is all I know. Hmm. Well your efforts are duly noted. Mm-hm. There are long stretches where Lissa does not say anything just lets Suna fill the silence. Lissa sounds sort of unimpressed which is tactical. So do you want to give me your phone number? Or do you feel kind of paranoid about that? Why would I be paranoid? What I am just saying-- does all that mean-- Well I do not know. I am just saying you know? I understand where you are coming from. You know what? Put it like this. Only certain people have my phone number. OK so you do not want to give it to me then? Is that what you are saying? Yeah because you know what--  OK. You make me feel like I have got something hiding or something. Maybe I did-- I mean I feel I am doing something right by contacting you and letting you know. Well I am not-- like I said I appreciate it. I am not trying to give you that feeling. I am not trying to give you that feeling at all. You know what I mean? What I am trying to do is I am trying to find out where my niece is at. Yeah I understand. And like I said I mean if I knew more than what I only know-- I am being honest to got truth-- I would give you all the information I do know-- I would know you know what I mean? Lissa spends a lot of this conversation trying to get Suna to give her his number. I should say Lissa is really good at talking on the phone. She told me once you know me I will keep a dumbass on the phone forever. Yeah I try to help people the best I can. Yeah well I sure could use your help finding my niece. I mean most definitely. Like I say I mean sorry I am not trying to be an asshole or nothing but I mean if I come across and hear anything I will contact you you know what I mean? Yep. Well it is the only way we are going to get to the bottom of things OK? So you will call me in the morning then? Yeah. Like I say I mean I do not got nothing to hide. Other than that I got my kids up here. I got to get them ready for bed here. My wife gets off work here pretty soon so-- All right. All right. Have a good night. OK. Thank you. Yeah bye. Bye. Mother fuck. Lissa thinks he is lying. Suna knows something. The next day Lissa tracked down the other guy people had seen in the car with Suna and Carla the night she disappeared. He was a friend of Carla's named Jason. Lissa got him on the phone. Do not know if she is OK or where she is at. Jason said Carla had drugs she wanted to sell in Spirit Lake so Suna had offered to pick her up a few hours away and drive her and Jason back to the reservation. When they got there Jason said Suna ditched him and took off with Carla and some other guys guys who are known as scary violent. Then hours later Jason ran into them again but Carla was not with them. You know what? I am thinking they killed her. Knowing Suna he-- He would kill her. Lissa was starting to feel sure that Carla was dead. At the same time she was gathering leads. She was also talking almost every day with April Jose the detective in Mandan. April had gotten a hold of Carla's phone records bank account and seen no activity. Lissa decides she needs to apply more pressure so she goes on Facebook again blasts Suna's name in another public post. She writes I have been given information that Carla was last seen riding with Suna Guy. Please contact me by private message. Your confidentiality is assured. And then the phone rings. Hello. Is this Lisa? Lissa? It is Suna. Remember what I said? If you say it 16 times you will remember it? Yeah. Well what is this that you are posting on Facebook that your niece was last seen with me and my girlfriend? Oh I did not say your girlfriend. I did not say your girlfriend. You need to reread the post. Well-- You need to get honest with me because I am done playing. Well I been only honest with you. I do not know what you want me to make anything else up more I mean because I am not making nothing up. Well from what I understand Carla's gone. And you know what? Oh well she is gone. There is nothing I can do about that but I want to know where her fucking body is. I am done playing this shit. Do you know what? You are making me feel like I got to say something. I do not know. You know what? You know what Suna? Huh? Nobody cares about how you feel. I just told you I want my niece's body back. Somebody better fucking come up. What is it going to take some cash so you all can go get high again? Who is getting high? You are getting high. Do not play me.  Do not play me. You have a reputation out there. You have a reputation. Of what? I am not going to explain that to you. You know it better than I do. I am just saying-- You know what? I am just saying what is it going to cost me Suna? Because that is what you are all about right? Huh? What? Right? That you want to get high? I will give you five grand to get your fucking high on. Maybe you will take yourself out with that but oh well. I want my niece's body. How about that? You know what? I am being fucking real with you. You are asking somebody to-- I am being way fucking real with you. And you know what? I tell you I am a fucking mess to be reckoned with when I am fucking mad. And now I am getting fucking mad. I do not even know what anybody's even talking about. So what is up Suna? Let us get honest here. If you need to come up with a defense whatever but I want to know where her body's at plain and simple. Well you know what? I made the initiative to call you and tell you what only I know. You know what? And that is all I know. You think I have not dealt with your kind of people before? I have. I will come get her personally myself if I have to but I want to know. If you have any fucking faith in anything in your life just fucking tell me where her body's at. What do you want me to say to you? What do you want me to say to you? What do you want me to-- The truth. How about let us try for the truth. I have been telling you the truth. Suna you know what? When you want to get honest you want to get fucking real and you want to try and save your own ass call me back. But until then I am fucking done OK? OK then. That is fine. All right cool. Suna still has not told her anything. But this time Lissa does not try to keep him on the phone. She hangs up on him the guy whose number she does not have the guy she suspects murdered her niece. Lissa's anger here that is not a tactic. She is enraged. What is crazy to me is that Suna stays on the phone and takes it and then unprompted decides to call her back just 10 hours later. I do not even know who Carla is I said. But you do know who Carla is. No I do not. I do not know who Carla is. I did not even speak with Carla. She is got all this dope on her and you did not even know who she was. Please. I did not even know what kind of dope or how much dope she had on-- Suna you are insulting my intelligence. Do you know what? I will get my name cleared. I am going to speak with the cops with an attorney. Anything further that goes on with my name I could press slander and harassment onto it. Do it. I hope that is not a threat because I am ready. It is not a threat. I am just telling you-- OK. Well then watch your mouth. I will be sharing with you what is being shared with me you know what I mean? I am being real with you. I got enough shit on you right now OK? On me? I got enough shit on you right now and that is all I am going to say OK? I know you were mad earlier and I am not trying to piss you off. It is going to take me a minute to get my fucking ducks in a row. You go ahead and try and bring slander because I have had bigger fish try to bring me down people with multi-millions of dollars. I understand. And you know what? Good fucking luck. Carla and Lissa had some things in common. There are obvious things. They both had addictions. They were both mothers. They really loved their kids. But because of their addictions they would had their kids taken away from them for stretches of time. They knew how awful that felt. It was a lot for her. I am sure I was not the favorite auntie because I was worried. I would say-- if she was doing wrong I could tell just by the way our first eye contact was. And she would be like jeez auntie you know? Not every time I am here is bad. Lissa says Carla was a really cute kid-- kind of shy giddy. But as Carla got older Lissa would get on her case. Carla was known to take your stuff little things. Like if you left your earrings out you might later see your relative wearing them. And they would be like look at the cute earrings Carla gave me. The last time Lissa saw Carla they were at their grandma's house. Lissa walked in on Carla raiding the fridge. And all of a sudden I see this big gaudy fake diamond ring. I did not even see her head because she had it so far in there trying to get some munchies out. It was like this two-karat-- I do not even think it was a cubic zirconia. And I was like oh my god. She heard my voice and her head popped up. And she was like oh here she comes to pick on me again. She is like what what? And I went over there and I literally grabbed that fake gem. And I said let me see this once. And she took it off and she was like oh my god. I thought you were going to start in on me again.  She was in better condition that day. I said I am going to start in on you because of this stupid ring. Lissa told her damn Carla if you are going to steal at least steal something nice. Still when Carla needed help she often called Lissa. And Lissa tried to help her as best she could because of Carla's dad Chucky. He is a big part of why it is taken Lissa so long to talk about Carla and why it still hurts so much. Let me just tell you what happened. A few years before Carla went missing Chucky moved in with his mom Lissa's grandma. Lissa would visit him a lot spend hours in his bedroom. They would flip through books together and talk about them. Chucky did not have as many graduate degrees as others in his family but everyone said he was the smartest Yellow Bird. It made Lissa feel good to keep up with him. She liked proving to herself and to Chucky that she had not totally fried her brain with drugs. They spent lots of time debating this massive book he kept by his bed The Code of Federal Regulations Title 25. It spells out how the US government is supposed to fulfill its obligations to tribes in exchange for taking their land how it is supposed to always act in their best interest for their well-being obligations the government has ignored in all kinds of ways both Lissa and Chucky witnessed themselves. Chucky was four years old during a major event in their tribe. The US government built a dam flooded out most of the reservation forced everyone including the Yellow Birds to relocate. They were farmers self-sufficient but the land the government moved them to was unfarmable. There was huge unemployment. A lot of people left the reservation for cities. Chucky and most of his generation were sent away to boarding schools where a lot of them were abused. In his room Chucky also had stacks of articles about an emerging science called epigenetics that is shown how traumatic stress can change the way a person's genes behave and how those changes can affect your kids' genes make it likelier that they develop illnesses like depression or PTSD. Chucky put into words a pattern Lissa had observed her whole life that she and the people she would later help had been delivered into a system where they had no chance a system that kept taking from them until they died. And their bodies are dragged behind bushes or left to drift at the bottoms of rivers and lakes. And few people bother to look for them to fish them out. Chucky himself was not doing so well. He was an alcoholic. He was in his early 60s and he had cirrhosis. One night when Chucky was drinking he got violent and his mom kicked him out of the house. Lissa called him and told him to come to Fargo where she was living. She did not think he would come. But then he called her one night from a Fargo hotel. He would not tell her which one. He was like I have been drinking. And I know you are in sobriety I know you are doing well so I do not want to bring that to your house. And I was like well that do not make no sense because I told you if you want to die by the bottle that is fine with me but I just want to be near you. I do not want you out on the streets somewhere freezing to death or any weird stuff going on. So if you could just get your butt over here that would be great. And he is like no I got a room. I will be good for tonight. And tomorrow I will come over. Later that night Chucky called Lissa again. He said he was going to kill himself. Lissa stayed on the phone with him all night for seven hours. She kept him on one line. On the other line-- she took her son's phone-- dialed the police. She called every hotel in the city looking for him. Before Lissa could find him Chucky hung himself. That was the night he asked Lissa to watch out for Carla. In the three days Lissa was getting all these calls from Suna she was also trying over and over to reach the one investigator who has the authority to look into crimes on the Spirit Lake Indian Reservation an investigator with the Bureau of Indian Affairs. Lissa left a ton of messages for him even asked a tribal councilman to call on her behalf. And finally after days of this the investigator returned her calls. Hello? Hello. Is this Lisa? Lissa yep. Yeah. This is the officer from Fort Totton. Hello. Hello. I am calling about Carla Yellow Bird. Yep. I would like to get an update on what is going on. He tells Lissa we know about Suna. We are looking for him but we cannot find him anywhere. OK. Well he was driving around all weekend because I have pictures of him. Oh OK. You know Suna's called me like three or four times right? Uh-huh. From what number? He blocks it. Oh hmm. Yep. Because I already pretty much know who the culprit is. Hmm. And did you know-- Lissa gives him all the information she has-- who she is talked to who knows what where to find them. She seems way ahead of the investigator. This is typical. I have seen Lissa work on dozens of cases. The investigator tells Lissa do not worry. We got it covered. Then a few hours later--   Hello Lissa? Who is this? It is Suna. I have no idea why he keeps calling. You know I am just trying to help you. You are not trying to help me. I do not even know. I am not even-- I do not even know that. Suna quit fucking around man. If you just come clean you tell me where my niece's body is at I will work with you. Because you know what? I know you are a dumb fucker. I know that. And you are probably a career criminal and that is too bad. No because my parents they raised me right. And you know what? I can have pity on you. I can have pity on you but I want my niece's body. Hey I know that you want to hear something that I do not even know. It is just hard to hold my tongue because I know there is more to it because I have been doing my research. Yeah. It sounds to me like you have a behavior pattern of sexual aggravated assaults. No. Actually yes. Suna raped his child's babysitter and spent 10 years in prison for it. He was 21 at the time. She was 14. One of Lissa's many jobs over the years was as a counselor to sex offenders in a prison. I know your kind of people. And you know what? You lie to yourself till you convince yourself that it is actually true. But you know what I think? I think you have not ever gone this far before. But good god you sure have motive. Because you know what? After spending what? A 10-year stint? Is that what you did in the big house? Yep. Nobody wants to do that shit again not at your age. And you never really learned anything from that because they do not give you the proper treatment. They stick you like a little rat in a cage and they let you sit. And they let you sit and they let you rot. And your mind goes mushy. This is the fourth time Suna has called Lissa in three days. It is the middle of the night. She has not slept. She is chain smoking cigarettes downing cup after cup of coffee. Suna starts telling Lissa he is worried. There are some guys he does not recognize driving by his house stalking him. He says they have Texas license plates. Well give me the license plate number. I will look it up for you. Do you understand what I am saying? These guys want to try to shoot at me. I cannot come and go looking for these guys and just to get a license plate even though that would be good information you know what I mean?  I am not going to go sneaking up to some people that want to shoot at me especially--  I got you. I got you. Jeez. I get you. I got your concern. That was dumb. I mean I do not know.  I got them calling-- I am sorry. I am sorry. I called for town PD to even tell them about this and they as not even concerned about it you know what I mean?  I am sorry. I am sorry. I did not--  I did not realize what I just said. Yeah?   Lissa laughs like this for a really long time. But you know what I mean though?  Oh shit. Oh I am sorry. Because if I got the license plate number I would give the PD their license plate number over here too you know what I mean? I do. I do. I was out of line. I am sorry.  God.  Huh. Suna seems totally thrown by this. He tries to laugh too except it is clear he does not understand what is funny. But in Lissa's mind this was hilarious. The guy she thought murdered her niece he was calling her for help because he did not want to get murdered. And then she basically tells him go get murdered. But you know what though? I am sorry but I understand. I mean I am not taking offense or nothing but I am glad that you are able to make a laugh out of it you know what I mean? It is glad to see that you still can laugh even though-- having a sense of humor even though this is a serious matter you know what I mean? Yeah I know that. And all that. I was out of line. I am sorry.  Go get the plate number. Oh shit. Oh I must be getting tired. I am sorry. Later Lissa told me she was exhausted. She had not slept in days and she was getting desperate. It had been three days since she posted Suna's name on Facebook. She just lost it. When Suna called the next afternoon he sounded different. Sierra Crane Murdoch. Coming up Suna's new tactic. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program A Mess To Be Reckoned With. Sierra Crane Murdoch is telling the story of Lissa Yellow Bird as Lissa investigates the disappearance of her niece in 2016. And we pick up where we left off in Lissa's investigation. Here's Sierra. On day four Suna calls Lissa again and something's changed. Good afternoon. Hey. Can you be at Spirit Lake tomorrow morning or tomorrow afternoon? Huh? Can you come to Spirit Lake tomorrow afternoon? Why? I am gonna come forward with everything clear with you. Oh yeah? Yep. You are too good of a lady and I am not going to lie to you not going to co