 Welcome back to the RX and NPR the Unrequited episode. My name is Glynn Washington and have you ever had a song that you just cannot cannot get out of your head? Well this week you can blame SNAP JUDGMENT's Stephanie Foo. You are welcome.   . Do-do-do do-do-do-doo do-do-do...  Yeah.  Right?  It was around 1997 that Marc Hawthorne first heard it.  Semi-Charmed Life and I felt like I was probably too cool for Third Eye Blind. I knew it was like this big popular band. But I heard this song and I was like OK fine. I love this song and I am just going to be OK with that.  He bought all their albums went to all their shows to see their lead singer Stephan Jenkins in action.  Yeah I may have like started building up a fanboy crush or whatever on this guy.    It is just some little thing not like everything I do depends on you.  And he could only dream of a bromance between him and Stephan Jenkins until he got a job as the editor of the entertainment section of the San Francisco Onion. And he set up an interview with Stephan Jenkins.  He drove up on his motorcycle which was pretty perfect because you know they have the song Motorcycle Driveby. I mean not to get too crazy about it but there was something sort of like magical when like he like pulls off his helmet and it is like him. I was very excited. I was very nervous.  But the interview went well - super well.  The thing that was so amazing just right off the bat is that he was expressing like how much he loved the Onion and he would stop every once in a while and apologize to me for not being funny enough.  They talked for two hours. And they got along so well Stephan Jenkins invited Marc to come over to his house and listen to the record he was working on.  The whole time I was just like oh my God I cannot believe I am like hanging out with Stephan Jenkins. Like this is really happening.  Jenkins kept an email contact with Marc. He invited him to his place to hang out and invited him to a couple of parties.  You know like I knew that we were not best friends. But it felt - it actually felt real.  Marc started trying really hard to impress Stephan. He would write positive articles about Third Eye Blind as often as he could for the Onion. And he started to take their relationship a little too seriously.  When I would send an email to Stephan Jenkins and I did not get a reply in a week I would be talking to my girlfriend I would be talking to other friends of mine just like look at what the email said. Like is this bad? Did I write him a bad email?  You are like obsessing right? Like you are overanalyzing things?  Oh I overanalyze everything.  Then Marc traveled to South By Southwest to see Third Eye Blind play. And he wrote another review of their performance. But this time it was not just overwhelmingly positive.  And that is where - as far as I remember was like the first time I had finally admitted like I love Third Eye Blind and I know that it is like a super guilty pleasure. I do not know maybe like a week later or something he wrote an email to me. He is like oh yeah I read your review. And then he points out I saw you in the crowd. And I was like oh my God like maybe he was actually looking out for me.  So it was all good right?  Soon after they shut - The Onion shut down the San Francisco office. I did not have a job anymore but I also did not have the theonion.com email address to send to him anymore. Like I probably like wrote to my mom and said hey mom I got laid off like I am not going to be working for a while. And then boom second email was to Stephan Jenkins like hey buddy you know like this is the email address you should use for me. And nothing - I got nothing back. And like I maybe sent another email like two or three weeks later. Oh it was sad. It was pathetic. And I am just realizing like oh my God like it is all falling apart.  Marc kept going to Third Eye Blind shows. He would always try to say hi to Jenkins. He would wave from the front row but Jenkins would just look right through him.  And I started thinking like oh wow like maybe he was enamored with me because I worked for The Onion. And so he - that is all he ever cared about with me. Like why he really would have cared like I do not know. Definitely like having this experience with Stephan Jenkins like has made like listening to Third Eye Blind songs like have like different meanings to me.    How is it going to be when you found out there was nothing between you and me because I do not care? How is it going to be?  Marc felt like he lost a beautiful relationship. But I had to wonder was there really anything to lose in the first place? And we decided to find out. So you want to describe where we are Marc?  We are in Stephan Jenkins' studio.  How are you?  Good. How are you?  This is great.  Good to see you.  Good to see you. Great shoes Marc really.  Oh thanks.  If you might want to just introduce yourself that would be awesome.  My name's Stephan Jenkins.  Do you remember why you chose to enter into an acquaintance with Marc? Did you like him?  Yeah he just seems like somebody who would be part of my friend group. He is clearly very bright and he is really into music. And he is articulate about it and he is got a point of view.  That is very nice of you to say.   Yeah.  I am glad you asked because I would not have wanted to ask that question. So I guess my first question has to be like what did I do wrong?  What did you do wrong?  Yeah. Where did things go wrong between us?  Well I think that they did not go wrong. I think that we had a successful acquaintance. And I think that if one person is measuring an interaction by the standards of an acquaintance and the other one is measuring it from the status of a friendship one in which they know all about you because they have divined so much about you from your lyrics someone's going to get hurt.  In this instance it was you Marc.  OK OK.  Right?  So in other words you are saying I should not take it personally. This is just the way things happen in the world?  What happened first of all you said is the way things happen so let us try to understand.  OK.  What happened?  Well that is what I was trying to understand. What happened? So I felt like when The Onion shut down the San Francisco office suddenly I was having to - when I was following up with you I was having to email you from my home email address and then that is when everything stopped.  Really?  I never...  What stopped?  I never heard - you stopped...  I just did not...  You did not reply.  I just did not respond.  You did not respond. And so there was - I mean I am not a real stalker.  Has there ever been a stalker who said I am a real stalker?  Yeah I guess so.  OK.  I suppose - I suppose that is a...  So was that twice that you emailed me without a response?  I think it may have been three times.  Three times.  Yeah I think there may have been three different emails.  Yeah I think three times is kind of the rule.  Yeah.  Three times unresponded then that is not good.  Right. I knew it was over. I recognized that. But then I was like - like I am being really genuine here. I felt like you had taken it to like this next level of being like a super nice guy. Before I had ever even met you like everybody was like oh he is this big egotistical jerk. And this could not have been more different. And...  Yeah I am focusing on like everybody? Like what?  What?  It is OK.  Oh the egotism? No. I mean whatever. Not everybody because I obviously did not know any of your friends. These were just things that had been written what have you. And then when I did not hear back I think that was - I was actually kind of hurt.  I am sorry.  It is OK. I mean it is water under the bridge.  I certainly did not mean to hurt your feelings. And I do not know. I really doubt - and there certainly was not like a conscious choice not to. I think though - I think the exchange that goes on between a journalist and an artist is actually - is the inverse of what you are talking about. I will elaborate on that if you want.  Yeah please explain.  Well I am still subject to your judgment. It seems to me if I could just propose this is you seem to want both. You want to have the idea of being friends but you also want to - you want to assess me and evaluate me as a journalist.  Right. And that was the beginning of how this all started...  Right.  The assessment part.  Right but I was always being assessed.  Yeah I guess you are right. Sure.  Because once - I mean it is like you never put the pen down. You write about me as being a guilty pleasure. I do not have any friends with whom I am a guilty pleasure. I am just a pleasure.  Right.  So you are still judging me right? It might...   It might be tongue-in-cheek...  Right.  But that is still what is going on. So I enjoy that but to the people with really - like tight in the braid with me is that their perception of me? It is not.  Right.  I am trying - what I am trying to say it was not me evaluating and judging you. Actually I think it was the verse. It is that you were evaluating and judging me.  Can I take from that that like any idea of a true friendship ever happening - we were kind of doomed from the beginning?  No. I think it is ongoing. Life is long.  Oh OK.  I am enjoying your company right now.  Excellent.  Yeah this is working for me.  From - I feel like we have worked some stuff out. I feel like we have hashed out your feelings.  All right.  If Marc - if Marc is in the front row of one of your shows now and he is waving at you...  Oh I am going to throw him a pick for sure.  Yeah.   Yeah.  That is what I want.  Awesome.  Hey we are going to play a little show this fall. And we are going to play the Fillmore. That is in San Francisco.  I have been there before.  Yeah and I would love to have you. I would like to put you on the list.  Really?  Just give me your email man.  I really appreciate that.  There.  Now I just wanted to give him my email address and so this all worked out. The end.  There it is.  Call me.   Thanks so much to Stephan Jenkins and Marc Hawthorne for that piece. Third Eye Blind will be going on tour this winter. So go party with Marc and Stephanie in the very front row. Yes snappers we have reached that time. But do not miss a beat. Full episodes available right now at snapjudgment.org. You know that guy that brings a basketball to the tennis court orders spaghetti at McDonald's laughs real hard at sad movies? Please do not call the usher. It is just the Corporation for Public Broadcasting trying to mix things up. Much love to the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange at prx.org. Now this is not the news - no way is this the news. In fact you could fall in a well call your true love with your cell phone plead for assistance only to have them ask who are you? And please do not call this number again. Even then you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 