WNYC Studio Listener supported. WNYC Studios. Jad Abumrad Hey wait you are liste-  Theme  Okay. Jad Abumrad All right. Theme  Okay. Jad Abumrad All right. Theme  You are listen- WNYC Studio Listening- Theme  To Radiolab. Lab. Theme  Radiolab. Theme  From... Theme  WNY- Theme  C. Theme  C? Theme  Yep. Theme   Jad Abumrad Hey. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab. And today... Robert Krulwich Well today it is the story of an ax wielding nun coming through a window to smack some Staphylococcus and take you back to the future. Jad Abumrad  Exactly. This story comes- Robert Krulwich Does that make any sense? I do not know. Jad Abumrad Well it will. Robert Krulwich Okay. It will. Jad Abumrad It will. This story comes in two parts both from our producer Latif Nasser. And here's part one. Latif Nasser So the way the story goes it starts in 1928. Maryn McKenna Latif Nasser That is Maryn McKenna. She is a science writer. And staph is a bacterium. Maryn McKenna It lives on our skin and it especially likes parts of the body that are warm and damp. Latif Nasser So it likes to be just up our noses or... Maryn McKenna On our genitals or in our armpits places like that. Latif Nasser And generally it is no big deal. Does not really do us any harm. But if it gets into a scratch or a cut and makes its way inside our bodies... Maryn McKenna Staph goes form being this benign companion to being... potentially deadly. Latif Nasser Anyway. London 1928. Maryn McKenna Fleming is growing staph in his lab. Latif Nasser In these little Petri dishes. And he was a slob basically. Maryn McKenna  Latif Nasser And he goes on a vacation leaves his Petri dishes covered in bacteria just around. Leaves his window open. Maryn McKenna And something blows across his lab plates. Latif Nasser Some tiny little speck of a thing just floats in through the window and comes to a rest on one of those Petri dishes. Maryn McKenna And so a few weeks later... Latif Nasser Fleming finally back from vacation. Maryn McKenna He needs to use those lab plates again and he and his assistant go to clean them off. Latif Nasser I mean you would imagine that he would see some real lush nice furry... Jad Abumrad  Latif Nasser ... Lawn of staph just overflowing. Jad Abumrad Yeah. Latif Nasser Right out of the plate. Jad Abumrad Because it is been sitting there for so long. Latif Nasser It is been a staph party. Maryn McKenna But on one of the plates that they pick up they realize that... it is almost polka dot. It is got little dead zones all over it. Latif Nasser Little patches uh where the staph is dead. Robert Krulwich Dead patches. Jad Abumrad Dead zones. Robert Krulwich So something blew through the window landed on the dish and starts killing the bacteria. Latif Nasser Yeah and so when Fleming looks down at his plate he sees that at the center of these you know staph dead zones uh there is a... Maryn McKenna Tiny speck of natural mold. Jad Abumrad Oh. Robert Krulwich Of mold? Maryn McKenna And they realize that that mold is expressing a compound that is killing the staph around it. Latif Nasser It is like emanating rays of death. Jad Abumrad What was the compound? Latif Nasser That compound was called... Maryn McKenna Penicillin. Latif Nasser The first true antibiotic. Maryn McKenna Infectious diseases that had been killing people for as long as we had been people suddenly could be stopped. Jad Abumrad And it just blew in through the window? Maryn McKenna That is the... that is the story that is always been told. Latif Nasser However it got there it- it was... it was amazing. It was a miracle. Robert Krulwich It was called a miracle drug right? Maryn McKenna I mean it was just... it was... it really was a moment when the world changed. When Fleming was put on the cover of TIME Magazine. Latif Nasser This is 1944. Height of World War 2. Maryn McKenna It was a picture of his face and the h- the banner on the cover said His penicillin will save more lives than war can spend. Latif Nasser But... and this is um I- I had no idea about this. Virtually at the exact same time when Fleming's face is on the cover of TIME Magazine like two months later um this Stanford researcher publishes that he has found five different strains of staph that do not respond to penicillin. Jad Abumrad Really? Latif Nasser Yeah. Jad Abumrad This is happening while he is on the cover? Latif Nasser Virtually the exact same moment. Maryn McKenna And it is the first sign that staph has responded to the penicillin in the world by developing resistance. Soren Wheeler It is almost like uh- Jad Abumrad That is our producer Soren Wheeler. Soren Wheeler ... The era of penicillin was over before it began. Maryn McKenna Almost before it began. Latif Nasser Before it is even released to the general public.  Jad Abumrad Wow. Maryn McKenna And that penicillin resistant staph moves across the globe. Latif Nasser And in 1957 in Cleveland some scientists gather together... Maryn McKenna And they are in a panic. They have no idea why they have lost the antibiotic miracle so quickly. Latif Nasser So scientists across the globe put their brains together and try to come up with a new drug. Maryn McKenna The next amazing thing. Latif Nasser And in 1960 they get it. Maryn McKenna Methicillin. Latif Nasser And it works. Maryn McKenna For about 11 months. Robert Krulwich 11 months?  Jad Abumrad Whoa. Latif Nasser And so we started this arms race. Maryn McKenna There was a bug and then there was a drug that took care of it. Latif Nasser  Maryn McKenna And then there was a better bug. Latif Nasser Drug bug drug bug. Maryn McKenna Right exactly. Latif Nasser I actually found this list. Uh do you wanna hear it? Jad Abumrad Yeah. Latif Nasser Uh okay. So streptomycin 1943 resistant 1948. Methicillin 1960 resistant 1961. Clindamycin 1969 resistant 1970. Jad Abumrad Wow. Maryn McKenna You can think of it as leap frog or you can think of it as a game of whack-a-mole... Latif Nasser Ampicillin 1961 then 1973. So that is a little... Carbenicillin released 1964 resistant 1974. Jad Abumrad They are getting better. They are getting better. Maryn McKenna There were always more drugs. You know they... drug development was doing really well for a really long time. Latif Nasser Piperacillin introduced 1980 resistant 1981. Maryn McKenna But after the year 2000 drug companies begin to realize it is not really in their best interest to make antibiotics anymore. Latif Nasser And the end I have on this list is uh linezolid which is introduced 2000 resistant 2002. Jad Abumrad Wow. Latif Nasser And there are a few more but you get the idea. Maryn McKenna Antibiotic approvals the- the entry of new drugs to the market just kind of fell off a cliff. Jad Abumrad Why? Maryn McKenna Well t- it takes 10 years and a billion dollars to get to the point where the drug is marketable. Latif Nasser But as soon as you get the drug on the market... Maryn McKenna The resistance clock is running. Latif Nasser So you probably will not make your money back. And as you have probably heard we now have these situations... News person A frightening new warning from the Centers for Disease Control about the spread of a string of germs that are ... Maryn McKenna Where literally nothing works. News person ... So-called superbugs are now turning up in hospitals in 40 different states... Maryn McKenna And the patient dies. Latif Nasser There are now bugs that can resist all of our drugs. Maryn McKenna I have seen physicians break down weeping over this. Th- it is not the- the way that medicine is supposed to fail anymore. But it does. Latif Nasser I mean i- I- i- I know that- that possibly the- the origin story of penicillin is- is apocryphal so this is all a little suspect.  But you know just to enjoy imagining s- for a moment like it just seems like if that happened let us just open up a bunch more windows. Just... something oughta blow in. Maryn McKenna But we could wait a long time. Right? I mean we had... Staph had been around- Latif Nasser Right. Maryn McKenna ... For millennia before 1928. Latif Nasser But you know the whole reason that I wanted to do this story is because kinda there is a new window. It is a different kinda window though. It is- Jad Abumrad Not a... not a window next to some Petri dishes? Latif Nasser Not a window next to some Petri dishes. Kind of a window next to some Petri dishes but a totally different kinda window. Jad Abumrad  What kinda window is it? Latif Nasser Well I am about to tell you that. Jad Abumrad Is something blowing to the window? Latif Nasser Yeah. But it is not mold. It is way more fun than mold. It- it- it- it- it carries an ax how 'bout that? Jad Abumrad So it is a person. Latif Nasser Maybe.  Jad Abumrad  Latif Nasser I do not know why... I do not even know what I am referring to anymore. Isabel Hello. This is Isabel and the birds calling all the way from Montevideo Uruguay. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. All right guys ciao. Cinnamon This is Cinnamon from Brooklyn New York. Radiolab is supported by Citi National Bank. The bank who makes it their business to be personal. Citi National Bank's relationship managers really get to know each individual client. Because only by understanding your goals can they help make them happen. More information is available at cnb.com. Jad Abumrad Hey this is Jad. Radiolab is supported by Avast. Avast is a global leader in cybersecurity trusted by over 435 million users. Avast has privacy solutions to keep your identity and actions hidden security solutions to stop malware phishing and virus attacks and performance enhancing solutions to clean up and speed up your devices. Avast empowers you to feel safer private and more confident online. To do what you wanna do in your connected life. Shop work browse confidently on all your devices. Learn more about Avast privacy security and performance products at avast.com. Consider This ad If you find it a challenge to keep up with the news every day you are not alone. Consider This a new podcast from NPR and WNYC has you covered. You will get a handpicked mix of essential national and local New York area stories with the smart context and analysis you expect from NPR and WNYC. Consider This is available weekdays at 00 wherever you get your podcasts. Listen in just 20 minutes and get on with your life in the know. Jad Abumrad Uh part two? Robert Krulwich Yeah. Jad Abumrad Okay. Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad This is Radiolab. Robert Krulwich We are ready now for part two. Now remember when part one ended there was a window open and something was going to come through. We do not know what. Jad Abumrad But we know it is not mold. Robert Krulwich Yeah we know it is not mold. So whatever it is whatever it was whatever it will be we will hear about it now from our reporter Latif Nasser. Latif Nasser Uh well actually there is this story about these two women who did open a window. Uh to- to an alien and distant land.  Um and actually in a way it is a story about reimagining the past. But to me it is a... it is a... it is a... it is a story about a friendship. Latif Nasser Hey everybody! Dr. Christina Lee Hello again! Freya Harrison Hi!  Latif Nasser It is a story about an unlikely friendship. Um it is- Jad Abumrad It is a buddy film. Latif Nasser It is a buddy... yeah. It is a buddy movie. Robert Krulwich  Jad Abumrad Okay so w- so yeah tell... t- maybe just walk us through it. So... Latif Nasser Right. So okay. So you have um... Dr. Christina Lee Hello I am Dr. Christina Lee. Latif Nasser ... Christina. Dr. Christina Lee And I am an associate professor in Viking studies at the School of English at the University of Nottingham. Latif Nasser She is a historian. And then you also have... Freya Harrison Hi I am Freya Harrison. Latif Nasser ... Freya. Freya Harrison I am a research fellow in the Center for Biomolecular Sciences at the University of Nottingham. Latif Nasser And Freya- Freya's a microbiologist. She studies bacteria. We will start with her. Freya Harrison Okay. So most of my work is- is about sort of looking at how bacteria evolved during very very long lived infections. But- Reenactor Ah! Freya Harrison ... My- my big hobby is- is Anglo Saxon and Viking reenactment. Reenactor Hold! Freya Harrison So I  sort of amateur interest in- in history and uh mainly in uh dressing up as a warrior and uh going to fight club every Wednesday night and learning to use the weapons. Robert Krulwich Really?  Freya Harrison Yep. Latif Nasser So this is actually not Freya's group. This is a group in New Jersey. But basically they do the same thing. Hundreds of people go out into you know some field with some dulled weapons... Freya Harrison Everything from swords to spears axes and we give each other a- a jolly good bashing and have a good time!  Latif Nasser I only mention this 'ecause it- it actually plays into the story. Freya Harrison Well it was... it was really a nice sort of coincidence really. So I- Latif Nasser Freya Harrison Nottingham's one of the places in the UK not only for- for microbiology but for sort of Anglo Saxon and Viking history. Latif Nasser And she goes there to study microbes but she figures Hey why not while I am here brush up on my Old English? Freya Harrison  I would studied some Old English to a- a level where I could sort of read and- and speak a little bit.  Latif Nasser But she figured hey she could... she could be better. And if she did she- she would get deeper into the whole reenactment thing. Freya Harrison So I rather cheekily emailed the School of English's Old English reading group. Latif Nasser That is where she met Christina. Dr. Christina Lee Yes! Latif Nasser The historian. Dr. Christina Lee And I thought Freya was - Latif Nasser One point uh Christina the historian asks Freya like what do you do? And Freya said you know uh My day job is that I am a microbiologist but on evenings and weekends I am a history nerd. And Christina said the moment she heard that... Dr. Christina Lee I just kind of thought I have- I have found my kindred spirit here. Latif Nasser Because she was like Wow I am like your mirror image. Because I am a historian by day but by night I am a microbiology nerd. Dr. Christina Lee I have been interested in um infectious disease for quite a long time. Which um I do not... I do not find any kind of friends in my department. Latif Nasser She told me she is the kind of person who would you know watch Ebola coverage on the news and not be able to stop watching. So eventually they start talking about historical diseases. So like how would people back then have treated something like you know Ebola? Freya is especially interested in this because she for her historical reenactment is developing this nun character who goes off and heals people. But anyway so they are talking back and forth and then to cut a long story short they- they find themselves both interested in this one particular book. Dr. Christina Lee It is known as Bald's Leechbook. So this is probably 1100 years old. Robert Krulwich What is it called? Ball- balls what? Dr. Christina Lee Bald's Leechbook. Robert Krulwich Bald's. Dr. Christina Lee It is nothing to do with no hair. Robert Krulwich Oh! Dr. Christina Lee  Even though it is spelled ... Robert Krulwich Bal- is it B-A-L-D uh- Dr. Christina Lee It is indeed. Robert Krulwich And leech like leech like a... like a leech like a little worm that grabs onto your... and sucks your blood? Dr. Christina Lee  No. No it comes from the Old English word  which is actually a healer or a doctor. Freya Harrison So is it... The- the little squiggly animals are called leeches because they are medicinal. Not the other way around.  Robert Krulwich Oh! Latif Nasser So the doctor was not named for the leech the leech was named for the doctor?  Freya Harrison Exactly yeah.  Jad Abumrad And Bald is the... is a man? The guy who wrote the book? Freya Harrison We think it is a guy. We think it is a guy's name. Jad Abumrad And what is this book? Latif Nasser So it is kinda like this old healer's handbook. It is filled with these potions and cures... Dr. Christina Lee The original manuscript is in the British Library- Latif Nasser Locked away. Freya Harrison But 21st century very kind people have digitized the original Old English text and- and put it online. Latif Nasser So Christina and Freya bring it up and they start going through all the remedies. Dr. Christina Lee And you know so it- it describes to you remedies for staph that is a little bit different. Freya Harrison You know things like- Freya Harrison Uh possession by the devil. Latif Nasser Which according to this Leechbook the remedy for someone who is possessed by the devil is you... Latif Nasser ... Make this kind of like foul brew you make 'em drink it and it will make 'em vomit out the devil. And- and- and then there is another remedy for warts. Latif Nasser And uh all I am gonna say about that one is that it involves hound's urine and mouse blood. Dr. Christina Lee And then things like... Dr. Christina Lee How should we say make your husband more physically attentive. Latif Nasser  Dr. Christina Lee Or less physically attentive. Whichever you... whichever direction you need to moderate it. Robert Krulwich Pig's blood I hope. Or toad blood. Latif Nasser Actually it is just you boil a plant in some water and give it to the guy. Robert Krulwich Oh. Latif Nasser Yeah. Anyway. So Freya and Christina are going through this Leechbook looking for some kind of wound... Freya Harrison Something that was clearly an infection. Latif Nasser Some pussy uh something? Freya Harrison We could clearly say that is- that is bacterial. Latif Nasser And eventually they- they find an entry... Freya Harrison Where at the end of the recipe it says in Old English... Freya Harrison  The best medicine. Latif Nasser The best medicine! Robert Krulwich Hm. Latif Nasser Yeah move over laughter. Freya Harrison Yeah. And we thought how can we not try this one?  Latif Nasser What was the best medicine for? Freya Harrison So it said it was for a lump in the eye. Dr. Christina Lee It is actually called  in Old English. Freya Harrison Yeah. These days if you get a... 'ecause that- that could be something like a wart right? But there is a suggestion by archeologists that eye infection was- was rife amongst the Anglo Saxons- Latif Nasser Really? Freya Harrison Because you lived in buildings where you- you have smoke going on. You lived cramped together. So it could also be a sty. Latif Nasser What is a sty? Freya Harrison It- it is an infection of an eyelash follicle. Robert Krulwich You rub it and it itches and then it gets swollen. Freya Harrison Yeah and it causes quite a nasty red lump. Robert Krulwich It is a sty in your eye. Latif Nasser Sty in your eye. Now it just so happens that the bacteria that causes the sty in your eye is- Freya Harrison Staphylococcus aureus. Latif Nasser Staph. Jad Abumrad Oh the same stuff as the Mr. Window Man. Penicillin man. Latif Nasser Exactly. Freya Harrison And we just thought would not it be nice to have a bit of spare time and had a couple of hundred quid to buy the ingredients and just give this a go? Dr. Christina Lee Yes! Let us give it a try. Freya Harrison You know why- why the hell not? Latif Nasser And matter of fact... Look at this place! Latif Nasser We thought that too. Matt Kielty ... Studio. Latif Nasser Not bad at all. Latif Nasser Recently producer Matt Kielty and I went to my tiny apartment in the city. And- Matt Kielty All right. Latif Nasser ... We tried to cook it up too. Matt Kielty Are you ready to cook? Latif Nasser Oh I am ready to cook. Freya Harrison I have- I have got this recipe here if- Latif Nasser Oh awesome. Freya Harrison ... You would like it. Latif Nasser Yeah yeah yeah. Please read it. Go for it. Freya Harrison Okay. It goes like this... Latif Nasser That is the first line of the recipe. And right off the bat for Christina and Freya there is a problem. That first ingredient... Freya Harrison The word . Freya Harrison Christina said it was quite difficult to translate. Dr. Christina Lee Nobody quite knows you know what it is. But luckily... Latif Nasser Just a couple words over was a clue. Latif Nasser In a second ingredient. Freya Harrison Garlic. Dr. Christina Lee Which um is an allium species. And ... Freya Harrison We know this was another allium. That is what the dictionary of Old English um tells us. Latif Nasser So they figured probably what they were dealing with was an onion or a leek... Freya Harrison But we did not know which one. So we thought okay we will try one that has onion and one that has leek. Latif Nasser Now- Latif Nasser The recipe does not cover this but we did it anyway. Um peel the onion. Chop it up. The same with the garlic. Dr. Christina Lee And the recipe does not tell you how much. It just tells you equal amounts of. Latif Nasser Uh so you take out the measuring cups you measure out equal amounts. Matt Kielty Yeah equal amounts. And there is a pestle. Latif Nasser And then after that... Matt Kielty Okay it says... Matt Kielty  Pounded well together. Dr. Christina Lee You have to really pound it. And- and pound it Freya did. Freya Harrison Yeah. Yeah. So um lots of... lots of time with a mortar and pestle.  And muscles built up from uh wielding a sword for pounding the ingredients. Matt Kielty Look it is starting to be more of a mush. Latif Nasser Third ingredient. Freya Harrison The next one was definitely something you would not have knocking around in your kitchen. Freya Harrison Ox gall. Latif Nasser Ox gall. Freya Harrison Bovine bile from a... from a cow's gallbladder. Robert Krulwich What do you have to kill the cow and then go reaching... Freya Harrison No. It is actually a- a very standard ingredient in microbiology labs. Matt Kielty Ox bile. Latif Nasser Today in 2015 you can but should not just buy it on the internet. Matt Kielty Here we go here we go. Latif Nasser And so you take the ox bile add it to the onion and garlic... Freya Harrison And then the fourth ingredient. Freya Harrison Wine. Latif Nasser It is wine time. Red wine? White wine? What... like what kind- Freya Harrison Well- Latif Nasser ... Of wine are we talking about here? Freya Harrison This is the thing. So we- we had quite a discussion about what type of wine should we use and we do not know really did they have red wine? Did they have white wine? What was the alcohol content? But I did a bit of... bit of detective work. Latif Nasser And she figured out that the monastery where this Leechbook was written... well they she figured out where their vineyard was. Freya Harrison And just down the road there is this modern organic vineyard. Latif Nasser So they used that wine. Latif Nasser I just wanna point out how difficult it is to find English wine. We had to use Italian. But... Latif Nasser Once you get all that stuff together you are on to the final ingredient. Freya Harrison The- the fifth ingredient was actually the... you are specifically told that you have to mix these ingredients together in a brass or a bronze pot. Um I do not have one.  Um so we had to sort of add pieces of you know... of copper that would have been available to people at the time. Latif Nasser So they had to do some research but they figured that the copper of today that is most like the copper of a millennium ago was actually... Freya Harrison Cartridge brass. Which is what is used as standard in plumbing fittings. Matt Kielty Drop a few pennies in there. Latif Nasser We actually used pennies. Matt Kielty Do I stir it? I think I stir it. This is like the world's worst cooking show. Latif Nasser  Freya Harrison And it- it looks and smells like quite a nice uh... quite a nice summer soup.  Matt Kielty Oh! Latif Nasser Oh it looks awful. Matt Kielty Oh that is so gross. Latif Nasser Clearly we botched this whole thing. Latif Nasser And uh finally... Matt Kielty All right so we are gonna cover it. Latif Nasser Okay we are covering it. Latif Nasser The directions say we have to let the whole thing sit for a while. Freya Harrison It has to be stored for nine days and nights. Latif Nasser Okay. That is it. Robert Krulwich One day goes by. Two days three four five. Latif Nasser Six seven eight nine. Matt Kielty All right. Nine days later. Latif Nasser Uh all right. Here we go. You ready? Matt Kielty Mm-hmm . Latif Nasser All right here we go. Freya Harrison And... Freya Harrison Then you have to strain it through a cloth. The liquid that comes off you apply to the person's eye. Matt Kielty Oh the liquid! Dr. Christina Lee With a feather. Freya Harrison Yeah. Dr. Christina Lee With a feather. Freya Harrison With a feather. Latif Nasser Now clearly we did not have any staff to try this out on. But Freya in her lab she made these mock wounds. Freya Harrison With these little plugs of- of- of collagen. So it is a bit like jelly. Latif Nasser Basically it is like a... like a goopy substance made to be kind of like a flesh wound. Freya Harrison And we infect these wounds with bacteria. With the staph. Latif Nasser Then they put this 1000 year old recipe that had been standing there for nine days they put it on the bacteria that was in the fake wound. Freya Harrison We would... obviously we are... we- we did not think this was going to work. Dr. Christina Lee No. Freya Harrison We thought you know well given the ingredients we might see some small healing effect on the bacteria but it will not be anything to write home about. Latif Nasser They thought maybe it would kill 10 20 of the bacteria. But then when they came back the next day... Freya Harrison It was a staph massacre. Latif Nasser It went on a rampage. It went on a staph rampage. Freya Harrison It was killing you know 99.99999 of- of these bacterial cells. Latif Nasser What! Freya Harrison Yeah. First we thought we made some sort of mistake and this was some kind of fluke you know? We would- we would accidentally mixed up our plates or mislabeled something. Latif Nasser So. They rerun the entire experiment again. They grab the ingredients mash 'em up put 'em on some bacteria and it happens again! Freya Harrison Just absolutely wiped out the bacteria in these  wounds. Dr. Christina Lee Killed them dead. Latif Nasser Then they tried a third time and a fourth and a fifth and it worked every time! Freya Harrison And this is... this- this is just something you- you really do not see in your career as a microbiologist.  Latif Nasser And eventually they escalated from just regular staph to- to MRSA. To the methicillin resistant staph. And this is one of the bad ones. News person A superbug. New government data estimate that about 2000 people are dying of community based MRSA every year. News person  This one is- is very dangerous.  Latif Nasser So Christina and Freya they sent some of Bald's brew to one of their collaborators in the States. Freya Harrison Our collaborator Kendra Rumbaugh in- in Lubbock in Texas- Latif Nasser Kendra took the stuff put it on some MRSA bacteria and then a week later sent Christina and Freya an email. Freya Harrison And I think it was actually a three word response. I th- I think she just simply said- Freya Harrison What the .  Latif Nasser  Latif Nasser Bald's best medicine had just wreaked havoc on the MRSA. It killed 90 of them. Freya Harrison It is just... It is beyond our wildest dreams. Latif Nasser Now u- uh Freya and Christina made very clear that this is not yet a miracle drug. I mean it is not even being tested in humans. Dr. Christina Lee So absolutely do not do this at home. Latif Nasser They do not even know if this is safe. Freya Harrison It might be that if you do not do it in exactly the way we did nasty fungus could grow in it give you a worse infection. Latif Nasser So uh... Matt Kielty We should not have done this.  Latif Nasser  Latif Nasser Matt and I we... dumped ours down the drain. But the thing about this whole story that is so intriguing and so cool to me is this time travel thing which is so strange. Like it is like the idea that w- something a thousand years ago uh... like a bullet forged a thousand years ago we could... we could use it now and that it could work. That- that t- the time travel dimension of that is so weird to me. Latif Nasser It kind of makes you think differently about I do not know progress. Presenter So uh without much further ado Dr. Christina Lee and uh Dr. Freya Harrison and they are going to talk to us about some ancient biotics. Latif Nasser For example just a few weeks ago uh Freya and Christina got up in front of the Royal Society of Chemists. Dr. Christina Lee Thank you very much and it is an absolute pleasure to be here - Latif Nasser Large hotel conference room hundred or so people. Uh Freya actually uh got up on stage dressed as a nun. Freya Harrison Okay. So this is one interpretation of what a- an Anglo Saxon scientist may have looked like.  Latif Nasser And they presented the results. Freya Harrison Next ingredient is particularly - Latif Nasser They did the cooking demo. And then at some point Christina said something really interesting. She was like okay sure we wanna write this off because it has demons and dragons and elves in it. But are we sure that we know what they meant by those words? Like for example... Dr. Christina Lee There are remedies which ask you Sing four Ava Marias. Latif Nasser And we would say oh that is so superstitious. This is all in their heads. Dr. Christina Lee But there again we should also remember this is a period when people do not have watches. You do not have your  you know so that is got the watch. Everybody knows the Ava Maria. Everybody knows the length of an Ava Maria.  Latif Nasser So maybe it is... maybe it is take this medicine and wait twenty minutes. Uh and I know how to standardize 20 minutes which is... Dr. Christina Lee Three Ava Marias four Ava Marias may actually be time periods - Latif Nasser Uh so- so it- Robert Krulwich Oh that is fascinating. Latif Nasser It may appear one way. And it is... it in fact could be a- a totally different way. Jad Abumrad It suggests that the... in order to time travel you have to somehow... God it is like we do not even have the w- the language to be able to understand what they were doing. Latif Nasser Th- there is a ph- Jad Abumrad And how effective it- Latif Nasser There is a phrase. The- the past is a foreign country. Dr. Christina Lee We need to learn the language of the doctors of that time. We need to kind of be a little bit less um dismissive and learn a little more  from them. I learned a bit of humility this way. Latif Nasser But here's the reason why this is so confusing to me. Freya Harrison Mm-hmm . Latif Nasser So 1100 years is a crazy long time for humans and for bacteria that is like a exponentially crazy long time. Freya Harrison Yeah. Latif Nasser So how is it that something that this man Bald was doing to these bacteria then... Like- like it is not even the same bacteria. Freya Harrison Yeah. Latif Nasser How could that even work. Freya Harrison That- that is a... that is an awesome question. So- so one thing we have got to think about is so why did these medicines drop out of use? And maybe it is because when they were used the bacteria evolved resistance. But now a thousand years later when these medicines have not been used you would expect that resistance to be lost. Latif Nasser This is something that Maryn McKenna mentioned to Soren and I. That sometimes when you take a drug out of circulation- Maryn McKenna Sometimes resistance will decline. That does not always work but sometimes resistance does decline. So if we had been using this compound through the ensuing thousand years maybe it would not work. Robert Krulwich So there is an interesting discovery there. Like that what worked once and then was resisted you give it a rest it can work again. And it will be resisted. And you put it to rest and if you had enough different... if you could go to different places and the different path... to- to go to China where they now got all these people studying Chinese cures and Arab cures you could come up with a... with a rich historical cocktail of armamentarium that will work if you bring 'em in take 'em out. Bring 'em in take 'em out. And the whole world... the whole world of the past then becomes the food of your future sort of. Soren Wheeler So it is also poss- i- like now I have a... suddenly an image that it is possible that- that- Jad Abumrad This is Soren Wheeler by the way in conversation with Maryn McKenna and Latif. Soren Wheeler ... That- that a thousand years ago these folks went through what we went through with penicillin. And that they... this guy wrote something in the book and it is actually called the best medicine. He probably got on the cover of whatever their version of TIME was. Maryn McKenna He got their Nobel prize. Soren Wheeler And everybody celebrated. And then years later sties were coming back and the garlic wine did not work anymore and they stopped using it and it got put away. And then here we are and we discover it and it is been put away long enough that... Like then- then now I am thinking about future... some future... civilization digs up an old medical textbook that was in some dusty whatever and discovers penicillin. And it works. Did we... did I lose you on that Maryn? Maryn McKenna No no. I am still with you. I am just I do not kn- know how... I- it just seems like su- it seems like such a great hypothetical construction I just did not really know what I could add to it.  Sorry. Soren Wheeler  Sorry I took over. Jad Abumrad Producer Latif Nasser with help from Soren Wheeler and uh produced by Matthew Kielty. Special thanks to say are to Steve Diggle... Robert Krulwich And to Alexandra Reider and Justin Park who came down from Yale to be our Old English readers. Jad Abumrad To Gene Murrow from the Gotham Early Music Scene... Robert Krulwich And to Marcia Young on the medieval harp. Jad Abumrad Collin Monro of Tadcaster. Robert Krulwich And the rest of the Barony of Iron Bog. Jad Abumrad Not totally sure what that is but I know they helped us out. And I guess we should help ourselves out. Robert Krulwich Yes very quickly.  Jad Abumrad Out the door.  Or through the window. I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad Thanks for listening. Voicemail Message five. New. Maryn McKenna This is Maryn McKenna. Justin Park Hi this is Justin Park from the English department at Yale. Sonny Fox Okay  and I am reading the appointed message. Maryn McKenna Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad. Justin Park  Jad Abumrad. Maryn McKenna Our staff includes Brenna Farrell David Gebel Dylan Keefe... Sonny Fox Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Andy Mills Latif Nasser... Justin Park Elsie Patrick... Maryn McKenna Arianne Wack... Sonny Fox Molly Webster Soren Wheeler and Jamie York with help from... Maryn McKenna Alexandra Lee Young Abigail Kiel... Justin Park And Alexandra Brennan. Maryn McKenna Our fact checkers are... Maryn McKenna Eva Dasher and Michelle Harris. Voicemail End of message.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.