 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR - the Layover episode a show about going from point A to point B. In fact you may be traveling from point A to point B yourself. So we sent our own Nick van der Kolk out into the field to speak to people who are on the move.  I wake up because I feel something like rubbing on my arm. So I look over and this guy is cuddling up next to me. I think he is knocked out 'ecause his eyes were closed. And he is got porn playing on his computer. I am like woah this is not what I signed up for. I called the flight attendant over and I point to his computer. And I was like can I move? And she gets this really really sad apologetic look on her face. She was like oh it is a full flight.  I needed to get a ride home from the bus station once I got to Richmond because Richmond does not have like super accessible public transportation. And I heard the guy behind me get on the phone and tell his friend that he was going to drive over when he got back. So I knew he had a car in Richmond. And in D.C. I turned around and I said to him do you think you could give me a ride home? And he said yeah. And it was - and like - and then we went back to not talking for the whole way to Richmond. And then I do not know why because like we were not having this incredible conversation but he asked me if I wanted to come over and watch TV before I went home. So I went to his house and we watched South Park on his bed. And then we fell asleep holding each other but I had never been held the way that he held me. Like I remember he squeezed me really tight and just kept whispering in my ear is not this weird? Is not this weird? Is not this totally unlikely? Is not this super weird? We did not even make out. We just held each other. And then in the morning I woke up and I walked home. So I never even got the ride home from him.  For our next story we are jumping across the pond now going to go to London England. And Jane was 22 years old living at home with her parents starting out in life at that age where you are trying to shed the identity you had in high school. But - but - SNAP JUDGMENT's Stephanie Foo has the story.  Jane was 22 and sitting in her parents' house when the phone rang.  Out of the blue I received a phone call from Kevin Whitehead. I had not heard from him for about nine years. When Kevin contacted me and says I think you know we may have known each other I was quite taken back by it. I was like known each other? You broke my heart. We were first going out when we were teenagers. When we were sort of 14 - 13 we would gone out for a summer. I guess he was my first real boyfriend. Kevin was a - he was a very cheeky lad and full of confidence. I think that is why I liked him because he was sort of Jack the lad. Towards the end of the summer break before we were going back to school Kevin dumped me over the phone quite cruelly really. I was heartbroken.  So Jane was understandably suspicious when he called her nine years later.  He said that he had had quite a serious motorbike accident. As a result of the accident he had memory loss. His memory was like a jigsaw puzzle. Going back to his childhood days there were gaps in his past that he did not recall. Part of his rehab was contacting people from his past. They suggested that you know contacting people may help put those jigsaw pieces together.  And so while looking up old friends on a social network Kevin stumbled across Jane's profile.  And I sort of saw Jane Peart. And I was like I remember her. She was a friend. Yeah she was a friend. And then when I was looking through me old diaries of me school days as if trying to just help me memories and I sort of come across Jane's number.  But it was a strange situation to be in to have to remind someone of the fact that he dumped me. I could not actually picture the Kevin that I knew before with the Kevin that I was speaking to on the phone. It was like talking to a stranger.  What Jane did not realize was that Kevin really was a stranger at this point even to himself. Before Kevin had been all motorcycles and bar fights.  I used to be an arrogant person. One of the things my dad said was like you need to - you need to like sort yourself out because you are turning into a nasty person you know. But then after the accident that changed me.  Now he was quiet shy prone to anxiety attacks. It really struck Jane when she met up with him for the first time at his house.  When I turned up and he would opened up the front door and came out to the car it was a bit strange because it was completely a different person in terms of the way he looked filled out a little bit although I am not sure he would like me saying that.  I was sitting there talking to Jane and - well she was talking. I was not doing that much talking because I was in no sort of fit state to sort of keeping up conversation or anything. You know I am sort of having panic attacks left right and center.  I could see that the guy that was sitting in front of me was a guy that really had lost his world. I could see the pain in his face.  Kevin told Jane that it was a huge comfort to be able to talk to someone from his school days because a lot of that time was a blank for him. And his other childhood friends had not responded to his e-mails - just her.  While I have got Jane speaking to me my brain's doing three times the speed linking up different memories. Just talking that was bringing back memories of say my granddad 25 years ago. All the memories were getting mixed up but I did start to bring back a lot of memories of sort of me and Jane. The memories that were being brought back from being where we are once again does not mean that it is good feelings. It could be bad feelings.  Like Kevin finally remembered breaking up with Jane over the phone. And he remembered that years after he broke up with her even into his late teens he would always drive down Jane's street hoping to catch a glimpse of her.  I never ever ever got over Jane. I always liked her. She was very attractive. I liked the way she was. She was sort of a bit like - I was only young but a bit like my sort of ideal girlfriend. I always regretted I sort of dumped her. I never ever got over her.  Unfortunately Jane had gotten over Kevin years ago. And helping him now...  It was not anything to do with a romance. It was like I was the shoulder for Kevin. Something just said to me if this person's had this accident regardless of the past if I am the only person that can help him then I felt that I had a duty to do that.  When Jane and Kevin would meet up they would often go to places where they and their friends used to hang out. And she would tell him oh this is where we would go swimming. This is where we met. One day she was driving by the river and said oh this is where we first kissed.  And it was just taking me back to this kiss and parked in the car at the end of the night. It was just racking around in my brain. And I am sort of sitting there. And I am just like what do I - do I or do not I? I have never been good at working out signals and all that anyway at the best of times let alone when I have got no confidence and everything's all mixed up. So yeah sort of a 20-year-old attractive girl giving her time to spend time with this sort of wreck of a man you know this embarrassment. And I am just there you know in the car. I said to Jane like I know what I want to do. I want to kiss you.  We shared a kiss again for the first time. It was kind of mixed emotions but it just felt right.  She was everything I wanted. I was sitting there. I am kissing this girl and this is just amazing. It was just - it was just amazing. I remember thinking about that so much that I just sort of stopped kissing her. I was just frozen against her. Just like - I do not know. Just like a leech just stuck onto her face. Just like yeah enough about that.  I can also remember the other kiss which was the kiss when we were both teenagers so it - but they were completely different. Much better kisser the second time around.  Well just think of mine then. So it could not have been that bad.  After that Jane was smitten. Of course they had their fair share of difficulties as a couple - getting Kevin through his rehabilitation finding him a job. But Kevin was always so good to her in a way she never dreamed he could have been.  That is the part that I sort of fell in love with which was his kindness and the care inside to him that I saw when we met and thereafter. I cannot thank him enough for some of the things that he had done.  So I found that through Jane she would made me a lot more - a lot nicer person. Jane's sort of niceness wearing off on me and I have turned into a much nicer person. I do fully understand that. After everything I have gone through I am now with that girl who I loved and wanted to be with. You know she is still with me and she is still beautiful. And she is still everything to me.  Jane and Kevin Whitehead are now married and have two beautiful young twins. They live in London. And big thanks to both of them. And be sure to check out Kevin's book A Happy Accident Fate Not Fatal. We will have a link on our website SnapJudgment.org. That piece was produced by Stephanie Foo. Now then it is about that time. It is but do not fret. Do not frown SNAP nation. The SNAP cannot be contained in a single hour anyway no. Get you to the podcast. Full episodes news pictures stuff waiting for you right now at SnapJudgment.org. Facebook yes. We are on the Facebook. Twitter yes. SnapJudgment.org. 