 OK so back in high school there is this girl Melissa I used to kick it with right? Most days after school we would hang read books watch movies do homework - really that is what we did 'ecause I was shy like that. But that was OK 'ecause we had prom coming up. I knew it was going to be awesome because with a beauty like Melissa on my arm what could go wrong right? I went through the whole checklist. Had to get a cummerbund a tux dinner reservations - I could not swing a limo but I asked my buddy's dad if I could borrow his Caddy. And at first he was not having it. Please Mr. Jenkins please I will bring it back better than I took it. Finally the day before the prom he relented and I was so happy I told her hey he said we could ride the Caddy to the prom. You never asked me to the prom. I am going with Mikey Chavalier . Oh there I was with the car with the tux the dinner reservations everything I needed for prom except someone to go with. Tired of being a loser I had to think of something. I called my buddy at a different school. He hears me out and then he says I am sorry for your stupidity but I do not know what you want me to do about it. Well I need you to ask your sister to go with me for me. Ask her yourself. But I barely know her. Then why you want to take her to the prom? She does not even like you. Come on. He is my buddy so he does it. And I already know it is going to suck taking my buddy's little sister to the prom. I just got to make sure she does not talk to any of my friends. But I am going to the prom I am. So I go to pick her up and she comes down to the door. And she is beautiful. Like I knew she was cute but she is beautiful. And when she gets in the car she is quiet for a moment. And she is turns to me and says thanks for asking me. Your brother says you do not even like me. And she squeals he is such a liar. And we bond over what a jerk her brother is and laughed the whole way to the country club. And before we walk to the wall of roses she grabs a hold of my arm and whispers we have to enter properly. And we enter - properly with many ohs and ahs. I tried to get her something to drink but she wants to dance. So we go to the dance floor and she is doing all these steps. And I try to keep up and we are laughing and spinning. And it is awesome. We have the best time. And that night I drop her off at her place and she says thanks kisses me on the cheek and runs inside. Wow. The next week I see my friend Melissa again. And like normal we kick it read books watch movies and then she says - almost casual but not really casual - I am going to be kind of busy the rest of the weekend. And then I say - almost casual but not really casual - yeah me too. Today on SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR The B-team. Amazing stories from real people for whom their first choice is not available. My name is Glynn Washington. Make sure the parking brake is disengaged because this is a SNAP JUDGMENT. 