 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR the Detour episode. My name is Glynn Washington and you may remember Aesop. He once told a story about a race. And writer Amelia Gray she checks back in with the runners several years later. SNAP JUDGMENT.   So there I was running for all my might. This was a woodland course so things are a little unclear you know? I am looking ahead of me and all I see are branches right? Maybe a branch looks like another runner but then I see it is just one of those mossy branches. You know the type.   Hold your breath please.   And I look behind me all I see is more branches. And then you see that I am looking behind when up comes this log.   And exhale. And if you could lift your haunch.   Sure. Anyway up comes - ouch - careful where you stick that.   Now Hare we need to talk about your condition.   Anyway up comes this log. And I am looking behind me and I do not even see it. Now this was years ago mind you but I was no kit.   Hare.   I had the reflexes. I had the stamina. I feel woozy. I was no kit.   Hare.   I had the - that is right.   Look we did a full spectrum analysis after your collapse last week. We took a complete blood count. We did some protein tests. We did some antigen tests calcitonin tests alpha-fetoprotein tests - we did all the tests.   I had the reflexes.   Hare you have the cancer.   The cancer?   I am so sorry.   That is not possible. I ran the Laporade Circuit  last month.   Well that does not mean you are not sick. But we do have a very aggressive treatment plan.    Doctor? Sorry to interrupt. Your patient has a visitor.   A visitor?   I will give you two some privacy. I will be back later to outline some treatment plans.   Treatment plans - what rot. I wonder who it could be? I have not seen the March Hare in years - or maybe Cecily Parsley - maybe she will sneak in a pint of that Cowslip wine. Hello? Hello there? Who is there? This bed is too high up. Come around the side so I can get a look at you. Hello? Is anyone here? Is someone playing a trick on me? It is cruel to play pranks whoever you are and I will have you know that if I had my strength I would give you such a thumping.   Hello.   Oh it is you.   You remember me? I am the tortoise.   Yes of course.   We did that race together.   Oh I remember.   And you were very boastful.   Yes I remember I remember you. I am very well aware of you and our story together - yes thank you. They are giving anyone a race these days - just like they are giving anyone a medical license. Did you see that 25-year-old child in here with a stethoscope?   Do you mind if I sit?   The medical industry these days they want to pump me full of poison and then tell me I am poisoned. And then obviously then the bill comes which is the real disease.   This chair is very tall.   Just be careful with the IV. OK perfect. Good - right there. I see you have some flowers taped to your back. Are those for me or was that a cruel prank?   Those are for you. I cannot quite reach.   They wanted to charge me for this piss pot they have stuck under me. Can you imagine it? I told them if you want to charge me for this then take it away. Just put some shredded newspaper in the corner and I will do it there. But then of course they wanted to charge me for the shredded newspaper.   They told me you are dying of the cancer.   Well that is a delicate way to put it. If you must know I am beating the odds. I have been feeling sickly for a while but I was taking multivitamins and running every day. Then I did a whole body cleanse every two weeks. I had a little stumble is all last week and I am getting my strength back. Something smells like a pond.   I see.   Everybody's got to go sometime. You will go. Maybe you will get cancer and die next year. I cannot imagine you would have too much trouble succumbing to the odds as it were. No offense to you. But it takes some mental acuity.   I am not sure that tortoises can get the cancer.   Those flowers are lovely by the way. Very nice Easter lilies. Daylilies are my favorite but they are a bit rare - a bit hard to find. You might find a daylily in a soup if you look in the right place. You would have to race across the ocean but you might just find it in China. Can you imagine? A flower in soup? Believe it or not - and I suggest you believe it.   Friend there was something I wanted to tell you.   Look at what they did to my haunch. They shaved it. I look like I should be hanging in a butcher shop.   Friend.   I guess you win buddy.   It was never a race.   You are here at the SNAP. We wish you the best of luck Hare. That story was written by Amelia Gray. You can find more of Amelia's work at snapjudgement.org. We will have a link. And the voice actors for that piece were the Hare - Jason Yamas the Tortoise - George Garrett the doctor - Julia DeWitt. The nurse was played by Eliza Smith who also produced that piece with sound design by Leon Morimoto. 