 Hey wait you are listening -   Okay.   All right.   Okay.   All right   You are listening to Radiolab.    Radiolab.   Shorts!   From   WNYC .   And NPR   Hey I am Jad Abumrad.   I am Robert Krulwich.   This is Radiolab   The podcast.   And today since we are right about to have the New York City Marathon zip through our neighborhoods here in New York.   We have a puzzle. Yeah it is a puzzle.   Yeah it is a puzzle. Yes it is a puzzle and it comes from NPR's East Africa Correspondent Gregory Warner.  Gregory Warner I prepared for this story by taking a jog through Nairobi.   All right so where do we start with this Greg?  Gregory Warner I think we should start in 1968. I mean there is a lot of places we could start but let us start there. Let us try it. So 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City.  Video Clip Mexico City! Thankfully a city of peace on the Olympic's opening day.  Gregory Warner At 7900 feet one of the highest elevated Olympic's and that is difficult for runners because there is less oxygen.  Gregory Warner And one of the big races that everybody's looking forward to is the 1500 meter. Between the 23 year-old American favorite Jim Ryan.  Video Clip Jim Ryan of America number 300.  Gregory Warner He is the world record holder. And this guy named Kipchoge Keino.  Video Clip Kip Keino of Kenya number 565.  Gregory Warner Kip Keino he is called   Kip Keino.  Gregory Warner They bill him as an untrained Nandi tribesman from Kenya. He is actually a policeman from a long line of cattle wrestlers.  Video Clip 200 meters Martyn Woodroffe is to win a silver.  Gregory Warner And here's what you need to know about Kip. He is running 3 different races at this Olympic's.  Video Clip And now he is back for the 1500 meters.  Gregory Warner Not only the 1500 but also the 5 thousand meter and the 10 thousand meter. If you include the qualifying matches he will be running 6 Olympic events in 8 days.   Wow.  Gregory Warner 6 races in 8 days which would never be done today was hardly done then. So first up  Video Clip The 10 thousand meter!  Gregory Warner The 10 thousand meter race. He is in the lead two laps away from finishing when he collapses. He falls off the track. He gets rushed to the Kenyan doctor who is a German guy who diagnoses him with a gallbladder infection. Which turns out is incredibly painful. Actually hurts the most when you take deep breathes like when you are running. And if you do not treat it your gallbladder could burst.  Gregory Warner So basically the doctor sends Kip to bed says there is no way you can run. But Kip he runs the next race anyway. Ends up getting silver.   Wow.  Gregory Warner He is sent to bed by the German doctor again who literally says Okay this time you have to stay in bed. If you run anymore races you could die.  Video Clip Back to the track for one of the most memorable events of the whole games. The 1500 meters.  Gregory Warner Three days later it is the big match up against Jim Ryan. And Kip apparently he just leapt out of bed an hour before the race and he said something like If I die I am going to die on the track.   Gregory Warner So Kip Keino starts off.  Video Clip They are up and running three and three-quarter laps of the stadium.  Gregory Warner He starts out dead last.  Video Clip Keino running last and then moving up to the middle of the pack now.  Gregory Warner By the end of the first lap he is in third.  Video Clip  Germany second Kip Keino third.  Gregory Warner On the third lap he takes the lead.  Video Clip And here comes Kip Keino coming up with his teammate.  Gregory Warner He goes ahead but that is okay for Jim Ryan. Jim Ryan is known to have the greatest kick in the sport.   Kick?  Gregory Warner Kick. Right at the end of the race every runner gives this extra boost. And Ryan's go the best kick in the business.  Video Clip Jim Ryan is beginning to move.  Gregory Warner So he is thinking  Video Clip The kick is beginning  Gregory Warner There is no way that Kip Keino at altitude suffering a gallbladder infection can hold out against my kick.  Video Clip He is closing very rapidly  Gregory Warner And in the final lap it looks like he is right. He starts shooting up the field gaining on Kip Keino who is clearly in pain.  Gregory Warner He is sort of grimacing gritting his teeth.  Video Clip Going to pick up 300 yards left the crowd is going mad.  Gregory Warner Lurching  Video Clip Keino 200 meters left  Gregory Warner to the finish line. And even though he is in an ungodly amount of pain. Even though pain is shooting through his entire body amazingly  Video Clip And Keino will never be caught  Gregory Warner he does not slow down. Jim Ryan never catches him.  Video Clip The Kenyan beaten in the 5 thousand meters with speed.  Gregory Warner And he wins.  Video Clip Shows the world record holder the way home. And Ryan completely misjudged this.  John Manners When he hung on around that last turn it was oh I was hysterical.  Gregory Warner This is John Manners.  John Manners I am a semi-retired journalist who for many years had a specialty in covering the exploits of Kenyan runners African runners in general.  Gregory Warner He was watching that race  John Manners in a bar of about 50 miles North of New York.  Gregory Warner But as a kid Manners actually lived in the part of Kenya that Kip Keino is from.  John Manners My people.  Gregory Warner And so when Keino won gold it sparked a question for Manners that he would spend the next 40 years thinking about.  John Manners I wanted to find a reason why my people as I chose to regard them were great.  Gregory Warner Because on that day in 1968 Kip Keino did not just win a race. He ushered in an era of East African dominance in the sport.  Video Clip It is Kenya one it is Kenya two it is Kenya five  Gregory Warner That is almost hard to believe.  Video Clip The Kenyan's have done it again! One twoand three. Yep it was once again the Kenyans the eighth successive gold medal in Olympic history. Time. It is a world record! A world record!   So 1968 was the beginning of the Kenyan dominance in running.  Gregory Warner Yeah but  David Epstein In the United States we think of Kenyan's as being good runners but really if it is one tiny small geographic swath within Kenya where all the runners come from.  Gregory Warner That is David Epstein he is a senior editor at Sports Illustrated. He wrote a book called The Sports Gene and the geographic swath that he is talking about is in Western Kenya. It is a mountainous region spread out about the size of Massachusetts. And the people who live there are a particular tribe of Kenyans called  David Epstein the Kalenjin.  Gregory Warner Pretty small group of people.  David Epstein This tribe accounts for about .06 percent of the World's population. But from this one tiny tribe has come this unbelievable found of talent that I think is unparalleled in any other sport ever.  Gregory Warner There is all kinds of statistics.  David Epstein It almost becomes laughable. There have been five American high school runners who have broken 4 minutes in a mile.  Gregory Warner The first was actually Jim Ryan.  David Epstein But there is one high school in Iten in Kenya that had 4 sub-4 milers at the same time. There is seventeen American men in history who have run under 210 in the marathon. That is about 4 minutes and 58 seconds per mile pace. 17 American men in history. There were 32 Kalenjin who did it in October of 2011.  David Epstein So you start to look at these statistics and it appears to be the greatest concentration of elite athletic talent ever. In any sport anywhere in the world.  John Manners And that is the question I mean how does that happen?  Gregory Warner That was John Manners question 40 years ago.  John Manners Something has to account for that extraordinary set of numbers. But what?  Gregory Warner And there have been any number of scientists and sports gurus and athletes that have gone to this place to figure out what is happening. What is the secret here? And there is all kinds of theories. Like something about the tree that they used to make the spoon which they use to mix the cornmeal.   What would the tree do?  Gregory Warner Well this was this Swedish scientist who came in and looked at Ugali which is like cornmeal it is the basic staple food of Kenyans. Because he wanted to mix it with the water from the spring in the pot that Kalenjin use thinking that something chemical was happening there that was making these guys run super fast.   What?  Gregory Warner I mean it is kind of silly but a lot of people here tell me it is the bananas. But people have also suggested some more reasonable theories.  John Manners Well  Gregory Warner According to John Manners.  John Manners People talk a lot about altitude and the ability to process oxygen and what have you.  Gregory Warner Other people have said it is because the Kalenjin have a high starchy diet.  John Manners Or because they run to school that is a very prominent phenomena. We know that the runners that come from the Kalenjin tribe that become great runners they are much more likely to have run to and from school. Long distances like 10K to and from school.  Gregory Warner But  John Manners There are millions of kids in Kenya who run to and from school.  Gregory Warner Or who live at altitude. The problem with all these is that these are not specific to the Kalenjin.  John Manners Yeah.  Gregory Warner So then you get the socioeconomic arguments. The salary of a runner is attractive. You know 10 or 20 thousand dollars a year seems like a fortune worth striving for. But the country's not so poor that it cannot send competitors to the athletic competitions.  John Manners This is Malcolm Gladwell's argument actually.  David Epstein Very close.  Gregory Warner Yeah.  John Manners But there is a social pressure to it that this is how you get out.  Gregory Warner Yeah. There is so many role models. I mean every village has some kind of champion. The problem with that argument I mean there is actually no problem with the argument it makes sense but it does not say how the Kalenjin got so good in the first place that they created these role models.  John Manners I mean where did the role models come from?  Gregory Warner So the idea you are left with is maybe there is something genetically different about them that makes them better than us. This is obviously a dangerous idea. In fact when David Epstein was writing his book about sports and athletics.  David Epstein I almost backed out of writing the book because I was going to have to address ethnic differences and gender differences. I really did almost back out of it. There were scientists who confessed to me that they were withholding data.  Gregory Warner That they had studies that showed a genetic advantage but they would not show him because they were afraid that they would lose tenure. But he says you have to acknowledge the obvious  David Epstein One aspect of innate biology that clearly helps Kalenjin that is been studied by scientist is their body build. So the Kalenjin is what is called a Nilotic people. They have ancestry at very low latitude. I was criss-crossing the equator when I was visiting their training camps. And when you have your ancestry in hot and dry climate you evolve a certain body type for cooling. And we know this we have known this for over a century it is called Allen's Rule. That organisms not just humans all organisms that evolve in hot and dry climates have a certain body type.  Gregory Warner Mainly  David Epstein Very long and thin limbs so that there is a lot of surface area through which heat can dissipate. Their limbs get thinner the farther away they get from their center of gravity so they have extremely thin ankles and extremely thin calves which is particularly important because your leg is like a pendulum and the more weight you have farther away from your center of gravity the more difficult it is to swing. This has been tested in the lab too right? So you take a runner and put eight pounds of weight around their waist. It increases the energy they have to use to run at a given pace but if you take that same eight pounds and put it in the form of two four pound weights around their ankles it is like over twenty five percent the increase in energy they need to run at the same pace.  Gregory Warner So if you have fat ankles find a different sport?  David Epstein Right you are not going to win the New York Marathon if you have thick ankles.  Gregory Warner And so it gets you to this place where you think Well I do not know maybe Kalenjin from this area maybe they have this built-in advantage. It is physics.   I do not know somehow like I to just peg it all on physics smells like an argument that I really do not like.   No nobody likes it.  Gregory Warner I do not think it is a question of like or dislike I think it is just not the reason I watch the Olympics. I mean going back to Kip Keino  Video Clip Kenyan shows the world record holder the way home.  Gregory Warner Who overcame a gallbladder infection to break the Olympic world record in 1968 he did not win because he had thin ankles he won because of something which is the reason we watch sports you know it is that essence that willpower   Triumph over adversity  Gregory Warner Right   The triumph of the human over everything   Yes.  Gregory Warner And this is where I ran across a completely new fascinating and somewhat terrifying way of explaining why the Kalenjin are so good. And it is an idea that eventually led me to go to Kalenjin country myself. That is a perfect way of beginning a little cow hoot. You get to Iten which is in the mountains the air is cool so there is a lot of cows lot of people. And around 30-00am all you hear is the pitter-patter of feet and then all these people just pass you all of a sudden and then you know you wait for a few more seconds and then people pass you again because everybody is running. I even started morning jogging when I was there and I am not really a morning jogger but I just kind of got into the flow. Anyway while I was there I met this guy. His name is brother Colm O'Connell.  Colm O'Connell Colm O'Connell. I am Irish of course. Came to Kenya in 1976.  Gregory Warner Famous running coach who works with a lot of Kenyan runners. So I met him in an Irish pub in Eldoret which is there is only one. When I asked him this question what is it that makes the Kalenjin so good? This is what he told me.  Colm O'Connell When you train an athlete to a high level you need to remember that they live on the edge of injury they live on the edge of over-training they live on the edge of pain.  Gregory Warner Pain  Colm O'Connell Pain tolerance yes sir.  Gregory Warner Now look to some degree everybody who is a runner talks about this insidious protean nature of pain. How it finds all the places. You become breathless and your lungs have needles. The best runners have to learn to mentally override these distress signals. To run despite the pain. He actually calls it expanding your pain barrier.  Colm O'Connell Yeah so they are tough  Gregory Warner But  Colm O'Connell says for the Kalenjin pain is something else entirely.  Colm O'Connell You know your ability to withstand pain. That in a sense in the Kalenjin tradition made you a man.  Gregory Warner Quite literally  John Manners The central event of their young lives will come up when they are going to be initiated into the tribe.  Gregory Warner That is John Manners again. Remember he spent part of his childhood in Kalenjin territory and he says when he was a boy say 12 years old he would notice his friends had scars on their arms and legs.  John Manners Marks of having burned their arms and legs with hot coals.  Gregory Warner He soon learned they were practicing for this initiation moment.  John Manners And you would know you were facing it for ten years at least.  Gregory Warner Because as a Kalenjin teenager boy or girl you have to go through an experience which is so painful it is a kind of theatrical orgy of pain and here's what happens. First you have to crawl naked through stinging nettles which is like formic acid you know and African stinging nettles are much much stingy-er than the western stinging nettle. Then your fingers are squeezed together then you get beaten on that bony part of your ankle where it really hurts. But all of that is just warm up because then one morning comes the circumcision.  Gregory Warner Now we have some idea of how circumcision works. Maybe. Some of us are circumcised. So you perform it on a baby and it is one kind of experience. I have gone through that myself I have seen it done. I have had to hold the legs also of my nephew it is hard. But the Kalenjin circumcise somewhere right after puberty so around age 13 to 17. The foreskin is not only cut but it is tied into a bow. The more than the tie it into a bow thing I have got to stop there I kind of froze. I do not really know how to describe it past there.  John Manners I believe either the top or the bottom of the foreskin is pierced and then the head of the penis is pushed through the opening.  Gregory Warner The thing is it is not just the cut actually.  John Manners When he undergoes the operation he is obliged to be absolutely stoical still unflinching.  Gregory Warner So in some versions of this ceremony mud is caked on the face and then the mud is allowed to dry. If a crack appears in the mud a cheek may twitch your forehead may crinkle and if that happens a little crack will appear in the mud and all the people around will know to immediately start beating you with large sticks. The worst part though is not just the beating it is that after that moment if you do not make it through this ceremony you get labeled a Kebitet a coward. You are a pariah in society you are not part of society. In the olden days you did not have access to the economic opportunities to afford what is called the bride price which is what you need to get a wife. However if you show yourself to be a true warrior if you make it through this experience then hey you get the rights of reproduction. You may even have two or three wives.  Gregory Warner So Manners wondered he is just speculating here but maybe if you have 2000 years of this sexual selection of insuring that the stoical tough guy types get to have babies. The sensitive types do not. Maybe it is not just that the Kalenjin are built for speed. It is not just that they have the body type. Maybe they have some sort innate ability mentally to persevere through pain.   Huh and this that a cultural ability or would he say that all that selection has filtered into their DNA in some way?  Gregory Warner Well so Manners says is not sure and there is certainly no gene for stoicism that is been discovered and any athletic success has to be ascribed to a host of factors but can I play one cut?   Here you want me to play the first one?  Gregory Warner Yeah lets hear it. So I was in Iten I was thinking about that question and met this kid named Elly Kipgogei. He is 19 years-old. He is a self-described book worm.  Elly Kipgogei From the very beginning I never wanted to go through the traditional form of circumcision because I knew the ordeal it was so bad.  Gregory Warner And actually what he said was Please circumcise me in the hospital I want to do the cowardly way but his relatives said No you would shame the entire family and if you do not do it  Elly Kipgogei You are not a full man. That is how they put it.  Gregory Warner So he felt like he had to just do it.  Elly Kipgogei It was so hard there is beatings you are supposed to stay for 9 hours inside the cold water. Then early in the morning around 7 in the morning circumcision. They use a sharp stick I hope you understand that a sharp stick it is just bad.  Gregory Warner He said the whole initiation ritual actually went on for a couple of weeks it was more than just the cut. And during the whole time he was kept in a hut on the outskirts of the village. His face was powdered white like a ghost and he was told whenever you leave this hut  Elly Kipgogei You are not allowed to walk.  Gregory Warner You are not allowed to walk.  Elly Kipgogei So you are supposed to run. Very fast. So you are running very swift having the pain.  Gregory Warner And before the circumcision Elly was never a runner. Afterwards when was done with initiation and he was back in high school.  Elly Kipgogei I said Oh let me give it a try so I could run and I feel pain I feel pain I am feeling pain and I wanted to stop then I realized no let me try to persevere. Let me just try. Let me try one more one more one more time and two minutes later I am at school.  Gregory Warner Elly joined his track team started running to school and during his lunch times.  Elly Kipgogei And after training for two weeks and three weeks there I became an expert on all manners.  Gregory Warner After how long?  Elly Kipgogei After two weeks alone Three weeks alone.  Gregory Warner Two weeks?  Elly Kipgogei That is how it began.  Gregory Warner That is a crazy story is that really true?  Elly Kipgogei Yeah it is true. So probably my ability of running was a bit higher than the rest.  Gregory Warner Turns out Elly's mom was an accomplished athlete. Okay so you are saying you had some physical ability to run but you just did not really do it before?  Elly Kipgogei I never realized that I could run.  Gregory Warner So we did not talk at all about women but Kalenjin girls also go through an initiation right of their own female genital mutilation.   Same type of ritual?  Gregory Warner Not the same ceremony but the same type of stoical testing ceremony.  John Manners And to me this made no sense.  Gregory Warner This is John Manners again.  John Manners Obviously the women are not the warriors. They do not need to be brave. Why is it important for them to show courage during this operation. And when I asked this question of my Kalenjin friends many years ago they were kind of astonished at the question as though the answer should have been self evident and the answer they gave me was a woman who shows cowardice during this operation might bear cowardly sons.   So some Kalenjin might say that Elly actually got two things from his mom. One was his physical prowess his speed on the track. The other was a mental ability to persevere through pain.  Elly Kipgogei Yeah people usually say it is called a blessing In Kalenjin called peruto. Blessing is what you get from probably a forefather probably a grandmother. So she blesses you with that activity. That is what they used to say the blessing.   That is pretty interesting  Gregory Warner That is interesting   Although we are using inheriting words or blessing words what we are really talking about is the pressure of a culture that is simply choosing to deeply physically reward certain behaviors and create expectations for those behaviors and create success around those behaviors. Those are all cultural and not biological things but they are the equivalent.   I think it is both and I do not know what proportion each contributes to the ultimate result I have no way of judging.  Gregory Warner But whatever the mechanism and whatever it is it will probably stay a mystery. Of all the explanations of for why this one group of people is so good at running this is the first one that is made me want to run. Once I met Elly and talked to these runners in Kenya you know this is an embarrassing story because I do not run very fast but I got to the gym and I was on the treadmill and I was like I am taking it up to 7 you know? 7 Miles an hour like 7.1 actually I went. And you know that is not like very fast but that would usually be my end run. Like at the last five minutes I might do a 7.1 but I did the whole 25 minutes at 7.1 and I thought Why did I ever think that this was un-doable before why was I staying at like 6.8.  Gregory Warner If we are trying to figure out what makes these runners so great and our first answer is a totally scientifically factually true but somehow demoralizing absolute that puts one set of people over there and the rest of us over here. We all have our body type that we were born with. But then if the second explanation of this Kalenjin advantage maybe just as inaccessible to the rest of us but still it feels like a more egalitarian version of advantage. Even if we are talking about a very specific culture.   Yeah I think if you run with this extreme pain for a month after having been circumcised and somehow that gave you a certain culturally troubling but also real relationship to pain well that feels like a fair advantage to me. Not that I would wish it on anyone.  Gregory Warner Actually even Elly does not wish it on his kids when he has kids.  Elly Kipgogei The system is changing from the traditional format to the new format right now.  Gregory Warner I mean he is part of a new generation of Kalenjin. He says for his contemporaries the pain-free hospital circumcision is becoming slowly less of a stigma.  Elly Kipgogei And I cannot imagine my son going through the same procedure as their father. So my son or my sons will not go through the same procedure as I did.  Gregory Warner But do not you want you son to have the benefits of what you  Elly Kipgogei The benefit is only about the perseverance part of it and I believe perseverance can get through many ways.  Gregory Warner He tells himself he is going to be able to pass on those Kalenjin values without resorting to the ancient rituals.  Elly Kipgogei I will teach him how to persevere.  Gregory Warner And he thinks his kids will still be able to be champion runners if that is what they want to be.   Our thanks to Gregory Warner NPR's East Africa correspondent.   Also we should say thanks to Phia Bennen for production help on this piece. Thank you Phia and thank you guys for listening. I am Jad   I am Robert   We will see you next time.  Richie That is my kitty cat Max and this is Richie. Radiolab is supported in part by the National Science Foundation and by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org  Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.