 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT The B-team where we explore exactly what happens when Plan A falls apart. Our next story occurs within the confines of a tight loving family - loving. But when our next guest was a child her father can be a little strict. SNAP JUDGMENT.  He was strict pretty much in everything from the clothes we wore and the friends we had. When we had church if it was three times a week we had to be there three times a week. He had to have things a certain way. The other thing that drove me crazy about my dad is the way that he disapproved of all of my boyfriends of all of the guys that I ever dated consistently. One guy he did not like me dating because he was not religious. One time my dad did not like someone because he drove a red Corvette. And I remember one time I was trying to go meet this guy. And my dad as I was running out the door took my house keys from me and just like went in the house so that I could not leave. And I have a very free personality. And so we would argue and he never budged. But then one day my church threw a cotillion - and I mean we had the gowns and the boys were in suits. And it was really really fancy for us. And one of the guys there was very cute. He - and that is the first thing I noticed about him is that he was very cute. And about 15 minutes later he walks over to me and he asks me to dance. And it is so funny because he asked me and I could see my dad out of the corner of my eye. And I am like oh God. But I was like OK. So we danced you know to the song. First of all he smelled really good. And I like good-smelling things. We did not talk. You know we were silent the whole time that we were dancing but it was just kind of like strangely a very comfortable feeling because you know sometimes when you meet people and you are attracted to them there is like these nerves. And then you step on each other's feet. That did not happen. It was just kind of like we had met before. And it was just a very intense but innocent moment. And I could just - it was great. So the guy's name was Duane . And about three weeks later he called me. And it is just like we had this great conversation. And they never stopped. We had a conversation that night. And the next day we had a conversation. And from then on it was just kind of a whirlwind teenage romance. He was the first boy to ever make me feel love by listening to me and understanding who I was and then acting on that. And there were reasons why I did not feel worthy of that love. We were from vastly different sides of the track. My parents were low-income. We lived in the city of Eastside not even the better parts. And he came from a completely opposite background. You know when you go into Duane's parents' house there is statues. The maid has come and washed all the dishes. And it was you know a four-bedroom three-bathroom house in the suburbs. But to me that was a castle. And so I am like OK. You should love a princess. Like why are you loving me? That is so weird. What are you doing? It never mattered to him you know because sometimes I want to bring it up. I am like oh you know you should not drive all the way over here at night. And he is just like who cares? This is where you are so this is where I want to be. It did not even make him flinch. It is just like you should not love me. But you do and I do not understand why but that is so major. And the most surprising part about all of this is is that my dad adored him. He sat me down and he was like I really like Duane. He is you know into the church and he is surrounded with good people. And he was actually in an engineering program. And my dad has a degree in electrical engineering. So yeah they would sit in the living room and talk which was so weird. But it is a fairytale. You do not think the perfect guy exists. You know you hear about it and you are like oh that is nice. But he was. And if this is what love was this is what I wanted forever. But then one day about a year later - and it kind of gets unusual here - because I woke up that morning and I woke up naturally which is the first sign that something is wrong because my mom always wakes me up early on Saturday so that I can clean the bathroom. And that did not happen. I just woke up. So almost like she could sense I woke up she just kind of like opened the door. And she said you know can you come downstairs? So I turn the corner. And she is sitting on the bed with her TV off which is also unusual. And like when I looked at her face I immediately knew that he was dead immediately. Like I just knew that something was seriously wrong. And the only person that I loved as much as Duane was Duane. And I just needed to hear her say the words. And she said you know Duane's mom called. Duane died last night. He was playing basketball and his friends say that he had caught the ball and he was dribbling down the court. And all of a sudden he just stopped and he collapsed. And it was from a small hole in his heart that no one had ever known was there. And so everybody just ran over to him. And by the time they got to him he was already gone. And I just kind of - I did not react. How do you react to that? I just stared at my reflection in the mirror. And so she said are you OK? And I did not answer her. And she said well do you want to go to your room? And I said yeah. And as soon as I got to my room I just started crying because we were supposed to go to the movies you know. We were supposed to be at Blade that night. Like it took days for me to understand that he was not going to call me you know that he was not going to instant message me that he was not going to page me because you just want that feeling back. Like especially when it is taken away from you without notice you just want it back. Almost immediately after it happened I started to collect everything everything I could find that had his name on it - about him about his death. If someone was saying something on the radio I would record it as fast as I could. I had like my recorder on standby. And I just kind of cleared off an area on my dresser and I just stacked everything up there. And no one could touch it. If anyone came in my room they knew not to know go near the Duane memorial because it was very important to me. I went from an honor roll student to - I was getting like Cs and Ds in everything. I just could not concentrate. I could not focus. I did not want to date because I firmly believed there was no other Duane. And aside from that portion of it I did not want to date people because I was afraid they would die. And so I felt like the more people I could cut off and exclude from my life the better off I would be because I would not have to love them and I would not have to lose them. But then one day when I was older I was home by myself. My parents were both at work and I went looking for a vinyl record that I knew that my dad had in the basement. And I definitely knew that I had to be careful because the basement was my dad's sanctuary. He kept everything that was really important to him down there. And we knew as children that if it was in dad's basement it was not to be taken out of the basement or messed with. You know leave these things alone. But then I noticed a newspaper. And the reason the newspaper stuck out to me is because it was starting to yellow. And it was underneath some things almost like it was being hidden. So I got curious. And on the cover of the newspaper it said Duane Cockrum . And it had a page number where the rest of the story was. And so now I am thinking I have not seen this newspaper before. I turned to the page and it starts with how he died and how wonderful he was. And then it starts to describe his girlfriend and how she was dealing with the loss of the love of her life. And it said her name was Pamela. And my name is not Pamela. And so my fantasy - I think my dreams - about what he was were really crushed. He was cheating on me. And there is no chance that it is a mistake because the city that she lived in - it was not Cleveland - it was the suburb that he lived in. So she was one of him. I was from this other side of the track and she was from his. And so there was no confusion on the writer's part. He had two girlfriends. But then the second thing I realized is that like my dad had this newspaper all this time and he had concealed this from me because I think he knew that knowing the truth at the same time that I was grieving would have been devastating for me. And I do not know at what cost and how long - I guess forever - you know he was willing to keep this from me to spare my heart. But you know that is love. So I just you know put it back. And he got home and I did not act any differently. It is kind of strange. It is just like kind of circular. I still fiercely wanted to protect my dad's effort you know to keep this secret. And so I wanted him to continue existing in a space where he believed that the knowledge of good and evil was far from me. And I did not want him to feel like he lost that battle. So you know he came in. We worked on homework and talked and that was it. But shortly after I took the Duane memorial down. And I am sure if I was to check in the basement the newspaper would be still there right where it was. And I have never told him that I know. He still does not know that I know.  Many thanks to Beverly Gooden for sharing her story with SNAP. Today Beverly is a writer and human resource manager in North Carolina. Now if you want to learn more about her check out our website snapjudgment.org. We will have a link. And when SNAP JUDGMENT returns we have got a softball team full of little girls that will strike terror in the hearts of grown men for real. When SNAP JUDGMENT The B-team episode continues. Stay tuned. 