 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGMENT from PRX and NPR. My name is Glynn Washington. And today we are exploring what happens when the best-laid plans of mice and men go awry. Now some people they just throw in the towel call it a day but not the people on our show. Tara Clancy she was one tough 11-year-old. But when she was not 11 years old she told this story in front of a live audience in New York City. Take it away Tara.   Hi. How is everybody doing? You are all right? OK all right. Here we go. It is the last inning of the game. We are down by one - two outs no men on no men anywhere. We are 11-year-old girls. We are playing softball. All right so I am in the - I am in the dugout right? And I am like nervous as hell. You know I am like writhing my little-girl hands and I am pacing back and forth. And I am watching as Michelle who is the best player on our team is making her way towards the plate. All right now because this is the Catholic Youth Organization league we are not called like you know the such-and-such Tomcats or the such-and-such Bulldogs. We are just St. Gregory The Great.   Yes period. In this game we are playing our biggest rivals who are called - get this - Immaculate Conception.   As in it is us versus the greatest freaking miracle of all time. We do not got a prayer you know. So Michelle is like - you know she is like hopping on the balls of her feet and she is you know helicoptering the bat over her head. You know she is approaching the plate like this is you know the World Series. But this is not Yankee Stadium. This is not even a baseball field. This is basically a parking lot. It is a blacktop schoolyard field way way out in Queens. And we play here for no other reason than we are girls - really. All of the boys play in the CYO play on dirt and all of the girls play on asphalt. And this is just how it is. This is how it has always been. And we are young but we are not too young to realize you know that this is some serious  .   All right so now Michelle continues making her way up towards the plate. And the last thing she does is she stops and she turned. And she looks like at the handful of dads that hang out behind the backstop. Now most of our fathers were like you know cops and construction workers during the week. But come Saturday they were our coaches and our cheerleaders you know like minus the pom-poms right? Instead of that they screamed things at us like you know hey you know you just going to look at that ball or are you going to take a swing sometime this year sweetheart? You know look...   Or they are like you know 'atta girl you drive that ball right through them you know? Now my father comes to every single game but Michelle - Michelle's does not. And so all of a sudden I see her kind of stop and the shock on her face because there he is her dad. Now he was actually like a sweetheart of a guy but a serious alcoholic. She sees him and her face lights up. And he smiles and he does the old you-can-do-it fist pump. And that is all it takes. Michelle turns. She stamps into the box. She proceeds to smack the very first pitch into left field for a double. And now Michelle is on second base and the pitcher goes to wind up. And Michelle takes off to steal third. And she is like half the way there when the catcher takes the ball wings it to the third baseman and it should be game over. But then Michelle does something that nobody there that day - nobody on either team had ever seen done before - she slides - on asphalt. And it is like the Earth stops spinning. I mean it is like the clouds freeze in the sky and time stops and every single person in attendance goes . And now the third baseman is standing there and she is got the ball. And she is just got it way up here like she is just not even moving. Like she is in total shock. She does not even like practically look down to tag her right? And still it is going you know  right? And now Michelle is down there and she writhes on the ground finally. And now like we know she is alive. But it still goes you know . And finally the umpire who is just like gobsmacked runs out and he is like safe?   And whoosh right? We go off the rails. I jump from the ground up into the chain-link fence like Spiderman style right? And I am like five feet in the air. I have got my fingers through the chain-link. I am shaking this thing. I am like  yeah ah. Meanwhile now all the girls on their team on the field literally just start taking off their gloves and like throwing it to the ground you know. And they are like you cannot do that. You cannot do that. And all the moms also come out and they are like you cannot do that right? Somebody's dad shows up and he is like you know that is disgusting. Who would tell a young girl to slide in the concrete you know? Somebody's grandmother even says God will punish you for this.   Finally the umps and the coaches and everybody comes out and they meet you know out on the mound and pow-wow and debate and whatever. And ultimately they decide that you know it turns out there is no written rule against sliding on asphalt so the call stays. But you know the practice is like officially deemed you know a pretty stupid idea. And we get some  about you know like never doing it again. Now it turns out - right? - sliding on asphalt does not really involve much sliding right? Like pretty much if you do it absolutely perfectly you rip out the entire seat of your pants as you go and only the first layer of skin. Done wrong you know you need like upwards of a dozen stitches you know and either way you get a bruise the size of Connecticut. But either way no matter how you do it it works every single time because nobody expects you to be stupid enough to try right? And I know that for a fact because following this game pretty much every single girl on my team would go on to do it. In fact like we could not wait you know? Like you know how like Girl Scouts like collect those little triangle patches for accomplishments you know kite making or something and there is a little picture of a kite on it right? OK like this was me. I wanted a patch you know. I wanted a patch with a little bloody leg on it you know?   The next game comes around and we are like - we are just out of our minds. Like literally anytime one of us get - if we just get on base - right? - all the rest of us just start you know just start cheering you know we are like do it do it do it. It is like you are not at church league softball anymore. You are like at a cage fight man. It is like MMA. We are like  taking tin cans and squashing them into our foreheads you know.   And I am like dying. I cannot wait for my turn - for my chance right? And so finally here it is. I am on second base. Somebody whacks one out into right field. I start running for third. The third base coach is like holding me off. I am like hell no. I round the base. I am heading for home right? I have got my head down. I am in like this full on sprint. And I get a couple of steps you know away from home plate. And I just look up and I watch as the catcher catches the ball. All right I am done for. But I am like screw it. I jump up into the air. I literally dive over the catcher head first full on swan dive. And then I come down head first - bang - blackout.   When I come to my father is standing there over me. And he is like waving you know two fingers in front of my face. And he is got like you know steam is coming out of his ears. And I - but I - I have got like this big smile you know and I am like so? And he is like well you know look I think it is probably only you know like a mild concussion you know? And I am like no no no so? So? And he is like what? Oh for Pete's sake you know he is like you are safe. You were safe you jerk.   This is a little postscript. Turns out this year - it is now 23 years later - so it took 23 years. This year 23 years later - for the first time ever the CYO finally righted this wrong. And just this past softball season all little girls in Brooklyn and Queens played on dirt.   Thank you.   Thank you so much Tara for telling your story on the SNAP. If you want to hear more stories like this one check out the storytelling series Sideshow Goshko. We will have a link to all of their info and also a link to Tara's homepage on our website snapjudgment.org. Yes you have reached the end of the episode but not the end of the journey. Remember this is SNAP JUDGMENT storytelling at snapjudgment.org. Do not be the kind of person that wants something but lives a tragic life unable to bring the desire to fruition. Just subscribe to the SNAP JUDGMENT podcast because hours of storytelling goodness awaits. And you are the type of person that gets what they want. Life lesson. Facebook - SNAP JUDGMENT Twitter - snapjudgment. If you have ever done one of those dating apps and set up an appointment with someone who does not quite look like their picture well that is kind of like the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. Beyonce? I do not think so but much love for the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange does not have a plan B because they are bad to the bone with plan A - prx.org. WBEZ in Chicago kind of like WKRP in Cincinnati but in Chicago. And as you may have heard this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact if you take a basketball down to the local bowling alley dribble down the lane kick over all the pins yell touchdown - and you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 