When you visit a refugee camp full of Muslims you do not expect to get into a lot of conversations about pigs but that is what happened to me. This is about a month ago. I would barely been in the refugee camp a few hours before people started telling me stories.   We have seen the pig with our own eyes. We have seen the boar. We have taken pictures of videos of it videos of it.  We have taken a selfie with it. Yeah. Bassam and Farhad are 19. That is an interpreter by the way speaking English. This is a refugee camp in Greece called Ritsona about an hour from Athens. It was thrown together in March by the government on an old air force base. Very quickly they set up tents for 700 people brought in a few dozen port-a-potties designated an old helicopter pad as the soccer field. But it is the middle of the woods so snakes get in the tents and at night wild boars do roam around. Everybody's attitude about the boars was like seriously? We escaped a war risked dying on these tiny boats and now we come here and this?  It is a huge boar. It is basically as big as we are. It is this big. OK so this is a video. Oh look. There it is. Yes. The boars especially hang out near the toilets and they are really big and frightening. And some people just hold it in all night rather than go. Other people they are taking action. Over there. You see? This is a handmade trap. Mimi Karmiri was the field coordinator running the camp and she walked me out in the woods with one of the refugees Abu Khair to show me the trap that he would built to catch the boars. It was not what I pictured. And what is it a dumpster? Yes it is a dumpster. And so he has put a piece of meat inside in order to attract the animals. The dumpster's turned on its side and the lid was propped open with a log so a boar could just walk right in. This open. That food to animals. Abu Khair grabs the lid. If animals catch food this closes. So basically the lid closes and then the log comes down and holds it shut. And this thing.   He claps his hands. I did not say anything but it did not seem at all clear that that lid was going to stay on with an angry 200 pound pig inside. Before I got to Greece I knew that there were lots of refugees there fleeing violence from Syria and Iraq and Afghanistan just like everybody had seen those photos last year of people landing in Greece by boat on their way to Germany and other European countries. Then this year in March one of the European nations said basically We are not taking you. You have to stay in Greece to all these refugees. Suddenly the poorest country in Western Europe had to figure out how to house and feed and care for all these people about 57000 of them stuck. And Greece was really not prepared. Its government was limping along after six years of austerity measures which means if you have not been following this there have been several waves of cutbacks in government services. A fourth of the country is out of work. The government quickly ad hocced its way into housing for tens of thousands of people. And as a result you have this camp in the woods with wild boars. And 130 miles away on the coast some Syrian refugees were living in an abandoned beach resort on the Ionian Sea.  Kids play in the sand and modestly dressed women in long sleeves and long pants and headscarves walk straight into the surf. Elsewhere around the country if you want to come with me right now on a quick tour around 1300 Iraqis are housed in the grounds of a former psychiatric hospital near Mount Olympus. Down in Athens 2000 people are in two stadiums baseball and field hockey left over from the 2004 Olympic games. Somebody has spray painted a sign outside that says in English with arrows hockey baseball refugees. Next door to the stadiums 1000 people are living in an old international airport that closed back in 2001. There are departure boards listing flights to Paris and Berlin with specific times and gates from when it was still a functioning airport. Right nearby the people sleeping in tents were not going anywhere. Meanwhile up north near the Macedonian border my colleague This American Life producer Sean Cole visited a highway rest stop that is pretty much exactly like any rest stop you would find on like the New Jersey turnpike or I-80 driving to Chicago. Inside there is a convenience store with Pringles and Oreos and sodas. And then outside where the gas pumps are were pop tents with 2000 people living in them music playing. People sat around the gas pumps chatting and smoking right there which probably not the best idea. An eight-year-old boy walked up to Sean and his interpreter Manaf with a request.   Yes I would like to take your passport.  To go to Germany. So you would pose as me?   I will get the same haircut. I think they would still be able to tell the difference.   Would you make a passport for me then? I could maybe draw one.  What do you think about this place?   It is not beautiful. This gas station camp by the way was not an official refugee camp set up by the state. In fact just a few days after Sean was there the government relocated everybody to authorized camps. To give you a sense of just how seat-of-the-pants the Greek response to the refugee crisis has been I talked to this guy who managed a camp of about 2000 refugees when he was there. His name is Sakis Papithemilis. He is a civil servant. He chooses his words thoughtfully. And who by the way has his own salary cut in half over the last four years. NPR'S reporter in Greece Joanna Kakissis introduced me to him. She guided actually a lot of the reporting that we did around Greece. Sakis told Joanna and me that even trying to do something straightforward in the camp that he managed like for example arrange for trash pickup he would run into an incredibly basic problem.   With the trash for example I could not organize the trash being picked up because legally the camp did not exist. The camp just was not there on paper. Got that? The camps were created so quickly that nobody made them into any kind of legal entity. They were not a business. They were not a government agency. So they did not have the power to actually sign any kind of contract with anyone to do anything.  And everything had to be done with a handshake. OK you want to help me? Come over here and help me.   He is saying the municipalities helped a lot.   He said that in the end the city of Thessaloniki agreed to pick up his trash. And they paid for it too just 'ecause he needed the help. And then he had to work around this same exact frustrating problem to get anything done. To get food brought in to install proper sewage to install proper showers and toilets just anything he could not make a legal agreement. He had to go off the books. Four of us from our staff traveled to Greece. We were joined by Joanna who is been reporting on this and breaking stories on the refugee crisis for two years now. We were interested in how the Greek government was dealing with the refugees but honestly we also wanted to know what it was like for all these people who you know they thought they were heading somewhere else in Europe and now they were stuck in these camps in this weird kind of limbo where they are just waiting for some country to let them in and they can restart their lives. It is just a strange place to find yourself. Outside the old international airport by a hot dog stand just across the highway from the beach which is there also Marzia and her husband Jamal and their three kids are living in a little tent. It is really hot and every day a fancy green convertible Saab parks outside their tent. And every day Marzia goes and sits in the shade of that car to cool herself off.   She is saying sometimes its get so crazy. I am tired of the sun of this place everything. And she says the hotter it gets the more she loses it. Which means--   Pretty much every day she loses it. She and her husband Jamal talk to another This American Life producer Miki Meek. They are ethnic Hazaras who are discriminated against in Afghanistan where they are from and also targeted by the Taliban. So they moved to Iran for a while where they have no rights at all. Could not even put their kids in school. And then they ended up here five months ago where Jamal is getting used to his wife basically freaking out every single day and telling him they need to give up and go back. Today my wife was just crying that I had it. You gotta make a decision-- either we go back or we move forward. And I explained to her look my dear. We cannot go back because there is nothing to go back to. And moving forward is no longer in my hands. The border is closed. So then I said darling let us go to the beach. And perhaps that will help you like just calm down for a moment. And it did. Are you worried about move might stop working eventually? Let us go to the beach?   Yeah I am thinking about it. You know this is another worry for me. So if this does not work I will find another way to please her and make her happy.   From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program we have stories of people on the run who get stuck in this place they do not want to be what that is like. Stay with us. Act 1 Field of Interrupted Dreams. So one good place to see how the Greeks' ad hoc response is working is at the baseball stadium in Athens. About a fourth of the refugees in Greece are from Afghanistan and about 1000 of them were brought into this abandoned stadium that was left over from the Olympics. The infield was all dirt. One of our producers Miki went there. Here's how you turn a baseball stadium into a refugee camp. Out in the door of the infield and the outfield you set up 150 white tents. They are standard issue from the UN. At the concession stand give out rations. Right behind home plate there is a press box. Make that the office. For bathrooms use the locker rooms behind the dugouts. There is one for men and one for women. The women's is way cleaner. We are walking to the women's area. The women are very organized. They have a list. They clean the bathrooms twice a day. The women? Men are not better organized. We have to drag them to clean their bathroom. One of the camps managers Anna Agriteli is giving me a tour. She has big brown hair pulled into a ponytail. She is Greek. So we are just walking into the locker room. And the floors are a little flooded so we are just walking through a pool water. All the lockers and benches have been ripped out. And over in the showers women are squatting with buckets full of water and clothing. 11 showers. Now they are washing their clothes. Laundry they are doing laundry now. So does this just get flooded just from the people doing their laundry? Their laundry yes. OK. I counted 12 toilets. Only six were working. This was for 300 women and about 200 girls. Did you ever go to a baseball game during the Olympics? No. We are not big fans of baseball in Greece. We do not even know baseball. Most of the refugees stay out of their tents during the day because they are too hot. They are totally exposed on the field no shade. Temperatures right now reach into the 90s. So lots of people hang out in the upper levels of the stadium seats because they are partially covered by an overhanging roof. They also crowd around any electrical outlet they can find to charge phones or plug in electric tea pots. The Olympics were held here. I keep thinking that. Anna is in charge of everything in the stadium everything-- a woman who did not get shampoo when they handed it out the broken toilets. The day I was there they did not have enough drinking water and baby formula to get through the coming week. She takes me over to homebase where they built a prototype cover for the tents these giant pieces of green sheer fabric stretched over a tent to try and cool it down in the sun. This is sample. See if it works. But we do not like it and we are going to change it. So is it not working well? Or what would you guys want? No it is very very bad. And if you put 150 of those then I am not going to see the people. She needs to see the people in case there is a fire or some other disturbance. It is happened. This is Anna's third month on the job. Before this she worked as a production assistant at a theater company. Is there anything that you learned in that job that is useful in this job? No. But maybe the production the crazy hours that you work in the production that is the same and that you have to devise a solution for every crazy thing. Situations that come up you have to like work on the fly. Anna old are you? 30. She is actually older than a lot of her coworkers. It is mostly women working at the camp. Anna's boss is 25. 25 years old and overseeing the biggest camp in Athens working out of a concession stand that probably sold hot dogs. So why is it that it is mostly very young women that are working in here and managing this camp? Because this job is very hard and only women can do it. Is that your official or unofficial answer? No no. It is the unofficial answer. You need to have a lot of power a lot of hours. You have to be tireless. Yes. At several of these camps we went to around Greece the young women running them began as volunteers when the crisis started. Then they took charge. They worked long hours. They do not really take days off. And they set a tone at the camps. The government does not want the camps to feel like prisons. People can come and go. And having these young women in charge helps with that. They do not act like guards or bosses. They are just bad asses and sweethearts. Anna and the other woman who runs this stadium are constantly making these little jokes and laughing with everyone. Every few steps on our tour Anna got stopped.   Do you get hugs a lot? Yes. How many times a day or do you think you get hugged? Too many too many too many. Well I guess there is worse things people can do than hug you right? Yes yes. They could throw rocks at me. No they are all very polite. And men they are very polite and very protective. Like when she walks to the bus stop on the highway late at night five or six men always walk out with her to make sure she is safe. They will not leave until they see her board the bus. OK you wait here outside. In the span of 15 minutes I watched Anna comfort a woman who came to her to say that she was feeling suicidal. Her husband was ignoring her. Anna then went to find help for a guy who kept fainting. My friend wait here. Do not go without seeing the doctor. Come after to the office. Tell me what happened. Moments later a boy ran up to her to say that he was hungry that he did not get lunch. No no. You got food. No I did not madame no! But I saw you. But I saw you. She would seen him grab food from the kitchen earlier in the day she told me. Because she cannot speak Dari Anna mostly communicates through a combination of broken English hand gestures and  animal noises. That is Anna making cat sounds.  That is the pig her favorite. I watched Anna oink her way down crowded hallways oinking as she hands out juice boxes to kids. Here my friend! Oinking the middle of conversations with adults. You always make this little pig sound. I do not know why I do it. It is like a tick. She says it is like a tick. Given Anna's personality the hardest part of her job might be obvious. It is saying no. Like every two three days I will have a breakdown because the nos that I say they are a lot. You say a lot of nos. Yes when I say to somebody no I feel very bad. Because in my personal life I never used to say no. You did? I am not so good at saying no either. Yes. It is hard. Come and work here. You will get used to it in a month. What are people always asking you for? Shoes. Is it shoes? Yes shoes are the most asked for thing here. I want shoes now. And what do you say? You have to wait. She says they have already given out sneakers twice in the past three months to everyone. But every day she says she gets this request over and over mostly from young men. As if on cue two guys most likely in their 20s show up. Eh? Shoes?   Anna tells them no. And I guess she is had so much practice with this one as you heard she does not even hesitate. Anna moves on but it is a puzzle to her. Why the constant need for more shoes? Later I am wandering around the tents in the ball field with my interpreter and we are talking to a guy who lives near third base. And we accidentally discover the answer. His name's Habib. He is 45. He is Afghan like most everyone in the stadium. He tells me back home in Kabul he was a shoemaker. So I have to ask. So I was talking to the camp manager and she said the number one thing people ask for here is shoes. Why?  I can tell you the reason why-- Afghans. There are two reasons actually. One is they do not wear shoes in their tents and sneakers are a pain to take on and off if you have to fuss with the laces. So they smash in the backs of the shoes and wear them like slippers. The second reason is and here Habib started making a kicking motion with his feet.   The reason is because Afghans love to play soccer. The younger guys destroyed their shoes so fast because they are always playing soccer at a field nearby. That is it. Not much of a mystery after all. Habib says there is not much for people to do at the camp and soccer helps them break up the boredom.   So it is like this-- you wake up in the morning. We look at each other. There is nothing. Then we go and have breakfast. Then we come back and sit and look at each other. There is nothing else. We used to have some playing cards and then somebody stole it. So we try to listen to music on the cell phones. And then we look at each other again. And then it is afternoon. Then we go and have some lunch. And then we come back and sit here and then look at each other again. And then we just fall asleep. We take a long nap until 600 PM. And then at 600 PM we go and play some soccer. And then we come back here have dinner. And then we look at each other again and then we fall asleep. So you are pretty sick of looking at each other now.   You know the thing is you have to understand. Today you guys came here and we talked. And I do not even-- the time how it passed. But on normal days regular days one hour to us passes like one whole year of boredom. There is a pretty nice public beach that is only a 15 minute walk from the stadium. Habib says he takes his kids there a few times a week but never on weekends. Not on Saturdays and Sundays because it is the Greeks' holidays and we want them to enjoy the beach themselves. He wanted them to have the beach to themselves? Really? I asked him if that was it or was it that he just felt uncomfortable among the Greeks. Is there any part that you would not go to the beach because maybe you would feel like you may not be wanted there?   They are very nice people. I do not feel uncomfortable. But when it comes to the beach situation it is like OK we heard that the Greeks had complained that there are a lot of Afghans coming to the beach and it was getting too crowded for them.   So we came here. We talked with each other and we decided we do not want the Greeks to have a bad memory of us. So we decided on Saturdays and Sundays we want them to go and enjoy themselves. And we do not want them to feel like we are there to take their space. About 3000 people live in this complex which includes this stadium a field hockey stadium next door and an old airport out front. And everyone I talked to knew this rule-- let the Greeks have the beach on the weekend. Most of the Afghans have very little sense of what is going on outside the camp. There is no Wi-Fi here. They are barely getting news from outside. And I did not meet anyone who spoke Greek. They are living in a bubble a baseball field shaped bubble. So rumors go crazy. Most of them have to do with when and how or if they will get out of Greece. Here's a few of them-- Angela Merkel the German chancellor is personally coming to the stadium to rescue them. John Kerry is bringing a plane. The Canadians are sending a ship. And the most common-- Macedonia is going to reopen its borders again to Afghans.   Literally like we would hear the border has reopened. We are throwing a party started dancing clapping cheering hugging each other congratulating each other. And then some people have literally left overnight to go to the border. And then in the morning we hear it was just a rumor. When was the last time that there was a party because people believed the border was opening?   The biggest one was about a month ago but also about two weeks ago. How long does it take for a rumor to spread through a camp this camp? You have to understand people they have nothing to do except going around talking to each other so it spreads within minutes. And believing in it thinking that it might be right actually makes you happy for a couple of days. In this stadium full of Afghans one big piece of misinformation is about Syrians and how they are treated in Greece. In February when the border closed to Afghans Syrians were still being allowed through. Habib and his family watched Syrians cross over. Violent fights broke out that day between the two groups and have continued ever since. It is one of the reasons why the Greek government segregates most of its camps by nationality. So there are no Syrians in this stadium which Habib explains this way.   Look Syrians are getting to stay in very nice hotels. Everybody cares about them and they are issued visas right here and then they get to fly out of Greece. So if the border's closed it does not matter to them. Are there Syrians in this camp?   They are not in this camp and I do not think they are in any other camps. They are living in hotels. Last Friday I was in a camp and that camp was all Syrian who are also stuck here. And I was wondering if you knew that these camps full of Syrians exist here in Greece.   I have heard that there are Syrians here but I have not seen them here. Do the majority of people here believe that Syrians are getting flown out on airplanes? Everybody believes here because it is not a rumor actually. They do fly Syrians out of here. You have to understand the difference between them and us the Syrians and Afghans is that for them they have help. Habib is not exactly right about everything but he is correct that there is a pecking order among the refugees and Syrians are at the very top. They get top priority on their asylum and relocation applications for the EU. And then underneath the Syrians is pretty much everyone else-- Iraqis Pakistanis Iranians and Afghans. Miki Meek. Act 2 the parents trapped. So what is it like being a parent in this situation? Kids are everywhere in the camps. They are a third of the refugees. You see them running around improvising stuff to play with. You will be standing there and a four-year-old will march by purposefully dragging a blanket on a string. And you will think OK. The woman in charge of the Ritsona camp the camp with the wild pigs told me that it is the little kids who are doing better than anybody at the camps. And on the surface watching them run around they do seem good like these five and seven-year-old sisters. Hey hey hey hey. Doing what I can tell you from experience any little kids do around a microphone anywhere in the world.   One girl goofs on the mic saying bye uncle over and over. And her sister calls her crazy.   So they seem fine right? But scratch the surface a little and it is a different story. That five-year-old? Her mom tells me she is still so traumatized by the Syrian War and what she is been through that when her mom wants to go to the bathroom the little girl insists on coming in with her. She is always by her side. Lots of kids are still recovering. A guy named Youness Aselom told me about his five-year-old. Youness was a second year law student back in Syria but in the camp he is famous for being the guy that when a snake gets into your tent Youness can catch it. If it is poisonous he will kill it. He is getting maybe one a day.  I will get like a stick like a long stick. And I will just start to play with the snake. And I can show you a photo but once I can get a stick right on top of the snake's head I will press down on it so the snake's head is against the ground. And I will just grab its head from behind. See like in this picture right here? Anyway his daughters. Being in the camp of course is way better than living with constant bombs and shooting back in Syria. A number of parents tell me that the kids are sleeping better getting back to their old selves. They get to come and go as they please which is too dangerous back home to play with other kids. But Youness says his daughters are not OK at all and not happy.   I have a daughter who has psychological problems. A rocket fell on our house and my mom and my other daughter were killed.   The house was destroyed. His five-year-old the one in the camp was three at the time. And since then?   And she became afraid of the sounds of airplanes. And now they have us in an air base. And now when a military jet passes over us you know what? She starts to cry. Has she made friends?   No she does not. She does not have any friends. I mean she never leaves the tent.   And then this is a picture of my daughter the one that died. The photo is shocking-- a cute three-year-old girl lying in rubble dust on her face and clothes. It is hard to know what to say. So they are actually-- they are twins. The five-year-old so this is her twin that died. She was three years old when she died. Did she see this?   Yeah she was with them when it happened. And this is our home. I know this is not the point of his story at all but this happened a bunch of times in the camps. Somebody would describe the most awful thing that could ever happen and then they would pull out their cell phones. Like oh here's a picture. Here's the bombed out apartment that used to be our house. Here is an overloaded raft crossing from Turkey into Greece. That is my kids in the orange life jackets. I suppose if you visit war zones all the time this is nothing new. And of course people use cell phones for this to record the near annihilation of their families. I would do it too. But it was always jolting. The interview that I did that gave me the best picture of what it is like to be a parent in the camps and the particular ways that it affected different members of a family to be here was an interview with a woman named Aziza Bashar. She is well dressed even here with a stylish hijab a red and navy plaid button down jacket and a steamlined navy skirt. It is like what little she can control she does. Her husband's also in the camp though he waved me off when I tried to talk to him. She is the one who makes the decisions for the family who marched them out of a war zone walking and actually sometimes running she said to a town up north where things were safer. And when things there became untenable she moved them again to Kurdistan where they lived for a while. And finally they just decided to escape to Europe. They arrived in Greece by boat thinking they were just passing through just here for a few days. The child she worries about most of her kids is Mohammad Hammed they call him. He is nearly eight. When the war began they were near Aleppo. Hammed was the child who reacted the worst to the bombing and the snipers and the shelling which were constant for days sometimes.  But the longest we were under siege for was eight days.   Meaning that the fighting was going on day and night nonstop. Hammed was four. He was potty trained but he started wetting the bed. And he has not stopped wetting the bed years later now. His siblings all play together but he is always off on the side. He does not interact.   When I took him to the doctor in Kurdistan he told me he has developmental issues. They said your son is seven but mentally he is four. He is stalled mentally. If you teach him anything he does not remember it. If you ask him anything he takes a long time to respond. She says before the war he was developing normally. And in fact getting stuck developmentally like this is one way that some children respond to trauma. What is your name? Hammed. Hammed? What do you think of life here at the camp?   That is his mom prodding him.   Like the other kids I met who were doing the worst Hammed's big problem is fear. At first when they got to the camp it was the snakes and the wild animals that he feared the most. But the family worked really hard on that and now he is OK with the snakes. Next it was the airplanes. And that became a family project. And now he is not so scared of the planes. Though the one thing they have not been able to fix is his dreams. He dreams of bombings and shellings. So how in the world did you get this fearful child onto a little raft from Turkey to Greece?   He saw on TV before we left Kurdistan. He used to see the ocean in cartoons and say Mom the water has sharks in it. And before we left he saw in his dreams that a shark came up the same as the cartoons and he said It is gonna eat me. It is gonna eat me and I am gonna die. I told him it is just a story. It is just cartoons. Do not be afraid. I told him this is something that is made up. It is not real. I always encouraged him. The ocean is really wonderful. It will not take long. Just two hours and then you can go to school and we are going to have a nice house. But then the first boat that they got on in February was kind of a disaster and it really affected Hammed. It was supposed to be 35 people in a little rubber boat but Aziza says that they packed on twice that many and did not give out life vests. And people wanted to get off and the smugglers pointed guns at them and said you have to go now. A few people told me stories like that. They got a little ways out and the boat started to deflate and started to flip over just capsized. And people screamed. It was terrifying. No life vests remember. And Aziza's got a five-year-old and a seven-year-old and a nine-year-old with her. And the boat turned back. OK so after that how in the world do you get your six kids onto a second boat? That requires some A level parenting moves and Aziza was the one who had to get her kids onboard literally onboard in this case. And mainly she painted a picture of the bright future they were going to have in Europe and she pretended she knew that this new boat was going to be totally different. And they went again.   Yeah I was afraid more for my kids than for myself. Before we got on the boat my son told me you are the one who is deciding about our lives whether it is the beginning or the end. And those words really affected me. When they got on the boat she told Hammed the seven-year-old to sleep in her arms. He was so terrified he conked out immediately missed the whole trip. Of course here in the camp her husband's with her too. And I asked does he help with the children? She said he was not any help with that back in Syria and here he is totally useless. She tries to get him to handle things but it is like he is the seventh child that she is taking care of.  It is had a toll on my mental health seeing my kids and their dad. And we argue a lot about the kids more than anything else. I tell him you are not helping. You do not talk to the kids. You do not engage them. I always feel like you are detached. He says there is no point in talking to them. You talk to them and what good has come of it? They also fight about money. He smokes a pack or a pack and a half a day. And since they went on the run from Syria she started smoking too to deal with the stress though way less than him and in secret so the kids do not see. And this is one reason we fight. We are in a situation where we do not need these extra expenses. They got on the boat to Greece with 1000 euros which was enough for a few weeks on the road. Aziza laughed and said I think we spent 950 of it on cigarettes. Yeah I just have 50 euros left.  That Arabic expression she just used?  My interpreter said that in this context the best translation for it would be  my life. The other child that Aziza worries about the most is her 18-year-old Ali. He is a great kid in lots of ways-- very sweet and encouraging with his little brother Hammed. Also he is incredibly skilled at building things for the family.  This is all my son's work. This is Aziza showing us around her sister-in-law's tent it was nuts. Every family was given a standard issue tent and they built an outer courtyard with a fence and there is an overhang so there is shade and there is a