From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Sean Cole. Ira Glass is going to be back next week. So Ted Cruz dropped out of the race this week for president and a lot of Republican voters were thrilled. But a lot of them were heartbroken and confused asking themselves a lot of questions about themselves and their party and what they stand for. And I wanted to talk with my colleague Zoe Chace because she would been doing a lot of campaign coverage for the show talking to Cruz supporters. Hi Sean. Hello. Yeah I was worried about the Cruz supporters to be honest. Some people had been waiting for 30 years for somebody like Ted Cruz to get as far as he did-- this strong Christian very conservative evangelical candidate. And there was one guy I knew that might be pretty heartbroken and I wanted to check in with him. I had to call Tony. And just say who Tony is again. Tony Beam is a radio host in South Carolina. Conservative evangelical Christian talk radio. Remember we did a story on Tony a couple months ago. And the issue was that when his evangelical listeners started embracing Donald Trump Tony felt betrayed and confused and upset. So how is he taking the news? He could not even bring himself to watch it on TV. My wife told me. This is exactly what happened. I was sitting in the living room playing the guitar when my wife got home last night. And she put-- because I had not turned any of this stuff on. I knew what it was going to be. I could not take the Trump edition of Fox News. So I am sitting there playing the guitar and she came in and put her hand on my shoulder and said I am really sorry. I just heard that Cruz dropped out. What song were you playing? I am just learning. Believe it or not I am 58 years old and I am trying to learn to play the guitar. So I was playing a little Creedence Clearwater Revival because I am a big John Fogerty fan. So I was playing Have You Ever Seen the Rain?  It occurs to me Zoe that a lot of people who were upset about this they can sort of just go hide or drink somewhere. And he has to be on the radio upset. He has to go on the radio live at 700 in the morning with all his feelings. All right good morning everybody. The world keeps turning. I cracked the microphone and I said OK it is a Trump kind of day. The Trumpists are trumpeting. And so here's my question to you listening to the show. The question of the day is are you going to vote for Hillary or one of her top donors? He is talking about Donald Trump. That is pretty much the choice that we are left with. We have got Hillary or a Hillary supporter. So there you go. Tony is never going to get behind Donald Trump. He sees him as a fake conservative. He is just an opportunist. He does not share his values. Right he just grabs principles when he wants them and then just drops them when he does not anymore. Right. Tony has built his entire life around Christian values and he does not think that Trump has those. And now he is in this situation where he is looking ahead over the next couple months. He has a live radio show two hours every single day. He is going to be dealing with this. So I asked him Tony what is the plan? How are you going to handle this on the radio? I am just going to talk about what is going on. It is going to be kind of like there is been a wreck. And I am going to describe it. You know the rescue efforts. Like you are reporting on a big natural disaster or something. Yeah. Yeah. What do you think your listeners want you to do? What are they looking for from you? Unity. Hold hands. Sing Kumbaya. And to be fair listen I have been much more conservative than our nominee for the last three or four cycles. Yeah Mitt Romney John McCain. Yeah Romney John McCain Bob Dole. So I have always told people look the primary is where we make a decision as a party. And then we have got to come together and vote for the nominee. And so now I have got people pounding on me. Well you are a big hypocrite because your man lost and now you will not unify. You will not get behind Trump. Well to me it is a completely different scenario. I have never felt like I was voting for the lesser of two evils. I did not think those guys were evil. I thought they were different from me. I wished they were more conservative. Right they just were not your top pick. That was not my top pick. I mean I cannot vote for Donald Trump for president. So when you did the first story there was this guy. Barry. Yes Barry who was like the Trump interpreter. Yeah he called Tony all the time to harass him about Donald Trump. Yes. And did he call this time? Of course. He called the morning after Cruz had dropped out. Tony said of course Barry called him and tried to sell him on Trump and party unity. Barry and I look we have a good relationship. And he was telling me-- he said man there is room for you brother. You can get on the Trump train with me. He said it is not-- because I played the sound bite where Trump was talking about unity and we are going to love everybody. This country which is very very divided in so many different ways is going to become one beautiful loving country. And we are going to love each other. We are going to cherish each other. We are going to take care of each other. And we are going to have-- And then Barry said yeah man this is not the Trump Train. This is the Love Train. You have got to get on board. It is not the Trump Train anymore. It is the Love Train. It is the what? Love Train?  Bob you have got to find-- I have got Bob over here. Bob's got to find The Love Train by The O'Jays. So we will pull that up in just a minute. We are going to have another Woodstock. I mean it is going to be 1969 all over where there will be people singing are you going to San Francisco? It is going to be a Republican love-in. Not. Tony remembers those first Republican debates when Trump was talking and saying all this outlandish stuff. And his listeners were calling in and being like we love this guy and this guy is speaking for me. And it just felt so viscerally wrong to him like he was like this is not who we are. This is not who we Republicans are. And then he wakes up one morning and Cruz is out. Today I have to face the fact that maybe that is who we are. I mean you realize 6-- what was it? You have probably seen the numbers. 6 or 7 out of 10 Republicans-- I think it is been consistently 6 out of 10 agree that we ought to ban all Muslims from coming to the United States. And so maybe this whole thing is a collective voice saying to me you think this is not who we are? Yeah it is. Wake up dude. This is-- I have an atheist that calls me pretty regularly. And he gives me what for on the issues particularly moral issues. But we have had some pretty good give-and-takes too philosophically. But one of the questions he always puts to me is how does it feel to be on the wrong side of history? And my answer has always been a lot better than it would feel to be on the wrong side of eternity. My values are deeper than the culture of the moment. And I do not mean that in a-- golly that sounded-- I do not mean that in an arrogant way. I mean it in a broken way that says I realize that I may be swimming against the tide. So are you a Republican? Yeah I am still a Republican today because I have not done anything about it. But it would break my heart to not be associated anymore. I mean some people can just walk away. I mean it would break my heart. But I am not going to stay in the Republican Party if the Republican Party is not going to be conservative and it is not going to stand for traditional values. It is jarring when you are rolling along with a group of people for years sometimes. They are like family. And then you hit this one dividing point that makes you think wait is that who we are? Because if that is who we are what does that say about who I am? Even if the we is just you and one other person it is hard. And that is what our show is about today in two acts-- two families with two very different contentions. Stay with us. Act One Whose Great Idea was This? This first story deals with something controversial that is covered now and then in the news. But this is the first time I have heard it talked about so personally as opposed to abstract and far away. It comes to us from Mariya Karimjee and I will let her explain what is at issue. But I just want to say here that as Ira sometimes says this story does acknowledge the existence of sex and it probably is not right for young kids. OK here's Mariya. When I was in high school my mother caught me reading a grocery store Harlequin novel in my room. She raised one eyebrow as I shoved it under the covers. It was not until weeks later driving me somewhere that she mentioned she would seen it. I remember the firm line of her mouth as she explained that sex was almost never a good feeling. Do not go looking for that she told me. That is almost never true. I had not had sex but I had started to wonder about it. My mother said that she thought for men it was the way that they described it in the books. For us she said it is different. At the time I assumed that by us she meant women in general. Later I wondered if she meant her and me specifically. When I was seven years old and living in Karachi Pakistan my mother took me to the pediatrician. While I sat on a stool polishing imaginary dirt off the buckles on my Mary Janes my mother quietly asked if it was time for me to get the bug removed. According to my mother a bug was growing in an egg down there-- her language not mine-- and that it would hatch and eventually crawl to my brain unless we removed it she said. My pediatrician agreed. It was time to see the woman who removes the bug. A girl down the street that I would grown up with had her bug removed my grandmother told me. She was also seven and after she came home from the operation she felt fine enough so to jump up and down on her bed. It was a story my grandmother told with enthusiasm. My older cousins both girls were each presented with a piece of gold jewelry when they returned home from their respective operations. Remembering this I asked specifically for a simple gold chain with a teardrop pearl at the end. I did not feel well enough to go around jumping on beds after my surgery. For two days I wore what I can only describe as a big-girl diaper wet with blood. Peeing was so painful that I tried to last for hours without going until my mother explained that I could give myself an infection. For the next year I would break out into a cold sweat whenever I saw the kind-faced woman who on a tarp on her living room floor had spoken to me softly as she took a knife and cut me. I received the exact necklace I had requested and wore it all the time. Soon after my 11th birthday my parents brother and I moved to Texas. The Houston area where we lived happened to have a decent number of Muslims from the same sect we belonged to in Pakistan. We are called Dawoodi Bohra. But unlike many of the other immigrant families we knew my parents wanted my brother and I to fully assimilate into the world we would moved into. They encouraged us to sign up for any activities. They enrolled us in summer camps and group sports. My mom in particular really saw the benefit of raising me in the US. She was worried that in Karachi I would always be in the shadow of my younger brother. Boys are valued more than girls in a lot of ways there. My family has always been close but the move to the US cemented our closeness. But when I was 15 I overheard a woman at my mosque asking the woman next to her if her daughter had the operation already. Her question nudged something deep in my brain. Until that point I honestly had not thought about my operation-- my bug. At that moment the kind-faced woman came back to me. I could hear her comforting tone as she told me it would be over quickly. I am not sure what I googled but soon after returning home from mosque I had words to describe what I thought had happened to me. Female genital cutting. Female genital circumcision. Clitorectomy. Female genital mutilation or FGM. I sat with my copy of Our Bodies Ourselves that my American aunt had given me. The book has photos and diagrams of female genitalia and suggests using a mirror to be able to see and understand your body better. Locked in my bathroom with a hand mirror between my legs I realized that there was no diagram in the book that could explain what I saw. It was really confusing. Over the next few weeks I continued searching for information on FGM online. Mainly I found articles about small tribal villages in Africa where girls sometimes had their labia sewn shut and where infections fistulas and sometimes death could happen. I could see that what had happened to me was different from the cases I was reading about online. That is when I decided to search for FGM with the name of my particular sect Dawoodi Bohra. One lonely academic article came up titled The Practice of Female Circumcision Among Bohra Muslims. That was it. Once I would linked FGM to my culture I was consumed by anger. I could not believe both that it had happened to me and that it had been completely ignored as a topic of discussion by my friends by my religion and above all by my own family. Why had not anyone said anything especially my mother? She would done this. For the next several weeks I did not say anything to my mom about it. I would go back and forth between being furious at her and remembering her cool hand on my forehead after I peed for the first time after being cut. When I finally brought it up the two of us were cleaning my bathroom. I was standing in the tub a roll of steel wool in my hand. I had not meant to talk to her about it but I was angry-cleaning and running out of things to scrub. What exactly was that bug thing you told me about? My mother made a face I did not recognize and did not know how to interpret. First I was terrified that my question made no sense that I would have to clarify further. Then I realized I was even more scared that it had made perfect sense. My mother's explanation came out as fumbled as my question something about how women should not be sexual and shortening my clitoris. You removed the part of me that makes me feel good while having sex? I asked. I was 15 and armed with Our Bodies Ourselves and some internet articles. I thought I knew. I thought I appreciated exactly what had been taken away from me. It would take me another five years to realize I had no idea. I did not have a choice said my mother and it happened to me too. All seven-year-old Bohri girls have to go through this she said. I slammed the door shut in her face and waited. She did not try and open it back up. I could not understand how my mother-- the woman who made sure I got all the same opportunities as my brother who cried when I told her I needed a training bra for gym and then got me one anyway who attended every free seminar about preparing her children for college-- how could she be the same person who'd watched as a stranger cut me? I learned what it was like to love someone without forgiving them. My college roommate and I would never be close. One night as I highlighted a sociology text my roommate asked me if I masturbated. I sputtered no. You should try it she told me. She moved off her twin bed and onto the corner of mine. Do not be so prude she said when I cringed. I attended a small all-women's liberal arts college in western Massachusetts Mount Holyoke and it was a far cry from the conservative Baptist perfectly-coiffed Texas girls I knew as friends in high school. I could never really confide in them. But to my college roommate I inexplicably opened up. I told her everything I could think of. I confessed that I had no idea what it meant to have a clitorectomy that I had no idea of the extent of the damage. I explained about the girls in the African villages and the pictures of their labia sewn shut making clear that this was not my situation. She smoothed my back chewing on her lip. In the months that followed we did not get closer. We never talked like that again. Every few days though she encouraged me to go see a gynecologist at the school. Before going home for the summer I made an appointment at student health services. 20 minutes after walking in I was in stirrups. If you are listening right now with small children they may not want to hear this next part. When the doctor finally arrived she sat down between my legs murmuring something about a pap smear. Let us have a look she said. I clamped my knees together and started bawling. The doctor did not miss a beat. Why do not you sit right up and let us talk about any questions you may have. She had questions of her own too. When did this happen? How long did it hurt? Are you able to wipe yourself with toilet paper without discomfort? The doctor admitted up front that she did not know much but said that taking a closer look might help her out. When I finally let her examine me she let out a long low breath. For a few long moments she looked without speaking. Then she asked me for my cell number. She would ask around see if anyone in the area knew more than she did. What I can tell you is that there is a lot of thin scar tissue she said. This does not look like a full clitorectomy she added explaining that while she would never seen one before it looked like a partial cut. Did a medical professional do this? she asked. I did not know I admitted. The question would linger with me and for months I would weigh the consequences of asking my mother. Later after I put my clothes on she came back in to hug me. Come see me anytime with any questions she said. And before I could stop myself I blurted out can I ever have an orgasm? She handed me a few printed pamphlets on healthy masturbation. I figured out that getting to orgasm was not going to be easy. Even when I tried any wrong move any sudden accidental movement would shoot an incredible pain inside of me. I hardly ever mention this-- to anyone. Even when friends who knew my secret talked about sex I would pretend I was just like them. I would assure them that I was hooking up randomly with people same as they were. It is ridiculous I know but I did not know what to do. When I finally started dating it would take me months to let my boyfriend know why we were not progressing past second base. In his dorm room in DC I took three shots of green apple vodka and then blurted out as much as I could. My boyfriend silently listened holding my hands as I spoke. He did not ask questions or try to break up with me. He told me he would wait until I was ready. I wondered if I would ever be ready. After a year of dating him I decided that I needed to get it over with. I broached the subject with my boyfriend. I wanted to have sex before the end of the summer. I do not want you to stop even if I look like it is hurting me I told him. He grimaced but I repeated the statement again and then again. So one night I drank a half a bottle of wine in 15 minutes as my boyfriend watched warily. For a blissful 45 minutes we made out on the couch his hands staying in all of the safe spots the ones that months of dating had taught him did not make me clench up. The wine turned my limbs heavy. We moved from the couch to the bed. I closed my eyes counting to control my heartbeat and the nausea welling up inside me. Technically we began having sex. Pain shot up my body. I could feel it in my teeth and in the muscles of my jaw. My insides felt like they were being sandpapered. The pain was everywhere. We did not continue. My boyfriend kissed my forehead reminded me he loved me and left for the bathroom. I sat in the bed and cried. I was still crying when my boyfriend came out of the bathroom. He took one look at me and then told me he was heading out to our favorite neighborhood bar. I know that sounds callous but he knew that in moments of distress I rarely wanted to be comforted. Then I called my mother. Is sex ever good for you? I asked her. There was a brief but important pause. I heard the click of a door and then her voice clear unmuffled. Excuse me? she asked. I tried to have sex with my boyfriend I said. It did not go well. It hurt so bad that I am not sure I ever want to try it again. I know you do not think I should be having sex but I am so scared. What I did not say out loud but what my mother instinctively knew was what I was so scared of. It was not just that I was scared of sex but that because of that true love would escape me forever that I was unlovable. She told me about how when she was a teenager she saved up pocket change for Harlequin romances. All I wanted was to figure out how to feel like those women she told me. She also told me how when she was with my dad if he moved too fast she would feel sharp pain. I knew exactly what she was talking about pain that suffocated any of the good. I get panic attacks when that happens I told her. I did too she told me. Your father and I talked through what felt good and we figured out a way she explained. It was a good conversation. I told my mother that I loved her. I kept wanting her to apologize for giving me the same pain that she herself had suffered but she stayed quiet. As we said our goodbyes and were about to hang up she suddenly said unprompted I hate everyone else too. Those women on TV who love sex who enjoy it I hate them too. Since that first experience with a gynecologist in college I have been to a handful of other doctors. Many of them had not seen anyone who'd been cut before. When I would peppered them with questions they seemed hesitant to respond with authority. Only once since my college ex did I hook up with anyone again-- try to hook up that is. It too went badly. That time prompted me to take action. I visited a doctor who specialized in victims of FGM. I was living without health insurance that year. And when I called her office explaining this the receptionist told me to plan to spend somewhere around 2000 for the consult. It was all of my savings. The money was worth it. This doctor unlike so many of the gynecologists I would seen before did not wince when she peered between my legs. She did not over-apologize or pat my knees. She did not murmur in a hushed whisper like the medical resident at Columbia oh bless your dear heart. Instead she silently examined me. She would heard of the religious sect that I belong to and had examined other girls like me. She explained that because the cutting is done in the living room without proper medical equipment for girls in my sect the results varied. Some of the girls can easily go on to have great sex lives. But for me the main difference was in the extensive scar tissue and the nerve damage. I would read of a surgery where a doctor was grafting other genital tissue as part of a regenerative process. I asked her about it. She shook her head. I would not recommend this she said. The science was unreliable. She told me what I would long suspected. I would probably never have a wonderful easy uncomplicated sex life. Instead sex for me would likely involve many careful conversations with my partner a sex therapist and a willingness to trust a human beyond what I could imagine. I was not horribly mutilated or defective in a way that made me incapable of enjoying sex. She explained this is not terminal. This is not a life sentence. Find a sex therapist you trust. Learn to allow yourself to let go. I was not sure what she meant and did not ask further questions. In the moments after she gave me her verdict she mentioned a support group she held at Brigham and Women's Hospital. I nodded enthusiastically knowing I would never attend. A few years ago I moved back to Karachi for work. My parents had moved back while I was in college. Here's a quick little explainer about Karachi just so you know what to picture. Karachi is a huge city with around 22 million people. It is modern and it is not. It has gleaming gorgeous multi-story malls and large movie theaters that play the latest Hollywood and Bollywood films. People are on Tinder. Karachi also gets listed as among the most dangerous mega cities in the world. There is no international tourism. There is beggars at almost every street corner and piles of burning trash pretty much everywhere in the city even the really nice areas. The Dawoodi Bohra sect which I am from is a small typically pretty well-off minority in Karachi. There is about 40000 of us. I live in a neighborhood made up entirely of other Bohris. Readjusting to life in Karachi as an adult was difficult. I reluctantly attended services at the same mosque I went to as a kid. I would sit there and scan all of the faces to see if I could recognize the woman who had cut me. But then I realized that seated beside me were at least 100 other girls who had likely also been cut. I wondered what their sex lives were like. I would sit fidgeting wondering if any of them had escaped the cutting. So I started asking women in Karachi to talk to me about this. Half of the women I asked said no. This woman said yes. I mean whatever I can answer I will. Are you nervous? Not so much. This is a friend of mine from childhood. She asked that I not use her real name so I am going to call her Sameena. Sameena is 27. We were friends when we were very young but we did not stay in touch after I moved to the US. We sat and talked on my bedroom floor. Sameena said she would been cut too. Unlike me though she knew the woman who did it. She was a distant relative. I remember that we were in her drawing room. I was lying on the floor. I think my mom was holding me. And she was holding my legs and my mom must have been holding my arms and stuff. There was no-- I do not remember what equipment she used. Was it a blade or something else? I do not remember. She cut something. Do you remember it hurting? I think so yes enough that I was screaming and crying. And then she put a bandage over it. And then she had this huge scissor and I thought she was cutting something else again. She was bringing like a huge-ass scissors so I screamed and I jumped. And then my mom held me and all of that. And then she said in Gujarati that she is cutting the bandage not me again. And then she gave me candy. And then I came home. And I knew that something had been cut but obviously I did not know why because we never spoke about it with friends and stuff. I mean my mom told me do not talk about it. I was told it was a bug. It was a bug. It is gone. You do not have it anymore. Chapter closed. The bug story. I had thought that was specific to my family. Like me Sameena figured out on her own what had been done to her. When she was 17 she read a change.org petition asking Bohris to ban clitorectomies. Almost every Bohri I know has seen it. Sameena thought it was probably drafted and circulated by Bohris who were not as devout as she was. Why are they questioning this? she thought. Then she did the same thing I did. She asked her mother about it. My intention was not to speak to her in detail and ask her why she did it or why did they have to do it. It was like  the quick question why do we do it? And then she said to curb the sexual desire of women so that they do not cheat and they do not get horny and sleep around. And she did not use these words but she said that this is why we do it to curb your sexual desire. Were you surprised by her answer? I was not surprised as such. I just felt like it was unfair. Why do you want to stop me from having casual sex? Why not men? So I think that is what I thought at that point but I still do not remember feeling angry. That was 10 years ago. She feels differently now. Right now I do feel some anger that this is done. I had a huge argument with my parents and well it did not end up anywhere. When was this argument? Recent. Recent as in February of this year three months ago. When she says this I know exactly what prompted the argument. It was my brother. In February he spoke out against FGM female genital mutilation at a panel at the UN. We were asked to do the panel together but I was out of the country so he did it alone. He sat at a long curved conference table in a stately room with wood walls. He was one of five people who spoke that day. It was videotaped. So many women in my life that I was close to had gone through this. And I was just shocked. I was in denial. I was frustrated. It is been over the last five to six years since then that I have really become involved in this movement. My brother learned about FGM in his college anthropology class. He thought it was something that happened in rural African villages. He had no idea about me or our mom and grandmothers. Then a Bohri girl at college set him straight and he called me immediately saying why did not you tell me? After he spoke at the UN he posted about it on Facebook. It is a long passionate post where he urges Bohri men not to stay silent and condone FGM. In the post he says FGM is not simply a women's issue but a human rights issue. Men must start seeing it as such and that FGM has absolutely no place in Islam. There is nothing in the Quran about it. The video of my brother's speech made the rounds in the Bohri community. On Facebook there was only a show of support. Bohris from around the world Liked my brother's stance on FGM. But less publicly my brother had sparked some controversy. His private message folder filled up with messages from Bohris who disagreed. My parents received texts from Bohri friends in Pakistan Tanzania the UK and the US warning them that they may get in trouble with the clergy for this. A high-ranking clergy member's wife strongly discouraged me from attending further services at my mosque. Like a lot of Bohris in Karachi Sameena saw my brother's post and showed it to her parents. And with this when I told my mom that I saw this on Facebook my mom specifically told me not to Like it. She said do not Like it. Do not share it. We were at home. My dad was there as well. This is what my dad said that your sexual desire you have to curb it just so that the girls do not go around. And so I said but guys do it. My mom was like why do not you question  then? Why do not you question ? Why are you questioning this? I was like because it is being done to me! Quick translation. Sameena's mom basically argued why not question everything we believe then? Praying five times a day. Fasting. Every major tenet of Islam. As Sameena pointed out none of those things are an assault on her body. Anyhow Sameena's fight with her parents went on. And then I was like if having sex is a bad thing and if you do not want me to do it teach me not to do it like you taught me not to drink and eat pork. I do not do it right? Similarly if you will have taught me not to sleep around I probably would not. I mean if consciously I have controlled myself that is the point in Islam to have that willpower to not do something. I would never eat pork because I have been told all my life you are not supposed to eat it. I am never going to eat it. The point is I know this is something that I am not supposed to do. If you told us what we were doing to ourselves and then had done it with consent then it is a different thing. But at an age where I do not know what it is you do something to me which is irreversible. And you do not have to cut something off just to curb that desire. Well what did they say back to that specific argument? Um-- Because I feel like it is a really good argument. You are like OK you have taught me right from wrong. So why is sex something that you did not teach me? You just made a decision for me. I knew they did not have a response because well what do you say to your child who is asking you such a question? Because I am not even sure if they knew why exactly they were doing it. Did you feel like you would won that argument? I think so yes. Do you think they thought that you would won that argument? I think so. They did not have an answer. Then my mom was like well I also pierced your ears but you did not say anything about that. My mom said the same thing. She literally said the same thing. I was like how is piercing my ears at six months old anything like getting my clitoris cut? Are you crazy? I cannot believe you would say that. I know. Did that make you mad? I was super mad yes. The thing I really wanted to know though was much more personal. It was the question that had been haunting me from the moment I found out that I had been cut. My question centered on the very thing her parents told her was the goal of FGM curbing women's desire. I definitely feel desire. I am just kind of w