For 35 years Scharlette Holdman has worked with defense teams on death penalty cases including some very high profile cases. But she has not given an interview to the press in decades ever since an incident where she had a few drinks with a reporter and said some things that she was unhappy to see in print. It was so embarrassing. And I thought well I either have to quit drinking or quit doing interviews. And I was not ready to quit drinking yet so I quit doing interviews. So this interview is a very rare event for me. I have not done any kind of interviews with the media since '85. And you are ending the moratorium in this one instance for this story. Why? Well a fluffy red-combed leghorn deserves his moment in the sun. I mean just the image-- and I am not talking about any chicken. I am talking about-- you can just picture it-- this beautiful leghorn his tail perked up and that red comb sitting at kind of a rakish angle on his head and his head kind of cocked to the side and he looks at you with his little eyes. That is what this story is about. That is not just what this story is about. That is what a lot of today's radio show is about. Ever since the early days of our radio show once a year during the highest poultry-consumption time of our country which is of course-- if you think about this for even a moment you can guess the answer to this-- it is the weeks that begin with Thanksgiving and go through Christmas and New Year's. During that time it is a tradition here. We devote an entire hour of our program to stories of chickens turkeys ducks foul of all kind. And in homage to Chicago's poetry slams which have spread across the country but were created at the Green Mill Bar on the North Side by poet Marc Smith we named these programs Poultry Slams. But I just want to be clear before we even begin. We are using the word slam with no malice toward any bird of any kind at all. No birds were hurt no birds were slaughtered no birds were slammed in the making of today's program. And we have incredible stories today incredible enough that at least one woman has ended a quarter-century moratorium on talking to the press to be here with me. And you should too. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Witness for the Barbecue-tion. So Scharlette Holdman did not just get the idea of calling a chicken as a witness in a murder case out of the blue. She was working on this case-- and we are going to call this guy Harry-- and there was no question that the guy had killed somebody. This was not about whether he would done it. It was just about what sentence he would get. He had sat on death row at San Quentin for 10 years. But Scharlette says he was schizophrenic with an IQ of 58 and just out of touch with reality. And one of the things he did-- he wrote messages and symbols on little pieces of toilet paper and rolled them up in a ball. And he would done this for years on death row-- rolled the little secret messages up in a ball and then rolled them in feces his own feces and then into little tiny bead-sized balls and put those into the braids in his hair. Oh my. So that they dangled around his forehead. And the things he was putting in his hair-- from his point of view were they communicating some information the little messages? Exactly. But he could not tell me what the messages were because they were secret. When I would talk to him about his mother he would tell me she lived in a Coca-Cola can. It is against the law to execute somebody who is so crazy he does not understand why he is being executed. And Scharlette said that was true for this guy. When I would say do you know what is going to happen on the 12th of June he was kind of befuddled and with pressure he would finally say well yeah he thought he was going to be reupholstered. The state of California did not agree with Scharlette about this guy. They wanted to execute him in 30 days. Scharlette's team was making a last-ditch appeal to stay this execution. Meanwhile the state was gathering its evidence. San Quentin sent in a prison psychiatrist to determine-- was he competent to be executed? Did he know he was going to be executed? And did he know why he was going to be executed? So the psychiatrist goes and interviews Harry. And then this psychiatrist testified in court that not only was Harry aware that he was going to be executed she was so certain of this because she had played Tic-tac-toe with him and Harry had beat her. Well it was so absurd and so outside of any normal experience in a courtroom. And this is after 30 years of being in death penalty cases in the South around the world and-- I really could not believe she had said it. But at the same time the only image that came to me-- I am from the South obviously. And growing up we always went to the Mid-South Fair. And they had a chicken that played Tic-tac-toe that absolutely mesmerized me. And it was pretty clear to me-- OK we have got to find a chicken who can play Tic-tac-toe. Scharlette thought-- and this is not a joke. It is not an exaggeration. She thought that a chicken like that could save this man's life. Jurors after all tend to believe the state and its witnesses. And a chicken like that could totally undermine the psychiatrist's testimony by proving that playing Tic-tac-toe does not mean that you understand things like why you are being executed. I just knew a chicken would work. It is a sad state. But I think a chicken has more credibility than the defense team did. And I think it would have brought the jury over to seeing us as people rather than as these obstructionists who were interfering with an execution. And who can doubt a chicken? You cannot. Chickens are not going to lie. Chickens have integrity. I had this image of the psychiatrist being on the stand. And I would quietly enter through the wood doors as they opened with this beautiful leghorn under my arm right and a comb at a rakish angle. And as I walked into the courtroom not saying a word and quietly took a seat on the front row the psychiatrist-- who we knew because we would investigated her background-- was from New York City would see a person with a chicken and think why is that-- oh my god no. And that psychiatrist would slowly realize that she was going to have to play Tic-tac-toe with a chicken. So you are trying to psych out-- you were trying to get inside the psychiatrist's head and-- Exactly. Exactly. --And make the psychiatrist unravel even before you pull your stunt. The jury's eyes as awareness overcame her. So it would not work with a frazzled chicken. I did not want a splotchy beat-up tired exhausted chicken. I wanted a chicken that could capture the audience's attention in this case the audience was the jury. Right. You would need a chicken like in a cartoon. Look I had to have a chicken that could take on a psychiatrist. It had to be a stand-up chicken. Noted. So we began to hunt for this stand-up chicken. Well this task fell to the legal interns. The man was scheduled to die at that point in less than two weeks. And they needed a chicken. And they searched the places that you find Tic-tac-toe-playing chickens namely county fairs carnivals. And really within hours they found a Tic-tac-toe-playing goose in Montana. But of course Scharlette says that was totally unacceptable. Geese are nasty. They bite you. I did not want a goose running around the courtroom chasing someone. Next was a guy at a roadside stand in Wyoming who did have a chicken and it did play Tic-tac-toe but he said that flying or driving it to California for the trial would probably upset it so much that he could not guarantee that it would win the game of Tic-tac-toe so he was out. Finally they found a fellow in Arkansas who trains chickens to play Tic-tac-toe. And he had a whole list of chickens that he had trained around the country. And he sent the legal team to one of those birds in San Francisco. That turned out to be a dead end. San Francisco had actually passed an ordinance banning the playing of Tic-tac-toe by chickens as animal cruelty. Fortunately another chicken on the list was not far from there-- at the boardwalk at Santa Cruz. They had their chicken. So the next step was to convince the court to let us bring the chicken to court as a witness as demonstrative evidence to introduce the chicken and let the chicken play Tic-tac-toe. Now of course I wanted the chicken to play Tic-tac-toe with the psychiatrist. But I realized--  --yeah-- that most likely no one was going to let us get away with that. But I did think that any of us-- we have a healthy group of interns. They know how to play Tic-tac-toe so that we could demonstrate to the jury that playing Tic-tac-toe did not mean that you were aware of the consequences of your actions. Why would not you be allowed to make the psychiatrist play Tic-tac-toe with the chicken? I understand why the psychiatrist would not want to do it. But from a legal point of view what line does that cross? Well evidently-- I agree with you-- but the court felt-- it never addressed the issue of having to play the psychiatrist. But the court felt that bringing the chicken into the courtroom to play Tic-tac-toe would degrade the dignity of the court. I thought that the dignity of the court was degraded by executing a mentally retarded mentally ill person. So the court denied our motion and said we could not bring the chicken into the courtroom for demonstrative evidence. It ruled against us. They were not even allowed to show the jury a video of the chicken playing Tic-tac-toe. And without a chicken on the stand without a video of a chicken the jury found the psychiatrist credible and ruled to execute Scharlette's client. His life was saved later on appeal. And in the years since then in 2002 the Supreme Court ruled that a person at his level of mental retardation cannot be executed. For Scharlette though this story stays with her this story of the chicken. Because in decades of doing these capital trials bringing hundreds of witnesses it is the greatest courtroom move she ever invented bringing in the chicken. And she never got to try it. She invented this thing. She never got to try it. It was snatched away from her. Something like that sticks in your craw. Well yeah because I did not get to do it. But it is also because of the nature and quality of a chicken. When you do this kind of work when you are down in the worst part-- when you are trying to work for the folks that literally the community wants to kill it can be pretty discouraging. But this nice fluffy leghorn brightens up your day and you forge on. And all of this all of this is not to make light of death as punishment of people with mental retardation of people who are mentally ill or of chickens. Thank you for saying that. No it is really not. I actually am a member of PETA. Scharlette Holdman in New Orleans. Act Two Murder Most Foul. OK here's a crazy fact. The number of wild turkeys in America has grown from-- get this-- 30000 turkeys at the beginning of the 20th century to 1.3 million turkeys in the 1970s to about 7 million turkeys today. Seven million wild turkeys roaming all over the country in every state but Alaska turkeys that if you believe videos you see on YouTube could possibly do this to you. It is pecking the car. It is pissed. It is attacking the car. It wants in here really bad. It is making weird noises. Oh  get out of here! Oh my gosh. There are lots of videos like this on the web of wild turkeys attacking people in residential neighborhoods. And they have been making the local news more lately too. You may have seen this footage that is gone around of this reporter in Sacramento who went to verify reports of a rogue turkey and then got attacked herself. No. Go away. Oh Jesus Christ. No! But none of these turkeys come even close to one bird one bird who unleashed a reign of terror on Martha's Vineyard in 2008. Sam Bungey was a reporter on the island when it all went down. It was Father's Day around noon and two things were true on Old Ridge Road in the tiny town of Chilmark-- first it was Tom the Turkey's last day on Earth. Second he was not going quietly. Alissa Keenan runs a business that specializes in rental baby equipment-- cribs and high chairs and things like that for families on vacation on Martha's Vineyard. And on that Father's Day she and one of her drivers pulled up at a summer house on the road to make a delivery. They noticed a turkey in the yard but thought nothing of it. Wild turkeys run all over the island. The driver got out and a second later Alissa heard shouts. And then I heard rocks flying and hitting the side of the van. And then he came screaming in saying that crazy turkey's attacking. So I got out and I flapped my arms and said shoo like you do to the seagulls at the dump and they fly away. And the turkey came at me. It was big nearly up to her waist. Alissa told my producer Bryan Ried and me that she is seen hundreds of wild turkeys and they always run away when you go near them. This one kept rushing her. And it was pecking with its face pecking at me. And then we got back in the van and it was circling the van. So you were besieged in the van basically. Yes. We were besieged in the van by a turkey. Sheriff's Department Communications. This line is recording. Hi. I am just calling to let you know there is a turkey here that is attacking us. I am with my driver and he chased us around the van. I have never seen a turkey come after anybody like that. And the people that are coming here have little kids. I do not know if it has rabies or something. But it is definitely not behaving like any of the turkeys I have ever seen. Alissa made the emergency call she says not for herself but for the children that would be using this rental gear. At the time she did not know that birds cannot get rabies. She and the driver dropped the baby equipment out the van window and drove away. A half hour later officers Matt Gebo and Jeff Day rolled up in separate patrol cars. It was a strange scene-- a bunch of beach chairs and strollers and umbrellas lying in a pile. When Gebo stepped out of his cruiser the turkey charged him. Both officers filed multi-page reports about what happened next. Due to the wild turkey's aggression Gebo wrote I jumped up onto the cruiser's push bumper for protection. From the bumper Gebo watched as the turkey pursued his partner. It was fast. It got within a few feet and jumped the policemen. casting about for cover Officer Day who is about 6 feet tall and in good shape ran for the baby equipment. The turkey chased me around a pile of chairs three times trying to peck me with its beak Day wrote in his report. I then kicked it with my boot. It backed up and then charged me again. Day unclipped the holster of his service weapon a .40 caliber semi-automatic Glock pistol and leveled his gun at the oncoming turkey. He backed up one more time around the baby equipment and then squeezed off two bullets. The turkey was wounded but still it kept running. I pursued the bird on foot Day wrote. And then he fired twice more. We were outside. I was working in the yard and Jonathan was in the garage and we heard gunshots. This is Linda who lives next door with her husband Jonathan. They did not want us to use their last name which makes sense given everything that happened next. Linda and Jonathan knew this turkey cared a lot for this turkey actually. It was not exactly their pet. But he used to hang around in their yard a lot. And they had named him Tom. Instinctively we just started running over which was a stupid thing to do. When you hear gunshots you do not run toward them. But we just panicked. And we saw them pulling this very bloody turkey out of our woods. I do not want to go into the details of my interaction with the police officers. The long and the short of it is I tried to get between my wife and the shooters. Jonathan would not tell me much about what happened next. But in a sworn affidavit he later said quote I was running as fast as I could through the woods ducking bushes in a panic and flushed with adrenaline as two of the gunshots were so close that I could see the muzzle flash. The police say there were a total of four shots fired into the turkey but Jonathan says it was five. He then saw Officer Day holding the turkey by its neck and laughing saying it is done. According to the police Jonathan was swearing blue murder. What the  are you  doing? He shouted. This is the Chilmark Police and we are taking care of a problem turkey said Officer Day. Jonathan yelled back What are you an idiot? Stop shooting my turkeys you  idiots. And then he punched Officer Gebo in the face. According to Linda it was the police who were being rough with her husband so she ran to the house and called 9-1-1. 9-1-1. This is the Sheriff's Department. This line is recorded what is your emergency? Yes I need the state police right away. Why do you need the state police? Because the local police are up here shooting our turkeys and they have got my husband tied up. The police have your husband tied up? Yes they have him handcuffed because he was trying to get them to stop shooting our turkeys. They killed the turkeys. They are over here killing turkeys-- the local police. I need the state police right away. The state troopers came but it was too late. The Chilmark Police cuffed Jonathan read him his rights and took him to jail. He was charged with resisting arrest and two counts of assault and battery of a police officer. Tom the Turkey riddled with bullets was bundled into a plastic bag as evidence and stowed in the police department freezer. Just to back up here before he grew up to attack delivery people and police Tom was small and cute and fuzzy and an orphan. That is the Tom that Jonathan and Linda first met back in the spring of 2006. Their house is surrounded by lots of fields and woods with a pond. And one day they were watching a brood of wild turkeys that had wandered into their yard when they saw a red-tailed hawk swoop down and try and pick off Tom and his sister. Jonathan and Linda are animal lovers. They have raised dogs and slugs and lizards. And Jonathan once spent two years on a campaign to domesticate a feral cat. So when they saw the injured baby turkeys Jonathan says it was hard not to help. They had cuts on their faces. And we fixed them up and put antibiotic on his little face. And they still were very attached to us I guess for this. So as Tom grew up he liked to come and hang out. He would wander off for a couple of days. But he would always come back. He and Jonathan got on really well. He would just sit there and do his thing where he would gobble around. And if I dropped any birdseed going out to the birdfeeder he would scour that. He would go in the garage clean that out. And he used to love shiny things. And whenever I would be working on anything you would find him dragging a wrench down the driveway. It is like where are you going with this? When news of Tom's murder hit the local papers I was living on the island. And I can tell you everyone went crazy over this story could not get enough of it. How in the world did this happen that gunshots were fired in Chilmark of all places-- a sleepy town where alcohol sales are outlawed and people leave their keys in the ignition a place where the cops have enough free time that they once responded with success to a call about a kid with a blueberry stuck up his nose? The case was discussed in coffee shops and in bars where people joked about that season's special drink-- four shots of Wild Turkey or five depending on whose account you believed. Letters and comments streamed into the local newspapers some asking serious questions about what the cops did. But in most you could hear the snickering. Just the idea of a turkey attacking seemed ridiculous. A reader warned parents against letting their kids dress as turkeys for Halloween lest they incur the wrath of the Chilmark P.D. One paper ran an editorial cartoon of a dopey-looking turkey in a cop's uniform carrying a rifle. This might be one reason why the police officers even three years later would not talk to us for this story. A guy named Chip posted this comment in the Martha's Vineyard Times Did anyone think of simply getting back into their vehicles until the turkey no longer felt threatened? I am sure it would have gone back to whatever turkeys do if left alone for five or ten minutes. Or did this turkey have a long list of priors that made him particularly scary? Well as it turns out Chip yeah he did-- a surprisingly long list of priors. I was totally relieved totally relieved that the turkey was dead-- definitely singing choruses of Ding Dong the Witch is Dead yeah. I do not personally know the police. But I said to myself if I had a gun I would have shot the turkey. I think I can honestly say that we all on this road were glad to see him gone permanently. It was just a relentless freakin' bird. Those times when Tom was not at Jonathan's according to neighbors he would been stalking them for months. And like any serial criminal he had patterns signatures. The first recorded sighting was on of all days Thanksgiving. An entire flock arrived on Roger Greeley's lawn. Suddenly they flew up onto his porch and then marched across it single file led by Tom. Before he died in 2009 Roger told me it was like trying to shoo away kindergartners. They were dumb as rocks. But it all seemed so innocent at the beginning. Soon Tom started showing up at Blue Cullen's house. He would come chasing up to you as if he were going to peck you. He was really scary. And he just would keep coming at you. So I took to walking from my front door to my car anytime I had to go out with a broom. And at times I would just laugh at myself because I thought if anybody just saw me chasing after this turkey with a broom I would just look like a total madwoman. My reoccurring nightmares is that I am being chased by something right? So all of a sudden you have a turkey who really is bringing that to life. Blue's niece Stephanie DeRosa lives one door down. Her primary battleground lay on the small stretch between her house and her car where Tom would come after her. I honestly ran in and got in through my passenger door because that is what was closest to the house door ran into the passenger door to get into the driver's seat to drive away. Tom seemed to have a particular fetish for cars. Victim after victim told me stories of Tom hurling himself against vehicles circling them maniacally or staring down revving engines. Terrifyingly he could keep pace with a car for the length of a city block. Stephanie remembers one time-- I got into the car and he was coming at the car. Coming at my car. I had paint chipped off of my car from this turkey. Yeah it is terrorizing. It is a living nightmare. As the attacks continued people adapted to the new regime. They learned to recognize the sound of Tom's low-slung wings scraping the gravel driveway. Some parked as close as possible to the front door to shorten the route between the car and the safety of their house. One man escorted his guesthouse tenants on walks and to their cars. After kicking and swatting people tried defending themselves with brooms rakes garden hoses golf clubs baseball bats. A plumber had nothing on him but a hot soldering iron when Tom attacked. He would not talk to us about it on tape but he claims to have made contact and smelled cooked turkey. The absurdity of it all was not lost on anyone. Brian Mackey a financial director at the island's YMCA tried to shoo away Tom with a broom and was backed 30 feet across his own yard walking backwards trying not to break into a run until he knocked into a short stone wall that he did not see. And I hit this wall and I went down-- He is in his yard showing us where it happened. And I am just laying here with the broom. And it is going like-- I am saying what the hell is-- You are lying on the ground right now. And I said go away. You are a turkey. What are you doing here? You are not supposed to do this to me. This is my house. Get out of here. If it were a person you could talk to it. This was a turkey. Brian told me he used to yell at Tom again and again asking what do you want? What do you want? To make things worse Tom did not act alone. According to his victims he had an entire rogue flock at his disposal. He seemed to have the whole group bent to his will. And they would surround people while he attacked. An electrician told me he was engulfed by a sea of nearly 40 turkeys with Tom at the helm who trapped him in his van. The flock singled out a woman named Debbie Morelli for special treatment. Her house is close to Jonathan and Linda's the couple that was treating Tom like a pet. The turkeys patrolled Debbie's property day and night. They would roost in her trees defecate in her yard and in the outdoor shower. They would stomp around on the roof. One night a turkey toppled into her chimney. She had to listen to it struggle and die in there. Even today three years later as we were asking her about Tom she threw her head down on the table. I really did not like him. Kevin Oliver is a caretaker for a bunch of summer homes on the island. One day he got out of his car to check on one of the houses and there they were Tom and his flock. He says it seemed like they were waiting for him. And usually when you come to a flock of turkeys they run away. This group of turkeys ran towards me so I made a bolt for the front door. And as I am running towards the house I finally realize that I have a handful of keys in my hand and I do not know which one belongs to the house. So I start scrambling with the keys. And as I am doing that the turkeys are closing in rapidly. It was just that classic horror scene where you are sitting there fumbling with the keys as creature's creeping up behind you. I finally got the right key in the door. And as I slipped in the door the turkey's head literally came through the opening in the door. Tom lunged at him snapping with his beak. If he would slammed the door shut Kevin could have ended things right there. But instead he kicked Tom's head out and closed the door. The turkey then held him hostage in the house until Kevin grabbed a golf club and swung his way to the car. What did you think he was going to do to you if he caught you? Same thing I saw him do to somebody else spur me. They have those big spurs out on the backside of their legs. And he was a big turkey. It was a big nasty testosterone-filled turkey. The attacks went on for more than six months sometimes several times a week. Some neighbors suffered in silence assuming they were the only ones dealing with this crazed bird. Others tried asking for help but they had a hard time getting people to take them seriously. The chief of police said the birds were not under his jurisdiction same with the environmental police officer and the animal control guy whose specialty is dogs. A few people even contacted hunters trying to organize a contract on Tom. But no one bit. Wild turkeys are protected animals. And back in 2008 even if you had a permit you could only hunt them for fewer than three weeks out of the year. So lots of people found themselves in a pickle which is why they were so relieved when those delivery people called 9-1-1 and the police finally shot him. Not only because it rid them of the bird but also because it was proof that they had not imagined the whole thing. Here's Blue Cullen the women who used to chase Tom with a broom. If those people did not have the fortitude to deal with that situation and the police literally had to shoot this bird then I felt like OK maybe my anger was not as misplaced. If it can get to people like that too then I am not as cuckoo as I think I am. Why did Tom turn out this way? How did he end up attacking humans? A wildlife expert on the island speculated maybe Jonathan and Linda fed him so often that he lost his fear of people and became territorial. When he saw people in the neighborhood especially new people he viewed them as a threat. This expert said that is why people should never feed wild turkeys. You are creating a monster he said when you start hand-feeding these animals. It is difficult to square Jonathan and Linda's description of Tom with the bird that brought an entire neighborhood to its knees. Maybe it was just a matter of perspective. Jonathan told us how Tom used to chase the UPS van. He remembered it fondly like it was a cute game Tom and the delivery man would play together. But I spoke to that UPS guy. He would not go on the record about it. But he said that turkey scared the crap out of him. But is not that often the way with the parents of a local bully? To everyone else he is a thug. But to mom and dad he is a high-spirited little angel a fluffy injured orphan misunderstood by the world. I felt badly for him because he had been injured and he seemed to come over to our field a lot more than some of the other turkeys. And he did come back a few times with yellow paint on his face because he had been shot by someone with a paintball gun. And I guess he sort of realized that this was the place to come to when something happened. One of the first things Linda did as her husband was being released from jail that day was call the island's emergency services number and ask for them to return Tom's body. The dispatcher was perfectly polite to Linda. OK I will see if I can get ahold of Matt and call you. But then the dispatcher calls the animal control officer. And in the recording of that call you can tell how absurd she thinks the whole thing is. It is almost like they forgot they were being recorded. Hi this is the Chilmark Turkey Patrol reporting in. You called me? You are not going to believe it. You have not started dressing it yet have you? I did not dress it. It is in a bag in the freezer with a Chilmark P.D. label on it. Because Miss  wants her turkey to give it a proper burial. He tells her the police are keeping the turkey on lockdown as potential evidence. I cannot wait to read about this. Hopefully you will not read it. I am not part of it. This is not how I deal with turkeys. Never-- are they odd? Is it strange? I do not know. Do not know. It piques my interest when somebody wants their turkey back to give it a proper burial. That is right well. It is not going anywhere. It is safely tagged and in our freezer. Half a year went by. After 30000 in legal fees all the charges against Jonathan were dropped-- assault and battery of a police officer and resisting arrest each of which could have gotten him two and a half years in jail. And then Jonathan says one day the Chilmark P.D. called about Tom. The police had kept him for the whole six months of the appeal. And by that point he was rather freezer burned. So this tiny little bag of this apparently ferocious turkey came back to us. And we buried him. And he has a headstone. I thought you would like to know what is written on it. It is a little rock and it has a little brass plaque. And it says Tom the Turkey. He died as he lived. What more can you say for a wild animal? In Jonathan Tom had found the one guy in the woods who was in his corner who tried to understand him on his own terms. To almost everyone else Tom was a thug and a tough one-- gored by a hawk pelted with paintballs burned with a soldering iron. None of that stopped him. When Tom finally did go down it was like Scarface in a barrage of gunfire. He lived like a bird. But he died like a gangster. Sam Bungey. He edits the online magazine The Racket at theracket.net. Coming up more birds who do not do what we want them to. That is in a minute. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today it is our annual Poultry Slam stories of chickens turkeys ducks geese foul of all kind and our attempts to bend them to our will. We have arrived at Act Three of our program. Act Three Latin Liver. For a chef like Dan Barber foie gras-- goose liver-- poses a special problem. On the one hand he says it is fatty. It is sweet. It makes everything near it taste incredible. Every chef loves foie gras. I have said this many times. You end up looking like a much better chef than you are if you use foie gras in all these ways. But at the same time it is also the most maligned food out there. Production has banned in many countries. 