So Tig Notaro you are coming onto the radio show today to talk about the last year of your life. Is this going to be an uplifting story? . Well it is not even a year. It is four months-- and no. Tig Notaro is a comedian. She was on our show this past spring telling the story-- maybe you heard this-- about Taylor Dayne. But in just four months she went through a series of terrible things life changing things including finally two months after she was on our show this past May she was diagnosed with cancer. Her doctor called her with the test results on a Wednesday. Eight days later she was told that it was stage two and that it might be spreading throughout her body. And then the next night she did something that you do not see a lot of cancer patients do. She went on stage and did a stand-up set about it about everything she was going through. She felt like she had to. I really had the fear that if I walked away from this opportunity to perform that I would never be able to again. Oh wow. I did not understand that. Yeah. You know my life could just start changing very quickly. I could immediately be on chemo. I could be ill. My past four months had shown me that who knows what is coming up. The set she did at a club called Largo in Los Angeles became notorious in comedy circles immediately after it happened because another comedian Louis CK tweeted that it was one of the best sets he ever saw. It is not the kind of set that kills with joke after joke after joke. What makes it special is listening to it you can feel Tig figuring out how she is even going to talk about these things on stage as she is making her way through it. It was scary. I picture myself walking and just kind of putting my tip-toe in front of me slowly just oh I have no idea what this next line is going to be. I do not have any reference here. You mean what it is going to be like how they are going to react. How they are going to react and is this funny? I did not know. Well today on our radio show What Does not Kill You we have stories of people who nearly die. Some of them nearly die more than once. And we see what it turns them into who they are when they come back to the rest of us. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One Too Soon? So we are going to start with that set that Tig Notaro performed the day after she heard that she had stage two cancer back in August. It is never been broadcast or released anywhere from now. This is going to be excerpt of the much longer half hour set.  Good evening. Hello. I have cancer. How are you? Hi how are you? Is everybody having a good time? I have cancer. How are you? Ah it is a good time. Diagnosed with cancer. . It feels good. Just diagnosed with cancer. Oh God. Oh it is fine. Here's what happened. It is very personal. Found a lump. Guys relax. Everything's fine. I have cancer.  Found a lump got a mammogram. I ended up getting biopsies which is painful. It feels like being stabbed. I felt like I would been rear-ended all day and then just dropped off back at my house. I could not move or anything. And it was so intrusive and horrible. And I was just like God. After all of these like ice pick stabbing feelings I would better have cancer. Somebody over here just keeps going oh. Oh I think she might really have cancer. Who is taking this really bad? Oh. It is OK.  It is OK. It is going to be OK. It might not be OK. But I am just saying it is OK. You are going to be OK. I do not know what is going on with me. I literally got diagnosed just a few days ago. And this friend of mine she was like oh my gosh. I am sure you have heard about these funny cancer greeting cards. And I go whoa whoa whoa. You are sure I have heard about funny cancer greeting cards? I was like I just got diagnosed. I did not just go out and learn all about the subculture and start buying knickknacks and like no. I do not know about the funny cancer greeting cards. I just do not know. I just got diagnosed. And so my friend texted me one of the cards. The outside of the card says-- oh what is it? So you have cancer. Sad face. Then you open the card. And it says thank goodness. I have been looking for a reason to shave my head.  I cannot believe that is what you guys have not laughed at tonight. That was straight from the funny cancer greeting cards.  What is odd though is having this diagnosis it is such a weird time because I have so many amazing things going on in my life. Like all of the best and all of the worst is exactly at the same time. In fact at the end of March I had this-- basically a bacteria was eating my digestive system. So I had this bacteria eating my digestive tract. So I lost 20 pounds. I have put five back on. And just please bear with me. It is so hard because right now in my life when I have a show I do not feel like oh I want to go talk about how funny it is that a bee was taking the 405 freeway. Like all the jokes that I have written I just am like I cannot even bring myself to talk about it. Because-- and just everyone relax-- my mother just died. Should I leave? My mother just died-- tragically too. She was 65 she tripped hit her head and died a week after I got out of the hospital. What happened was after we buried her in our hometown in Mississippi we drove back to Texas. And I was checking the mail. And the hospital sent my mother a questionnaire to see how her stay at the hospital went.  Hm-- not great. Did not go great. The questionnaire asked things such as number one during this hospital stay did nurses explain things in a way you could understand? I mean considering you had zero brain activity. Number two was the area around your room quiet at night? Or could you hear the 12 hours of your daughter alone at your bedside sobbing and telling you things she wished she was brave enough to tell you when you were conscious? Number four suggestions for improvements. Such as should we stop sending questionnaires to dead people? When I was-- I am jumping around a lot-- I am going back to the cancer. I am bailing on the mother thing. After I got the biopsies they did another mammogram. And I had to have my shirt off. And I was standing there at the machine. And the technician said oh my gosh you have such a flat stomach. What is your secret? And I was like oh I am dying.  The condition I had in the hospital is called C diff. And so I just refer to it as the C diff diet. You just sit there and watch the pounds melt away. Do not like exercising? Who does girlfriend? This diet does all the work for you. Just clear all the bacteria from your intestines and let the C diff whittle way at your waistline. So basically the events-- I got pneumonia. I was in the hospital for a week for C diff. Got out. A week later my mother died. I know it is hilarious. Then I went through a break up right in the middle of it all. It is tough times. You cannot stick around for that. Got to get out before the cancer comes. Went through a break up. Seems legit. Seems totally legitimate. Who here is just wishing I would tell bees going down the 405?  I just cannot. I am sorry. . But you know what is nice about all of this is that you can always rest assured that God never gives you more than you can handle. Never. Never. When you have had it God goes all right that is it. I just keep picturing God going you know what? I think she can take a little more.  And then the angels are standing back going God what are you doing? You are out of your mind. And God was like no no no. I really think she can handle this. But why God? Like why? Why? I do not know. I just you know. Just trust me on this. I heard another little sad . May you just should have stayed home. You know what if I just transitioned right now into silly jokes right now? No! No! No. I want to hear more bad news. No!  Where are you? Right here. Right here. Right here. Now I feel bad that I do not have more tragedy to share.  I am honestly tapped out. Like that is all that happened to me. That is it. OK it is me again jumping in here. So after about half an hour of this trying all kinds of stuff. Some that gets huge laughs some stuff she is just kind of trying out and seeing. For example she talks about getting a double mastectomy. She talks about her friends not knowing how to talk to her normally now that she has this diagnosis. There is a whole bit about will I date with cancer? And as the set is winding down the audience requests the bee joke that she is been mentioning. Tell the bee joke. Tell the bee joke? OK. And hearing her do the bee joke is like hearing her perform a version of herself which she knows does not even exist anymore. I was driving here.  And ugh just a lot of traffic.  And my car had not moved in several minutes. I was just sitting there. And my window was down. And a bee flew past me. Do you have any idea how frustrating it is when a bee passes you in 5 oclock traffic? And PS what was the bee doing taking the 405 in the first place? Anyway thanks so much for coming.  Tig Notaro. What you just heard was less than half of what she did that night. The full thing is available can be downloaded at Louis CK's website louisck.net. Yay cancer! That is the best response I have ever gotten. Act Two Just Keep Breathing. So this 13-year-old get bit by a shark. And it is harrowing but not as harrowing as what happens after the attack. Because sharks are dangerous but so are grown-ups. The 13-year-old is now a grown-up herself. And she agreed to tell her story here on the radio. But she asked that I not give out her name. She was raised in this small town in New Zealand where everyone knew the shark story. And the last few years she is been enjoying a life in America where that is not the very first thing that every single person she meets knows about her. And she wanted to try to keep that going by not outing herself on the radio. The attack happened when her family was out on a camping trip at the beach. She went for a swim with her friend. It was beautiful. It was about dusk. We were walking out. The tide was really really far out. And I was not even completely wet slightly more than waist deep. And essentially I walked straight into it. And they are incredibly powerful. It was like being hit by a freight train. It goes in. It got its teeth into me. And then I could not get out. She says the feeling of this was like the shark was trying to get inside her. It grabbed her on her right side a few inches above the hip. The shark as best as she could tell anyway was about five feet long. She was just over five feet tall. The best analogy I can think of is that it is like a dog. It got its teeth in. And then it is shaking. It is like using that. Oh it is shaking you like a dog shakes its head back and forth. But it is trying to shake me to get me under the water. And so I am trying to stand on my feet like really trying to stand on my feet. And I want whatever it is inside of me out. So I want to win. I want to stand up. Ultimately it dragged me under three times. The first two times I got back up. But the third time I started taking in a lot of water. So I thought I was going to drown. And when it started to drown me that is when I really hit it scratched it everything. It was just full-on-- your animal instincts come out. It is like hand-to-hand combat kind of. But whatever happened whatever I did gave it enough of a fright that it stopped trying to drown me and disengaged from my stomach. She hobbled towards shore sent her friend for help. A small chunk of skin was torn off. She had two big puncture wounds. Her swimsuit was half tattered. And I know I am losing blood. And I am worried that that is going to attract either that shark back or some other sharks. And then I get to a certain point where I am in quite shallow water. And I just cannot walk anymore. So I lie down. And it is shallow enough that I can lie down. And I can feel blood everywhere. And these fishermen come along. Are you all right? And I am patently not all right. But the other issue is that I am exposed like I am quite naked. And I am 13. So I am like oh I am fine. I am fine. And they are like hm you do not look fine. I am like I am OK. I am OK you carry on. Like well we would like to take you out of the water. I am like hm. And then at a certain point they just stop trying to negotiate and just pick me up. And I am dying of shame. I am just dying of shame. On the beach a small crowd starts to form. Of course to her horror. Her parents show up and drive her to the nearest town which she remembers as 30 minutes away. Though her mom remembers it as 15 to 20. It is such a tiny town in a remote part of New Zealand that there is no hospital there. It is Friday night. So they have to call the local doctor to come in to open up this little medical office. The doctor and my dad-- everyone's sort of quite jovial they are kind of relieved. And I remember them talking-- my dad and the doctor-- talking about the cricket. Did they not seem like they were in a big hurry? The way you describe it-- No. So I just remember him cleaning up the wound and immediately pulling all this skin I would lost together and then stitching that. He gave me a tetanus shot. He said to my parents I might act a little bit strange that night a little bit odd because I might be in shock. They should ignore me. I would be fine. Now these instructions from the doctor play a big part in what is about to follow. They have become part of family lore. So I just want to hold on this point for one more moment. The doctor said-- or anyway they remember him saying-- I cannot remember the exact words. But it was essentially she will be fine. You know she will be dramatic about this. Kids can get a little extreme about this stuff. But everything's OK. Ignore it. Then we leave. And we go back. So we are in a caravan camping. The caravan's like an RV? Yeah. Remember they are on vacation. It is her parents and her three siblings all younger. She is in pain. But the doctor said she would be in pain. And normally I have to sleep on a top bunk in an awning outside. But I was allowed to stay in the caravan that night. And it is kind of hard to describe how painful it was. But essentially very quickly I start vomiting up blood and stomach lining. Or I assume it is stomach lining. Like it is sort of a jelly-like substance. I do not know what it is at the time. And so I just go and get a plastic cup out of the cupboard and start to collect it. Because I did not want to get the caravan dirty. And in the midst of this everyone else goes to bed. And it just keeps getting worse and worse. It feels like I am on fire. Like every atom in my body is in an inferno. And so I go and tell my parents. I wake them up. And I say I am on fire. I am burning up. And they were-- go back to sleep. Come on you will be fine. This after all was what the doctor told them was going to happen. She would be uncomfortable that was normal nothing to worry about. This continues all night. She throws up blood into a cup feels feverish. What is actually happening everybody's going to learn later is that the shark has bitten through her bowel in several places. So the contents of her bowels are slowly leaking into her gut basically poisoning her. She is developing sepsis and peritonitis. She is bleeding internally. One side effect of all this is that her lungs start filling with liquids making it increasingly difficult for her to breathe. And at that point my mother-- this is during the night-- and I was saying I cannot breathe. I cannot breath. And she said mind over matter-- stop that hyperventilating. Which has become a family joke. Where now any time someone says I have got a cold we are like mind over matter-- stop that hyperventilating. And it gets a lot worse. I am incredibly weak. I cannot breathe. And then eventually I could just feel I was losing my ability to keep going. And again during the night I try again. And I wake them up. And I say I am dying. And again they are just like come on. For me I was like come on. I have made this pretty clear. I have done everything I can to communicate this to you. I love how this is like exactly what it is like to be 13 is that you have urgent things that you are telling people around you and adults just kind of shrug it off. But in this case it is completely real. And you need them to actually pay attention to this one. Right. And there is not an alternative. Like I live on or die based on convincing them. And it is not working. There is no plan B. There is no taking my dad's car keys and driving. I cannot drive. It is before I had a phone. I cannot ring anyone. Now I talked to her parents to answer the question that might be forming in your head right this second. They do not seem like terrible people or the worst parents I have ever met. They both understand how they screwed up that night. Her mom told me yes she knows this all looks very bad in retrospect. And they should have listened to their kid. Yes her dad said. She woke them up. She said she was dying. They did not do anything. It all looked very different later. In their defense they both pointed out that at the time the liquid that she was throwing up looked more brown to them than blood-red. They both assumed that it was Coca-Cola which she had been drinking. And not to excuse their actions but simply as context for the stop hyperventilating remark her mom pointed out that at that age her daughter did hyperventilate when she was nervous about all kinds of things like a music performance at school. When the sun came up the next morning their daughter was pale having a terrible time getting in enough air to breathe. And then her eyes rolled back in her head. Her mom saw the whites of her eyes. And she said she felt like she was falling through the surface of the Earth. She had somebody call the doctor's office. They were coming in. Her daughter picks up the story. The problem is my dad's taken the car to visit various fishermen with the scraps of my swimming suit. Because he is trying to find out what happened. Because it is still out there. Actually whether it was a shark or some other creature is still in some dispute. Her dad says that the town listed it officially as a stingray attack so it would not hurt tourism. A New Zealand shark expert told us that if it were not a shark it could either be a stingray or a fur seal. But it would be impossible to tell that without a photograph of the wound which we were unable to locate in time for our broadcast. Anyway back to our story. So he comes back. Then you get in the car? Get in the car back to the backseat. And that was a really long journey. A long journey because by this point there is so much fluid in her lungs that it is taking all of her concentration to keep enough air going in and out. It is exhausting. And I knew it was a long way away. And I knew-- at that point I started to doubt whether I would be able to keep doing what I would been doing for a long time. And so what do you remember of that trip? We are making reasonable progress. But at a certain point we hit a bridge. And there is a farmer moving his sheep across the bridge. So we are blocked. And I had not factored that into my-- this is how long I can keep myself going. And at that point I really felt I lost it. She started losing consciousness. But she describes it as lifting off in an airplane. It felt good. Though she fought it. Any time I felt myself losing consciousness I wanted to come back. I remember like willing myself. And that was tough. Because when you are drifting off into unconsciousness there is no pain. And I have been in pain for so long now in such extreme pain. So it each time took a lot of effort to be like actually I am coming back. Her mom was in the back seat with her. And her mom told me that when they stopped on the bridge there was a noticeable change. Her daughter's body seemed to get very light. She told her husband to hurry. Finally they arrived at the medical office. She cannot speak cannot move. But she is still conscious. There are now either three or four doctors depending on whose memory you rely on. She is put on a table. And she hears the doctor say something to her parents that she cannot quite make out but that seems to be either she is dying or possibly she is dead. I remember them reacting very badly. So I remember my dad saying she was my favorite daughter. And at the time I was like yes. Because I have two sisters.  And at the other end of the scale I remember my mom saying just like the cat. Because our cat Winkles had recently made an untimely end. And so that was a bad situation.  Just like the cat? It is brutal. The parents do confirm these quotes. Her dad remembers saying that was my favorite daughter. He said it was obvious that she might die. He was haranguing the doctor to do something now. Her mom does not remember but says that it is very possible she declared just like the cat. Because Winkles had died of internal injuries after its stomach was perforated very similar to their daughter. And I do remember my dad getting angry. And then there is an exchange between him and the doctor. And then the next thing I know is the doctor comes back gets out a blade. I did not see it. I felt it. And just slices into my arm. It was not like they gave me anesthetic. They just took out a blade and hacked into my arm. And what do you think happened? I do not know. I think they are performing an autopsy on me. Because no one's talking to me. I am so irrelevant in this whole situation because I cannot communicate. And they are in the middle of an autopsy. And I cannot say anything to anyone. Oh my God. And I cannot communicate. I do not have control over my body. Doctors slice into her arms and ankles. She still had inch-long scars that she showed me. She says it is hard to believe that when they sliced into your ankles with no anesthesia it hurt worse than being attacked in the water. I am worried that the next thing he is going to do is cut my throat. Because I do not understand. I do not understand why they are cutting my ankles. There was no shark attack on my ankles. My feet are fine. The way she remembers it when they cut into her ankles she jolted. And they realized at that point that she was alive. And they called the helicopter to fly her to a proper hospital. At least that is how she saw it at the time. The reality was different. I reached one of the doctors who worked on her that day Dr. Vic Eastman. He was trained in emergency room medicine. And he says that they definitely were not performing an autopsy. He said that she was in such a state of shock she lost so much blood. They believed that if they did not get IVs into her immediately she would die. Cutting into the arms and ankles is what doctors do to find a vein in that situation when there is so little blood pressure. This is a standard ER procedure. And they did not feel like they had the time to stop and anesthetized her. They did call in helicopters. She was flown to a hospital in the city of Nelson where she was operated on. For a while it did not seem like she was going to survive. She went into a coma and woke up days later. And I was in an intensive care unit. And the male nurse was saying Mom get in her eye sight. He is coming around. She is coming around. And my mom looked over and she said are not you lucky the doctors saved you? And I could not talk because I was on life support ventilator for my lungs so that I could breathe. And I indicated for paper and pencil. And I wrote I saved myself. Underline underline underline. When somebody asks her to tell this story what happened the day after she was bit by the shark-- or whatever it was-- it is possible for her to get mad all over again. But it usually does not come up. She does not think about it. And she is fine with her parents. Her relationship with them is pretty much like anybody's. And she understands their actions that day. Everybody moved on. I mean they subsequently bought a house just along from where the whole thing happened. And I was very anti that plan. Wait they bought a house right near where it happened? Right. Like a vacation house? Yeah in this very remote community. And I was like I am going to boycott that. But you cannot. We went back the next year to the same camping spot. It was a family with four kids. Nobody was inclined to dwell on the past including her. Within a year her dad had started buying joke presents about it-- a necklace with a shark and a swimmer coming out of its mouth. Or a t-shirt with a cartoon shark bite fake blood splatters and a hole-- a real hole in the shirt-- coincidentally right where her actual bite was. The fact that she nearly died that was the past. She wore the shirt and the necklace. And then quietly after a while she had enough of it. Coming up when you are little you learn that you are supposed to be careful with sharp dangerous objects. You learn that you are not supposed to put dangerous things into your mouth. In a minute somebody who ignores both those rules-- really really ignores them. From Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program What Does not Kill You. We have stories of people surviving all kinds of things and where they end up on the other side of that. We have arrived at Act Three of our show. Act Three A Real Nail Biter. This story is amazing. Because the woman that it is about I think more than anybody else on today's show probably should not be around to tell the story. Reporter Jessica Benko tells what happened. The woman's name is Cathy. And the thing that almost killed her over and over was a thought. It first appeared one day when she was 12 or 13 years old. She was in a psychiatric institution at the time. Cathy asked that I not use her full name on the radio. And she did not want to discuss certain events of her childhood. She hopes it is enough to describe it as troubled. But she threw violent tantrums as a kid assaulted her teachers and even began cutting herself. So Cathy's doctors had convinced her parents an institution might help her. But it was there that the thought first came to her. I was in the quiet room. Quiet rooms are a room that is smaller than the size of a bathroom-- a good-sized bathroom. And it is all concrete. And they have this mattress on the floor that has no springs in it. It is a safety mattress. And I found a nail. At first I wanted to use it on my arm to cut myself. So I hid it because I knew if I got caught with it they would take it. And then I got the thought to swallow it. I wanted to feel it go down my throat and go into my stomach. Out of anger and frustration or something else? Nope. Curiosity? Out of a compulsion like the thought. The thought would not leave me alone. And I just did it. Cathy says it felt good to swallow the nail. And once it was in her stomach she felt intense relief. The thought was no longer nagging her. Doctors put her in the hospital and waited for the nail to pass. But once it was gone the thought returned with increasing frequency again and again. It was horrible. I was tortured. I literally was tortured in my mind. I have swallowed pencils hundreds of pencils multiple toothbrushes nails a plastic fork knives two antennas-- radio antennas. I swallowed a chess piece a book bracket. I do not know what it is called the thing that goes on a shelf it holds the shelf. Oh yeah battery and glass. All of this sounds intolerably painful. But for Cathy it was even more agonizing when she was not able to swallow something when she was not able to appease the thought. Cathy told my producer Brian Reed and me about one day when she snatched a straw from the common area of the psych ward. She hid it in her bra hoping to swallow it the next chance she got. But the staff strip-searched her before she could do it. And they found it on me. And I flipped. I just lost control. I started banging my head on the mirror in the bathroom where they strip-searched me saying please do not take it. You are going to kill me. You do not understand how much this-- I got to have it. And they ended up restraining me and putting me in restraints and giving me injections until I fell asleep. Why were you so upset? Because I thought I was going to die. I thought my mother was going to die. Cathy is not using metaphor here. She genuinely believed this irrational thought that if she did not swallow the object she had fixated on she or her mother would die. She says having the object inside her felt like a protection. Cathy was given a lot of diagnoses over the years. But doctors believe her swallowing was a symptom of obsessive-compulsive disorder. This is the same disorder that causes people who are afraid of germs to wash their hands incessantly or others who are worried about a fire to check the stove dozens of times before they can leave the house. Cathy's fear about her or her mother's safety was a more extreme and illogical version of this. Doctors did not have a good cure. No matter what they tried-- therapy drugs repeated electroshock treatments-- they could not stop the thought from torturing Cathy. All they could do was try to stop Cathy from hurting herself. She could not be trusted on her own so she was permanently institutionalized and put in four-point restraints. Four-point restraints is when they tie leather down to the bed and they have handcuffs on the feet and on the legs on the arms. On top of this Cathy was constantly supervised by one and sometimes even two staff members. But that did not stop her from swallowing things. By law every eight hours staff had to let her walk around for 15 minutes. Those 15 minutes were Cathy's chance to act. And this is where I would scout things. So I would see what I wanted. And then I would not sleep that night. I would plan it to a T. It is like playing Stratego but playing for like 24 hours without winning or without losing but in the end knowing you are going to win. She had to win. Because every time she focused in on a new object the fear that something horrible might happen was reignited. Can you tell us about the time you swallowed a knife? Which one? Uh I do not know. Just pick one? How many times have you swallowed knives? Four. Cathy never got her hands on a real metal knife just the plastic ones they used in the hospital. But the results were not so different. A quick warning what Cathy describes in the next minute or so is graphic. You might want to turn down the volume if you are sensitive. I took a knife out of the kitchen. And I put it in my bra. And I asked if I could go to the bathroom. They let me go to the bathroom by myself. I went in and I went to the bathroom. I swallowed the knife. I started bleeding out of my mouth. Well my throat was bleeding. And I could not breathe right. I was going . I could not get a deep breath in. Did it hurt right away when it was cutting your esophagus? Yeah. I had a hard time getting it down because it was cutting me as I was putting it down. And you did not think oh my gosh I might die? No it is not my thought at all. I kept thinking I had to get it down. And you did not think OK I just cannot? I need to pull it out. No. I never thought that. Nope. I got a fever of 106. And they saw the hole in my throat. And then they immediately did surgery. And I was in ICU for three weeks. And I could not eat because the hole was in my-- it needed repair. And I almost died then. This was not even the closest Cathy came to dying. Once-- I am sorry this is a little graphic-- she sneezed while swallowing a radio antenna. And it became lodged dangerously close to her brain stem. Doctors had to put her in a medically induced coma while they figured out how to extract it. Over the years Cathy had more than 500 endoscopies where surgeons inserted a tube down her throat and pulled the item out through it. She had more than a dozen invasive surgeries to remove objects and repair tears and holes in her stomach intestines and esophagus. One of Cathy's doctors told us she almost single-handedly trained an entire generation of surgical residents at his hospital's ER. Things got so bad that after Cathy turned 18 hospital staff went in front of a judge to get permission to put her in a straitjacket. No hospital wanted to keep me longer than they had to. So they shipped me around every six months because I was a liability. Did you have any thoughts at that time about what your future was looking like? I did not have a future. I did not see a future. I wanted to die. I did not h