Kiana Jackson is a kid who frequently scans the room for a more exciting option than what is right in front of her. So of course she was the first to notice a regular day freshman year high school when something exciting did happen. KIANA JACKSON I remember I was sitting in lunchroom and I saw a bunch of kids that I knew for sure they did not go to our school because they were white kids and there is no white kids in our school. And then I am a really social person so I see these kids. I was like OK they do not go here. What are they doing here? I want to find out. The kids were visiting from private school just up the road part of an exchange program between the two schools that one of our producers Chana Joffe-Walt did some reporting on that ran here on our program a few months ago. When we started putting together this week's radio show Chana thought Kiana had to be on it. Hey there Chana. Hello. So why did you want her for this show? I mean partly I wanted her for this show because of this moment right here and how Kiana handled it. Kiana is super charming. She is just sheer enthusiasm. She is a Latina kid in school and she sees a bunch of kids who do not look like anyone else in the cafeteria and she is not suspicious or shy or mean. She is just excited. She runs toward their table. KIANA JACKSON So I was just like Oh my gosh. So I went over and I was like I am going to talk to them and eat lunch with them. So I just sat there and starting to talking to them. Like Yeah this is our school. It was so exciting. And then the thing that Kiana said to me was actually something she said way later at her graduation at her high school graduation. I asked if she kept in touch with any of the kids she met in this program. Are you still in touch with anybody? KIANA JACKSON I have a lot of them on Instagram and Facebook so we are constantly commenting on pictures. Oh my god your prom was so nice. Your prom was so nice too. And we told them Oh whenever you guys have one of your fests let us know. And they were like Yeah you guys will come to our fests for sure. Fests? Yeah the fests are apparently these parties that the private school kids have and Kiana told me they will rent out a private club in Manhattan and-- KIANA JACKSON This insane party and they are like white kid wasted. So we just want to see how it is. Yeah.  What is white kid wasted mean? I do not know. KIANA JACKSON It is parties that we have not experienced. Kiana paused after this thought about it more and finally said I do not know. I do not know what white wasted is. That is why I want to go. I want to see what that looks like. So I have thought about this moment many times since then because it is weird right? Kiana is a New Yorker. She grew up in New York City where there are something like four million white people and she had never had one as a friend and she was so curious about white kids. And she told me at graduation that she decided to go to college upstate to a school that would have mostly white students. And a big part of that was just because she wanted something different. She still had this curiosity and she was basically going on this one woman integration program. Which brings us to today's program. Last week we did a program about people resisting integration at every turn. This week we have a show of people who are running towards it people like Kiana. And when that process goes well the inevitable next step in an integration program even if it is a program with just one person in it is that people meet each other they go through the basic Who are you? What are you about? And so Chana how is it going? How is her voluntary school desegregation plan that she invented for herself going? Mostly great. She is a year in. She just finished her freshman year but it is been an adjustment. I mean everything is different. KIANA JACKSON Everybody is really friendly and I did not expect that as much just coming from going to school in the South Bronx and just commuting all the time everybody is not so friendly. And here everybody will stand there for a whole minute holding the door for you until you get there. Just friendly all the time and sometimes you do not know if it is genuine because you are not used to it. Wait so you find yourself questioning if they do really want to hold the door for you? KIANA JACKSON I know that they do but it is weird. This is probably a difference of moving from New York City to a small town but to Kiana she wonders Maybe they do that because they are white. Kiana went from a high school that is 1 white to a college that is 75 white so this is a thing that happens with segregation. Once you get around people who you have not been around before you become just super aware of their race and your race and is that thing happening right now because of race or is that because you are white? Is that because you are from a different part of the country or a small town? Are you just weird? Kiana told me she has two white roommates and one of her roommates always asks her is it OK if I sleep over at my boyfriend's place tonight? Which who knows why she does that? Maybe she just thinks somebody should know where I am sleeping. But to Kiana it seems strange and the first thing she goes to is Oh that must be a white thing. And has she seen white wasted? Did she get her wish? She did. It took a little while but she did. There was this big football game that she told me about in great detail between her school SUNY Cortland and their arch rival Ithaca College. And it was her first football game. Very exciting. And after the game kids from both schools left the stadium flooded the streets. KIANA JACKSON Thousands of kids. Walking through the crowd you could smell the liquor or the beer. You could smell it. That is how bad it was. There were so many people that everybody was just walking in the streets. And the Ithaca cars-- this was crazy. So Ithaca cars driving through our turf basically. And this one kid pulled down his pants and put his ass cheeks all over the girls' car. Was the girl from Ithaca? KIANA JACKSON Yeah she was an Ithaca girl. All the girls in the car were from Ithaca and that is why they did that. Oh OK. KIANA JACKSON And the girls pissed off. And they were arguing and arguing. She spit at him. And they were like Oh we do not care. Blah-blah-blah. Then she says everybody started pulling down their pants and putting their butts on the car. KIANA JACKSON Yeah to back him up like We do not care. Cortland. It was funny. Was that what you imagined? KIANA JACKSON Definitely just insane definitely what I pictured. It lived up to the expectations. No boundaries at all just like epic. They just act like next level crazy like in a big mob just do what you want. And Ithaca they had this slogan Portland girls poop. And it was like-- Wait Portland girls poop? KIANA JACKSON Yeah that is what they-- that was their comeback-- Like P-O-O-P? KIANA JACKSON Yeah it was really bad. We were just like OK I guess. Kiana wanted to be around white kids just because it seemed fun and interesting and I think she would get to test out some theories about how crazy white kids are how much freedom they get to be crazy. But also this gets her something something Kiana thinks it is worth going out of her way for. KIANA JACKSON Some of the kids from my high school who are seniors now they will talk to us and be like Oh what school should I go to? How do you like your school? The advice I give to seniors is OK everybody's going to want to be around their same kind of people but if you are always in the same environment always doing the same things with the same people you become naive or you do not really know about the world. It is better if you experience something different because you get a view of other people. If you end up changing if you end up becoming a different person a lot of it is based on the community you are surrounded by and that is reality. Your environment really makes you. Last week on our program we did the first of two episodes on school desegregation and we heard about a place that integrated schools by accident really by accident. And the white schools in that story they did not want integration. The governor and state legislator are actually right now trying to undo it-- this is in Missouri-- even though as we said last week integrating public schools has proven to be this incredibly effective way to improve education to close the achievement gap between minority students and white students. And today we wanted to see what happens when integration is a plan that everybody is embracing when people do not run away or move or resist when they do what Kiana did and they seek it out thinking that it will give them something valuable. We have the story today of an entire city trying I mean actively trying to integrate the schools. And we got the White House on line 1. I do not even know what that means but it just seems like something you say. Stay with us. Act 1 my secret public plan. I want to read to you a report from the state commissioner of education from the state of Connecticut written in 1987. This is the kind of routine annual report sort of thing they put out but the commissioner must have woken up feeling bold and literary the morning that he wrote this particular one because he spoke of the tale of two Connecticuts one wealthier majority white Connecticut with great schools another poor majority black and Latino Connecticut with awful schools. And then the commissioner said that the state in the overwhelmingly white suburbs should promote collective responsibility for integrating the public schools. He is writing this in 1987. This is the same year the same exact year that Boston began to walk away from busing after a decade of riots and basically civil war there over school integration. Around the country cities were giving up on integration. There was massive white flight. This is not a time of collective responsibility. And then even more remarkable in at least one city in Connecticut it happened. In Hartford they went from 11 of their students in integrated schools to nearly half. Chana has the story of how that happened and what this rare rare thing looks like today. When that report came out it was a political scandal. It was on the front page of the newspaper just before Christmas. A state senator called for the commissioner's resignation for writing the report. The person who got Hartford to go from screaming over that report to actually doing what it called for was a man named John Brittain. John Brittain is a civil rights lawyer. He brings the decorum of a courtroom to all matters. John Brittain says excuse my street language to proceed an entirely dignified statement. He can elevate simple things like phone tag. Hello Chana. This is John Brittain calling you back as you requested. I will try you later on today. I believe you can hear his bowtie through the voicemail. It is Tuesday the 14th of July. Bye-bye. Soon after the report came out John Brittain with other lawyers and 17 plaintiffs sued the state. Connecticut was a good candidate for this kind of case because of its constitution and legal precedent there. But John Brittain believed even if he won in court they still might not actually get desegregation. He would studied countless examples of legal victories that led to busing which led to riots and white flight. And he knew how easily people could call the whole thing a disaster and walk away. He needed to innovate. Desegregation would only stick if people chose it. He would get the courts on his side but he needed the public even more. By the time he won if he won John Brittain needed the public to want to integrate. He needed to create what the report called for-- a sense of collective responsibility. So in addition to battling in the courts he was preparing a second front a battle that would happen for the newspapers and TV. The people he would be bringing into court would have to do double duty. They would have to give legal testimony and also talk to the people of Connecticut. Of course those who could testify most credibly about the conditions in the schools were employed by the schools. And we had to ask the superintendent if he would mind using his employees to be plaintiffs in the case and he consented. Happily? Yes right. What superintendent do you know would let his employees be a plaintiff in a suit that is going to-- excuse my street language-- bad mouth the district in terms of its disadvantages in open court? Hartford teachers did badmouth the district. They described what it was like to teach a classroom of kids who came to school without coats in the winter. They complained about instructional time lost because nearly every child in the class suffered severe emotional issues or dental issues or had not eaten. They said their classrooms were overwhelmed by poverty. One principal described how when it rained his cafeteria would flood. A classroom ceiling had collapsed a few minutes before kids came to class. And he described how another time the roof came down pigeon carcasses came tumbling into the building. Pigeon carcasses. The lawyers made sure to dwell on that one. The dead pigeons made the front page of the newspaper. Readers were horrified. And the people inside the schools who already knew about this were excited. Someone was finally talking about it. They were calling John Brittain and asking to testify. It became a bandwagon. Everyone got on. We had the city government the teachers the parents the religious community everybody connected the business community the city council begged to be a plaintiff in this suit. The Board of Education begged to be a plaintiff in the suit. Wait the Board of Education begged to be a plaintiff? Yes they were totally on our side. They turned over all the records all the information all their data. So you are suing the state-- Yes. And the Board of Education is asking to be on your side and not only to be on your side but to testify. Correct. There are only a few places in the country that have seriously committed to school integration over a long period of time. Louisville Kentucky is one. Wake County in North Carolina. Those are the biggest. And in each case something like this right here has occurred. A public reckoning seems to be a required step some sort of long process by which the gap between two unequal systems is made very clear to the people who are not paying attention. The people John Brittain chose to testify did not just talk about the bleak education Hartford students were getting. They talked about what they were not getting what it meant for their students to go to school so close to kids who had great teachers beautiful classrooms with solid ceilings kids whose parents had cars and college degrees and ran insurance companies in town. One teacher testified I think that children can overcome the stigma of poverty. I think children can overcome the stigma of their ethnicity. But what they cannot overcome is the stigma of separation. That is like a damned spot in their being and their self-image. And that is what segregation does to children. They see themselves as apart and separate because of the language they speak because of the color of their skin the origin of their parents. John Brittain and his team won on an appeal to the state Supreme Court in 1996. It took another seven years until 2003 for the state to settle with the plaintiffs 14 years after he first filed the suit. When they did settle the plan they came up with is a system where every family can choose integrated schools. But they do not have to. No parent would be required to send their kid across town. No forced busing as it was called. If desegregation was going to work it would be completely voluntary. Parents would opt in. And not just the parents who read headlines during the decade long trial but parents a whole generation later now parents who were kids themselves when the dead pigeons were in the newspaper. John Brittain's theory that with the help of the courts it was possible to design an integrated school system where parents continue to opt into integration over and over again that is what is being tested right now in Hartford. Everyday day at school I get to do what I love best with friends from all over Greater Hartford. From broad lofty vision to sales just as John Brittain did for over a decade in court Hartford is still every moment of every day waging an aggressive hearts and minds campaign. Only now they are not selling a vision. They are selling actual schools great new schools magnet schools that each have some special focus like performing arts or environmental sciences. And they are selling these schools specifically to white suburban families. In large part Hartford's integration plan hinges on getting white kids to come and integrate Hartford schools white kids like this cheerful girl in the promotional video who has friends from all over Greater Hartford. She goes to a Hartford magnet school. Which one you ask? I chose Classical Magnet where I get to learn Latin the liberal arts and get ready for a top college. And there are other schools for working with computers and technology performing plays dance and music engineering running your own business sports and medical sciences and a lot more. I chose to go to a Harvard host magnet school and so can you. She chose this. That is on purpose. This is not forced anything. It is a multimedia blitz. There are videos and T-shirts and USB sticks and bracelets and iPhone covers. There are radio spots with HOT-937. Songs on Hot 937 hot937.com. And there is a chief marketer. The woman behind the Hartford sales assault is named Enid Rey. Enid Rey considers any time of the year a good time to be selling Hartford magnet schools even Christmas. I am Enid Ray. How are you? I am doing really well. That time of year again? Yes it is that time of year. With holiday cheer comes the best gift you can give your child-- quality educational experience. Education. That is right. That is the name of the game. Enid Rey is a powerhouse. She is a lawyer by training and when she was in law school she studied law from one incredibly inspiring teacher named John Brittain. Enid Rey was John Brittain's student in the early '90s and now it is on her to keep John Brittain's plan moving forward. We are always recruiting. We are always trying to get the message out about our Hartforod schools. Outside Enid's office there is a cartoony picture of a school bus filled with multicultural kids. But I would not have been surprised to see a sign with the words Always be closing in that spot. Enid throws around marketing phrases like value proposition. She is learned how to transform any question into an answer that begins with I think what is great is. And she is so quick. She will note Did you say your kid was into art? Have you heard of the Hartford Academy of the Arts? Here's a brochure and a video. I noticed you have a younger son over there. Did I mention the magnet schools provide free pre-K? Our Montessori program is very popular. Oh and the environmental sciences school-- Has a wonderful community room outdoor gardens a butterfly vivarium. Also do you work in the city? What a gift it is to be able to drive in with your child every day. And so one of our recruitment billboards said Both you and your child should be working here in Hartford. That was a hook. Enid Rey begins many days by staring at a map. Hartford students are 80 black and Hispanic. 10 miles outside the city are suburbs like Glastonbury and Avon that are 90 white. They can bus Hartford kids out of the city and they do but they also have to get white kids in. So a lot of mornings Enid zeroes in on all the suburbs. Who are they reaching? Where should her recruiter go that day? So Bloomfield has a 28 participation rate versus Simsbury which has a 3.3 participation rate. That is where she is going. Enid and her staff show up at baseball games in the suburbs talk to parents about Hartford magnet schools they leave brochures in suburban libraries they shop at Girl Scout troop meetings Mommy and Me groups the YMCA. They study this market meticulously. And they consult professional marketing firms not your little mom and pop places either Enid tells me proudly but people who advise companies like Apple. Folks who have the technology and expertise to try to help us segment the population and hit the target just like Pepsi Coca-Cola and Apple. And just like they do in the marketing departments of large corporations Hartford invented a scientific sounding term for the target population. They call them reduced isolation students. That means white kids. And more recently they included Asian kids in this mix too. They need 25. A school that is 25 reduced isolation kids officially counts as an integrated school. That is the target of all of this effort all the maps the marketing firms the promotional videos all sales directed at one precise target. What is that? Let me put out some food for you.  I talked to lots of white suburban families around Hartford to find out what it is like to be on the receiving end of Enid's marketing blitz. Sarah and Ryan Welcome got my call invited me over to their home prepared a spread of food for me including olives with toothpicks that their nine-year-old delivered to my hand because that is just how they do. Man! Get comfortable. Do not worry. You are going to get pampered here OK? That is amazing. The Welcomes live in a suburb across the river from Hartford-- three kids dogs reptiles lots of snacks. They grew up going to their neighborhood school and figured their kids would do the same. When their oldest was about to turn five Sarah Welcome went to an open house at the school down the road. And I left feeling a little-- I was not really impressed with it. The teachers I thought were fine. The school seemed OK. I guess it was the parents. It was the parents. They all seemed hostile. Like What was the school going to do for my kid sort of attitude. It made me cringe. I just remember the general feeling of being underwhelmed you know? This is Ryan Sarah's husband. Just to pause right here for a second to say this is a moment Enid is obsessed with. There is always a short window where a family's thinking about school and open to new ideas. Enid studies this moment tries to prepare the ground and then all she can do is hope that please please please one of her videos or flyers will make it to the target. Sarah just at that moment had gone back to college Trinity College when her son was about to start kindergarten. And very soon after the open house she ran into a fellow mom Audrey at Trinity. I think I was working in the computer lab writing a paper. And she had a flyer and I remember this a little bit more vividly. She said You should apply to this magnet school. There is a new magnet school in Hartford that is taking suburban kids from all over. It sounds like a really great program. It is full day. It is free. And I had never heard of a magnet school before. Ryan and I did not grow up with magnet schools. So this was a whole new concept. And just like that Sarah migrated from one dataset in Enid's office to another-- parents who do not know about magnet schools to parents who do. Enid knows the next step for this group. The Welcomes were curious about this magnet thing. They read about one online but then they looked up the address. I mean it was in the north end of Hartford. And the north end of Hartford is not well known for amazing schools around here or anything like that. It is the scary part of Hartford. We knew the school had to wow us because it is in the frickin' north end Hartford. You know what I mean? Ryan is absolutely right. It is not necessarily the place where two young parents who grew up in Ellington would find themselves going. I never went to the north end of Hartford. I had absolutely no reason to go there. Enid knows she has to get parents to go there because her target families know places like Hartford are not white but that is often all they know. They have never searched for housing there. They do not shop there. They do not go to church there. What they know is people like them used to live there and then they left. So the last step to get to closing Enid has to physically get them into the neighborhoods where the schools are so they can see. The residential neighborhoods they look like neighborhoods in Anytown USA suburbia. They just happen to be in the urban core and there happened to be a lot more black and brown people around. And some parents they will say Are they going to be the only white kid in the class? This question is the most common one Enid gets and the most difficult. White people do not have a lot of practice being the only one. The black family moves into the white neighborhood. The black kids much more often are bussed into the white school. Enid Ray is trying to flip a long American tradition of one way integration. The Welcome family made it to the magnet school in the scary part of Hartford which did not seem so scary to them. They visited Breakthrough Magnet and loved it. They ended up sending all three of their children there. They were not looking for integration but they were happy to find it. I thought that was kind of great. It is just not how I grew up. Honestly there were maybe what? Two black kids in a high school? Yeah I would say. This is how integration works in Hartford. Sometimes white families are happy to see it but it is not usually why they show up. Their neighborhood school is often pretty good but they were looking because their kid was bullied or there was too much standardized testing or the other parents seemed annoying. Enid who is selling them on magnet schools which exist to promote integration also does not mention integration. The long history of segregated schooling does not come up. The current reality of segregated housing is irrelevant . No one here is being moved by a sense of collective responsibility. It is as if John Brittain never happened. Instead the experience Enid is curating is for comfort. All the detail she considers like making sure there are white kids in the brochures or if parents do tour a school Enid does her best to have their child shadow a white student. That way they can see they will not be the only one. If it was just we are marketing and all there are are black and brown families that person's not going to see themselves reflected. But that is so ironic that you are marketing a desegregation program by showing people of the same race that other people of the same race will be there too. Right because they need to know that it is about all of us. So we encourage families to come and visit us and be surprised. This is our vivarium where we grow plants and stuff. The butterfly vivarium is in the Environmental Sciences Magnet School at Mary Hooker. Keegan Miller's a sixth grader there a white suburban kid with a demanding hairdo. Keegan was supposed to show an interested suburban student around his school but first I got a personal tour. So this is the aquatics lab. Wow. Currently the sixth grade is raising baby trout. And that LEGO item right there I built that. It is an automatic feeder. It feeds the trout? Yes every five hours. Keegan tells me he built the feeder in the LEGO lab upstairs. That is Keegan's favorite class LEGO lab. He also made a 3D insect viewer but that is in the greenhouse. Along our tour happy looking kid see me with my microphone and stop me to tell me that it is true. They are happy. I am Vaishu. And I have been in this school for five years. I love it. I really really like this school. ALLIE I am Allie and I really really like this school because-- The hundreds of millions of dollars it took to transform this school and other magnet schools in Hartford came from John Brittain's lawsuit. . That money built the atrium with the pond in the middle of it the angled glass that is all over the place the aquatics lab. I think there is a class in the planetarium. I think they may be watching. Where is the planetarium? This is the planetarium. Oh there is nobody in there. This is a planetarium? Yeah the lights do not want to work with me. Oh my god. He turns on the stars. You could look at space from here. It is really cool. All the stars. It is like a 360 view. Whoa and you can just come and look at what space looks like any time you want? Not anytime you want. Because that would be ridiculous. When you drive around suburban Hartford now occasionally you will see a sign on someone's lawn that says I heart magnets. Neighbors will ask Hey where does your kid go on the bus every morning? The few-minute conversation that follows is the most powerful marketing tool available. It is what Enid or any marketer dreams of-- a conversation where one parent goes to another Oh I think I have heard of that place. Does she like it? Is it safe? Neighbor to neighbor white person to white person. It is the same potent tool that three decades ago helped create segregated neighborhoods repurposed to do the exact opposite. Of lot of the parents I talked to did not know about the lawsuit or even that they were part of an integration plan. But they were like Ryan and Sarah Welcome. They considered the fact that their kid was in a diverse school a bonus. It was not on the top of the list but it was something they liked. Well-rounded was a phrase I heard a lot. One dad told me You will not believe how often my kid comes home and looks something up he heard from a friend. He is so excited by how different everyone is. And another mom told me I think it just gives them a deeper understanding of the world around them which is what you hope happens in school. Often in these conversations parents also mentioned like Sarah did how different this was from their own experience in school as kids. Sarah and Ryan grew up in a small white farming community in Connecticut not far from Hartford. She says when she was a teenager her high school visited a school near the city for a day and she remembers it seemed like another world. To us it felt like a massive huge high school with lots of black kids and possibly Puerto Rican kids. I remember it being scary. I remember some of us feeling scared. And that is weird. And now that I think about it that sounds so stupid-- you know-- and racist and awful and embarrassing. I feel ashamed that I ever felt that way. But she says her kids probably will not share her ignorance. They have black friends and Puerto Rican friends and Hindu friends. They are learning how to interact and play and fight and resolve fights with lots of different kinds of people. Again bonus. It came to me in a very happenstance way. If I had never gone to Trinity College and did not meet Audrey it may have never happened. The list of things that went into Sarah arriving at that moment with Audrey is so much longer than she knows which is part of the plan. Sarah is not supposed to be able to see the enormous machinery working to make that moment possible the years of planning of litigation the bussing contracts and inter-district agreements and the maps on Enid's wall all that is kept backstage so that what is onstage looks easy so that Sarah can experience that exact feeling of happening into a cool thing. This strategy is working. This is how Hartford went from having 11 of Hartford kids in integrated schools in 2007 to almost half now. Unlike Baltimore Chicago Detroit Philadelphia Los Angeles Hartford has given white families a way to choose integration. And many of them are choosing it. And those families those are the people Enid needs. Right people who we need. And we desperately need some of those families. Hartford desperately needs those families because despite all the success the city has had they are facing a potential crisis. The last couple years Hartford has barely been making its quota of reduced isolation students for its magnet schools the required number of white kids and now also Asian kids to call a school integrated. And if they stop meeting the quota they do not get money. If they do not get money they cannot create new schools to reach more kids. In fact the magnet schools that already exist will lose the money that makes them such great schools. The stars will stop shining in the planetarium. Enid and her team have theories about why they have stalled including one theory Enid does not like to think about and that is that they have maxed out. They may have already reached all the white families who were dissatisfied with their neighborhood scho