Someone who works with our radio show Bianca Giaever went to this presentation at Columbia University a while back where two people onstage puzzled over this thing they had found online called Wake Up Now. And I say thing they found online because the whole point of their presentation was it was hard to tell exactly what it was. Why do some people live their lives in black and white while others seem to live in vibrant color? Well part of it is knowing a secret a secret that changes how people see the world. This video is your invitation to WakeUpNow. This is a video that was on WakeUpNow's website which just looked like a kind of generic corporate-y website. And WakeUpNow seemed to be a company. But it was hard to tell exactly what the company did. This site talked about joining about becoming a member about living a better life. So was it a club? Was it an organization? And then when you googled WakeUpNow there were tons of videos. Bianca saw some at the presentation at Columbia. And then after the presentation she started Googling on her own. And then she sucked one of our producers Brian Reed into the vortex with her. Here is one of the videos they found. Hey we are here in Cancun with the greatest team in the world WakeUpNow. You should have been here. All the leaders are here. We are having fun. Beautiful island. This is a video of a bunch of young people hanging out on the beach. You can see jet skis and the ocean. In the video they refer to this as a leadership summit. And there was a whole genre of videos just like this people in exotic locations riding around in nice looking cars or in this one spelunking in a cave in Mexico chanting.   That is of course WakeUpNow with La Bamba. And then there were a lot of videos with the word scam in the title like WakeUpNow is a scam for real exposed truth. And so these two producers on our staff were like oh so this is some kind of internet scam. But then when they watched the videos it seemed very different. Like take this one for example titled WakeUpNow Warning Do not Join Until You See This. WakeUpNow is one of the most legitimate companies out there. The reason why is because-- So WakeUpNow Warning Do not Join Till You See This is actually not a warning at all but entirely about how great WakeUpNow is. And in fact there were so many videos like this a video called Five Reasons Not to Join WakeUpNow offered not a single reason why not to join WakeUpNow but instead went on to describe what a super awesome company it is. So I am joined in the studio right now by the two producers who were watching all these videos Brian and Bianca. Hi guys. Hi. Hey. So at that point as best as you could tell what was WakeUpNow? We honestly did not know. Like we could not figure it out. We eventually put some research in. We learned that later this move the scam thing-- You mean labeling videos Such and Such is a Scam? Yeah exactly that. And then having it not actually talk about it being a scam. So that is a move I guess that some people who are involved with certain companies or selling certain products will do. Like that is a thing I guess. But I would never seen a video like that before. And it was really confusing. I mean in so many of these WakeUpNow videos we could tell people we are pitching something. But as far as we could tell it was not a product. SINGING Build a bank ah! I say I say I say you need to build a bank ah! So what is this? This is a video of a guy who calls himself Panama. And it is titled WakeUpNow Scam Lend a Hand Build a Man Woman. What are you doing? Eating carrots? Tomatoes?  So yeah it was not really clear what WakeUpNow was. But still there were hundreds of these videos. It was like this whole subculture with all these people about thousands of people. OK so then I know what happened next is that you found out that WakeUpNow had a conference coming up right? Yeah and we went to try and figure out what this was. Yeah and what we eventually found out is that it is something called network marketing. It is a network marketing company. But also what we found out is that that is a very bland term for something completely mind-blowing way beyond anything we could have imagined. So today on our radio program Wake Up Now. If nothing else I have to say that is a completely genius name for a company. It promises so much so efficiently. That you will open your eyes. You are life will be totally different totally better. And so today as New Year's approaches as lots of people take stock of who they have been and make resolutions about who they want to be we have stories of people in very different contexts who try to wake up and wake up others. Stay with us. Act 1 Something's Happening Here and You Do not Know What It Is. So Brian and Bianca headed to WakeUpNow's conference in New York City at a hotel in Times Square to try to figure out what this was. Here they are Brian and Bianca. I am a little embarrassed to admit this. But even after being at this conference for several hours if you put a gun to my head and asked me what WakeUpNow is what it does I still do not think I could have told you. We talked to dozens of participants. And what we learned is that people were incredibly excited about something they were not terribly good at explaining. Why do WakeUpNow? This is a new beginning for the new generation. What is it? I do not even know what it is. Oh it is a software company. It is a software company you said? I think. People had come from all over East Coast Minnesota California. They are mostly young and mostly people of color. They called WakeUpNow a lifestyle. They talked about WUN life W-U-N for WakeUpNow. For the longest time I could not even figure out what to call the hundreds of people at this conference. Were they customers of WakeUpNow? Employees? Card-carrying members? Whatever they were some of them could list specific WakeUpNow products. And the product is? Awaken Thunder. What is Wake and Thunder? Awaken Thunder. It is-- What is that? --an energy drink. An energy drink. Oh so you are selling an energy drink. We are not selling it. You can buy it. OK. I am just try-- so are you guys going to work for the company? Or you are buying the product? Well we do not have to buy the product. So what you do is you just go around and spread the word about it. But are you selling an energy drink though? I am confused. No we do not have to sell it. The company offers it. Yeah. The company offers it for you. It is exclusive only for the people that are in WakeUpNow. So there are products. And these people encouraged other people to buy them. But when we tried to use the word selling we were corrected. Yeah I mean I do not like saying selling. I like using providing. I provide people with it. Do they pay you money in exchange? No not really. I got a commission from it. That is about it. Awaken Thunder energy drink was not the only thing WakeUpNow was not selling but providing. People seemed to be listing a totally random assortment of products. Lots of things people said WakeUpNow offered were just discounts off their ATT phone bills purchases at Office Depot on groceries. We have the Trivanis. What are those? They are like lotion skin products. And then we have the coffee. We have cyber-protection. Have you ever wanted to learn another language? well we have a program that has 80 languages similar to Rosetta Stone. There is a vacation club. For example I am going to Florida. Hotel's usually 1100. I am going to pay 290 for the whole week a condo. There is tax software. Most people can increase their tax deduction by 3000 to 6000 per year just by the tax part alone. But in this sea of hard-to-understand information and unrelated products one thing everyone seemed to agree on WakeUpNow had a mission. WakeUpNow actually is a financial wellness company showing people how to save manage and make money. In fact so many people recited this mission so precisely it was actually a bit weird. We will save money manage money and make money. Save money make money and manage your money. Save manage and make money. Save money manage money and make more money. Save manage and make money at the same time. It took us all day and honestly quite a bit more research afterwards including signing up ourselves-- which was really complicated-- to piece together how WakeUpNow works. Like I said earlier they are a network marketing company. And if you have not heard that term you have probably heard of Amway or Herbalife or New-Skin companies where you sell things to people you know. That is network marketing. When you join WakeUpNow you get access to a place on their website called The Hub which is where you can purchase many of the products and services we heard about. You can join for free. But you are encouraged to sign up on a plan where you pay between 80 and 150 a month. You pay more money you get more stuff like the financial management and tax software. So that is the saving money and managing money part of WakeUpNow. As for the making money part you can make money by recruiting other people to join WakeUpNow. They buy stuff you can earn commission. They recruit people you make money off that too. A chain forms below you. That is the network in network marketing. You get three people to join you get 100. If each of them gets three people to join that is when the real money kicks in about 600 a month. There are other ways to earn that money. But that is the one we saw them push. I know this may sound like a pyramid scheme. Whether it is one though would have to be decided by the courts. We called the Federal Trade Commission. And a spokesman said figuring out if a network marketing company is a pyramid scheme is very difficult and takes a long investigation. The FTC's website says a good tip off that a network marketing company might be a pyramid scheme is that members earn more money for recruiting new members than for selling products to the public. WakeUpNow's chief marketing officer told us that 100 of the company's profits come from product sales. But when you pay a monthly fee to join they consider that a product. He said WakeUpNow is absolutely not a pyramid scheme. For now though WakeUpNow members are charging forth recruiting more and more people into the company and apparently getting paid a boatload to do it. Boom boom boom. Just watch probably 500K a month walked by you. This guy's pointing at a group of otherwise ordinary looking people. He is talking about all their salaries added together. 500K a month? 500K a month just walked by you under 25-years-old. This company is making history actually. This company is creating the largest amount of under 30-year-old 6-figure-earner that I have ever seen. Look 6-figure-earner 6-figure-earner. People loved pointing out all the 6-figure-earner magnates among us. In our first few minutes of the conference I saw this big bearded man. Someone else called him quote a freaking duck hunter guy which seemed like an apt description. People lined up to take pictures with him. Someone nearby told me why. My boy right here is making 114000 a month right now 114000. 114000? 114000 a month. His name? See More Green. That is S-E-E M-O-R-E Green. See More is the top earner in WakeUpNow. He is been doing it a year. He is 25. Everybody knew who he was and how much he allegedly made. Later in the day WakeUpNow gave See More Green an award for being number one. CHANTING See More! See More Green! See More! See More! See More! See More! See More! See More!  Wow! A woman near me says he is a regular dude. He is wearing a t-shirt. You would never know. You would never know. You would never know right?  Another thing we encountered at the conference was a repulsion to something so unsavory so unseemly that WakeUpNow's emcee for the day could not even bear to speak the word aloud. So he spelled it out instead. There are so many people in a J-O-B that are bored. There is no reason they just another one of them. J-O-B. Quick warning I am going to say the word right now job. When you go into a store and you run into an employee with a J-O-B and you can see it in their face. There is no energy because they are not invested in what they are doing. It is not their business. I am looking at a room full of people who care because it is their business. It is their future. That is why I love this industry. This dissatisfaction with 9-to-5s ran deep through the crowd. Take this paralegal. How does she describe her job? It is a soul-sucking like life-destroying sit at a desk all day and get fat waste of life. She told me that as soon as her income from WakeUpNow inches above her current salary she is outta there. It could be like 1 more than I am making now. I am quitting. Like literally 1. OK I quit. I am not coming in ever. Of course lots of jobs do suck. A surprising number of attendees at the conference told us they were planning on quitting to pursue WakeUpNow. These appear to be people with steady full-time E-M-P-L-O-Y-M-E-N-T a compliance manager at a big bank a human resources person at Coca-Cola. And we also met people who had actually done it. One person quit a restaurant. Another quit his sales job at Samsung. Plus there was this guy. Antonio Unemployable Johnson. He quit his job two years ago. Now he has a motto. Friends do not let friends get jobs. It is clear why lots of people would want to leave their current lousy jobs. What is not so clear is why they would choose to leave them for WakeUpNow. When you look at the WakeUpNow compensation plan which we did later it actually says in there how many members are making a small profit 4. That is it. And those 4 are not making a living just an average of about 600 a month. The number of people making anything close to resembling a living is about 1. Those are the company's numbers. If they are accurate presumably 95 of the people chanting in this conference room were not making any profit whatsoever. CHANTING WakeUpNow! WakeUpNow! WakeUpNow! WakeUpNow! WakeUpNow! WakeUpNow! WakeUpNow! This is the beginning of the main event what was billed as a business presentation that stretched on for nearly five hours with more than a dozen speakers. A lot of it was about how to recruit people into WakeUpNow. I should say officially the company does not use the word recruit. But there is no other way to describe what we saw. It was about recruiting. Like this advice from a guy named Rob McFadden. He said that on the day you launch your WakeUpNow business-- You set up a conference call at 1000 AM. You invite everybody you know to be on that call. On that call all you tell them is I am launching. We are going nuts. I cannot even tell you what we are doing. I have a call scheduled at noon. Who is going to be on it? The next step was to get each person on the 1000 AM call to bring 10 more people with them to the noon call and then to do the exact same thing over again for a 2 oclock call all with no mention of what the business actually is. After all-- People care more about how you say something that anything you ever say. The fact that they called this event a business presentation was strange because there was so little actual business discussed. So much of it was just motivational speeches. And you being here today I got to give you props. Because you get it. You get it. You are changing lives. You are starting a movement. You do not got a dream you do not have a roadmap. You do not have a roadmap you as not taking a trip. See what is it that drives you? Is it feeding starving kids? Is it making a difference in this world? I saw a vision to help people. I saw a vision to change the world. You have the ability to speak life or death into people. WakeUpNow is speaking life. This was the aspect of the conference that we really struggled to make sense of the contrast between this vision of WakeUpNow changing the world speaking life into people and the reality of what it seemed like WakeUpNow is actually doing which is selling energy drinks and giving people discounts on random stuff. Now product announcements guys. It would not be-- This crystallized during the single most confusing moment of the conference the big announcement they made in between inspirational speeches. The company's marketing director Jordan Harris took the stage. Nobody else outside this room knows anything about what we are about to talk about. And what he went on to talk about was coupons. WakeUpNow members have access to coupons that they can print out and use to get money off at local businesses. How many of you guys have smartphones? OK pull out your smartphones real quick. How cool would it be if instead of having to print the coupon you just showed your smartphone.  Right? This is awesome. So guys we are excited. Today we are announcing our new iPhone and Android app that is going to let you do just that.   The big announcement was that you no longer had to print the coupons out. You could now just use a smartphone app. Let us talk about when it is going to launch. OK it is going to be available-- two weeks.  What do you think? I think we can do better. Let us just do it today.   That is right. You can go in the iPhone store and Android store and download this today! After this Brian and I had to check with each other. We honestly were not sure if we had missed something. This excitement was over coupons? The emcee could not even move on with the presentation after this because everyone was so overwhelmed. Wow that is-- I am-- I am beside myself. I know you are all looking. It is OK take your time. Wow. All right we are all catching our breath. It is OK. Yeah day might as well be over for some of you. We left the conference not sure what to think of what we would witnessed. But the fact that people were talking about quitting their jobs to do WakeUpNow when the chances of making any kind of living were so low that seemed alarming. And to our surprise when we interviewed WakeUpNow's Chief Marketing Officer Jordan Harris the guy who made the coupon announcement he said that is not meant to be the company's message. They do not want everyone quitting their jobs. There is an element of any live event like we have where sometimes people get up there and they get excited. And there is things that you would rather have them not say. Our standard advice for people you should be replacing your income for at least three to four months consistently through WakeUpNow before you consider it. So on WakeUpNow's Income Disclosure Statement it says that 4 of members make a profit. Do you think most people who are doing WakeUpNow as a business know that number? I think no question. That is so widely disseminated. You can go pull income disclosure statements from-- You guys-- like I do not think you mentioned it aloud at the conference. Yeah we do not mention it aloud. But it is like it is-- Why not? --on our website on every-- eh? In a conference when you are out there talking to them it did not come up. We are at a conference. We are trying to have high energy. We are there to have a lot of fun. That is not something that is pitched from stage. But we make sure that everybody is aware of it. I do not know if you saw to stage left. There was an income disclosure statement on the wall. It was in the booklet that everybody got. So everybody left with that income disclosure statement in their hand. We do not want people joining with the idea that hey you promised me if I joined I would make this amount. That is not what we care about. We care about changing your financial situation from the products. And if you would like to supplement it by making money you have an opportunity. We told Jordan this was not the measured message we left the conference with. Instead in a room where less than 1 was making any real money from WakeUpNow we heard speakers spinning a fantasy of enormous wealth infinity pools trips to Cancun. One speaker had the crowd shout out their favorite fancy cars Maseratis and Porsches. Jordan understood why we got this impression. But he says that is not WakeUpNow is really about. He says their company was built around the idea of helping people make an extra 500 or 600 a month and that they chose that number deliberately. Because we look at the statistics and the majority of bankruptcies could avoid it if they had 500 more per month. And so really if we can get a ton of people that are earning 500 to 600 a month then for us that is our sweet spot. We are not encouraging people to just walk away from their own personal income. We are just trying to be something in the middle that helps it be easier every single month. Right but from being at the conference it just does seem like the messages are not that. They are not we want to help you live a easier life every month with supplemental income and financial management. The message is much more like your life is unsatisfactory. You are slave to some job. You do not have your own freedom. And this is the answer to that. The reality of the message I think people are getting is not what you just said. And does that concern you? Yeah. We want to unify the message from corporate. Like I said I think you guys caught us right in the spike of our growth where there were so many people that were involved in WakeUpNow that we did not necessarily have as good as communication from corporate as we could have. But we are a different company than we were eight months ago. The conference we went to was in April. Jordan says the company had grown 4000 over the previous year. And they were scrambling to deal with that expansion. WakeUpNow by the way was only founded in 2009. Since April Jordan says they are running a tighter ship. They recently replaced their CEO. They are rewriting some of their introductory literature downplaying the recruiting side of things. And they have changed what they say at their events. He says WakeUpNow has never been intentionally vague. But he thinks we were not unique in our confusion. And that is one of the things they are trying to fix. A couple weeks ago we talked to a guy who studies companies like WakeUpNow Amway and Herbalife and other network marketing companies. And he said when reporters talk about them they usually focus on the money people spend on them but rarely discuss the part he considers more troubling and more destructive-- what it does to members' personal relationships. This guy's name is Robert L. Fitzpatrick. And he used a word to describe WakeUpNow that may sound hyperbolic. The word was cult except not a religious cult. It is an economic cult. That is the distinction that I think you may be grasping for when you say what is this thing? Robert Fitzpatrick says it is not an accident that it took us so long to figure out what WakeUpNow is that the videos all seem so vague and the website was so confusing about pricing and products when we signed up as a member. He says vagueness is part of a strategy companies use. Robert became interested in network marketing after he and some friends got caught up years ago in the frenzy of recruiting people into a gifting scheme. And he says the most disturbing thing about it was how it manipulated their thinking made them suspend critical judgment. So he spent years researching how network marketing companies work. A regular business Robert says does not try to tell people how to treat their friends and family which we saw at WakeUpNow. The intention to isolate you from other people who are not in the scheme-- you are told to shun doubters critics even if they are in your family. And then when you go around your friends and they get uncomfortable like you buggin'! Guess what? You know who to walk away from.  You know who to walk away from because they cannot understand your language. They will not be able to understand your language.  Dream big. Dream big. So isolation-- and the other is a certain requirement of blind faith and obedience. You are not supposed to question. Critical thinking is for losers. You will see it when you believe it. This industry-- wrong. This busi-- no. This profession-- this profession rewards one thing. It rewards belief. How many of you believe you are Global sitting in that chair right now?     Global is the highest earning level in the company the level See More Green is. That guy literally just dropped the mic by the way.   We asked WakeUpNow's Chief Marketing Officer Jordan Harris if the company is a cult. And no surprise here. He says that is an unfair characterization. He says he interprets those moments from the conference differently than Robert Fitzpatrick does. WakeUpNow is not trying to isolate members from their family he says. But if someone's being negative about your work he thinks it is good advice not to hang around them. And what is wrong with believing in what you do? Look if you are going to do anything you better believe that you can do before you start. I think that that is a universal truth. But to portray it as the only way to be successful is to believe hard enough-- I would much rather have them preface that with it is not enough to succeed. You have got to have the hard work. And you have got to have the talent to be successful. At the conference everyone was so amped up. It was hard to get a sense of what it was really like to do WakeUpNow day in and day out. So we found someone who'd gone all in on WakeUpNow who'd quit his job to dedicate himself to it a guy with a wife and three young kids who recently stopped working in the kitchen of a really nice restaurant to do WakeUpNow. His name is Damien Lacks. He is 29 years old. We went to visit him at his apartment in Gettysburg Pennsylvania. Damien grew up in a rough part of Baltimore. He was a charismatic kid a good athlete who did well in school. But he got into drugs dropped out did some time in jail. By the time he was 24 he was living in a halfway house in Gettysburg where he moved to get away from the city and working at a McDonald's. I did not know what I wanted to do with life. At the same time though-- and this might sound strange to some people-- even back then even since I was 10 years old I have known that I was supposed to do something great. Now I as not saying it to boast. I just am giving praise to God. Because that is who he made me. I have not always lived up to it. I have been terrible at living up to it. After McDonald's Damien worked in kitchens at a couple of pubs in town then landed at a TGI Fridays. But Damien was bored there. The district manager would walk in. He would not speak to the little guys on the line. I hated that feeling feeling like I am a little guy. And that the big guys who are already making 100000 a year when you come around you do not even have the decency to say hey how are you guys doing in here? You know we hot. We sweating. We busting our ass. Excuse me. You do not really care about nothing but how the restaurant is running and how much money we are making. You do not care about the people at all. It makes you feel low. No I hated that. I hated it. In other words it was a J-O-B. So he applied to one of the best restaurants in the area a place called Restaurant Sydney founded by a chef he admired. Damien was taking online culinary classes. He had dreams of becoming a sous chef of one day opening his own restaurant. So when Sidney hired him he was thrilled. What were your expectations going in there? The highest level of chefness-- I do not know a better word.  And it was not all the way like that. When it came down to it working in the kitchen at Restaurant Sidney was still just working in a kitchen. His co-workers grumbled told offensive jokes to pass the time. They did not seem inspired. And Damien was only making 10 an hour. After babysitters and gas-- Sidney is 25 minutes from his house-- Damien says his pay was basically a wash. He kept asking for a raise but was not getting one. And that is when an Instagram friend sent Damien some of the YouTube videos about WakeUpNow. Just like us he says he would never seen anything like them before. Unlike us though his reaction was-- The video she sent me was so inspiring. I went from being the lowest-paid person in my family to now the highest residual income-earner in my family. We asked Damien what about the video spoke to him. And what it came down to was the positivity. It was a bunch of young people and in particular young black people succeeding as entrepreneurs. They were working for themselves in total control of their own destiny. What are you doing in your job?  To me it was nostalgic. It took me back to that place when I was a kid. You dream about where you want to be in your life. And it was like that is right. That is right. That is what I wanted my life to be. That is right. I am going after it. Thank you for reminding me. This is my calling right here. Damien began reading WakeUpNow's literature obsessively. He went on a vacation with his family. And he says the whole time he could not tear himself away. He compares it to reading scripture. The company's Quick Start Guide includes a whole section called Your Thoughts can Change the Future. Damien loved that. It talks about feeding yourself positive ideas and filtering out the negative not hanging around negative people. After that every dirty joke his co-workers made felt like it was poisoning his mind. Then after weeks of asking for a raise his boss told him he would not be getting one. Not long after Damien quit Restaurant Sidney and devoted himself to WakeUpNow. When we visited Damien he would been doing WakeUpNow for four months. Here's what a typical work day looks like for him. He wakes up and helps get his two boys off to school. And once they are off he usually dials into a 1000 AM motivational group call. But most of the day he watches his baby daughter. While she is napping he spends a few hours poking around on the computer watching YouTube videos about how to present WakeUpNow to people and then just kind of being on Facebook. If he starts to feel down he will watch an uplifting video. Early on he tried calling every contact in his phone to tell them about WakeUpNow. That yielded exactly one WakeUpNow recruit. My mom. His mom. After four months she is still the only recruit he has which means he is not making any income. And in fact he is paying 100 a month to be part of WakeUpNow. What are you going to do if another four months go by and you still have not gotten anyone and are not making any money? And you are spending money to be in it? Um-- that is a hard question. Because I honestly know that it is going to work. We spent a lot of time debating with Damien about this. It was nearly impossible to get him to even entertain the hypothetical of WakeUpNow not working. If the year goes by and you have not made any money with WakeUpNow or network marketing would you be disappointed? No I would just keep going. Think about that. A year has gone by with no success. You would not feel any kind of way about that? A year gone by-- and network marketing is successful. Think about doctors and lawyers. They go to school for four years eight years before they actually reach the time when they can get paid for what they have been training for. Damien knows the stats that just 1 of WakeUpNow members make a living. He actually pointed the numbers out to us on his own. But it is almost as if those dismal statistics made Damien even more optimistic about his prospects. I have the persistence to become in the 1 in the less than 1. Because it says the results are not typical. Well I say I am not typical. And the thing about it is more people could be successful. But more people do not have desire. They are not going to put in the work. And if you tell yourself it is too hard it is going to be too hard. But what if it is not the fact that you are telling yourself that something is really hard but that it just is really hard? Like that is the reality the chances of making money are low. And so when someone's telling themself that it is hard they are right. It is only hard if you believe it is hard. We thought that one person who might be silently freaking out about this was Damien's wife Candice. Candace has a full-time job managing a store at the nearby outlet mall and is now the sole breadwinner in their family of five. They have two kids a baby and an eight-year-old and just became the legal guardians of a third child a 12-year-old who neither is related to the son of one of Damien's ex-girlfriends. So we took Candice aside out of Damian's earshot to ask how she was dealing with the pressure of providing for three kids while Damien did not have a job and was not bringing in any money wit