OK. We are so far past this point now it is hard to remember when the turning point was. But there actually was a turning point and it was five years ago. What I am talking about is you know those weird mashup foods that fast food places keep gleefully launching into the world like that pizza with the little hot dogs as the crust that Pizza Hut put out. Or Taco Bell did a waffle taco. Denny's put out a grilled cheese sandwich that inside was not just grilled cheese but also mozzarella sticks inside the sandwich. Hardees put out a burger that had a cheese steak as the topping for the burger. Literally like slices of steak and cheese and onions were on a burger as the topping. Anyway so these Frankenfoods or food mashups or extreme foods-- there is no standard term for these yet in the industry-- they have been around for a little while. But there was a turning point. People in the food industry will tell you there was a turning point. There was a real turning point this moment when they kind of came into their own. And it was five years ago and it was a sandwich called the Double Down. KFC put it out. You may remember this. This is the one where fried chicken is the bread of the sandwich with bacon and cheese in between. And with the Double Down one of the things that made it a turning point was first of all how extreme it was. But the other is I think it became clear that the food industry was in on the joke. Like the Double Down it was self aware of its own ridiculousness. And whenever I see an ad for one of these things I have wondered OK if these things exist that means that somewhere there is a room where people have to make these up and they have to debate which one are we going to do? Which means that there is a list. And then there are guys sitting around a table. And somebody will bring one up and they will say no no no. You know everybody-- we have done that. Everybody's done-- that is so old. That is tired. And somebody will bring up another one. They will be like sir you have gone too far. You know and I just was like-- I just wanted to know like what happens in that room? What is that discussion like? And fortunately I work with somebody who also was interested and she ran this down. Zoe Chace welcome to show. Oh hello Ira. Hello. So Zoe you went to the room where this happens. I did. I went to Saint Louis Hardee's headquarters. Hardee's is the same company as Carl's Jr. And I brought you back a souvenir Ira. In fact there is a list. This is of possible sandwiches? This is possible burgers that do not yet exist that are just in the minds of the people at Hardee's. And they wrote them down on this list. How many burgers did they consider? Maybe 200 products. Mhm. And before I give you the list because I know you want the list I just want to play a little game with you. Sure. I am going to read you two burgers. One of them is from the list. One of them I just made up. See if you can figure out which one is real. OK. First the Napa burger OK. Caramelized onions Merlot glaze arugula. And the Beyonce burger. Honey and if you like it you put an onion ring on it. If that Beyonce burger thing is real-- It is genius. That is genius. I just want to say for older people there is a song by Beyonce OK? Everybody knows this song. You do not have to explain it to our audience. OK. So-- So the Napa burger or the Beyonce burger. I mean the Beyonce burger sounds too good to be true. But I have to say the Napa burger it does not sound like you would market a Merlot thing to a fast food customer. It seems like a completely different market right? Like somebody who is into Merlot is not at a fast food place buying a burger I think. Snob. OK fair enough. But I still think that Merlot drinkers are not going to want their fancy Merlot on a fast food burger so I am going with the Beyonce burger. No. That is not correct. I made up the Beyonce burger. All right. All right. OK. Do you want to do another one? One more. OK. All right. These two. 50 shades of pork burger.  OK. OK. The burger itself is 50 pork 50 patty bacon aioli and whipped bacon on top. Here's the other burger a clambake burger. Fried clams corn salsa Narragansett lager glaze. Well they both seem totally unlikely. I am going to go with 50 shades of pork just because the name is so great. That is the one. That one's real. OK. So Zoe so there is this list of all these burgers. They make this list. What happens then? OK. So the next thing is that a team of executives will just vote up or down simple vote. This is just like their feeling about it? This is just based on the name of the burger like what they think. OK. And they whittle the list down to about 30. The next step in the process is maybe the most important because the next step is the taste test. And in the taste test they make the burgers. They make the burgers that they imagined up in that room. And a few guys sit down in a room. They eat the sandwiches. They discuss intensely. And they decide which ones will be real which ones are going to move forward actually be marketed released into a few restaurants tested on actual consumers and maybe go national. OK. And so this is the room where they figure out Zoe not just what the new foods are going to be but what they are going to call them and what story they are going to tell us to get us to buy them? Yes. Because I assume like a lot of situations-- and this is actually the subject of today's radio show-- so often what is important is not the literal facts of what is real but how you tell the story what you say about it. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. We have arrived at Act One of our show where Zoe you go to-- The room where it happens. Tell us everything. First the room. It is a kitchen a fast food kitchen an exact replica of what you would find at a Hardees-- a charbroiler a walk-in fridge a fixing station fryers. Walk-in refrigerators and freezers. In the room are the men-- Brad Bruce Mark and Eric. Brad shows off the kitchen. And this is kind of the engine of our restaurants because we charbroil our burgers and chicken sandwiches. So there is a charbroiler here that feeds-- Picture a group of slightly nerdy science teachers-- Dockers short sleeved button-up types. That is what they look like. But these guys are a big deal in their industry. They are trendsetters. For instance meat as a condiment these guys made that a thing. Like pastrami on a hamburger or that cheese steak on top of the burger that was in the early days of the food mashups. And Brad helped save another fast food company years ago Jack in the Box. In 1993 maybe the most famous food poisoning episode in burger history when E. Coli from Jack in the Box burgers killed four kids. Brad was in charge of the ad campaign that is credited with saving the company. We are going to start with breakfast items and get our palate warmed up that way. Today Brad Bruce Mark and Eric sit together at an industrial table me too. We each have a place setting and a printed menu. We will start with the cinnamon swirl French toast breakfast sandwich kind of a sweet and savory combination for breakfast. A steak and egg biscuit after that. A mac and cheese Thickburger. I am reading this now. Stakehouse Thickburger big chicken masher pepperoni pizza fries and a Ding Dong ice cream sandwich for dessert. And they have to maintain an appetite through the whole thing. And the only way we can do it is these cups become very important. We use spit cups. It is like a wine taster or a coffee taster. Except burgers. Just big plastic to go cups full of chewed up burger. A wrapped up breakfast sandwich then arrives in front of each of us the steak and egg biscuit. Steak and egg biscuit. Bite chew spit. The biscuit I will say incredible. Steak and egg eh. Then one by one they each give their opinion. I like the idea of a steak and egg biscuit but I was expecting kind of more of a grill flavor. Visually also I thought I really wanted to see like the charbroiled character. And it looked a little more baked or boiled kind of beef. It did not have the visual I wanted so I think we have got some work to do. Mark? Yeah pretty similar. These guys are not chefs. They are marketers. Their expertise is in will America actually buy this thing which is answered in the look as much as the taste. The next sandwich up it is a large burger. Bacon mac and cheese Thickburger. Macaroni and cheese and bacon bits. Again chew spit talk. It tastes like a bacon cheeseburger a good one but it is weird because noodles. I am not sure what to do with this one because it is cheesy which is really important. You taste the macaroni and cheese. But overall that is kind of a bland flavor. And if we put other ingredients on it to make it overall more flavorful I am a little worried we are going to cover up the mac and cheese because it is a subtle flavor. So I have no good idea for how to fix that. Fun idea though. Same thing. I was struggling with it. I do not know if it is texturally there is nothing that comes through with the macaroni. There is nothing that just makes it pop. I guess I was just wondering where was the hot sauce. Brad Bruce Mark and Eric are pensive. The hot sauce idea is kind of interesting. It could actually be like a buffalo mac and cheese would be kind of-- yeah that would be pretty cool. Tabasco might be too just vinegary but buffalo might work. I am stunned listening to this. Let us try it. Would we add it as a sauce or would it be blended into the cheese of the mac and cheese? Either way. I think I would like the visual better if it was added as a sauce because then it would run like streaks through. I am giddy with power OK. I cannot believe what just happened. Eric says he is going to do some more testing bring the bacon mac and cheese burger back to the group with a buffalo wing sauce. There are a few reasons that guys like these are churning through these food mashups right now. One big one is fast food is losing market share to places like Chipotle Panera more upscale healthier. So a way for fast food to compete is to go in the other direction-- downscale greasier sell to their core customers 18 to 34-year-old guys. Though industry analysts told me it is nearly as many women as men. And of course there is money to be made in selling a sandwich that makes people want to take a picture of themselves while they eat it but only to a point. The question is will they eat it twice? The Double Down you know the one where the chicken is the bun as groundbreaking as it was it did not sell that great after people tried it once. Brad Bruce Mark and Eric say it is too expensive to roll out a new product that you would never order twice. This is a taco that is the talk of the town. What they want is something that food industry people say Taco Bell did better than anybody in 2012 when they released that taco whose shell was a Dorito. It is what one marketing consultant calls a marriage made in belly busting heaven. Doritos the Super Bowl brand that helped turn America into a nation of chunky chip munchers providing a nacho cheese flavored shell. The Doritos Locos Taco sold and sold and sold and sold-- 375 million in its first year. This is an amazing year for Taco Bell. Every sandwich that arrives on our plates here in Hardee's test kitchen that is the goal. All right. What is happening here? Eric tell us what we have got here. This is a new sandwich idea. The next sandwich is up. It is called Big Chicken Mashers. It is got mashed potatoes and brown gravy on it some garlic pepper onion straws American cheese and our big chicken filets. You really call it the Masher? Well I do not know. If we cannot come up with a name it is probably not going to sell. We run into that a lot where we have a great product but what do you do with it? Careful. Hot out of the fryer. Might be . The Big Chicken Masher turns the taste test metaphysical like actually. The issues that plague the masher are beyond its physical traits because its physical traits are pretty good. I really like the flavors. It is like eating a Sunday chicken dinner. The mashed potatoes the gravy goes really well with the flavor of that crispy chicken. I really like the crunchies in there. So I like the product. The idea I am worried about. I am not sure there is a market out there for people to eat mashed potatoes on a sandwich. I do not know if we can sell it but I think anybody who bought it would really like it. But-- Would you say more about that? Why? It is not enough for a product to taste good. It has to sound good or you will never find out that it tastes good. It also has to kind of hold together as an idea. It cannot just be five ingredients that we put together and it tastes good. What they are looking for is the story they are going to tell to explain why the weirdness makes sense. And it is got to be a pretty good story-- simple punchy. Half ironic would not hurt. That is just as hard as coming up with the sandwich. Here's an example of when it works. The product is a hamburger topped with a hot dog topped with potato chips. But listen to the story they tell about it. What is more American than a cheeseburger? This cheeseburger loaded with a hot dog and potato chips in the hands of All-American model Samantha Hoopes in a hot tub in a pickup truck driven by an American bull rider on an aircraft carrier under the gaze of Lady Liberty as she admires the most American Thickburger with a split hot dog-- It can be really hard to figure out what to say even about a burger that is delicious. And sometimes they get stuck like when they put pulled pork on a burger-- not the most appetizing picture the way I just described it. And Brad says it did not test well. And we kept trying different names. We had called it the pulled pork burger or the southern burger. And finally I think Bruce had the idea of calling it the Memphis Barbecue Burger. And we tried that and it worked incredibly well. What do you think it is about the word Memphis that is evocative in the way that pulled pork is not? I think it made it a bigger story. And Memphis obviously just sounds like they would know barbecue so it sounded like it was more of a creation. The chicken masher needs that kind of story. Say the mama's chicken sandwich like a Sunday chicken dinner at grandma's on a farm with a handmade quilt as the tablecloth with a basket of puppies on the table. And you are seven years old again and it is your birthday. And they are considering something like that but they are cautious. Even the macaroni and cheese burger they tell me is an easier sell than the chicken masher. Cheese is something that people already are looking for on a burger that they expect on a burger. We have only thrown one new thing in. Throwing in mashed potatoes and gravy is not something people have really ever seen on a chicken sandwich. So the macaroni is the new part of the macaroni and cheese. The mashed potatoes and gravy is all new. Oh I see. The leap is greater you think for the person getting the sandwich. The leap is greater. Mashed potatoes goes too far. Note At this stage in this kitchen there are no consumer surveys no charts in front of them no research just gut. They just have a feeling people will be weirded out. And that feeling is built into this process. What happens next is more data driven. They test some of the sandwiches in a dozen restaurants put up all the advertising like it is a national rollout then survey everyone who orders one. But that is in the future. For now it is Brad Bruce Mark and Eric just geeking out here in the room where it happens. It is like somebody playing you their favorite songs. Brad came up with this one. It tastes like-- well see what you think but it tastes like a pepperoni pizza with a French fry crust which is kind of like two wonderful things coming together. The guys seem to like it. I do not. I am like why bathe fries in marinara? Why macaroni and cheese yes and mashed potatoes no? There is no answer. There is mystery. It is just a feeling. Zoe Chace is one of the producers of our show.   Act Two the wedding crasher. So today's program is about situations where the facts are not enough by themselves. You need to still figure out what story best goes with those facts. So the ad about your new fast food burger is as important as the ingredients. Well Ahamefule Oluo has been puzzling over how to tell one story for a lot of his life. It is the story of a stranger who also is his dad. I always say that I have never met my father but that is not really true. I once spent an entire month with him. Unfortunately it was the first month of my life and I was too busy chewing on my own fist to make the most out of this quality time. My parents had been together seven years when my father went home to visit his family in Nigeria and did not come back. He had come to the United States to go to college. As soon as he got here he met my mom a white lady from Wichita. They got married had two kids. And then two months after he graduated with his doctorate and one month after I was born he was gone continents away. And he never saw his wife and kids ever again. Growing up I knew a lot of other kids whose dads were not around but I had nothing in common with them. Their dads were deadbeats. Mine was a powerful African chief who was going to return any day to save us. I knew this because that is what my mom told me all the time. Of course my mom did not know he was not coming back. So to prepare for his return she raised us to be Nigerian or as Nigerian as a sheltered white woman from Kansas could. Our comfort food was jollof rice fufu and egusi soup. When I got in trouble my mom would yell  which my older sister and I understood as Nigerian for Watch out. Mom's pissed. And then mom would say Your father would never let you get away with that. She talked about him like he was still our dad like he was a presence instead of an absence. My mom always refers to her years with my father as the best time of her life. They lived in a small African immigrant community in Texas. My mom dove head first into Nigerian life. She wore a traditional wrap and prepared feasts with the other women. My dad was in fact a chief which is an honorary title. In practice it meant my mom and dad were often invited to weddings as the guests of honor. And he would pull out some crazy jewelry for the occasion and give a toast. He was always great at giving toasts. She told me my dad had a commanding presence that could make a room go silent. The way she described it it was paradise. Everyone took care of one another. If you did not have any food you could just go to your neighbor's apartment and they would feed you no questions asked which sounded great to me when I was a kid because we often did not have food. My mom did everything she could-- manual labor odd jobs. But it was just so much for her to bear on her own. At night she would lock herself in her room and cry. My sister and I could hear it but no one talked about it. When our electricity or our phone would get cut off my mom would say something like things will be different when your dad comes back or we will not have to worry about this when we move to Nigeria. I wanted to be Nigerian like my dad. Anytime I would do a geography report in school it was always on Nigeria. Until the second grade everyone I knew including my family called me by my middle name Joe. It was the only name I would ever known. When I learned that my actual first name was Ahamefule a Nigerian name I immediately made an executive decision that I never wanted anyone to call me Joe ever again. My grandparents thought it was a phase. It was not. It went beyond the name. I wanted to look Nigerian. Unfortunately I did not really know what Nigerians looked like and Google Images did not exist at the time. So my school photos are basically a 10-year-old's best guess-- a weird hat a colorful print shirt a shark tooth necklace. Why not? Nigeria's by the ocean right? Years passed. He never called. He never wrote a single letter. My mom started talking about my dad less and less until she did not really talk about him at all anymore. Looking back on it now I am sure she gave up hope he would ever return and it got too embarrassing to pretend he would. There was no moment when we decided as a family to face the facts and she never divorced him. She never said a negative word about him. In my teenage years I put away the African hat. It felt like I would been wearing a birthday hat to a party that no one else showed up to. Up to this point I had wholeheartedly embraced my mother's story about my dad. But now I started considering alternatives. My mom's parents never liked my dad. They were convinced that this was purely a green card marriage an elaborate plot to take advantage of their young and innocent daughter. My sister who is just a year older than me never bought my mom's story about my dad either. She acted like he did not exist. I tried to do the same. And then when I was 16 my dad sent us a letter. The letter was addressed to my sister Ijeoma and me from the Honorable Chief Dr. Samuel Oluo. In it he expressed how excited he was to finally find us. We were not hiding. And he included his telephone number in Port Harcourt Nigeria. Our father talked to Ijeoma first. She told him how excited she was to start college in the fall. She was going to study political science just like he did. She told him about her job at the bookstore. They talked for about 20 minutes and then it was my turn. My hands shook as I clutched the large black cordless telephone. Hello I said. Ahamefule he shouted loud and distorted by the terrible connection. It is so great to hear your voice. I have missed you so very much. Tell me about yourself. What do you want to be when you grow up? Well I replied I am already doing what I want to do when I grow up. I am a musician. I play the trumpet. I am already starting to get paid and everything. The line went silent. No no. That is not good. I do not approve. You need to do something more sensible. Musician is not a job. You cannot support a family with musician. My eyes welled with tears. Can you put Ijeoma back on the phone he said sounding resigned. I handed her the telephone walked into the kitchen and poured myself a glass of water. I was done. What kind of person did this to their family? A bad person that is what kind. I hated him. He tried to call a couple more times but I did not answer. And then he stopped calling. After this I started to look at my mom with pity. How did she get duped that bad? It is so humiliating. And how could she drag me into her delusions like that? I was not going to let myself be like her anymore. I got closer to my sister. A year later I moved out of the house. I was 17. I moved on with my life. Eight years passed. On Tuesday February 21 2006 I received a phone call from a Nigerian half brother I would never met informing me that our father had died. We only spoke on the phone for a few moments. The connection was terrible. I remember that I was wearing a yellow shirt which seemed like a ridiculous color for the occasion. I felt so stupid for crying that it made me cry more. The only solace I had is that I knew that this was going to be the last time. It was over. The nail was literally in the coffin or whatever people in Nigeria are buried in. And just like that I turned the corner from I have never met my father to I will never meet my father. The story was final. It had a beginning a middle and now an end. He was a father who had abandoned his children forever. I got married this past July. It was a small ceremony at a cabin outside of Seattle. We worked hard to cull the guest list down to a manageable number. On the day there was only one person who showed up uninvited. He was someone I had never met my Nigerian half-brother Basil the one who had called me nine years earlier to tell me about our father's death. I had no idea he even knew I was getting married yet there he was in the woods in America insisting from the moment he arrived that he needed to give a toast. Because it is a wedding we have it on video. I am glad that I am here to see this day. I am glad that Aham and Ijeoma have grown to be so beautiful and so intelligent. It was like he was speaking to us on behalf of our father. I assure you that the family back home in Africa is so proud of you. And they left me a message which is to tell you that whatever it is you have lost whatever emotional damages you have suffered we are going to make sure you get all of it back. I had no idea where this was going. And then Basil said he wanted to clear something up about my parents' marriage. Everyone would know that that marriage was real. It was never a green card marriage and it would never be a green card marriage because he has a green card.  I cannot explain how bizarre this felt to hear my long lost Nigerian brother talking at my wedding about my mother's marriage to our dead father. Nobody quite knew how to react. Mostly people laughed. My mom was standing to my left. She was bawling. He was saying her marriage was real. It was what she had said all along. Basil was staying for five weeks and he was staying at my house both facts I was unaware of until he got here. He came with giant bags of gifts from Nigeria-- native instruments handmade clothing jewelry and even antiques from our family's village. He was on a heartfelt mission. His mom had been begging him for years to put the family back together. And more than anything he wanted us to get to know each other. He told me that he wanted to go everywhere that I went. He came with me when I ran errands. He even came to my business meetings. I make my living as a musician and while he was here I was playing trumpet in a play. Basil went to the play three nights in a row. He said he loved it. He said my dad would have loved it too. We talked for hours every day a lot about our dad. As far as I knew Ijeoma and I had been basically forgotten decades ago tossed aside and never spoken about again. But Basil still says that was not true. According to Basil my father had baby pictures of me and Ijeoma hanging in his house and not just baby pictures. Later he had photos of me as an adult with my two daughters that he printed from MySpace. I did not even know that he knew he had grandkids in America. He told everyone in Nigeria about us. He told them my mom was an amazing woman and he could not wait for everyone to meet her. He even had property set aside to build a house for us. There was a whole plan. He would get elected to political office start making money and then send for us. And at first his plan was working. My father was elected to state office right after he got back to Nigeria but then was deposed in a military coup after only months. Basil said he had bad luck his entire career. He was always struggling financially. Basil was saying our dad really wanted to bring us to Nigeria. I asked him if I could record us talking about this just-- I do not know-- to get it on the record. When we sat down he told me that people in Nigeria knew our dad abandoned us and it was the source of his biggest shame. He always planned to fix it. I think he kept thinking that there will be a time when everything would be fine and then everyone will be together again. Unfortunately it is not working. Basil is only 11 months younger than me. And if you remember that I was one month old when my father left you already know the first thing he did when he got back to Nigeria. Basil told me that my dad had 12 kids a few of them older than me and my sister which means he deserted their family to start ours. My father did not have a great relationship with most of his children but Basil said it was different. The culture is different. Polygamy is normal and children do not have the same expectations of their fathers. You do not blame him so much. The African society does not actually demand as much fatherhood as the Western culture does demand. You could have kids and be caring in the African sense but in the Western sense be absolutely nowhere. Still Basil was deeply hurt that our father was not around for him. He refused to call him dad. He calls him Sam. But like me Basil was obsessed with him growing up. Even though he was not a great dad Basil says he was a really great guy. My dad went back to his village to visit his mom every single weekend even in terrible weather. Apparently he helped a lot of young people get into college. He cared about his community. He was genuinely dedicated an incorruptible politician in the most corrupt country on earth. It was really difficult for me listening to my brother talk about all the great things our father did for other people. Why could not he have been dedicated to us? I swung back and forth between sympathy and anger. I could not stop thinking about him. When I woke up when I went to bed when I was on stage playing the trumpet he was still on my mind. Were my mom and Basil right? Was he this fantastic guy? Or was he a deadbeat who did not really care about his own kids? I decided to get everyone together-- my brother my mom and my sister Ijeoma. We met at my mom's one bedroom apartment. She made Nigerian shrimp and rice and then we sat down in a circle in the living room. So anyway. Thank you everyone for coming here. Yes. My mom said you could not imagine what this meant to her. She and Basil had been talking and she was so happy to hear that she was right all those years that our dad had missed us. Well I made up my own little story. And my own story was actually probably pretty close to actually what it was. And that was that he had so many responsibilities back home. And that was my belief. And that he knew I would be fine with my family here and that his family back home would not be. And that is what I had in my head. But in a lot of ways we were not fine though. No I know. But I mean in terms of-- But I mean that is what he thought I thought. You know I thought he thought that. You thought that he thought that you were-- Yeah. Yeah. And back then my mom and dad were making really good money. And I thought maybe he thought that they would take care of us and not know that we were desperately poor five different ways. I remember when we were so poor I remember thinking I wonder if my dad knows how poor we are? Yeah. I have thought that too. And if that would make any difference. Well who knows because everyone back home too believes that you guys are doing fine. Yeah. He says everyone back home believes you are doing fine. Basil says that if our dad had known that would have made a difference just as my mom always believed it would. He would have figured out a way to help. And if he was alive today he would have wanted to come to my wedding to visit us. He would have wanted to come. Well I am glad that you came instead of him. That is my sister Ijeoma. She says our dad visiting may have helped me and my mom but not her. But you being here means a lot. You are not our dad and you were not his mistakes. You are not any of that. You are just our brother so I am glad that you came. Sam would have made you think otherwise. Basil says Sam our dad would have made you think otherwise. You know I have talked to him. He is not about-- I know that man you know. He is very forceful. He is very forceful. Basically he would have won you over. My mom is nodding enthusiastically. Yeah. He knows how to get at things. Do not you see him in her? That is-- you know you just say all of this-- She does not know it. You just say all of this because he is not here. If he had come no. My goodness. I think the thing though Basil I do not think you understand what it is like watching the people you love most in the world go through so much pain because of someone who is not here. And that was my only wound. I never felt like I wish I had a dad never. I do not think I ever thought that to myself. I never thought I wish I had a dad. What I remember thinking was I wish my mom was not so heartbroken all the time and crying all the time and I wish that she was happy and I wish she saw how-- Yeah but that is because you did not know him. No but mom no-- Wait wait wait. Let me just say what I want to say and that is put yourself back in the '70s in Denton Texas. This is a story my mom loves to tell about my dad how he won over everyone in their small white town with his charm how he got them all to celebrate Nigerian Independence Day. Everybody was just you know amazed at what he created. He had that whole entire town. I do not know wh