 My grandmother was not a witch. No matter what anyone said she was not a doctor either even though people lined up outside her door nursing their hurts and their pains. No preacher lady but still neighbors revealed things to her that they would never tell the minister. She would not slam into their Jesus but she never set foot in their church. She only attended school 'til the third grade but what she knew could bury universities. She told me to always carry a book because it made white folk nervous. Lots of people called her Granny. But for me it was not a title it was her name. She was my grandmother and I sat in her kitchen drinking cold cold milk and watching as she ground High John the Conqueror root letting it fall into the hot oil. The whole house smelled like secrets and I told her a secret about the humming. She turned down the heat on the stove. When? At night when I am in the bed. What'd it sound like? Like somebody wants to talk but somebody else will not let him. She kissed me on the forehead and she told me that if I heard it again tell it to shut up because little boys need their rest. But is it bad? Baby some is good some is bad like everything else. I finished my milk and she kept looking at me. That is my special baby do not tell nobody all right? I knew that already but I did not have anybody to tell. Momma and daddy they just cry and pray and holler. No it was not all about that so when I heard the hum that night the almost voices - I told them to shut up just like Granny said. And they shut up - at first. But when I heard it again it was not a hum or a song it was a voice. A grown man's voice and it just said help help help help. And when I told it to be quiet be quiet right now it said run run run run. And I ran in the middle of the night I ran to my grandmother's bedroom but she was not there. She was not sleeping. Run run run. I found her in the back in the dark hunched over mixing something with the root and the oil. I did not know what I could not ask what. Run run run. And she looked up at me eyes flashing mouth angry. I understood for the first time that the voice it was not sending it to my grandmother. It was screaming for me to run away from her. Today on RX and NPR we proudly present Spooked  Innocence Lost amazing stories from real people bumping up against the other side. My name is Glynn Washington. It is a dark road please hold someone's hand. Hold it tight because you are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT. 