Intro Segment Listener-supported WNYC Studios.  Wait wait. You are listening ... Okay. All right. Okay. All right. You are Listening to Radiolab... Radiolab.  Shorts!  From WNYC and NPR. Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad This is radio lab... Robert Krulwich The podcast... Jad Abumrad The podcast... Jad Abumrad And in this podcast I have learned... How would you describe this one? Robert Krulwich My sense is that you walk into a wild place and you hear the wind and the trees and you hear these chirps and sounds and calls and they are just part of the... They are part of the wild. They are wildlife but there is now a group of scientists who listen much more closely and who are reducing wildlife to wild talk. It is it is... Jad Abumrad Yeah. Robert Krulwich There are words in there. Jad Abumrad When you find the words as the people we will meet do in these stories you end up not just understanding but actually entering that wild space in a very cool way. Robert Krulwich So we are going to tell you two tales here. Jad Abumrad Two different places. The first a jungle and the second Robert Krulwich A Prairie. Jad Abumrad Right. Jungle gets us started and then the Prairie and later... Jad Abumrad This is a story this first one that we heard about... Ari Daniel Shapiro Yeah yeah. I am... Jad Abumrad From Ari. Ari Daniel Shapiro I am Ari Daniel Shapiro. I am a public radio producer in Boston. Jad Abumrad And Ari recently met a guy. I think a German. Ari Daniel Shapiro He is Swiss. Jad Abumrad No  his name is Klaus Zuber Buhler. Klaus Zuber Buhler Hey Ari it is Klaus. Jad Abumrad And he is a professor of psychology Klaus Zuber Buhler At the University of St. Andrews. Jad Abumrad Which is in Scotland. And where does this story actually take place because... Robert Krulwich Where is the jungle? Jad Abumrad Yeah Ari Daniel Shapiro Well maybe the best place to start is to kind of describe the scene where we are Jad Abumrad Okay. Ari Daniel Shapiro which is in the Thai forest. Klaus Zuber Buhler Thai forest. Jad Abumrad Which is in the ivory coast in Africa. Robert Krulwich So it is not in Thailand? Ari Daniel Shapiro No it is not. It is T.A.I. Robert Krulwich T.A.I. Okay. Ari Daniel Shapiro Yeah. And Klaus describes the jungle as this thick sensory world. Klaus Zuber Buhler Very dark very moist and very very green.  And you cannot really see for more than 15 to 20 feet. Klaus Zuber Buhler And I mean sometimes you feel like you walk through a big cathedral of dark trees and you do not see very much because all the animals obviously very shy and run away. Ari Daniel Shapiro I mean is it still? Klaus Zuber Buhler No it is... It is very very noisy. Ari Daniel Shapiro It is a den it is just this kind of Sonic . Klaus Zuber Buhler All of these insects and birds and bats and mammals. It is almost as if they compete for acoustic space. So it is very very loud. I mean the main sensation you have in the beginning really is that you are completely lost. Ari Daniel Shapiro So it is 1991. Robert Krulwich All right. Ari Daniel Shapiro And he figured he had to start somewhere so he focused his attention on a kind of monkey. Klaus Zuber Buhler A very beautiful monkey. Ari Daniel Shapiro Called the Diana monkey. Klaus Zuber Buhler This mix of black white and sort of reddish? Ari Daniel Shapiro Diana monkeys live up in the tree tops which can be as high as a hundred feet off the ground. Jad Abumrad Wow. Ari Daniel Shapiro They eat fruits and they eat insects and they are chattering. Klaus Zuber Buhler  of calls. Ari Daniel Shapiro Which to him of course- Klaus Zuber Buhler You know as a newcomer to the forest- Ari Daniel Shapiro Was all just noise. Klaus Zuber Buhler Just a little bit... Imagine a child trying to learn a language which initially wants to sound like a string of sounds that you cannot really understand and then you know- Jad Abumrad So what did he do? Ari Daniel Shapiro Well he started provoking the monkeys into making different kinds of noises. For instance he would walk out into the forest with a boombox- Klaus Zuber Buhler Speaker- Ari Daniel Shapiro and play the sound of the Diana monkeys most feared predator the leopard. Jad Abumrad He would just play the sound into the trees? Ari Daniel Shapiro Yep. And all of a sudden- Klaus Zuber Buhler Suddenly- Ari Daniel Shapiro They started leaping around the branches  hopping around- Klaus Zuber Buhler Motion and- Ari Daniel Shapiro And they make this one particular call. Klaus Zuber Buhler You know just very loud alarm calls.  This one here. Robert Krulwich Meaning what? Jad Abumrad Are they just saying run or is it something more specific? Ari Daniel Shapiro Well here's where it gets a little bit more interesting. Next step he brought that same cassette player out- Jad Abumrad Pointed it at the trees hit play all that? Ari Daniel Shapiro Yep. But this time he plays... Klaus Zuber Buhler The shrieks of a Crowned Eagle. Jad Abumrad Eagles eat monkeys? Ari Daniel Shapiro Yeah they do. Klaus Zuber Buhler They attack from above. Robert Krulwich I have heard about them. They are very scary. They come flying in with their talons with their beaks and they hit you in the head sharply and kill you instantly. And then you fall to the ground. Jad Abumrad Yeah. And so what are the monkeys do when they hear this? Ari Daniel Shapiro They make... That sound. Jad Abumrad Same one? Ari Daniel Shapiro Well that is what he thought but when he went back to the lab and started looking at the sounds on the computer comparing one to the other Eagle... Ari Daniel Shapiro Leopard... eagle... leopard... He realized... that they are actually slightly different. Klaus Zuber Buhler In the acoustic details of the calls it is something that is very difficult to hear when you are really only see it in the spectrogram which is kind of a visual representation of these calls. Jad Abumrad This is on the computer? Ari Daniel Shapiro Yeah. Klaus Zuber Buhler But interestingly once you have seen that and once you know what to pay attention to you go out into the forest and suddenly you do hear these differences which you have not heard before. Robert Krulwich So you are saying when they hear a call leopard! coming they go up the tree but when they hear Eagle! Coming they run down tree? Ari Daniel Shapiro Exactly. Exactly. Robert Krulwich It is really kind of like a word. They... Like a word. You know that is kind of amazing. Jad Abumrad Let us pull out for a second 'ecause this guy actually got us thinking honestly. How much language actually is out there in the wild? What do we know? What is the state of what we know right now? And that question led us out of the forest just for a second and to a place and a creature that we just did not think would be a part of this conversation at all. And that creature is... Robert Krulwich The Prairie dog! Jad Abumrad Prairie Dogs. Robert Krulwich So here's the thing Prairie dogs are these little rodent-like animals. They live under the ground in burrows and when their community is invaded they pop out of the burrow and they think Oh here comes the... Whatever. Sounds kind of like... Robert Krulwich Chee chee chee chee . Robert Krulwich Chee chee chee chee Jad Abumrad So we spoke with this guy.  My name is  Professor Emeritus at Northern Arizona University- Jad Abumrad Who is spent a whole lot of time-  Sitting out in the colonies- Jad Abumrad Recording Prairie dog calls. And he now believes that these simple little rodents are like nature's wordsmith.  Well the thing is that initially I recorded- Jad Abumrad For instance he began by telling us that the Prairie dogs have different kinds of cheese-  For different kinds of predators. Jad Abumrad For example-  Humans coyotes- Robert Krulwich And ducks.  Right. Jad Abumrad Is this the kind of thing that we would actually be able to hear the difference between the calls?  I am guessing that you could hear the difference. Robert Krulwich You want to try it Jad?  Yeah.  Sorry could you just play those samples?  Alright. So here's one.   This is another one.  Robert Krulwich All right. Jad Abumrad Okay.  Here we go. This is a third.  Jad Abumrad Those represent different predators?  Yep. Robert Krulwich I cannot tell the difference. Jad Abumrad Can you? I mean do you know what they are?  My guess is human dog coyote.  Kan was right. Robert Krulwich Kan was right? Jad Abumrad Wow. Robert Krulwich Well naturally we wondered how- Jad Abumrad How did he do that? Robert Krulwich He told us that at first just like you and I he could not figure out how to distinguish between these sounds but he took the sound back to the lab-  Where we had a machine that allowed us to measure a series of frequency and time elements in the call. Robert Krulwich And what this computer does is it takes the sound that the Prairie dogs make and it essentially looks inside for the ingredients inside the sound. Jad Abumrad Yeah like a... Well it is kind of hard to hear with a chirp because it is just hard. So let me demonstrate crudely with this other sound. I plucked this at random from my library so this is kind of like a buzz. . Robert Krulwich Okay.  Okay. Jad Abumrad Okay? Let me just loop it so we can hear it better.  So here you have got this buzz which sounds to us like a solid piece of noise but get any cue and take away all the highs. So now got just the base. Robert Krulwich Yep. Jad Abumrad Now you will notice if you add the highs back in real slowly these little hidden overtones will pop out like a... There is one Robert Krulwich Yep. Jad Abumrad There is another. Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad Third. Robert Krulwich Yep. Jad Abumrad Fourth. Robert Krulwich Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad So in other words this sound is filled with little ghost notes that we cannot hear. And certainly the same is true of this sound  except in the case of the Prairie dogs it seems their ears are tuned to hear all the different sounds within the chirp. Probably sounds to them like this whole layer cake of tones. Robert Krulwich And Kans computer noticed that the noise they made when a human walked through their village was different in tone from the noise they made when a coyote walked through their village. It was consistently different. But there was a problem. When he zoomed in on the Uh Oh here come the human calls  ?here. Jad Abumrad And he looked at them really closely. He saw that from one human call to the next there was a lot of subtle variation.  Much much more than I would expect. Robert Krulwich And that is when it hit him. Jad Abumrad What if- Robert Krulwich What if- Jad Abumrad What if- Jad Abumrad What if they could be describing the individual humans. Robert Krulwich Oh.  Now at that time no one suspected that this might even be a possibility but I thought well let us try it and see what happens. Jad Abumrad So Khan recruited four humans- Robert Krulwich And he had them dress exactly the same. Same boot same blue jeans same sunglasses everything the same except the color of their shirts.  We had a person in a blue t-shirt a person in a green t-shirt a person in a yellow shirt a person in a gray shirt. Jad Abumrad Then he asked each of them to walk through the Prairie dog village- Robert Krulwich One by one. Jad Abumrad Prairie dogs made their chips.  And when we analyzed the results there were significant differences. Jad Abumrad Like what kind?  They essentially clustered around the colors. Robert Krulwich Does that mean you think you can hear them saying Here comes the human in blue?  Right. Robert Krulwich Versus Here comes the human in yellow?  Right? Jad Abumrad Really?  Oh I was astounded. I was astounded. Robert Krulwich He was like well wait a second. These humans they are not just different in their shirt colors. They are different than all kinds of ways.  Some of the humans were taller some the humans were shorter. Jad Abumrad So we went back reanalyzed the chirps looked a little more closely-  And- Jad Abumrad Realized-  We could tease out- Jad Abumrad The Prairie dogs were also commenting about-  The general size of the human. Essentially they were saying Here comes the tall human in the blue versus Here comes the short human in the yellow. Robert Krulwich Wow. Jad Abumrad And then he made another leap.  And it was just- Jad Abumrad You know since he was on a roll-  Off the wall idea at that time- Robert Krulwich He went back into the Prairie dog field and he built two large wooden boxes-  Sitting on stilts- Jad Abumrad A good distance from each other.  150 feet. And we strung wires between the two towers. Robert Krulwich His team then made cardboard cutouts of three different shapes.  A circle a square and a triangle. Robert Krulwich And then they ran them out along the wire kind of like a laundry fluttering above you in the breeze.  Each shape would emerge from one of the tower blinds and fly something like about three feet over the Prairie dog town. Jad Abumrad Literally you would just kind of go  and out would come a triangle or a circle or a square?  Correct. And what we found was that the Prairie dogs could tell the triangle from the circle very easily but they could not seem to tell the difference between a square and a circle. Jad Abumrad Huh. Why not?  Well my guess is that triangles kind of look like hawks. Jad Abumrad Mmm.  Circles and squares kind of look like terrestrial predators. Jad Abumrad Nonetheless what you have got here is a little rodent with a remarkably big vocabulary including but probably not limited to short fat skinny tall blue green yellow gray coyote human hawk triangle and or square. Robert Krulwich Yay! Jad Abumrad It is not bad. Robert Krulwich Is the next step that you are going to perform a scene from the Winter's Tale and see whether the  Prairie dogs laugh at the right moments? What do you do next?  Well we just are scratching the surface of looking at this. For example Prairie dogs have a lot of calls which we call social chatters. One Prairie dog will be feeding and suddenly lift up its head and go chitter chatter chitter chitter. And another Prairie dog somewhere across the colony will lift up its head and go chatter chatter chitter chitter. But what does it mean? We have no way of getting at it. It could be just simply chatter chitter chitter or it could be do you know where Sam was last night? Robert Krulwich Now here's an interesting question. I mean if a French couple were sitting next to me on the subway and they were saying Do you know where Sam was last night in French? If I do not speak French I am outside of that conversation. But a lot of people do speak French and they can listen to French people talking. The question's then raised if you live in the forest and you speak chimp or you speak eagle or you speak snake would you ever be able to overhear or learn something from a neighborly species? In other words is there an equivalent of listening to the other person talking French in the wild? Jad Abumrad Hmm good question. Robert Krulwich And that brings us back to Klaus. You remember Klaus?  The monkey guy? Ari Daniel Shapiro Yeah the monkey guy. Well Klaus was wondering the same thing. Jad Abumrad And that is a Ari Daniel Spiro again who introduced us to Klaus. Ari Daniel Shapiro So take those alarm calls for instance. He wanted to know whether different species of monkeys could understand each other. Klaus Zuber Buhler Right so um... Ari Daniel Shapiro And luckily for Klaus  there is like at least 10 different primate species living inside that Thai forest. Klaus Zuber Buhler So there is- Jad Abumrad One Columbus monkeys two- Klaus Zuber Buhler Spot-nosed monkeys. Jad Abumrad Three chimpanzees four- Klaus Zuber Buhler Colobos. Jad Abumrad Five- Klaus Zuber Buhler Colobines- Jad Abumrad Six- Klaus Zuber Buhler Putty-nose monkeys. Jad Abumrad Seven- Klaus Zuber Buhler Mangabey species. Jad Abumrad Eight- Klaus Zuber Buhler Prosimians- Jad Abumrad Nine- Klaus Zuber Buhler Campbulls monkey. Jad Abumrad And then the Diana's 10. Klaus Zuber Buhler Yeah so it is a very rich primate . Ari Daniel Shapiro So Klaus's question was could Diana monkeys understand the alarm calls of another one of these monkeys? The Campbell's monkey. Jad Abumrad Oh could they go across monkey lines so to speak? Ari Daniel Shapiro Exactly. Jad Abumrad Hmm. Ari Daniel Shapiro So he used that same setup from before- Jad Abumrad The speaker thing where he plays the sound into the trees? Ari Daniel Shapiro Yeah. And he played the eagle and leopard alarm calls from the Campbells monkeys to the Diana's to see if they would react. Klaus Zuber Buhler And what we found there to our great surprise was that the Diana monkeys- Ari Daniel Shapiro They understand it. Jad Abumrad Really? Robert Krulwich Really? Ari Daniel Shapiro Yep. Klaus Zuber Buhler They take that very very seriously and respond to it very strongly. Ari Daniel Shapiro So a Diana monkey hearing a Campbells eagle alarm call will respond as though there were an eagle and will respond to the leopard alarm call as though there were a leopard and vice versa- Klaus Zuber Buhler And it does not stop there. Ari Daniel Shapiro Klaus started playing the monkey calls to birds. Klaus Zuber Buhler To chest hornbills- Ari Daniel Shapiro Yellow-cast hornbills. Klaus Zuber Buhler It turns out that- Ari Daniel Shapiro They understand it. Jad Abumrad The birds? Ari Daniel Shapiro Yep. These hornbills- Klaus Zuber Buhler Are capable of discriminating these different monkey alarm calls. Robert Krulwich Wow. Klaus Zuber Buhler So it is a pretty substantial web species. Basically eavesdropping on each other's calls in these forests. Ari Daniel Shapiro But Klaus himself he was still on the outside of it all. Klaus Zuber Buhler It is that general sense of perhaps not really belonging there. But then- Ari Daniel Shapiro He told me about this one day. Klaus Zuber Buhler I was working in the forest. Ari Daniel Shapiro He had gone out for the day and he would gone out alone. Klaus Zuber Buhler And it was very far away from camp- Ari Daniel Shapiro And it was in the late afternoon and he realized that he should probably be heading back to camp. Klaus Zuber Buhler Because I still had to walk for something like 15 20 kilometers to back to camp. Ari Daniel Shapiro And he was walking past a kind of Valley. Klaus Zuber Buhler And then I heard on the other side of the Valley... Klaus Zuber Buhler A monkey group giving leopard alarm calls which does not happen that often. Ari Daniel Shapiro It was the first time that he was not actively listening but he heard these monkeys make this call and recognized it. Klaus Zuber Buhler It was absolutely striking. Ari Daniel Shapiro And he was actually quite excited by this. Klaus Zuber Buhler Because I was suddenly able to understand what the monkey's trying to say so to speak. Ari Daniel Shapiro Those monkeys had picked up a leopard. Robert Krulwich Right beneath that sound there the leopard would be. Ari Daniel Shapiro Right but you know those monkeys were way across the Valley. Klaus Zuber Buhler So I did not really think that much and walked on. Perhaps half a mile further down the road. Ari Daniel Shapiro And the next group of Diana monkeys... still across the Valley. Klaus Zuber Buhler Start giving leopard alarm codes as well. Ari Daniel Shapiro And he kind of took notice of that... Ari Daniel Shapiro And then it happened a third time a few minutes later. Klaus Zuber Buhler What became clear to me very rapidly is that a leopard was- Ari Daniel Shapiro Tracking him. Klaus Zuber Buhler Of course I could not see it because it was dense forest but I assumed that the leopard's on me and of course thar it just one of these moments where you are totally alone far far away from camp. Robert Krulwich What does he do? Ari Daniel Shapiro He kept walking. It happened a fourth group called leopard fifth group called leopard. And then the group stopped calling. Klaus Zuber Buhler The only thing I could think of is to pick up a large branch. Jad Abumrad I should not laugh. That is just terrifying. Ari Daniel Shapiro Klaus would that stick have done anything for you? Klaus Zuber Buhler I doubt I really would have been able to do very much with a stick. Ari Daniel Shapiro But as he is standing there stick in hand he realizes he is just entered the forest. He is become- Klaus Zuber Buhler The 11th primate. Jad Abumrad The 11th primate- Ari Daniel Shapiro Because there are those 10 other species of primate and now... Jad Abumrad Me. Suddenly I shifted from being the objective observer to being a sort of part of that whole crowd in there. Even though we are separated by 20 30 million of years of evolutionary history these humble creatures were able to teach me something about what was going on into forest. And of course it was not intentional. They were not trying to inform me or anything like that but it was a very emotional experience. Jad Abumrad So what happened? I mean obviously you did not get eaten. What happened? Ari Daniel Shapiro Well he made it back to camp and he is not sure what happened to the leopard. The leopard must have slinked off into the forest. In the end became- Klaus Zuber Buhler Just another story to tell each other over beers in the evening I suppose. Jad Abumrad Yeah. Robert Krulwich Yeah. Klaus Zuber Buhler Yeah. Robert Krulwich Thanks for that story to Ari Daniel Shapiro our correspondent- Jad Abumrad And also thanks to Klaus Zuber Buhler and . I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abumrad Thanks for listening. Cassandra This is Cassandra Williard a Radiolab listener in Brooklyn New York. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. For more information about Sloan go to... Let me start over. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org.  End this message.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 