 Welcome back to hain of Command episode. Today we are highlighting stories from people who do exactly as they are told and people who do not. Now you may know that SNAP has this amazing live show that we do from time to time. In fact our big news is that SNAP JUDGMENT Live! is going to return to San Francisco's Nourse Theater for a story spectacular Sunday October 25 and Saturday October 26. You can get tickets at snapjudgment.org. And to just give you a little taste up next on this Chain of Command episode take the best seat in the house as SNAP Live! favorite Josh Healey rocks the SNAP Live! audience with a story only he could tell. SNAP JUDGMENT Live!   Today's next performer was with SNAP JUDGMENT from day one. He is a poet a teacher a man with a heart as big as a Michigan lake. Please put your hands together for Mr. Josh Healey.   My grandmother was a sweet little old lady who baked the best chocolate chip cookies ever who stood 4-foot-11 in heels and who at one time was the highest-ranking woman in the American Communist Party. It is true. It is true. My grandmother Dorothy Ray Healey was the head of the Communist Party in Los Angeles from 1945 to 1968. All throughout the 1950s which from what I have heard was an awesome time to be a Communist in America.     Joe McCarthy that dude loved my grandma. He loved her so much he sent her to jail three times. And all three times she appealed her case to the Supreme Court and won her freedom.   Now when I was born grandma moved from LA to D.C. to help raise me and my brother. We called her Comrade Grannie.   And when I was 10 years old Comrade Grannie took me to a protest that helped shape my own politics to this day. There was a strike out in the Maryland suburbs so Grandma and I went out to join the picket line. Nothing new so far just another day in the struggle. But when we get to the factory I look up at the sign over the gates and I cannot believe it. I do not want to believe it. There staring at me from the sign above the factory gates were these huge images of red licorice and purple lollipops and every dark delicious flavor of chocolate possible. I said Grandma are we protesting a candy factory? And she said no Joshy we are protesting the candy factory owners who are not giving their workers a living wage. I cannot believe this. I cannot believe this. I mean I am 10 years old I am standing in front of the real-life version of Willy Wonka's Chocolate Factory and you are telling me I cannot go inside and swim in the chocolate waterfall? Taste the lollipop trees? Now that is an injustice. But here we are outside the gates and there is about a hundred people in the picket line and grandma and I join in and we start marching in a circle and we are chanting for justice. But the truth is I am not thinking about worker's rights or living wages. All I can think about is that sign and how I can get inside for one second and have one taste of that sweet sugary goodness. So I go up to Grandma and I ask in my nicest little 10-year-old grandson voice possible I say grandma do you think I can go inside and maybe they will give me a little candy?   But Comrade Grannie do not play that. She says Joshy I am very disappointed in you. We have taught you in this family you do not cross picket lines.   You - you do not want to be a scab do you? A scab? A scab? Now you know a scab is technically just the replacement worker a company brings in during a strike but to true activists like my grandmother a scab is the worst thing in the world that you could call someone a traitor to the working class an Uncle Tom in a room full of Black Panthers. When Grandma asked me if I am going to be a scab I say no - no no no no no. I will be good Grandma I promise. And she says good. Good. But if you are getting a little hungry why do not you just go get something from the hot dog stand down the block? So I start walking. And I am walking. And I am about halfway down the block when all of a sudden I see it - there on the back side of the factory is an open window.   No way. And I look around and I do not see Grandma and I do not see anyone. So technically I would not be crossing the picket line right? I would be going around it. So I jump over the little factory fence I race across the parking lot I scramble up a dumpster and one step at a time I climb inside the open window. I am in. I am inside the candy factory. And it is not exactly what I expected. There is no chocolate waterfalls. There is no lollipop trees. But there are assembly lines and conveyor belts and wait - oh a huge massive crate filled with thousands millions of dark freshly-packaged chocolates. And so I tiptoe my way over to the crate and right as I am about to put my hand in and grab a piece I hear behind me hey you. And I turn around but it is no security guard - it is a kid. A little kid with big freckles even younger than me. And he says hey you - this is awesome.   I am Bobby. Let us get some candy. So he takes a piece from the crate and starts eating it. So I take a piece from the crate and I start eating it. And then another and then another and then another and before you know it I have got chocolate all over my hands and chocolate all over my face and chocolate on the back of my neck. And I am like - I look at him and I am like Bobby this is amazing. How did you get in? And Bobby's like you see that guy over there working that big machine? That is my dad. And I nearly choke on my chocolate. Bobby's dad is a scab? Does that make Bobby a scab? And since I am in here eating this piece what does that make me? I look over and I say I have got to go man. Thanks for the candy Bobby. And I tiptoe back to the window and I climb out. I scramble down the dumpster I cut across the parking lot I jump over the little factory fence and run back out to the front and when I reach the front the strikers are not marching in a circle anymore. They are just standing in front of the factory gates arms crossed. The factory whistle blows - it is shift change and a row of cars filled with scabs starts trying to make its way right through the picket line. The strikers are pushing back pushing against their windows shouting at them to go home and four big cops are shoving the strikers back moving them with their batons. And Grandma - Grandma is right up there at the front of the picket with the strikers marching shouting Solidarity Forever Solidarity Forever. I look over. I see Bobby sitting on the curb looking around for his dad trying not to cry. And here I am right in the middle. I have got Grandma on one side Bobby on the other a pocket full of chocolate burning its way through my jeans. What should I do? And five minutes later things start to calm down. Some of the strikers some of the scabs made their way through. Some of them decided it was not worth it and go home. Grandma and I we start making our way back to our car. I look on the other side of the street see Bobby walking with his dad. And I look up at my grandma and I am nervous but I ask her. I say Grandma if you are the son of a scab does that make you a scab? And she says no Joshy it does not. Just like being the son of an activist does not make you an activist. Everyone has to decide for them self. Why do you ask? And I take a deep breath and I reach into my pocket and pull it out and I show her. And when I do I can see the anger and the disappointment all over her face. And she says give me that. And I do and I hang my head. But when I look up again I see something different. I see my grandma my first real comrade look at me and see her 10-year-old grandson. And she says well Joshy there is really only one thing we can do at this historical moment. And she takes the candy and she breaks it in half. She gives half to me and pops the other half in her mouth. And she says as Marx would say it is always better to share the wealth.   Josh Healey. Original score by Alex Mandel and the SNAP JUDGMENT players. Now do not miss the magic. We are filming a brand-new SNAP Live! in San Francisco. The world's best storytellers October 25 and Sunday October 26. Get tickets for the best date night ever at snapjudgment.org. Now do not go anywhere because when SNAP JUDGMENT returns a doctor finally gets his chance to look evil directly in the eye - for real - when hain of Command episode continues. Stay tuned. 