 From PRX and NPR welcome back to eturn episode. My name is Glynn Washington. And today we are returning back to the scene of the event to see if maybe we can make our peace. Our next storyteller Josh Cereghino performs all over the place. But this story was recorded live at the busting out storytelling event in the San Francisco Bay. Josh Cereghino take it away.   This is a story about a car and a friendship. It is June two months before my 16th birthday and I am in a plane flying into the Burbank airport. My older brother Todd  and I are flying back from our grandmother's funeral. My brother's my guardian on the flight which is highly ironic because to him I am a skinny punching bag in a Led Zeppelin T-shirt. He is got me by three years 60 pounds he is a weightlifter. And his in-flight entertainment consists of gripping me in a headlock peppering me with a few rabbit punches and smashing my face into the window. So while I am looking - gazing down at the sprawl of Los Angeles I notice we are flying over a car lot. And through the heat shimmer I see row upon row of blue and white police cruisers and some orange Dodge Chargers with rebel flags painted on the roof - the Confederate flag. These are the cars used on the infamous Dukes Of Hazzard TV show driven by the Duke boys Bo and Luke. It is a ridiculous show and basically all they do is go terrorizing around Hazzard County having adventures and outwitting the police and righting wrongs and terrorizing around Hazzard County in an orange Dodge Charger. And I do not care about the show. I care about getting out of the headlock and breathing again. And I know Todd will care because this summer the summer of his 18th year he wants one thing - a fast and powerful car. And so I squeak and he looks out the window and he sees the cars. And the bells go off and he punches the wall which he is apt to do and shouts yee-haw which is what the Duke boys say when they are excited about punching walls. And the next day he drags me out to the set where they film The Dukes Of Hazzard. And we meet the guy in charge of all the cars used on the show. He is the car wrangler. And it turns out they have got some for sale. We look at a couple of the pristine A-cars they use in all the shots. And then we take a test drive in a B-car a stunt car. This thing is painted like jet black. It was in 1976. I do not know how big the motor was - three-on-the-tree V8 Dual Carbs - just a monster. It is kind of banged up but it is loud and it is fast. We haul ass all over that country set. We get it up to 110 miles an hour on the freeway. He even lets me drive which is a bit generous considering our relationship. And he says look I am short 500. Loan it to me I will pay you back in the fall. Meanwhile we can work on the car together and I will let you drive it. And I say yeah. And we get the car and you know we start to work on it. There is things like the windshield wipers that want to come on and off when they want to we do the shocks and the struts. And there is the problem with the heater - you cannot turn it on because it sticks and it will compromise the electrical system but it is the middle of the hottest summer on record. We leave that for the fall. Todd warms up to me this summer. We would never been close. He was hostile to me from the day I came home from the hospital at four months of age having had a brain surgery. He tipped my crib over spilling me onto the floor. And the child psychologist that my parents sent him to said he hates his little brother - yeah so basically we have this car together and we are sharing it. And finally he opened up to me. He talked to me about our parents' divorce and his feelings of anger around it. He asked me about my feelings. He shared his favorite hobbies with me - taught me to play guitar and how to talk to girls. And he retired his favorite hobby which was two- three beatings a week and you know an object of all his verbal and physical aggression. Now he was still the archetypal you know poster child for the angry young man syndrome but now it was easy-going and it was fun. And one night after this greasy meal at Carl's Jr. he was instructing me in the finer points of maneuvering a Dodge Charger around a you know high school football track. And again this is a couple hundred - this is like a couple tons of prime American steel. And as I am you know damaging my high school property a car comes through the parking lot. It is a police car. They are so close I can see the doughnut crumbs in the mustache of this Ventura County Sheriff and he spots me. He lights up the Christmas tree hits the siren and before he can turn around I have gone out the other side of the field like 0 to 60 in the blink of an eye. And we haul ass. He wants me to drive and I said shut up I am a Duke boy blah blah blah. And we juke and we drive and we lose the cops and we are screaming just like the brothers on the show. We get home he punches me in the shoulder and he looks at me. He is proud of me at last. My 16th birthday August 2 a couple of weeks later he lets me take the car out solo for the first time and I pick up my girlfriend Katya . And we are going out for a birthday dinner and it is the hottest day of the summer. It is literally 109 degrees. She goes to turn on the AC but moves the heater lever mistake and I cannot turn it off so it is really boiling now. But we just roll down the windows and drive faster. We have a great time. I drop her off. And as I am driving home the car starts to overheat. It is boiling steam's coming out from under the hood. But I am almost there and so I keep going. As I get up the hill it sputters and dies just one house down from ours. And somehow Todd knows this and he comes charging out of the house. And when he sees the car when he sees his baby dead in the street steam comes out of his ears. And he grabs me and he says I told you not to touch the heater - he is not even making words but he knows what is going on. And right then he punches me in the solar plexus right? But not this time not anymore. I have grown over the summer. Ironically he is taught me and I am not doing this again. And so I stand there and I wind up and as hard as I can I throw a right cross onto the bridge of his nose. And his head rocks back and he touches the blood gushing out of what is a broken nose and he looks at me with a mixture of shock and a little bit of fear and respect. And I think I have done it I have slain the dragon. We turn the corner and he will respect me from this day forward. And he kicks my ass across the street. And when I say he kicks my ass across the street it was like a cartoon brawl with the dust cloud - down the lawn through the hedge sidewalk blacktop. I am getting up and knocked down - through the median more blacktop - and finally he is coming in for the coup de grace and I freeze and I am looking behind him. And he catches my eye and he turns. And we both watch the car burn. It is consumed by orange fire. You can see the black paint melting away. And as that car goes up in smoke our friendship and our brotherhood go with it. Todd bought a motorcycle and moved out at the end of the summer. We are cordial now even friendly sometimes. But we were never as tight again as we were that summer when we were as tight as them Duke boys. Thank you.   Josh Cereghino he is a storyteller from LA a three-time Moth Grandslam winner. This piece was produced by Kay De Martini and Mark Ristich. It is that time and you are thinking not not not now I need more SNAP. Well we understand so get the podcast - full episodes movies pictures stuff - at snapjudgment.org. Yes SNAP JUDGMENT is on the Facebook - Twitter - snapjudgment.org. Have you ever taken hand of a sleeping person and placed it in a bowl of warm water? Well never do that to the Corporation for Public Broadcasting because this type of stuff is a matter of grave public health and will not be tolerated and whatever else they said. A bunch of love to the CPB. PRX Public Radio Exchange is a place where a person can go to exchange their old radios for one that is shiny and new. I do not know how they make any money with that but to find out more go to prx.org. Now you know this is not the news. No way is this the news. In fact you could return the cup of sugar you borrowed back to the neighbors only to discover that they left the front door unlocked allowing you to borrow their new sofa their grandmother's jewelry box and their riding lawnmower. And when the police want to ask you a few questions about your neighborly borrowing you would still not be as far away from the news as this is. But this is NPR. 