Intro 1 Wait wait your listening...  Intro 2 Okay. Jad Abumrad All right. Intro 2 Okay. Jad Abumrad All right. Intro 2 You are- Intro 1 ... listening- Intro 2 ... to RadioLab. Intro 1 RadioLab. Intro 2 From... Intro 1 WNYC. Intro 2 C? Intro 1 Yep. Jad Abumrad Hey I am Jad Abumrad. This is RadioLab. As you may know I have been uh working on a series about Dolly Parton. It is called Dolly Parton's America uh which you can hear uh if you go to DollyPartonsAmerica.com or you go to iTunes or all the other places and search for Dolly Parton's America. And the whole thing uh is kind of an attempt to look at who we are as a country through the lens of this one singer songwriter. But... Alex Kramer So everybody just find a partner. Jad Abumrad While I was working on that... Alex Kramer And if you do not know them that is fine. You can just walk up to somebody and say Hi I am so-and-so. Will you dance with me? Jad Abumrad Our reporter Tracie Hunte was stumbling into a similar set of questions about America and Americanness but- Alex Kramer If anybody needs a partner just raise your hand and then look around for other hands that are up. Jad Abumrad ... in her case it was through a dance. Tracie Hunte Here we go. Alex Kramer Join hands and circle left. Back to the right do not take all night. Jad Abumrad A little while ago Tracie and I threw a dance party over at a place called The Bell House. That is in Brooklyn. We had a live band. Alex Kramer All the way back left hand star. Jad Abumrad We had a caller named Alex Kramer. We swung our partners round and round. Alex Kramer You swing mine and I will swing yours. Jad Abumrad We do-si-doed. We dove for the clam. Alex Kramer I will swing mine you swing yours. Jad Abumrad We might have even shot through the hold in the old tin can. Alex Kramer Join hands in that pretty little ring. One couple make an arch. Duck for the oyster. Jad Abumrad There were about 100 of us there that night learning the very American art of... of square dancing. But but but you might be asking wh- why'd we do this? Why would RadioLab do a square dancing even in Brooklyn in 2019? Well it is Tracie's fault. Tracie Hunte Why cannot I hear anything? Oh!  It is not plugged in. Jad Abumrad Oh. It all goes back... Tracie Hunte I need to find a frickin'- Jad Abumrad Um... Tracie Hunte ... adaptor to the... Oh here's here they are. Jad Abumrad ... to a conversation Tracie and I had in the studio before we ever got up on stage together. Tracie Hunte Okay um so square dancing. Jad Abumrad Lay it on me. Tracie Hunte A- a- a dance that I should say before I started reporting this story I would never seen. I kind of knew about it saw it in the musical Oklahoma. Jad Abumrad It was inflicted on me in uh in uh grade school. Tracie Hunte I know. Jad Abumrad It is yes but I think that is just an inheritance from growing up in the South. Tracie Hunte W- well actually no. It- it is not just a southern thing. Besides the fact that it somehow missed me in Miami it was taught in pretty much every other school in the country. Jad Abumrad Huh. Tracie Hunte Quick scan of the audience. How many of you had to do square dancing in school? Tracie Hunte That is something that we actually confirmed later at the event. Tracie Hunte Oh my god. So many of you.  Jad Abumrad Wow most of the audience. Tracie Hunte I feel like that was most of the audience um... Tracie Hunte But the thing is it does not just stop at schools. Square dancing is a state dance or the state folk dance in about 30 states. 30! Alabama California Idaho Maryland Oklahoma Texas Washington and and on and on and on. And on top of that it is been pushed in front of congress on two separate occasions where people fought to make it the national folk dance of America elevating it right up there with the Bald Eagle. By the way that is a Red Tail Hawk because Eagles do not sound as cool as we think they do. Tracie Hunte And you know square dancing is not exactly what we thought it was either. Jad Abumrad Hmm. Tracie Hunte Um I mean you know it it did not really kind of mesh with my idea of America exactly. But when I started digging and I went super deep I gotta say it kind of messed with some of my ideas of my America and your America and our America. Jad Abumrad Hmm. Okay. Tracie Hunte So just to uh get things started off I am going to take you back to the 1890s or 1890 ish. Phil Jamison In the late 1800s there were many immigrants coming to this country from southern and eastern Europe. Tracie Hunte According to folk dance scholar Phil Jamison at that time a new wave of immigrants were coming to America. Phil Jamison Italians and Slavs and Polish people and Jewish people. Tracie Hunte And they were seen as very different from the earlier waves of English and Irish and German immigrants. Phil Jamison And the old stock Americans started to push back against these immigrants and say wait a minute we are the real Americans. Our ancestors were here first. And you know think of ei- 1890s when the Daughters of the American Revolution was founded... Tracie Hunte We were a generation past the Emancipation Proclamation and the Trail of Tears and in 1892... Phil Jamison The Pledge of Allegiance was put into our public schools. Tracie Hunte And so Phil says around this time there was a national conversation bubbling up about who we as Americans are. Like when we say us who is us? Phil Jamison Well... Tracie Hunte According to Phil one answer to that question came from a music scholar. Phil Jamison An English ballad collector named Cecil Sharp who came to the southern mountains. Tracie Hunte From about 1916 to 1918 he went all around the Appalachian Mountains in the southern U.S. visiting families sitting on front porches and asking people to sing. Folk Singer  Phil Jamison And was astounded that people were still singing old British ballads that had long since died out in England. Folk Singer  Phil Jamison They were singing about Barbara Ellen and they were singing about lords and ladies and b- white steeds and bloody daggers and all that. Tracie Hunte Now this is interesting to him because Sharp's idea and he was not alone in this is that the people living in Southern Appalachia the white people living there- Phil Jamison These people had been isolated here in the mountains for generations. Tracie Hunte ... and were therefore the keepers of the purest Anglo-Saxon heritage in America. Folk Singer  Phil Jamison And when he was in eastern Kentucky- Tracie Hunte ... he came across that pure heritage and dance form. Phil Jamison He came across some people doing a square dance that was it was a demonstration for him. Tracie Hunte And the thing about this uh dance that he was seeing it had some elements of French dances. Phil Jamison French cotillions and quadrilles and- Tracie Hunte Where six couples would be in some sort of formation holding hands moving in a circle. But also parts of it that looked like Scots-Irish and English country dances where couples would link arms and skip around each other then make arches for other couples to duck through. So all these different moves were coming together in this one dance he was seeing happening right in front of him. Phil Jamison And he just made this assumption that these were Anglo-Saxon people and this is the folk dance of our ancestors. Tracie Hunte Now obviously there were a lot of different kinds of people living in those mountains that he was ignoring. But despite that or maybe more like because of it this idea that square dancing was quintessentially American just took off. Phil Jamison And shortly after that is when they started teaching folk dances in schools. Tracie Hunte So the first place I heard any of this was this Tweet thread that was very tantalizing. It sort of pegged Henry Ford as the mastermind behind this white supremacist plot- Jad Abumrad Oh okay. Tracie Hunte ... to put square dancing in all the schools in order to like save white children from jazz or something. Jad Abumrad Oh I see. So this was an attempt at white washing. Tracie Hunte Basically yes. Jad Abumrad Got it. Tracie Hunte Now first of all Henry Ford was an anti-Semite and for some reason thought Jews had invented jazz and hated jazz and he tried to promote dances from quote northern peoples but- Phil Jamison Henry Ford had nothing to do with teaching square dancing in physical education classes. Tracie Hunte ... that part of the Tweet thread is not quite true. But the white washing part is not exactly wrong. It was actually one dance educator in Michigan- Phil Jamison Grace Ryan in Michigan. Tracie Hunte ... who started teaching the square dance- Phil Jamison ... as a way to assimilate the children of European immigrants to be true Americans. Tracie Hunte More teachers picked it up. She wrote some books. And that kind of popularized it around the country among teachers and before you knew it bam square dancing in schools. Announcer From Tuscumbia Missouri they call themselves The Lake of Ozark Square Dancing. Tracie Hunte And then the dance started to spread. Announcer You all set? All right. Tracie Hunte People were dancing in community halls and public squares and churches and barns. By the '30s square dancing is all over the radio. Announcer Hey hey. Radio Ad Places all. Tracie Hunte Square dance is to... Radio Ad All join hands circle left. Tracie Hunte You know you could just go to YouTube and like Google Lucky Strike Square Dancing and you see this like really weird commercial where there is actually like cigarettes doing the square dance. Radio Ad ... around we go Lucky Strike means fine tobacco. Tracie Hunte By the '40s and '50s it is huge! News Announcer The square dancing craze sweeping across the nation keeps on growing in New York in a big way. Tracie Hunte Square dancing clubs start forming all over the place. News Speaker ... from Burbank California. Tracie Hunte Out west it starts to get a little yee-haw with men in cowboy shirts and boots and women in big fluffy skirts. News Speaker It is so beautiful. Tracie Hunte In 1951 they form a national organization that puts on this national square dancing convention where tens of thousands of people gather from all over the country and square dance together. News Announcer Square dancing is part of the heritage of the United States. Born uh with the very birth of the country. Tracie Hunte And then... News Announcer The square dancers of America want something from congress. They want their dancing square dancing officially named the national folk dance of the United States. Tracie Hunte These groups went to congress to say that square dancing should be the American dance. Leon Panetta Square dance is indeed uniquely American. It is American American. Tracie Hunte And actually it was officially the national folk dance from 1982 to 1983. So I really wanted to talk to the people who were a part of this effort but a lot of them are dead so... Jad Abumrad You mean oh so this is an old movement? Tracie Hunte This is an old movement. But- Leslie This is Leslie. Tracie Hunte I did manage to find the congressman- Leon Panetta Here's the door. Leslie He is coming right in oh- Tracie Hunte ... who introduced some of these bills. Leslie Sorry here you go. Leon Panetta Okay. Tracie Hunte His name is... Tracie Hunte Hello. Tracie Hunte .. Leon Panetta. Leon Panetta Hey how are you Tracie? Jad Abumrad Uh wait. News Announcer The former Secretary of Defense and former director of the CIA Leon Panetta. Jad Abumrad The Leon Panetta? Tracie Hunte The th- Jad Abumrad The Clinton Leon Panetta? Tracie Hunte The Clinton Leon Panetta former White House chief of staff. Leon Panetta So I think this is the moment for a strong steady hand. Tracie Hunte Usually these days he is on CNN answering hard questions about drones. Leon Panetta Responsibility of the intelligence community. Tracie Hunte National security. Leon Panetta It has to be comprehensive. It has to involve- Tracie Hunte So I think he was a little surprised when I called him up and said you know hey you want to talk about square dancing? Leon Panetta Well  it came out of it came out of nowhere. It brought back...  Jad Abumrad He introduced the bill about square dancing? Leon Panetta  Tracie Hunte Yep. Leon Panetta Well uh I- I have actually did folk dancing when I was in uh grammar school. And uh and enjoyed it then and uh always uh kind of k- kept track of uh- Tracie Hunte Back in the 1980s he was a congressman out of California. Leon Panetta And there was a couple that uh were involved in folk dancing. George and Ann Holtzer I believe were their names. Tracie Hunte Mm-hmm . Leon Panetta And- Tracie Hunte He had uh some square dancers who were very supportive of his campaigns so it was very much a politically kind of like- Jad Abumrad Oh... Tracie Hunte ... favorish type of thing. Leon Panetta Uh they came to me uh with the idea. Tracie Hunte But he was actually pretty kind of passionate about when I was talking to him. Leon Panetta Oh yeah. I thought it made sense to try to establish and recognize it as uh the national folk dance. News Announcer Well on the face of it all that sounds harmless enough. Tracie Hunte But- News Announcer But wait minute. Tracie Hunte ... there was this kind of immediate very muscular opposition to this bill. News Announcer This house sub-committee suddenly discovered that about the only people who would be happy to commemorate square dancing are square dancers. Tracie Hunte One by one dance historians folklorists got in front of the mic and said you gotta be kidding me. Testimony 1 To make folk dancing a national dance to me would be a slap in the face to other arts. Tracie Hunte This makes absolutely no sense. Testimony 2 This is a nation of immigrants. Tracie Hunte The United States is a country filled with a lot of different kinds of people from a lot of different parts of the world. Testimony 2 To single out a dance that represents even a very small fraction of British origin immigrants would be insulting to every other cultural group in this country. Tracie Hunte Everyone was like square dancing? Seriously? What about hula. News Announcer Is that a folk dance? Tracie Hunte What about tap? News Announcer Or for that matter break dancing as an expression of urban folk culture. Tracie Hunte Not to mention the people who were here first Native Americans who have their own dance traditions. Um you know one bit of testimony that actually stuck with me was from the 1988 hearing. Um it was a woman named Rayna Green. She was at one time the head of the American Folklore Society and she is a member of the Cherokee Nation and she said My grandmother has only ever done the square dance in schools. Um that is the only place she ever did it um and at the same time she was forbidden from doing her own tribal dances. And so to come and say that square dancing is now the national folk dance would be to dishonor her and dishonor all her ancestors. Jad Abumrad And even uh just to put finer point on it I mean you take something like the massacre at Wounded Knee. I mean that was the culmination of a series of events that I think began with a dance. Tracie Hunte Wow. Jad Abumrad Uh so it was not simply that they were being forgotten I think they were being c- they were being very violently suppressed at times. So the dance the dance has... The question of what dance you do is is not always it- it is sometimes violent you know? Tracie Hunte Yeah. Jad Abumrad So. Tracie Hunte I am curious about like what would be your reaction to to that argument? Leon Panetta Well I I mean I I certainly appreciate uh Indian tradition and what happened to uh the Indians throughout history. I uh there is there is no question how abused they were. Tracie Hunte Mm-hmm . Leon Panetta And the same time it is important to recognize some of the things that make the United States what it is today. So I I always remember de Tocqueville's comments uh when he came to this country and went to the frontier and by the way saw people folk dancing at that time. Tracie Hunte  Leon Panetta But he he mentioned something that I think is particularly important. He said the difference a- about America is that in in those small communities uh throughout the west people care for one another they have a sense of community. Tracie Hunte Yeah. I I do not think that that was when de Tocqueville was here and he was looking at the west I do not think that that was much of a time of togetherness. I mean plenty of Indian tribes were being driven off their land. Leon Panetta No it was tough it was a- Tracie Hunte I get- I g- y- you know I do- I do not want to like start  you know start a whole thing but I guess it is just I I am kind of do not want to have like a romanticized view of that time period. Leon Panetta No I I uh I do not think we have to have a romanticized view I mean uh the fact remains that all of us in our communities do recognize the importance of helping one another. And that is not romanticizing a damn thing. And um I just think at some point uh it would be a nice uh gesture to all of those that enjoy that to make clear that the United States recognizes that square dance is particularly unique to the history and to the culture of America. Tracie Hunte Well I I I really appreciate you taking the time to talk about this and- Leon Panetta Sure.  Yeah. Jad Abumrad That was a... I wish that that was slightly more satisfying response there. Tracie Hunte  Jad Abumrad I feel like you guys were not having the same conversation or something. That was like- Tracie Hunte Yeah to say the least. And it made me realize that you know maybe I should not be talking a- to a politician. I should be talking to square dancers. And so I made some phone calls. Tracie Hunte Oh are you Linda? Linda Peterson I am Linda hi. Tracie Hunte Oh hey. Tracie Hunte I traveled to the heartland of America. And... Linda Peterson Square dancers hug. Tracie Hunte Okay all right. Linda Peterson That is called a yellow ross. Tracie Hunte Okay. Tracie Hunte What I found out about square dancing was actually really surprising. Jad Abumrad Like what? Tracie Hunte Well you are gonna have to wait 'til after the break. Jad Abumrad Oh well then. RadioLab will continue in a moment. Alicia Bridges This is Alicia Bridges calling from Saskatoon in Saskatchewan. RadioLab is supported in part by the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan at www.sloan.org. Chris Garcia Anybody have an American born kid? Okay gonna talk about it oh man. Chris Garcia Hey I am Chris Garcia. Chris Garcia My son Christian Andres Primitio Garcia he goes by Chris. Yeah okay I believe it man.  Chris Garcia For a long time my dad was the center piece of my act. And then he died. And for the last two years I have been trying to figure out what happened to him in Cuba. Those are secrets that he kept with him until the end. Listen to Scattered from WNYC Studios wherever you get your podcasts. Jad Abumrad I am Jad this is RadioLab we are back from break with producer Tracie Hunte doing the dance of the square. Well we have not actually done the dance yet that is coming. Uh where we left off so far uh we would seen what happened when uh a bunch of square dance uh evangelists took their cause to congress pushed for square dance to be the American folk dance people pushed back against that claiming actually no the square dance leaves people out it actually represents something truly painful in our country's past. That is where we left off. Tracie Hunte Yeah but that was in the '80s more than 30 years ago and I wanted to see what was going on with square dancing today. And I was making a bunch of calls and I eventually talked to this one woman named Linda Peterson. She was part of the effort to make square dancing the state folk dance for the state of Maryland. And she invited me to the National Square Dancing Convention. Tracie Hunte All right. I am in the lobby of the downtown Marriott. Tracie Hunte In Kansas City Missouri in this huge convention center. Tracie Hunte Uh... Tracie Hunte People were just arriving. They had their suitcases. You can see like they were bringing in these costume racks I guess filled with big huge skirts western shirts cowboy boots lots of glitter. Lots of crinoline. A- and anyway Linda and I had planned to meet in the lobby of this hotel. Tracie Hunte So hopefully she will notice that I am the person with the big fuzzy microphone. Also the black one. Tracie Hunte I will say that I did find black square dancers there.  Jad Abumrad You did? Tracie Hunte Um I counted while I was there um about um 11. Jad Abumrad Out of how many? Tracie Hunte Uh about 3000. Jad Abumrad Oh wow so...  Tracie Hunte Um.  I guess one in 3- 300. Jad Abumrad  That is a- that is that is a ratio. Tracie Hunte Yeah. But um eventually. Linda Peterson You are not Tracie are you? Tracie Hunte Oh are you Linda? Linda Peterson I am Linda hi. Tracie Hunte Oh hey. Tracie Hunte Linda spotted me. Linda Peterson How are you? Tracie Hunte I am good. Linda Peterson Square dancers hug. Tracie Hunte Okay. All right. Tracie Hunte And then she just takes me around. And she just starts- Linda Peterson This is Tracie. Conference Goer Hi Tracie. Tracie Hunte Hello hello. Tracie Hunte Introducing me to everybody. Conference Goer Hi glad to meet you. Conference Goer Hi Tracie. Tracie Hunte In this square dance world- Linda Peterson Yeah. Tracie Hunte ... each person was just- Linda Peterson Yes. Tracie Hunte ... friendlier than the last. Linda Peterson  Tracie Hunte There was an opening ceremony. Speaker Dear heavenly father we gather this day... Tracie Hunte Some speeches a prayer. Speaker Enjoying in the light and happiness and fun. Tracie Hunte Eventually we did finally get to see some dancing. And it sound like this. Caller Oh hey walk on around to your corner girl. Seats on down your own. Show of hands circle to the left around your own. Jad Abumrad Wow. Caller Oh now the mean start  around you know- Tracie Hunte And there is these super complicated calls and instead of the traditional fiddle band with a banjo and so on they are actually playing '80s pop hits. Jad Abumrad Wow. Tracie Hunte And this is actually common. Um I talked to this one caller who was like yeah I use J.Lo sometimes.  Um... Jad Abumrad Really? Tracie Hunte Yes.  I actually walked into one room where they were using Leonard Cohen's Hallelujah. Um so th- they really do use like just all kinds of music. And you know it was just a long ways off from like you know Oklahoma style western frontier version of square dancing that I had in my head. And when I started going around talking to people... Tracie Hunte We are public radio so this is just my mic and I am recording this like you know?  Roy That is a microphone? Tracie Hunte It is a microphone. Tracie Hunte It was also pretty clear that- Roy We have some sugar cookies. Tracie Hunte ... this push to make it the national folk dance was kind of waning. Roy So yeah so after a while I think the square dance folks decided you know what let us let it let us not stir up trouble let us let us keep a positive attitude and image for our activity. Tracie Hunte Uh this is Roy. I talked to him and his wife Betsy Gotta. Betsy Gotta Right. Tracie Hunte Um Betsy Gotta is kind of a big deal in the square dancing world. Um anyway they made it sound like they had heard the backlash and sort of in some way kind of got the point. Roy Yeah w- we were talking about that. And and and th- there were times when when the square dance activity um to be perfectly honest for a long time it was a white activity. Tracie Hunte I think that that is does make you know someone like me who I am you know I am a black person as you can probably tell- Betsy Gotta Right. Tracie Hunte ... go huh? Like  you know why is you know why is this activity that is you know seemingly for and by and created by white people why does that have to be the the national American dance you know? And it and it kind of does feel like a little like you are you know I am being excluded or I am being told that you know that this is what it means to be and American is... Yeah. Roy And and and a lot of people in our activity took heed of that and said yeah you know they th- there is a valid point. But we still kind of felt that it was the one dance form that um hopefully transcended all of that because it is all inclusive. Granted it was not. Tracie Hunte Yeah. Roy But then again America was not an inclusive society. Tracie Hunte Yeah. Betsy Gotta And wh- and what we kind of wanted to do was bring everybody in. Tracie Hunte Yeah.  Yeah. Betsy Gotta That was a that was our strategy. We wanted to set the hook and reel everybody in to the group. Tracie Hunte Yeah yeah. Tracie Hunte And what sort of came out for me over time was that for them you know being the national dance it was not so much like trying to make this like piece of white culture like inshrine it into the you know some sort of national symbol. It was more about good marketing you know?  Betsy Gotta You know to make square dancing better to get more people and keep 'em. You know? Tracie Hunte Numbers are declining um... Jad Abumrad Yeah. Tracie Hunte And so um because- Jad Abumrad Interesting so that is so their idea was this is a way to uh so th- it is not about let us white wash America or maybe it was but they that was not the sort of spoken idea. It was more like let us not die. Tracie Hunte Yeah. And and and while I was there they really made a point about how square dancing is really really just open and inclusive. Dana Shirmer What makes it unique to us- Tracie Hunte This is Dana Shirmer. He is he was the president of CALLERLAB. That is the group that trains all the callers. And he is also the guy who said he uses J.Lo sometimes. Dana Shirmer I think it is there is when you hear the music and the first time you step in there and touch hands the magic of just goes right through your hands. And you just feel the the warmth and the friendliness of all the people in the group with you. Tracie Hunte Like you come to the square and- Dana Shirmer You do not care who they are where they came from or what happens. Tracie Hunte Nobody knows anything about anybody else. But you all have to work together. Dana Shirmer You know you are in the group and you are gonna have fun. Tracie Hunte Yeah. Dana Shirmer And I do not look I- I am an accountant. I do not go out there looking for accountants. Tracie Hunte  Dana Shirmer I go out there and get in the square what do you do? I am a farmer I am a doctor I am a lawyer you know. Does not matter. We have all kinds of people and we are all gonna dance together. Tracie Hunte Yeah. Dana Shirmer It is a teamwork you are doing something together as a team yeah. Tracie Hunte Yeah. It is like a like an equalizer almost. Dana Shirmer Yeah. We are all together. Tracie Hunte This is something that I heard over and over and over again. That square dancing welcomes everyone it does not matter who you are. Roy You do not worry about sexual orientation. You do not worry about color. You do not worry about where they are from. All you worry about is can they square dance can they help me have a good time square dancing. Tracie Hunte Yeah. Roy That is that is all that matters. So... Betsy Gotta Now I I can remember when we were we the square dance world were making some strides in opening out. Tracie Hunte Mm-hmm . Betsy Gotta In 1965 which was the year of Martin Luther King's march from Selma to Montgomery the National Convention was in Dallas Texas. Tracie Hunte Mm-hmm . Betsy Gotta And I was there. And the country in the South was scary enough. Oh we drove through the South in a car from New Jersey and for a while we were followed because they thought we might have been outside agitators who were gonna register people to vote or something. Tracie Hunte Wow. Betsy Gotta And we were just a family coming back from the square dance convention. Tracie Hunte Yeah. Betsy Gotta But for some reason and I do not know the background that was the year that a group of of African American dancers from I believe the Detroit and or Chicago areas decided to attend the National Convention. Tracie Hunte  Betsy Gotta This could have been very scary. Tracie Hunte Yeah. Betsy Gotta In that atmosphere. Tracie Hunte Yeah yeah. Betsy Gotta But they were very smart. Tracie Hunte Yeah. Betsy Gotta And I watched them. I was just out of high school. And I watched them and what they did was they never entered a square uninvited. Tracie Hunte Wow. Betsy Gotta They started a group. They would stand on the floor and put up their hands with three fingers up which means we need three couples- Tracie Hunte Mm-hmm . Betsy Gotta ... and let people come to them who would be comfortable dancing with them. Tracie Hunte Yeah. Betsy Gotta And they never forced the issue. If three couples needed a fourth and they all said come and join us they would fill that square. And there was not a single problem at that convention and the you know the African American dancers had been part of part of th- the activity since then. Tracie Hunte I am going to let you all go. Um... Betsy Gotta Thank you. Tracie Hunte Yeah. Linda Peterson Thank you. Speaker  Jad Abumrad Huh. I mean walking away from that uh visit I what did you make of all that of the convention the whole thing? Tracie Hunte Well you know it was a great experience. I felt very welcomed and everyone was really really sweet. Um but you know it still kind of felt like it was welcome and come do our thing you know? Jad Abumrad Yeah. Tracie Hunte And I have talked to some black square dancers and LGBTQ square dancers who you know did not want to go on the record with me. But they said you know we do not really feel comfortable coming to this convention every year. And um all that to just say that you know it just does not really necessarily feel like it could be like my dance. It is still kind of their dance. Jad Abumrad Yeah. Tracie Hunte But I talked to Phil Jamison after I went to the convention and Phil if you remember he was the guy who told us about Cecil Sharp in the mountains and kind of the traditional story about where square dancing comes from. Phil Jamison I often ask you know- Tracie Hunte And during that conversation he really kind of upended this whole idea of my dance or our dance and their dance. Phil Jamison I spent about 10 years of my life as a professional musician and dancer. Tracie Hunte So Phil was actually a musician and dancer for a long time and he was actually part of this clog group called... Phil Jamison The Green Grass Cloggers. Uh I was on the road for seven years with that group and we traveled all over the U.S. and overseas as well. Tracie Hunte And he says a lot of times after these performances people would come up and ask him you know where did this dances y- th- these folk dances like the square dance where did it come from? Phil Jamison And I so I would I would go and look in books and try to try to read up on the history of these dances and a- all the books that were out there square dance books just talked about the British Isles and the you know the the hearty pioneers coming to the mountains with their dances. Tracie Hunte And you know they would basically tell the same story that he told us. You know Cecil Sharp and how this dance is a combination of French and English and Irish dances. But at a certain point Phil says... Phil Jamison It just did not seem right to me because the population of Appalachia uh has never been pure white Anglo-Saxon it is always been a mixed. Of course there were Native American people there to begin with but th- there were enslaved people with the earliest settlers. And there was slavery throughout the southern mountains and you know when you look at the musical traditions uh the fiddle is accompanied by the banjo and that has African roots. And you look at the vocal traditions... Folk Singer  Phil Jamison Um yes people still sing the old British ballads but they also sing... Gospel Singer  Phil Jamison ... gospel songs... Blues Singer  Phil Jamison ... tin can alley songs and minstrel songs. Singer Sing along. Phil Jamison All kinds of things. So a- around 2001 I j- I just started digging into it and I just wanted to get to the bottom of the story and you know y- figure it out. Tracie Hunte So Phil would end up spending 14 years looking at letters and- Phil Jamison ... travel narratives historical accounts... Tracie Hunte ... and dance manuals. Anything he could get his hands on. Phil Jamison And what I discovered was there was an evolution of the dances that occurred during the 19th century and uh they are you know basically a multi-cultural hybrid that have elements of dances from the British Isles reels and there is African American and Native American influence as well all in the mix. Jad Abumrad Oh. Well w- what does he mean? Does he mean- Tracie Hunte Well he means that they were all doing these dances not just white people. Phil Jamison This was shared culture back in the day. You would find African American folks dancing these dances and white folks dancing them and Native American folks were dancing them. Tracie Hunte And things from their own past would creep into this dance. For example there is this one move in square dancing where you have one dancer in the middle and some people think this actually related to something called the ring shout which is like a traditional dance from west and central Africa. And you know the crazy thing is that he told me the thing that makes the square dance the square dance- Phil Jamison Dance calling itself comes from the black tradition. Blues Singer  Phil Jamison There is no evidence that that ever happened in the European dances but there is a lot of call and response in African dances. And the earliest dance callers were all black fiddlers who were playing for dances. Tracie Hunte Basically Phil told me that when you were back in Europe the way you learned these dances was that you had a dancing master you had a dancing school you would go to these schools and you learn all the steps. Jad Abumrad Yeah. Tracie Hunte But when you came to America to colonial America there were not as many dancing masters and dancing schools to go around. Jad Abumrad Yeah yeah. Tracie Hunte And so the way that the fiddlers who were performing at these dances could tell people what the next move was was to call it. Phil Jamison And this was a way for people who did not go to dancing schools to be able to do the dances. Tracie Hunte So so you discovered that square dancing is a melting pot of dances? Phil Jamison Y- yes. Square dancing is definitely a you know so called melting pot dance. Um but what what happened and in by the 20th century is they basically these traditions became white washed. And uh the black history behind it got got forgotten. Gospel Singer  Jad Abumrad Did anyone at the hearing make the argument that he was making? Tracie Hunte No. No this is something that he is kind of um discovered in the last few years. Jad Abumrad It is interesting 'ecause now you are like hmm maybe it should be the national folk dance. But but I do not know does it still feel like someone else's dance that you just now have a small like- Tracie Hunte Yeah I did- Jad Abumrad ... side role? Tracie Hunte I did I did I I still do not think that square dancing should be the national folk dance.  Jad Abumrad  Tracie Hunte Um but I and you know I told Phil that like but I was like you know if you told me that you know black people had something to do with this dance that Native Americans had uh something to do with like kind of the development o- uh of this dance. Um if you told me that then I would say oh so that actually this dance is a lot more American you know in that inclusionary way- Jad Abumrad Yeah. Tracie Hunte ... that we we would like to think of America as than I would have thought. A- and maybe it would not be such a bad idea. And then he pointed out well what about Latino people what about Asian people and what about- Jad Abumrad Sure. Tracie Hunte ... you know? Like once again we are like way too- Jad Abumrad Yeah. Tracie Hunte ... multi-cultural a society to like just say... Jad Abumrad But what if- Tracie Hunte ... this thing. Okay. Jad Abumrad What if you... I am trying to be as I am trying to create a scenario that- that is the most inclusive thing possible. Tracie Hunte Okay. Jad Abumrad But it is not gonna I am not gonna get there. I am gonna leave so many people out. But but it is like- Tracie Hunte  Jad Abumrad ... I do not know. I mean could not it could not is not there room in square dancing in other words for... If there is room for black people- Tracie Hunte Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad Um well I should not say room I mean if there w- uh... What is the word? Well yeah fine. If there is room for black people- Tracie Hunte Yeah let us just- Jad Abumrad ... there is certainly room for white people. Tracie Hunte Uh huh . Jad Abumrad Um why not create a square dance that is uh that is that says that is as diverse as America? Tracie Hunte I... I think- Jad Abumrad I mean  a tap dance at a square dance I mean it is just it is j- if it is all it is is like four people- Tracie Hunte You could you could you can tap dance in a square dance you can clog in a square dance. Jad Abumrad Why not? Tracie Hunte Y- you can t- you can find videos of people clogging in a square formation. Um... Jad Abumrad You could I do not know do modern dance in a square dance? That is a little harder but maybe. Tracie Hunte It is a it is a little harder but- Jad Abumrad Ballet. Tracie Hunte Sure.  Jad Abumrad Hip hop dancing. Tracie Hunte I could see more hip hop dancing in a square dance. Well okay it was at this point that this conversation started to go somewhere that we decided you know what we should have a live show. Tracie Hunte Does anyone else have any like other ideas about like what is a fun group dance that we can all do together? Mm-hmm . What did you say? The moon walk okay all right all right eh problematic now but whatever you know. Documentary but...  Any others? The Charleston? The twist? Tracie Hunte So we had done our introductory square dance with everyone and we told them this history. Tracie Hunte The what? The butt? Okay.  Tracie Hunte But then we heard about this one particular square dance call. And this is the one that is related to the ring shout which I mentioned earlier. Tracie Hunte So Alex um let us talk a little bit about the last dance of tonight. Tracie Hunte So we brought our square dance caller Alex Kramer back on stage. Tracie Hunte It is gonna be a square dance but at some point you are gonna use a call that is um what is the call gonna be? Alex Kramer Oh right right right. So um... Tracie Hunte Did you forget already?  Alex Kramer So so the dance is called Birdie in the Cage. Tracie Hunte Okay. Alex Kramer So so the call is the first call is put the birdie in the cage. And um so then what happens is if you are the birdie at the moment you just like hop on in to the c- to the center of the circle and you get to do your special dance. Tracie Hunte It can be the YMCA the debutt the debutt. Alex Kramer The funky chicken. Tracie Hunte The funky chicken. Alex Kramer The floss. Tracie Hunte You can floss you can milly rock you can kid and play you can... Alex Kramer Twerk. Tracie Hunte  You can twerk. Um... Alex Kramer You can nae nae. Tracie Hunte You can what? Alex Kramer Nae nae. Tracie Hunte Nae nae yeah absolutely. Alex Kramer Dougie. Tracie Hunte Um so that is what we are gonna do. We are gonna do a little square dance and then he is gonna say Birdie in the Cage and then everyone's gonna do whatever the F you want.  Alex Kramer Right. Show us what you are working with. Tracie Hunte Okay. Alex Kramer And join hands circle left circle to your left. Round you go. Back to the right do not take all night. Go into the center with a great big shout. Do it again do it again. Swing your partner all about. Promenade promenade go around the town any old way but upside down. Tracie Hunte Were you dancing? Jad Abumrad Yeah! I was trying I was trying to. Alex Kramer Couple one have some fun. Couple one. Go off to the right circle left with couple two birdie in the cage. Couple one couple two circle to the left. Jad Abumrad I remember it was just chaos.  Tracie Hunte Yeah. Jad Abumrad It was like crazy chaos. Alex Kramer Bird hop out and crow hop in. Jad Abumrad 'ecause like he was doing these calls and we were swinging around and like you kind of want to get your dance going in the middle but then you do not have enough time and then you throw off the rhythm and then suddenly it all falls apart. Tracie Hunte  Jad Abumrad But then he he will do a call and everyone snaps back onto the beat. Alex Kramer Circle to the left. Birdie in the cage. Tracie Hunte Yeah I was standing off I had gotten off the stage and I was standing off to the side leaning against the wall and trying to just stay out of peoples' ways 'ecause there was a lot of limbs flailing around. Jad Abumrad Yeah there was. Tracie Hunte Um from where I was standing when people got into the middle but when the birdie got into the middle of the cage the birdie was usually just hopping around and jumping up and down. Jad Abumrad  I know. Tracie Hunte  And so... Jad Abumrad 'ecause you did not have much time. You were just like I gotta do my thing. And then I gotta get out. Alex Kramer Circle left around you go. Last change birdie number four show us what you are working with. Tracie Hunte And so whatever our national dance is I guess it is just um people hopping around a lot until...  Jad Abumrad  Tracie Hunte Until it is not their turn to hop around anymore. Alex Kramer Now swing your partner all about. Tracie Hunte Yeah. Jad Abumrad It was just a hot mess. But it was the happiest hot mess I have been a part of in a long time. Kind of beautiful. Tracie Hunte Yeah. Really beautiful. One more thing. You know as I was going through all this I kind of just stumbled into this community of African American musicians who were really embracing this kind of this um old time music this folk music- Jad Abumrad Yeah. Tracie Hunte ... and really reclaiming it. And um one of those musicians was Jake Blount. And he actually performed for us at that live event. He is a fiddler. Tracie Hunte So you are gonna perform a song for us. Um can you tell us a little bit about it? Jake Blount Yes it is called Poor Black Sheep and it comes from a black banjo fiddle duo Nathan Frazier and Frank Patterson who were from Nashville Tennessee. Were recorded in I think 1946. And uh I learned this tune from them via my teacher and friend Rhiannon Giddens. Tracie Hunte So um I thought it would be a really cool idea if we just like played his song. Um... Jad Abumrad Yeah totally. Tracie Hunte And say thank you Jake. Jad Abumrad I loved his description of I keep thinking about when he said when he plays it is like his brain moves into his arm. Tracie Hunte Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad 'ecause I was like when you hear it you hear this and you are like oh yeah he is just all arm. Jad Abumrad Well thank you Tracie. Tracie Hunte You are welcome. Jad Abumrad This episode of course was reported by Tracie Hunte and produced by Annie McEwan and uh we also had uh uh an assist on the sound design mix from Jeremy Bloom. Tracie Hunte Also I just want to say thank you to Lee Ellen Friedland Bob Dalsemer Alex Kramer our caller our amazing band from the live event Stephanie Coleman Courtney Harmon and Steph Jenkins. And Phil Jamison has a book out called Hoedowns Reels and Frolics Roots and Branches of Southern Appalachian Dance. Um you should definitely check that out. Thanks. Jad Abumrad Wow. Tracie Hunte Oh! And um one more thing before we go. Well we did this interview with Phil Jamison and he talked about Cecil Sharp being in Appalachia and hearing these like old English ballads you know that came from over there and that ended up right here you know in America and just being having his mind blown. And one of the songs that he actually mentions and that we play a little bit in the piece is Barbara Allen. Jad Abumrad Mm-hmm . Tracie Hunte And I actually found a like b- Dolly sang Barbara Allen. She actually recorded it.  Jad Abumrad Yeah she uh she sang it to me in one of our interviews. Tracie Hunte She sang Barbara Allen to you? Jad Abumrad Yeah. This is one of the amazing things about as a uh interviewing Dolly is that suddenly she just starts singing. Tracie Hunte  Jad Abumrad But like she sang her way through the entire interview. Like I did not even get a question in. Tracie Hunte I feel like singing is talking for her I think.  Jad Abumrad Oh it is amazing. It is amazing. And she yeah she sang that and all of these old ballads that sh- that were sang to her. Tracie Hunte Mm-hmm . Jad Abumrad Um when she was just a little girl in uh Sevierville. So yeah I think actually that is gonna be in our next episode in Episode Three of the Dolly Parton's America series. Um... Tracie Hunte Perfect. Jad Abumrad You will hear her singing a lot. Tracie Hunte Okay. Jad Abumrad Those those those old ballads have like 15 verses. Oh my god you could sing that thing from morning until lunch time and you still would not be done. Voicemail To play the message press two. Alex Kramer Hi RadioLab this is Alex Kramer your square dance caller calling in from sunny Brooklyn New York. Phil Jamison Hi this is Phil Jamison in Asheville North Carolina. RadioLab is created by Jad Abumrad with Robert Krulwich and produced by Soren Wheeler. Alex Kramer Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Phil Jamison Our staff includes Simon Adler. Alex Kramer Becca Bressler. Phil Jamison Rachael Cusick. Alex Kramer David Gebel. Phil Jamison Bethel Habte. Alex Kramer Tracie Hunte. Nora Keller. Phil Jamison Matt Kielty. Alex Kramer Annie McEwan. Phil Jamison Latif Nasser. Alex Kramer Sarah Qari. Phil Jamison Arianne Wack. Alex Kramer Pat Walters and Molly Webster. With help from Shima Oliaee. Phil Jamison Alex Kramer Sarah Sandbach. Phil Jamison Malissa O'Donnell. Alex Kramer Neil deMause. Marion Renault. Phil Jamison And Paloma Moreno Jimnez. Alex Kramer Our fact checker is Michelle Harris. Phil Jamison And that is it! Alex Kramer Thanks. Phil Jamison So promenade right off the floor that is all there is there as not no more. Voicemail End of message.