 Welcome back to RX and NPR the Chain of Command episode. My name is Glynn Washington. And today we are exploring what happens when you follow orders and what happens when you do not. Our next story comes to SNAP from an Iraqi medical doctor a man named Doctor Mowaffak al-Rubaie. And while he is an excellent doctor it is his passion for political action that is really defined him. And when he was younger it is this passion that got him in trouble.  I went to prison three times. I was tortured badly - physical torture and psychological torture. During the torture the man in front of me was Saddam Hussein - well not literally but the officer who was torturing me I could see through him Saddam Hussein's eyes and Saddam Hussein as a man who is behind the steering wheel. He is the real butcher all over the country. He just execute people left right and center. When I was released from prison last time I was literally dying. And no hospital could give me any treatment any medical treatment. They would ask me what happened? And I have to disclose that I was in the General Intelligence Agency and I was tortured. And then they would show me the door. My mother was admitted to the Medical City the largest hospital in Baghdad. And she needed kidney dialysis. And from the Medical City an intelligence officer called me saying that well if you do not come and hand over yourself to the authorities we will deny your mother of any dialysis. They were basically blackmailing me. This is a man you cannot do business with. This is a man you cannot trust. So I thought that my mother would not be given the dialysis and I will be executed immediately. I said no way. She was denied the treatment she deserved because of me and my political activities. My mother died a few days later. That is what Saddam has done to me. Oh my God. Oh my God. Oh dear. This is - you cannot describe this honestly. I went through a really really very bad bereavement period. But when after a few months - it give me more resolved and it enabled me it gave me more energy if you like.   Baghdad tonight under heavy bombardment on the day the war started. American and British troops are in action on land sea and...  Americans they formed the Iraqi Governing Council. And I was one of the members of the founding members of if you like New Iraq. I took active part in the search for Saddam Hussein. I had a call. He said Mowaffak I want to see you rather urgently. We think that we got Saddam Hussein. I was really excited. I said show it to me. We went through a metal detector and I was the first to go into the room very strange feeling - curiosity believing not believing. And I in my mind Saddam who has done all these crimes I am going to see probably a superman or a giant something not human creature. So with this thinking I went into the room and I saw a small miserable miniature human being sitting on an edge of a bed. I mean I know him from the first moment. I lived with him for - not literally living with - but throughout the east he painted my life. I did not say salaam-alaikum. He was - head hanging down on his chest. And I said Saddam Hussein. He raised his head and looked at me and I said Saddam may God curse you what have you done with us? You brought us to this. My colleagues left the room. I was the last to leave. I did not want to leave the room. I have so many things to ask him. Let me confess to you - and probably this is the first time ever I mention this - I stood up and he was sitting. And he was really really weak and thin. It went through my mind to put him to sleep forever. It would take me only two and half or maximum three minutes. It went through my mind. I will go and apply my weight and my finger around his throat and finish the man. In the days before the execution I was praying to God that the sooner we get rid of this man the better because I was hoping that this will heal my inside. The night before I was asked to attend the execution by the prime minister as a national security advisor to make sure that everything goes smoothly. I was not aware that I am the one who is going to have to pull the lever. If somebody had told me you are now being tortured by Saddam and 30 years or 40 years from now you will be doing the execution for Saddam Hussein by your own hand I would have probably laughed and ridiculed them. The moment of truth came. It was 430 in the morning. It was dark. I received Saddam Hussein in the doorstep outside the house of the execution. I led him to the execution chamber. The whole environment that room was full of death. I can smell death. I can see death. I can feel death. My goodness it is the strangest feeling I have ever seen in my life. I could not describe it. See I am a doctor and I have hundreds of patients dying in front of my eyes. But it is a completely different kettle of fish from you sending somebody to death somebody who is fit as a fiddle you bring him up and you actually carry the professional killing if you like on that person. It is a different feeling. It is a completely different feeling. He looked me in the eye and I looked him in the eye. I did not want to blink. And that went really long staring at each other. I was thinking that he would be remorseful or be compassionate to me because that is the moment of the truth that is the moment of truth is not it? He has never done that. He was given the opportunity - well he was reminded prompted to say there is no God but Allah and Muhammad is his messenger. So he said there is no God of but Allah and Muhammad his - and then the lever went down and he went down and he instantaneously died. It is one the most - well it is not one of the most - the most unpleasant feeling I have ever seen in my life. And I went through a very difficult time in my life during - I am in torture and all this. This is worse than going through torture. This is the worst feeling you can ever have in your life ending the life of somebody. I went back to my house and I talked to my wife and my wife told me she said I have never seen you in this deplorable state of affair never seen you like this in my life. This is a Mowaffak I do not recognize. She said what did you do? What happened? Why did you do it? Why did you have to do it? I said I did the right thing I should have done it. It has to be done and somebody has to do it. And that somebody happened to be me. It is not a vendetta. Honest to God when I looked him in the eye before I took him to the gallows I did not feel that I am taking revenge against him. I felt this is a duty my security duty as well as my medical duty. I was prepared to reconcile with anyone who is reconcilable anyone regardless of his past anyone. But see there is something you need to understand. There is a limit. There is a limit. Hitler Mussolini these horrible people - Saddam Hussein is one. I am grateful to God that I saw the end of Saddam Hussein before I leave this life.  Thank you to the good doctor for sharing that incredible story with SNAP. That piece was produced by Anna Sussman with assistance by Julia DeWitt sound design by Renzo Gorrio. You have reached the end of this chapter of e entire book remains unread. Full episodes movies pictures stuff available right now SNAP nation at snapjudgment.org. Facebook SNAP JUDGMENT - what else would you do on Facebook? You have already stalked your high school sweethearts it is time to do something for you. Our Twitter handle - snapjudgment.org. Now perhaps you have poured yourself a big bowl of cereal turned on to the cartoon marathon got the carton of milk out of the refrigerator only to discover it is empty drained of even the last drop. Who drank all the milk and stuck the carton back in the fridge? It was the Corporation for Public Broadcasting and they are not sorry and they do not offer an apology. But much love to the CPB. PRX the Public Radio Exchange does exchange people for public radios but does exchange public radios for people - PRX.org. And even though this is not the news no way is this the news in fact you could tell someone to do something they could tell someone else to do it and they could tell someone else until someone tells you to do what you said in the first place and you would still not be as far away from the news as this is but this is NPR. 