 Welcome back to assion live from NPR and PRX. We have saved you the very best seat in the house because the storytelling is going down.   Now then next up I am so excited. Before there was a SNAP right when it was a twinkle - a twinkle - a tinkle.   Twinkle? When it was a twinkle in our eyes Marcus we wanted to get this guy. And call him up and he is like oh fellas look at the time - appreciate it. But we finally corned him in a dark alley and made him the offer he cannot refuse. Ladies and gentlemen Oakland's master storyteller Mr. Don Reed.   Hello everyone. Clap for you. Clap for you.   Here we go. . Pimps. . Pimps pimps.  Pimps be stomping their heels on East 14th. Pimps be sliding in caddies down East 14th. Pimps be spitting that game on East 14th. Pimps be living the life on East 14th. . I grew up on East 14th in Oakland California...   . In the '70s. When I was like 10 or 12 years old my mother and father divorced and my mother remarried. She married a guy who made us be in that religion where they knock on your door at seven oclock in the morning.   You know that religion when they knock on your door at seven oclock in the morning? - the one they knock on your door at seven oclock in the morning?   The one they knock on your door at seven oclock in the damn morning? - the one that rhymes with tahova sitnesses.   You know what I am talking about with the no birthdays no Christmas and indefinitely no . You definitely could not do the  in that religion at all. And as a teenager all I can think about was doing the ...   To somebody. So at age 16 I got tired of all the rules and the regulations. And I decided to move from the kind of middle-class area with the  and the picket fences to the other end of East 14th to go live with my real father.  I think I went too far. See I had gone to the other extreme. My older half-brothers already live there. One older brother was a player a ladies' man. My other brother wanted to be a lady. I know he did. He was uber-gay. He was extra-gay. Other gay people go  do not be that gay.   And my father my dear old dad he just so happened to be a pimp. But I did not know it. I just thought he was really into hats.   So set your watches back to 1970-something and come with me down to East 14th a true tale of a reluctant player.  When I was like 9 years old everybody called me Blinky 'ecause I used the bat my eyes like crazy. Blink blink blink blink blink blink blink blink blink blink blink blink blink blink blink blink blink. And I did that all the way up into my teen years. So my teen years I am knocking on doors 100 hours a month spreading the word blinking just a nervous mess right? A power nerd - I was a power nerd.   So by the time I moved over to my father's house my older brother Darrell  player had plenty plenty girlfriends. He walked up to me one day. He was like yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo'. You know what man? You as not cool at all. We need to work on you. We need to get you right set you straight. You know what the main thing we need to do? We need to fix your hair. My brothers tried to convince me 'ecause I had a nice-sized afro at the time that I needed to part my hair down the center and perm it to what was called a Lord Jesus cut.   Part my hair down the center and perm it to what was called a Lord Jesus cut. But I was little reluctant to do it 'ecause my friend named Darnell  had done and it did not turn out too good. Darnell was a nice black like black-black like National Geographic black right? And Darnell had experimented and put some blonde highlights in his hair. Dark skin blonde hair - he looked like a water buffalo. .   Did not look good at all. I finally did mine and it turned out great - no blonde highlights at all though right? So one day my brother walks in yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo'. Check this out. Today we are going to go roller skating and we are going to meet us some girls down at the lake. Now you got to understand what Lake Merritt was like in the 1970s. In the middle of our diverse concrete jungle was the oasis Lake Merritt where people met on sunny sunny  Sundays to roller skate and dance roller skate and drink roller skate and hit on each other all day long. And we were going to go but we could not find any hair-care products anywhere in the house. Could not find nothing to do our Lord Jesuses with. So my brother's like look I found a little bit of something to do my hair with. You find something. You catch the bus and he took off. I got to catch the bus? I as not going to catch the bus. But I am going. I am going roller skating. I am going to meet me some girls if it is the last thing I do today. I am going to roller skate and meet some girls. I looked all over the house for something to do my hair with - every drawer every shelf. I looked in every room every place. And I finally found something in the kitchen.  Some butter. That is greasy as not it? So I swear to God I got a big gob of butter and I went in the bathroom mirror and I started rubbing into that Lord Jesus hairstyle. And at first it kind of it kind of it kind of kind of looked like I had some damn butter my hair 'ecause that is what it was right?   But I kept working on it until it got a nice sheen and you could not tell it was butter at all. Now I was ready to go roller skating at the lake. Yeah. .   I am walking down the street to the bus stop and I stop along the way to check my hair in a side-view mirror on a car. And the sun is melting it. It is looking even sheenier. I was like yeah.   I kind of misjudged though how long the walk was going to be down to the bus stop. It was getting kind of hot. It was getting hot. I was trying to keep my enthusiasm up but - I check my hair in another side-view mirror along the way and I realize I was sweating a little butter down just like that.   Like a little butter river. I am like that is not good at all. But I kept going 'ecause dammit I am going to go roller skating. So I am walking and it is getting hotter and hotter. I finally get down to the bus stop. The bus shows up. The doors open and the cool air conditioning wafeted  and wafted upon me. I am like yeah. That feels good. I pay my money. I walk towards the back. I sat in that seat near the back by that bulbous mirror. You know that bulbous mirror back there where the bus driver watches you know bad kids trying to sneak on or old ladies getting off safely. I sat back there by that bulbous mirror. And about 15 minutes into the ride I was feeling cool and rejuvenated like yeah. Another 15 minutes into the ride and at some point I caught my reflection in that bulbous mirror. Apparently the air-conditioning on the bus had acted as some kind of refrigeration unit.   And my hair turned stark white. Dark-skinned white hair - I looked like a water buffalo.  I got off the bus people are like damn he look like a water buffalo. What is going on? Why is his hair white? Is he an old man? What the hell is going on with him right? But I remember - heat heat. I remember - heat heat heat. So off the bus I got back into another side-view mirror off a car. I got it back to sheen. I worked on it. I got it back. I said that is what warmth - it will sheen it up. OK I got it back to sheen and you could not tell it was butter at all. I was ready to roller skate and meet me some girls. Yeah. I went over to where they rent the roller skates and I saw this girl named Latana . I said hey Latana. How you doing? You know the look somebody is giving you when they are looking you right in the eyes or two inches up at your new messed-up hairstyle? She is like I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I - I. But I do not know why she would be doing that because I just re-melted it and it should look good.   I was about to find out what was going on right? I said hey Latana did you rent your skates or did you  - tdid you rent your skates or did you  - about 300 gnats and two flies.   I said eureka this brother wore some butter in his hair down to the lake. Bon appetite right? And I remember trying to play it off like look at all these gnats and flies all over the place. She is like no no no no no they as not all over the place.   They are just right over your head right there. Like a black cloud they congregated. I see them. I see them. I see them. I said Latana I will talk to you later OK? I will talk you later. I am going to go skate with you later. So I went like 150-200 yards away from everybody and everything by myself down to the edge of the lake to make sure it was me and the butter that was causing such a commotion . It was definitely me. It was definitely me. I started heading home. My brother called out from way across the way he is like yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo' yo'.   Where are you going? There is a whole bunch of girls over here. I said there is a whole bunch of gnats and flies over here. I am taking my ass home. I remember sitting at the bus stop seeing these commercials for Africa with those poor children having to deal with all those damn flies.   But they do not - they have higher priorities than shooing away flies so they are just sitting there doing like this and they like - if I shoo away another one it is just going to come right back. So I am sitting there dealing with that. They are doing figure-eights on my face. I am like this is not good at all. I was like ah forget it. A little later my father the pimp the same one who pushed me to go to finish high school go to UCLA he came to me around that time. He said you know what? Baby the reason things as not working out for you is you are trying to be something you as not all right? All you need to do is be yourself. All you got to do is just being your damn self. And to that I say thank you daddy.   Thank you guys.   It is not over. No way is it over. Tune in next week for the stunning conclusion of SNAP JUDGMENT The Passion story-telling with a beat. And to celebrate sport the brand-new SNAP JUDGMENT T-shirt and be the envy of your neighborhood. It is hot. Let them know you are  a snapper. Give VIP backstage passes for our next live show and all kinds of stuff. Get it now at snapjudgment.org and see with your eyes how it went down yourself free for a short time only this show available right now at snapjudgment.org brilliantly filmed by the hardest working team in radio. Big love to our partners over at KALW. Matt Martin we appreciate it. The Corporation for Public Broadcasting knows the story. At least they know it now. PRX the Public Radio Exchange WBEZ in Chicago. And again if you want to see this and believe me you want to see this go to snapjudgment.org. Even though this is not the news this as not the news baby this is NPR. 