From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. And I want to tell you about two police investigations. One of them is done so inspiringly well it is like the detectives in it are like detectives on a television show-- smart and resourceful and great judgment and just police at their very best. The other case-- the same crime lots of the same facts-- is the opposite. It goes terribly. And the investigation that goes wrong goes wrong in a very unusual way. It is like a game of telephone where one misunderstanding begets another misunderstanding begets another until something that is not true spreads to an entire community of people and somehow hardens into the truth. And it happens incredibly fast. It happens in just three days. And just to get in front of this the crime that we are going to be talking about this hour is a sexual assault. If that is a trigger for you consider this a warning. And one of the first phone calls in this chain comes right after the crime. This is back in August 2008. A woman named Shannon was standing on her balcony in a Seattle suburb when she got the phone call. It was from an 18-year-old she knew named Marie who told her she would been woken up in the night by a stranger who raped her. And I asked her are you OK? And she said she was OK and that she was going to be staying I think with a friend that night. And when my husband got home I told him what had happened. But I said I do not know that it happened. There is something about how she said it that just made me question whether or not she would actually been raped. It was the tone of her voice. There was just no emotion. It was like she was telling me that she would made a sandwich. I just made myself a chicken sandwich. Shannon felt awful doubting Marie. She would known Marie for years. Marie was a foster child who had stayed with Shannon and her husband very briefly-- just a couple weeks-- when she was younger. And they would all hit it off. And she stayed close with Marie even after Marie went to live in another foster home. They would hang out together cook together. They gave up carbs together for a few weeks. Shannon loved Marie. She saw herself in Marie. They were alike in lots of ways. That was actually part of her doubt. Marie was emotional. She did cry like Shannon. If I had been raped I would have been hysterical. I would have been crying really upset because I was sexually abused as a child. And I was sexually assaulted as an adult. And I never told anyone for years and years. And when I did tell someone I was hysterical emotional and crying and shamed. But Shannon was wrong about Marie. Marie had been raped. It was proven later beyond a shadow of a doubt. And the way her case went wrong-- you know we have all heard stories about police not believing women who come forward and say that they were sexually assaulted. But in this case the doubts began not with the police but with people much closer to Marie people who love her and have the best intentions towards her. What goes wrong in this case is something so personal it is like people exercising empathy and getting it wrong. And then that mistake spreads to officials and friends and acquaintances until it is impossible for them all to see the truth even when new proof comes to light even when it is all right there in front of them. Our reporting today is a partnership with The Marshall Project and ProPublica. The first part of the story takes place mostly in Lynnwood Washington near Seattle. Marshall Project investigative reporter Ken Armstrong and one of our producers Robyn Semien will explain how all this unfolded starting with Ken who will explain a little more about Marie. Marie gets along with people. She is good at it. It is important to her. She moved around a lot when she was a kid in the foster care system-- she thinks 10 or 11 different families not including group homes. But she did well in a group looked forward to high school loved her classes liked to hike and go to the beach with her friends really got into photography. At 18 she was proud of herself for surviving the foster care system got a job at Costco her own apartment. It was just nice to be on my own and not have all the rules that I had had when being in foster care. And it was just like freedom. So it was just awesome. She kept in touch with previous foster families like Shannon and her last foster mom Peggy. Shannon was the fun adult in Marie's life. They were goofballs together. They would have sleepovers at Shannon's house laugh a lot. Peggy who'd been Marie's foster mom from 16 to 18 was more serious and teacherly more tough love more worried about Marie's big personality and free spirit getting in the way of Marie's becoming a responsible young adult. Peggy lived close and on the morning of the assault Peggy was the first adult Marie called. This is Peggy. It was so early in the morning I just left and I drove over there immediately. So the police were there. And Marie was sitting on the floor crying. I sat down next to her and she was telling me what happened. And I got this-- I am a big Law and Order fan. And I just got this really weird feeling. It was like-- I felt like she was telling me the script of a Law and Order story. She was detached. Detached. Emotionally detached from what she was saying. It felt like just what is this drama going on? But still there was a part of me that was like oh my God. I mean if it is real I need to respond. I remember being in shock and shaking in a blanket in the corner. They asked me a few questions about what had happened and I had told them I would left my door unlocked and that someone had broken into my apartment and raped me. Again this is Marie. She is 25 now. A quick warning-- what she told police is difficult to hear and definitely not for kids. Here's what happened-- Marie was home by herself and she was awake all night talking on the phone with her ex-boyfriend Jordan. I got off the phone and went to sleep and then opened my eyes and there was somebody in my house. He had a knife in his hand and was wearing a mask. He blindfolded me and gagged me and tied my hands behind my back. He raped her. He went through her stuff. He took pictures. He knew her name. Marie prayed he would not kill her. And then after he was done with everything he said that I should not have left my door unlocked. I guess I must have left it unlocked the sliding glass door. And he just said that he was sorry and it all looked better in his head than when he did it to me. He said if she went to the police he would put the pictures he had of her online. When the police arrived at Marie's apartment they did what you would expect-- they processed the crime scene. A crime scene technician snapped photos of the place. It did not look like much an 18-year-old's tidy bare-bones apartment-- a sofa a bike a desktop computer on the floor in the corner. The bed was unmade green comforter on the floor a messy sheet. Marie was blindfolded and her attacker wore a mask so there was not a real description. He wore gloves to avoid fingerprints. He wore a condom. But there was physical evidence. The police got fingerprints off the sliding glass door. Just beyond the glass door on the back porch it looked like someone had brushed off a dusty railing while climbing over it. Police collected the bedding hoping for DNA-- maybe fibers or hairs. Marie was examined by a doctor. There was a rape kit and a report noting bruising on both of Marie's wrists plus other bruising and abrasions consistent with sexual activity. When police searched the apartment they found the things Marie had said the man had used-- the knife the makeshift blindfold and gag the shoelaces used to tie her up with. That is when Marie realized that all of those things were hers to begin with. The knife was from her kitchen. The shoelaces came from her sneakers out in the living room. Peggy remembers hearing about the shoelaces and adding them to her list of things that just did not make sense. And I just-- the whole thing with the shoelaces I was like first of all is a shoelace strong enough to tie somebody's wrists with? Then that same day Marie called several of her friends not just her closest ones to tell them about the rape. For Peggy this behavior fit into a bigger picture she had of Marie-- attention-seeking too flaunty too flirty loud not really aware of how she was coming off in public. Like at the grocery store riding around in carts with her friends getting really silly Peggy said. Peggy was often telling Marie she needed to tone it down. So to Peggy Marie calling everyone she knew and saying hey I got raped did not seem right to her. She wondered was this rape story one more way to get attention? Marie meanwhile says sure. She was calling everyone she knew for what she thought was a good reason. I think I did that because I did not want it to happen to anybody else. I just wanted to let people know that there was somebody out there hurting people. It was not the first time I had been raped-- when I was little and I was living with my mom. I never told anybody about that stuff that it happened to me when I was a kid. I just held it all in and did my whole pretending like stuff did not happen. And you know I do not know if that guy ever got away or ended up hurting other people because I never told anybody never talked to anybody about it. But I did not want this time to be like that. I wanted to be able to try to talk about it and get it out. So Marie was calling around. And later that day-- or maybe it was the next morning-- Peggy made a phone call of her own to Shannon the other main adult in Marie's life. Here's Peggy. I just said I do not know what the hell is going on. I cannot tell you know. I was like oh my God. She is telling me that she got raped. But I felt-- I just felt horrible. I felt horrible that I did not believe her. And so I think Shannon must have just picked up on that. And then she was like Peggy you are not the only one that does not believe her. She is acting very strange. She is telling everybody about it. She is calling everybody that she knows and telling them. This does not seem like what you would do. Shannon remembers that phone call with Peggy too. Well Peggy also did not believe her. So looking back we may have fed on each other's doubts about what had happened. The day after the rape Shannon helped Marie moved out of her apartment. Marie's case manager who was helping her transition from foster care was also there. And Shannon says that whole day she kept noticing these things little things and each one deepened her suspicion. Marie would not look her in the eye. She would not hug her. She did not want to talk about the rape. Instead she was giggling rolling around on the grass being flirty as Shannon saw it with the case manager. For me the thing that cemented my doubts was she was given like a Visa card to go pick out new sheets and bedding because the police had taken them for evidence. So we went back to the place where she had gotten the original ones. And she was furious that she could not buy the same set because she really liked it. I am thinking why would you want to have the same sheets and bedspread to look at every day when you would been raped on this bed set? I said why would you want to have those sheets to remind you? And she goes because I like them. I just thought that was such a strange response. That was the only time I saw her get mad the whole day. Do you think you were starting to look for things that did not ring true? I do not know if I was looking for them. They just kept popping up. I mean flirting with the manager and rolling in the grass and giggling. Shannon confronted Marie about what she saw as her odd behavior. I did. No I told her that I had doubts about whether or not she was telling the truth. And how did she react? She would get upset. And she would say you know I am not really a liar. Why would I lie about this thing? Here's what I thought. Again this is Peggy. Peggy had her own theory for why Marie might be lying about this. I thought OK. In my mind Marie got herself into trouble. She got carried away with some kind of sexual encounter. And she let somebody take pictures of her. And now they are going to get out on the internet and she is trying to backtrack. And maybe I did not trust the police. And maybe I did not think they were understanding the nature of my daughter's personality you know? I mean it is more histrionics like a histrionic personality. It seemed like her next tactic to try to get my attention. One day after the rape Peggy called the lead detective on the case Detective Jeffrey Mason. She asked if she could meet with me in person. And so I agreed went to her residence met with her. She was having questions about the story that was being told whether it was truthful or not. She seemed you know sincere. She was trying to pass on information that-- and maybe sincere is not the correct terminology. But I mean she was just-- she expressed a lot of concern and caring for Marie but also had a lot of questions on whether she was reporting the truth or not. Sergeant Mason did not have a lot of experience investigating sexual assault. Marie's was only the second or third case that he would worked on. How much weight did you give Peggy's opinion of Marie's credibility or of the potential truthfulness of what Marie said had happened? I gave it enough weight to steer the investigation to where I need to talk to Marie further. Was there anything that you were using that was evidence-based to get you to this moment of wanting to talk to her again about her credibility? No. Sergeant Mason says there were a few other elements to Marie's story that had caused him to question her. But it was really the call from Peggy that changed everything. He talks to his partner and three days after the attack Detective Mason calls Marie. And they said they needed to see me. And I just-- all of a sudden I was just like am I in trouble? That was my first-- before I said anything else on the phone. Am I in trouble? One of the first things she said was am I in trouble? And that just-- well in the 25 years in law enforcement my experience has been people that ask that are usually in trouble. They said well we just need you to come into the police station. Mason and his partner Detective Jerry Rittgarn took Marie back to a conference room to talk. And it was a very different conversation from the first time police talked to Marie. Now it was an interrogation. She says the first thing they did was tell her they would spoken to Peggy and they would spoken to her ex-boyfriend Jordan and neither of them believed her about being raped. Peggy was one thing but Jordan was a friend. He and Marie spoke all the time. They talked about maybe getting back together. And he would been supportive and sympathetic about the rape. Marie suddenly had to try and figure out what these detectives meant. The police were very closed off on telling me anything that Peggy or Jordan said. They would not tell me anything that they said at all because he wanted me to tell him. And I could not. So he was just like yeah is there any reason why he would not believe you? And I said I do not know. We talked to Jordan and he says he never doubted Marie and he never told the police he did. In any case both detectives wrote in their reports that Marie seemed unsure of her story. Detective Rittgarn wrote that he found Marie to be making quote deceptive statements to include that she thought certain things had happened rather than she was positive that this happened. Rittgarn noted that she did not quote take a stand and demand that she had been raped. Detectives made it clear to Marie they needed to be convinced. Years later there was an outside review of the case by a police investigator a sex crime specialist named Sergeant Gregg Rinta. His report said quote The manner in which she was treated by Sergeant Mason and Detective Rittgarn can only be labeled as bullying and coercive. Detective Rittgarn declined to talk to us. Sergeant Rinta's review went on quote If this had not been documented in their reports I would have been skeptical that this actually happened. The victim's credibility quote became the focus of the investigation and all of the strong evidence that pointed to a serious felony crime was completely ignored. Here's Marie. Is there really some guy out there that we need to be looking for or did you just make this up? And they just started asking me all these questions and just grilling at me. And I just started crying. I was crying and I was upset. I did not understand what was going on really. I just-- I am still in shock that they did not believe me. I was mad too. I did pound my hand on the table and stuff like that. And the only way they would leave me alone is if I wrote a statement saying that it did not happen. So she did. She first wrote quote I dreamed someone broke in and raped me. The detectives then insisted that she rewrite it and not write that she had dreamed it but that she had lied. There are lots of reasons a victim of sex abuse might consciously choose to say something different from what happened-- shame fear of retribution. But Marie says that is not what was happening with her. She started having moments where she actually could not tell if she would been raped. Like I was trying to be really honest about everything. And possibly maybe I had dreamt that stuff that first day maybe I had dreamt it up and that it maybe did not happen and stuff like that. And so those doubts were coming out when I was talking to them. And they just started disbelieving me even more. And then all of a sudden I just started thinking-- I was like did this really just happen to me this whole thing? In my mind I was second-guessing somebody coming into my house and doing all this stuff you know? Is it possible that I just imagined that? Because why would something like that happen to me? I ran how Marie describes this-- not being sure herself that the assault happened-- by an expert on sex assault trauma and how it affects the brain. She said that this kind of cognitive separation she called it while not common does happen that it is directly related to the sheer shock an assault has on a person-- like for example being awoken by a stranger with a knife-- and that people who have been sexually abused before like Marie are at a much higher risk for this happening. Add foster care to that and the risk is greater. At the end of that day I was just like fine. It all did not happen because now I have nobody that believes me. I just wanted it to be over with. So-- So Marie did something familiar to her. She has a way to deal with terrible things happening to her that are out of her control what she calls flipping the switch. That feeling switch inside just I turned it to not really caring about the emotion and thought well I will just turn off that switch. And I will not have to deal with them right now. Just I want to get out of here. What does it look like when you kind of decide to flip the switch and stop caring so much? What is that-- how does your demeanor change when you are speaking to the police officer? Well I am not crying anymore and looking at them when I am talking to them. I think I was giggling which is something I do when I am nervous like I just pretended like that did not just really happen you know and went in the bathroom after that and cleaned up and just kind of acted like it was fine. Both detectives noticed the switch. Rittgarn wrote quote Her visual appearance and body language became remarkably different. She appeared less stressed stopped crying and even laughed a little. Marie wrote her final statement for the detectives at their insistence-- quote I made up this story she wrote. King 5 News starts now. Good evening. Your-- Police in Lynnwood now say a woman who claimed she was sexually assaulted by a stranger made up the story. This news story ran one day after Marie met with detectives and wrote those statements. Earlier this week the 18-year-old told detectives a man had broken into her apartment raped her and then stayed for an extended period of time. But upon further questioning the woman admitted the assault did not happen. Detectives do not know why she made the story up. At least three other stations aired similar stories. Reporters chased it. Like I had to hide. Like I had to wear a sweatshirt over my face and sneak out of my apartment because there were just so many just pounding on my door. The backlash was immediate. Marie got hate-filled Myspace messages angry phone calls. One of Marie's best friends from high school put up a website attacking Marie warning people she was a liar. It had the police reports with the statement she would written about making up the story. It had her name and her picture. For Marie it was too much. Police did not believe her. Her foster moms did not believe her. And it was all over the news. It felt like the world had turned against her. And remember she was 18 years old trying to figure this out. She wanted a lawyer. And she had a support system that could have helped her find one. She lived in her own apartment but it was subsidized by a nonprofit that helped teenagers like Marie transition out of foster care. Project Ladder it was called. They taught life skills like how to use a credit card how to shop for groceries. They were there to give her a hand. So she asked them to help her find a lawyer. Instead her case manager called the police who told him there was no evidence that a rape had occurred. They did not get her a lawyer. So then they said OK. Well we are going to go to the police station. You are going to tell them that. You are going to tell them that it really did happen. You are going to be honest. When they got to the station Detective Mason the lead detective in her case was not there. He was out that day. So detective Rittgarn grabbed another cop to help out. Here's Marie. I told him that I wanted to recant and that it really did happen. They should be out there looking for a rapist. Rittgarn did not believe her. The other cop did not know the case and was just following Rittgarn's lead. Marie says one of the detectives told her that if she kept insisting she was raped she might have to take a polygraph test. He told me that if I took a lie detector test and it came back that I was lying that he was going to take me to jail himself. Using a polygraph on a rape victim is a mistake a big enough one that the federal government can withhold money from states if their police departments do it. The tests are seen as a deterrent to women coming forward to report sexual assault. Plus they are famously unreliable especially on someone who is traumatized. Rittgarn's report says it was actually Marie who brought up the polygraph not the cops. But what is not in dispute is that once the idea of a polygraph came up Detective Rittgarn used it to threaten Marie. It is a tactic police use when they are interrogating someone they suspect in a crime. Detective Rittgarn told Marie that if she failed the polygraph he would recommend she lose her housing assistance and get jail time. Well that scared me so I did not want to do that. And so I was like OK never mind. It really did not happen. I did not want to go to jail. That night the Project Ladder managers called a meeting. It was just an emergency meeting. And they did not tell anybody why until everybody got there. This is Elisabeth another former foster kid in the Project Ladder program. She was there at the meeting along with nine or so others mostly girls and the program managers sitting in chairs in a circle. Marie remembers it as the lowest moment of this whole ordeal the one time she thought about suicide. Again here's Elisabeth. Marie stood up. And she was crying. And she said that she had lied about what had happened. To the group? To the group. Yeah everybody. I mean it just felt like she was just forced to say that and that it was-- I mean there was nothing in her words or actions that she meant. I mean it was more of defeat is what it sounded like just kind of giving up on trying to prove herself. She just seemed devastated and lost. It actually sounds really confusing from your perspective. Were you wondering why is she being made to say this? I mean I really was because I did not know her. And at first I did not really know what to believe. You know it is just kind of an odd thing to say oh well I made it up. I think maybe my own personal experiences kind of came through when she said that. And I kind of-- What kind of personal experiences? I have-- I was sexually assaulted. And so I mean being afraid of saying anything and then not having anybody to believe you and then just kind of trying to forget about it I guess trying to-- Trying to move on or something. Move on. Yeah. Elisabeth felt for Marie. She says there were a couple others who looked like they did too. But they were in the minority. Mainly Marie says people were angry. They were pretty mad about it. One of the girls she was calling me and making threats at me thought I was a liar and basically mentally ill for making up something like that. I spoke to one of the meeting's angry girls. She did not want to be interviewed but she told me she thought Marie had lied and it did make her mad. But she also said-- and Elisabeth told me this too-- there was something so obvious and transparent about the premise of the meeting. It was a message to everyone-- we are making her tell you this so none of you think about doing it. If you do you will lose your housing. Elisabeth described the woman running the meeting as fuming. We reached out to the Project Ladder managers but they never replied. Elisabeth stuck by Marie and one other friend. Friend-wise that was about it. Elisabeth says Marie was avoided like-- The plague. Yeah. I mean that is exactly how it was. People treated her like she was-- they could not get far enough away from her. And people they were very cruel to her. Of course the phone calls and the nasty stuff on social media. I mean I even believe like when we would walk through the parking lot or we would go somewhere somebody would say something calling her a whore and die and just a lot of really horrible stuff. I mean I even remember reading one of the comments on the-- it was on the internet but I do not remember what exactly page it was or anything. But this bitch is the reason that nobody believes when women say they get raped. Wow. Yeah. I mean there was a lot of that. Even Shannon who meant the world to Marie. She told Marie that she could not spend the night at her house anymore because her husband worried she might make up a story about him. And if all that were not enough about a week later Marie received a summons in the mail. Police were charging her with false reporting. The false reporting charge meant that Marie's rape case would be officially closed. The physical evidence police had gathered at the scene was destroyed except for a single fingerprint card that was left behind. Everything else-- the rape kit the bedding the DNA swabs-- they were never even tested in a crime lab never analyzed. Further evidence that could have been gathered never was. Two months after Marie was charged with false reporting Shannon was sitting at home watching the local news with her husband when on came a story about a woman in Kirkland another Seattle suburb who reported being raped by a stranger who broke in threatened her with a knife used shoelaces to tie her up and who took pictures and threatened to post them on the internet. Right away I thought I am wrong. It actually happened. She was raped because this is too similar. So I immediately went in and called the Kirkland Police Department and asked to speak to the lead detective on the rape case. And I explained the whole situation about what had happened to Marie and that the Lynnwood police did not believe her. But it was just too similar and it had just happened. So I asked them to call the Lynnwood police. Then he got back to me and said he did talk to them but they had determined that she had made the whole thing up and the case was closed. And that was the end. And it was over. I talked to the lead detective that Shannon spoke to and to another Kirkland detective on this case. Both remember talking to the Lynnwood PD. But when they learned the Lynnwood police did not believe their victim that was it. They did not look any further. One detective said she figured the Lynnwood police knew their case best. She trusted their judgment. Even so one thing they both told me they were surprised by was that the Lynnwood police had gone so far as to charge Marie with false reporting. One detective remembers hanging up the phone thinking OK. Hope that works out for you guys. Shannon grew up in a police family. She usually figured police knew best. Not this time. I was upset. I thought there should have been more investigation that it was just too similar. Shannon thought something had to be done. She thought Marie should get in touch with the Kirkland police herself. She told Marie-- If it did happen then here's a second chance to go talk to the police about what happened to you because this just happened to another woman. But she would not go. And so that then made me doubt again. Why would not she want to get involved to try and prove that she was innocent? Marie did not want to talk to anybody else about the rape especially not police again. The very thought terrified her. What she wanted more than anything was to put this behind her. In March of 2009 seven months after she was raped Marie went to court to accept a plea deal on her false reporting charge. Under the deal to get the charge dropped she would need to meet certain conditions for a year. She would go on supervised probation pay 500 in court costs and she would get mental health counseling not for being raped but for lying about it. Coming up-- today's program is about two police investigations of the same crime. The second investigation where the police do a stunningly great job in a minute when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Anatomy of Doubt. We have the story of two criminal investigations. One goes great one goes about as badly as it possibly could. We now turn to the successful investigation. It happens in a suburb of Denver called Golden Colorado. The lead detectives in this second case were very experienced versus the lead detective in the first case who only had done one or two other rape cases. This was stated earlier but I will just repeat it here-- the content of today's program probably is not right for little kids. Here are Ken Armstrong and Robyn Semien. Two years later-- January 2011-- Detective Stacy Galbraith got a case. A grad student mid-20s had been sexually assaulted in her home raped at gunpoint. To cover his tracks her attacker took her sheets with him and made her shower to wash off any DNA. And when she went to interview the victim Detective Galbraith says the victim remembered an unusual number of details about the guy way more than any other rape victim she would talked to before. The victim had basically chatted him up and he told her things like he spoke four different languages. And she was able to kind of rattle off a few of those. He traveled a lot. He talked about math. He told her that he has no problem with finding girlfriends or having girlfriends. But he just does not like the consensual aspect of the girlfriend relationship. The victim had a good guess of his height and weight and knew that he had a distinct mark on his leg-- a birthmark she told Detective Galbraith the size and shape of an egg. He would had a camera with him and she remembered the color and brand of the camera. She described it as a pink Sony. Detective Galbraith noted that the victim was not crying. She did not seem upset. She was very kind of stoic in her report of this incident. I mean you could even say she had more of a flat affect actually. Was there anything unusual about that? Very unusual. Typically I mean I encounter somebody say in the hospital or on a scene that is crying upset much more I would say visibly traumatized than this victim was. She talked about this guy and the horrible-- my word is horrible-- things that he did to her for a number of hours. And in relation to other victims they probably would have said horrible. They would have been revealing the horrible side of the things that they would done. She-- I remember 