Today we have this story for you about cars-- American cars. And like most stories about American cars lately it is more tragedy than comedy though there is some comedy in there too. It is the story of a factory in California that captures pretty much everything that is gone wrong in the American car business in the last 30 years. And at the heart of the story is the question why are American cars still not as good as foreign cars? Come with me for just a half minute to the Detroit Auto Show OK? David Champion is one of the umpires who calls strikes and fouls in the car business. He is the senior director of Consumer Reports auto test division. He says that Ford has actually been improving for the last six or seven years but Chrysler's still in the dumps the worst of all the car makers they study and as for America's biggest car maker GM? The big Achilles' heel with GM is their reliability. You look at things like the Cadillac CTS-- a fabulous car I would take a CTS over a BMW or a Mercedes any day. But unfortunately the CTS has been poor for reliability since it was redesigned in 2007. So they still quite have not got it. Why has not GM got it yet? It is not like this reliability problem just snuck up on them. It is been nearly 50 years since it started losing market share-- 50 years since it began the slide from holding over half the US car market back in the '60s to just 22 today. Here's an amazing fact. Even after Toyota's recent disaster with suddenly accelerating cars that killed possibly 52 people Consumer Reports came out with new ratings just this month and it still rates Toyota as more reliable than all the American car makers. That is because the ratings are based on overall dependability-- the likelihood of whether you will have a problem with your Toyota and mostly they are still very reliable cars. In fact the top three automakers in the most recent Consumer Reports survey are all Japanese-- Toyota is number three-- and the top 10 are all foreign. Why is it taking so long for Detroit to figure out how to make a car as good as the Japanese? Well there is some very interesting answers to that question and all of them can be found right here-- at a car plant in Fremont California called NUMMI. NUMMI stands for New United Motor Manufacturing Incorporated. A modern car plant by the way sounds a lot like a casino. The automated gear plays little songs to let you know that it is running. Driver-less robot carts glide up and down the aisles like R2D2 delivering doors and other parts. Their song is supposed to warn you that they are coming. The story of this factory is a famous one among car people-- it is taught at business schools. NUMMI was opened in 1984 by GM and Toyota together who decided this would be a place that they would build cars with each other. If it seems strange to you that two competitors would do this it seemed strange at the time also. A headline in Car and Driver about the partnership read Hell Freezes Over. But both companies had their reasons-- we will get into that. At NUMMI Toyota showed GM all its secrets-- exactly how it made some of the best built most reliable cars in the world back then. GM hoped to take these lessons from NUMMI and carry them into all their other plants all over the country and all over the world. And then well that did not go so well and here we are today. GM went bankrupt. US taxpayers-- you and I-- bailed them out for 50 billion. And next week the NUMMI car plant the one that seemed like it might be able to teach American car makers how to catch up to their competitors is going to stop making cars. It is happening no joke on April Fools' Day. Today we have a special story for you. We are devoting our entire show to it. For the last couple months NPR's automotive correspondent Frank Langfitt and one of our producers Brian Reed have been traveling around the country talking to GM workers and managers about what happened at NUMMI and especially about what went wrong at GM that it had so much trouble for so long adopting the techniques it learned over a quarter century ago. General Motors and the UAW are secretive cultures but as you will hear people were blunt when they talked to Frank-- blunt in a way that you rarely hear with auto executives and UAW reps when they are being interviewed by the press. Act one of our show is about the rise of NUMMI act two is about what prevented GM from learning from NUMMI. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Our show today produced with our colleagues at NPR News. And now it is my pleasure to turn the story over to NPR automotive correspondent Frank Langfitt. When NUMMI was conceived General Motors was far and away the world's largest car company. Its US market share was seven times that of Toyota. But each company had a problem that the other company could help them solve. On GM's side the problem was small cars. Under government emissions guidelines General Motors had to build them but they would always lost money for GM and they were lousy quality. So Toyota suggested a joint venture that offered two things. First Toyota would build a quality small car for GM-- one that would finally turn a profit. And the second thing was we have this thing called the Toyota production system and it produces the quality you see. We can teach you the Toyota production system. Jeffrey Liker is a professor of industrial engineering at the University of Michigan. He wrote The Toyota Way and he is been studying Japanese auto manufacturing-- including NUMMI-- since the 1980s. He says even though Toyota was offering GM something quite remarkable-- to teach a competitor its secrets to show them exactly how Toyota achieved such phenomenal reliability-- GM was not that interested. Some people in GM I think had some foresight to realize this is important. I think for many of the senior leaders it was more OK well maybe I will learn something maybe I will not but it will not hurt. Why would not they be really interested in the Toyota production system because at that point was not Toyota building higher quality cars? Toyota was building higher quality cars. I am not sure it was 100 accepted at that time by senior management that Japanese quality was really better. Why? I think there was pride and defensiveness. I am proud because I am the biggest automaker in the world I have been the best I have dominated the market. You cannot teach me anything you little Japanese company. I am John Shook. Toyota in Toyota City was completely Japanese when I joined them. I was the first non Japanese to join them as a regular employee in Toyota City. John Shook moved to Japan in the early 1980s because of his fascination with Japanese management techniques. He read books about them back home in east Tennessee. And he decided to fly halfway around the globe learn to speak the language and hunt for a job with the biggest Japanese company that would have him. Toyota hired him to train American workers in the joint venture. Now here was the problem that pushed Toyota into the deal. They needed to learn how to build cars in America. For years the Japanese had been winning away customers from Detroit and the US Congress was threatening to restrict car imports. Toyota could avoid that by making cars in the US. But they wanted a partner. Here's John Shook. Toyota was looking specifically for things they could learn. How can we work with American workers? How can we make sure that our management system can work in North America? And they would been pretty happy just producing in Toyota City doing a very good job and the idea of actually taking their system and producing outside of Toyota City was scary to them. Toyota was right to be scared. Compared to Japan where auto workers and management worked together labor relations in America were more like war. And at the GM plant in Fremont it felt at times like hand to hand combat. A former running back from the University of Arkansas named Bruce Lee ran the western region for the United Auto Workers and was in charge of the Fremont Union Local 1364. Now normally somebody like Bruce Lee is supposed to defend his union members no matter what. But even he says they were awful. It was considered the worst workforce in the automobile industry in the United States. And it was a reputation that was well earned. Everything was a fight. They spent more time on grievances and on things like that than they did on producing cars. They had strikes all the time. It was just chaos constantly. The Fremont California plant for General Motors was bad by GM standards and GM's average was bad by Toyota standards so this is the worst among the bad mediocre plants in GM. Again that is Jeffrey Liker who is interviewed workers and management at Fremont for his research. One of the expressions was you can buy anything you want in the GM plant in Fremont. If you want sex if you want drugs if you want alcohol it is there. During breaks during lunch time if you want to gamble illegally-- any illegal activity was available for the asking within that plant. Sounds like prison. Actually the analogy to prison is a good analogy. Because the workers were stuck there because they could not find anything close to that level of job and pay and benefits at their level of education and skill. So they were trapped there. And they also felt like we have a job for life and the union will always protect us. So we are stuck here and it is long term and then all these illegal things crop up so we can entertain ourselves while we are stuck here. A lot of booze on the line. I mean it was just amazing-- and as long as you did your job they really did not care. What kind of booze what were people drinking? Whiskey gin. That is Rick Madrid. He began working at the plant in 1955. He mounted tires on Chevy trucks. When I was mounting tires we would drink. You know I would bring a thermos of screwdrivers with me. But I never was into drugs. Sex? Love it. Did you ever have sex at the plant? Yeah. Frequently? I was not that fortunate. There was a guy in there he would be selling the pot. Peter Ross repaired machinery on the assembly line at GM. I would be walking through the plant with my tools and my radio. You see a big cloud of smoke you do not want to inhale it you would get a contact high. If you are wondering how people kept their jobs well back then the UAW was still quite powerful. Under the union contract it was almost impossible to fire anybody and if management ticked off the union workers could just shut the plant down in minutes. With that sort of leverage absenteeism became absurd. On a normal day one out of five workers just did not show up. It was even worse on Mondays. Billy Haggerty worked in hood and fender assembly. He says so few workers showed up some mornings management could not start the line. They brought a lot of people off the street to fill in when they did not have enough people. Who would they find? Right across the street to the bar and grab people out of there and bring them in. Workers filed grievances-- formal complaints against management-- over all kinds of things. Someone who is not your boss asks you to clean something up? Hit him with a grievance. A manager steps in to do a job that is not his? Grievance. The strategy was simple. Pile up grievances real or imagined by the thousands then use them to squeeze money or concessions out of management. And Fremont workers struck back at their bosses in other ways. They would intentionally screw up the vehicles. Put coke bottles or loose bolts inside the door panels so they would rattle and annoy the customer. They would scratch cars. Richard Aguilar inspected vehicles at the plant. He saw one guy do something even worse. He left some loose bolts on the front suspension. That was dangerous. I went and told the system manager right away. They went out there and they checked and there was like 400 cars he had done that to. He was mad because they had suspended him for drinking. By 1982 GM had had enough and put the Fremont factory out of its misery. The company laid off thousands of workers and closed the plant. The next year when GM and Toyota began planning to reopen the plant for the joint venture there was one thing neither company wanted to do-- hire the same union leaders who'd battled management and overseen GM's worst workforce. Then the UAW's Bruce Lee sat down with chairman Eiji Toyoda. And one of the first things I said is I have got to hire the first 50 people. So who did you hire? The same leadership that was in the union before. Why? I thought you would try to get rid of them. No no because I believed that it was the system that made it bad not the people. GM was against it but incredibly Toyota agreed. Toyota execs believed their system would turn bad workers into good ones. Then Lee had to sell the plan to the rank and file. He held a meeting and told union members that Fremont would now be a Japanese style plant. Old seniority rules would not apply life at the plant would be totally different. The workers hated all this. They did not want anything changed. They wanted the plant to open exactly how it was when General Motors had it. Bad cars and all? That is what they wanted. They even hung Lee in effigy. But Lee had something very powerful on his side-- most of the workers desperately needed jobs and Lee had them. When NUMMI opened over 85 of the workforce were old hands from GM Fremont. But to prepare them for that moment in the spring of 1984 Toyota started flying them to Japan in groups of 30 to begin learning the Toyota system for making cars. Well when the NUMMI workers first came to Japan me and certainly my Japanese bosses had heard all these horrible things about the American worker about the American union. As the one American working in Toyota City John Shook helped design this training. We had certainly heard all these stories about the workforce there at the Fremont plant. And it was our job to show them a new very different way of working. What would they do? How would they respond to this? How would they react? And no one knew. I did not know. So everyone was very very nervous. I was kind of apprehensive about what I was going to see when I arrived in Japan. On one of those planes was Earl Ferguson. He would been working for GM since 1964. What were you apprehensive about? Whether they were going to accept us or not you know. How they are going to react when the Americans landed in Tokyo. Everything was so new to us you know this is just a totally new experience. So I will never forget-- Again John Shook. Taking a bus a large bus with my small group of Japanese colleagues to pick up the first group of trainees arriving from Fremont. Television cameras were there because this was big news in Japan at the time.  As they got off the plane we had signs welcoming them. The news media was everywhere. We were signing autographs and taking pictures with all the young kids. Totally new experience. Most of them had never been out of the United States before. None of them certainly had ever been to Japan. My name is Les Myers. I have worked at General Motors for 25 years. My hobbies are fishing and bowling. My name is . My hobby's softball. The narrator in this Japanese public television program points out that the American worker is nine years older than his Toyota trainer. He also notes for his Japanese viewers that the Americans are so much larger than the Japanese they waste a second or two more each time they get in and out of the vehicles they are building which makes them 10 to 15 less productive than their Asian counterparts. The key to the Toyota production system was a principle so basic it sounds like an empty management slogan-- teamwork. Back home in Fremont GM supervisors ordered around large groups of workers. The Takaoka plant people were divided into teams of just four or five-- switch jobs every few hours to relieve the monotony. And a team leader would step in to help whenever anything went wrong. Again Professor Jeffrey Liker and Toyota's John Shook. And they spent about two weeks and they worked in a Toyota plant. Hooked up at the hip with a counterpart in the Corolla plant-- someone who did the exact same job you would be doing back in Fremont. And they start to do the job and they were pretty proud because they were building cars back in the United States and they wanted to show they could do it within the time allotted and they would usually get behind. And they would struggle and they would try to catch up and at some point somebody would come over and say do you want me to help? And that was a revelation because nobody in the GM plant would ever ask to help. They would come yell at you because you got behind. Really we wanted to give them a chance to see and experience a different way of doing things. We wanted them to see the culture there the way people work together to solve problems. Then the biggest surprise was when they had those problems afterwards somebody would come up to them and say what are your ideas for improvement so we do not have that problem again? So they would make suggestions for a different kind of tool that would be better for the job or a different place for bolts and parts to sit that would be easier to reach. They could not believe that responsiveness. I cannot remember anytime in my working life where anybody asked for my ideas to solve the problem. And they literally want to know and when I tell them they listen and then suddenly they disappear and somebody comes back with the tool that I just described-- it is built-- and they say Try this. Under the Toyota system when a worker makes a suggestion that saves money he gets a bonus of a few hundred dollars or so. Everyone's expected to be looking for ways to improve the production process all the time. This is the Japanese concept of kaizen or continuous improvement. And if you look around a Toyota plant you can see the result of all those improvements. You see mats for workers to stand on special cushions they throw into the car frames when they have to kneel inside hanging shelves that travel along with the car and the worker carrying parts and bolts they need within easy reach. Similarly workers tasks have been streamlined to the fewest possible steps each step timed down to the second. Two seconds to pick up a bolt and put it on. Two seconds to take a gun and tighten it down. Billy Haggerty learned the Japanese system two decades into his tenure at GM Fremont. Everything was timed out such and such takes such and such long to do-- that is the way you did it. At General Motors you could be running in circles for whatever you were doing and that is the way it is. You lose time. A car a minute do not seem like it is moving that fast but when you do not get it you are in the hole. There is nobody to pull you out at General Motors so you are going to let something go. All those mistakes added up at a GM plant and the results were littered around the lots outside-- hundreds of misassembled cars. Cars that came off the line missing parts. Cars that needed to be fixed before they could be shipped out to the dealers. In a Toyota plant there was nothing like this. Why did a GM plant produce so many screwed up cars? One cardinal rule that everybody in the company knew. The line could never stop. Never stop the line. Again Billy Haggerty Jeffrey Liker Rick Madrid and Bruce Lee. Someone had a heart attack kick him out the way keep that line running. It was a basic sin. You are violating the 10 commandments. You just do not see the line stop. I saw a guy fall in the pit and they did not stop the line. You saw a problem you stop that line you were fired. A long time GM manager named Ernie Schaefer explained why. Because the theory was they will stop it all the time. They do not want to work you know they want to sit and play cards or whatever. You know that was a free break for them if the line stops so you would not give them the ability to stop the line. John Shook the American who helped Toyota design its training program says this all goes back to the first assembly line created by Henry Ford. What Henry Ford had basically designed was a system that-- he wanted the people on the floor to simply get the volume out get the product out the door and someone later will worry about the quality. If we have to repair it we will repair it. So one of the most fundamental things that Toyota did was take that and turn it on its head. So that now we tell the plant floor do not you worry about the production volume you worry about quality. The last thing we want is to have a lot of defects flowing down the line that we have to repair later. Toyota's philosophy was quality not quantity. In his old GM job Billy Haggerty put on hoods and fenders and saw lots of mistakes go right down the line. So we had Monte Carlos with Regal front ends and vice versa and they would just stick it on run it out to the yard and then change. What did they look like the cars? Half Regals and half-- so those things would go out the door into the yard and be fixed out there. I did a lot of overtime in the yard changing things back. Workers told me they saw cars with engines put in backwards cars without steering wheels or brakes. Some were so messed up they would not start and had to be towed off the line. Fixing them piled on more costs and sometimes taking them apart and putting them back together workers damaged them even more. On the floor of the NUMMI plant in Fremont Earl Ferguson showed me Toyota's solution to all this. It is a thin nylon rope that hangs on hooks along the assembly line which became a symbol of everything that was different about the Japanese way of making cars-- the andon cord. These cords hanging down that is the andon cord. It will stop the line. If he pulls the andon cord then this light's going to come on right here. Then it will show up on the screen that this location is down. It also plays a surprisingly cheerful little song. Workers in each area can pick the tune. You hear it all the time in a Toyota plant. The first pull does not stop the line it summons team leaders to the location. They try to correct the problem and usually they can do it quickly without stopping production. But if they fail the line stops. Then they will correct the problem then you can pull the andon cord again and the line will start. Now when was the first time you ever pulled an andon cord? 1984. Where did you do it? In Japan. Were you at all nervous because you would been taught for so many years never to stop the line? Yeah. And it was really exciting. What got me was the fact that they had a cross bolt and they stopped the line to repair it. Ream the hole put the bolt back in instead of sending it on and putting all the other junk on top of it so you have to take it off and repair it. And whoever puts it back is not skilled in putting trim back so they are going to mess that up. That impressed me. Said gee that makes sense fix it now so you do not have to go through all this stuff. That is when it dawned on me that we can do it-- one bolt. One bolt changed my attitude. I think that there was a combination of feelings. One feeling was wow this is different. Again that is industrial engineering professor Jeffrey Liker. Another feeling was of embarrassment. We have been in this industry for how many years-- my whole adult life-- we are Americans we are supposed to be the best most important country in the world and we cannot build a quality car. And these Japanese are doing it. And there was a sense of hurt pride. Well it was kind of you become a little bit ashamed because why could not we do that? Again Earl Ferguson. You know I think most of it was pride after that. We wanted to be able to compete with what I saw in Japan. I said I know we can do what they can do. Only two weeks later when that first group left to go back to Fremont-- Toyota trainer John Shook. We had a party of course a sushi party-- and this was years ago before sushi was as it is now. It was still a rare thing of course. And people were crying on both sides. You had union workers-- grizzled old folks that had worked on the plant floor for 30 years and they were hugging their Japanese counterparts just absolutely in tears. There is actually footage of this though we do not know if it is the first group of Americans. US workers are in kimonos with the Toyota name on them. And they hand their neckties to the Japanese and hug. One man is crying.  One of the Americans says in Japanese Thanks to you all we now feel confident for our success. John Shook. And it might sound flowery to say 25 years later but they had had such a powerful emotional experience of learning a new way of working a way that people could actually work together collaboratively-- as a team. We knew it was not going to be easy-- there were a lot of hurdles to overcome-- but there was no question in anyone's mind that this was going to work. But if it was going to work it would mean a radically different relationship between workers and management. One where the managers trusted the workers to let them pull the andon cord and stop the line. One where the workers trusted their bosses enough to ask for help when there were problems. With teamwork we can do it all.  Our website thisamericanlife.org where our online store is now back up in operation and where you can find the new update of our iPhone app. This American Life is distributed by Public Radio International. Support for This American Life comes from Kohler. WBEZ management oversight for our program by our boss Mr. Torey Malatia. I overheard him in the hallway telling someone how surprised he was at the quality of our shows this year. Because that was not a young workforce. And you know they were old they were fat. I am Ira Glass back next week with more stories of This American Life.