Well it is just like they say in Us Weekly people in the 18th century they are just like us. At least they are when they are not in situations like the one I am about to describe to you. It is 1761 Austria cue the Mozart music which by an act of Congress in 1974 is required in any Public Radio story like this. Mozart please.  Ava Litzelfelnerin gets married. She is 25 moves from her parents' farm to her husband's farm 16 miles away which back then seemed really really far away. She feels like she is in a foreign country when she is moved these 16 miles to the new village. And she says things like oh I do not know what the local customs are here. That is Kathy Stuart a professor of history at the University of California Davis. She says that from hundreds of pages of archived criminal testimony we know that this was an arranged marriage that Ava met her husband days before the wedding and that Ava's new mother-in-law dominated the household would not even let Ava give gifts to the neighbors when she moved in. The mother-in-law gave the field hands smaller portions of food than Ava thought was right and she would not let Ava change it or take charge. Ava tells people how unhappy she is in this new life far from the life she would known. She is constantly articulating to her husband her brother her mother that she wants to leave this world and she can find no happiness in this world. And the only response she gets is go home and pray and work. So she decides to end her life but there is a problem. At the time suicide was considered a worse sin than murder. Kathy Stuart says the logic was if you committed a murder you could confess your sin and if you were truly repentant you could get yourself into Heaven. Obviously if you kill yourself you do not get that chance and you are doomed to eternal damnation. And Ava did not want to go to Hell but she thought of a loophole-- a morbid little loophole. She thought OK wait a minute. What if I commit suicide in a way that is really slow and secret. And I can get myself to a priest on time to confess before I die and then nobody need know that I committed suicide and I will get to Heaven anyway. So what she does is she goes to a nearby town and she goes from store to store trying to buy arsenic. She testifies later this turns out to be really really hard. Arsenic is a controlled substance. Nobody wants to sell it to her. Finally she makes up a story about working for a farmer who has a rodent problem which works. And then she goes home and she takes the arsenic. But she takes apparently just a little bit of arsenic the way she describes it as much as you could get on the point of a butter knife. It is delicate right? She wants to take enough arsenic that it will kill her but not so much that it will kill her quickly. She needs time to get to a priest first to confess the sin. So she takes this little bit of arsenic. But apparently it was enough to make her violently ill and for a week every time she ate she vomited. But it was not enough to make her think that she was now going to die. So she never goes to the priest. Figuring out the proper dosage she testifies later is just a vexing problem that she does not know how to solve. And she gives up that plan which brings her to a much more disturbing plan. She decides to do something that to us to our modern sensibility is so much worse than killing yourself. From our point of view she decides to do one of the worst things a person could possibly do. She decides I am going to murder a child. That is right. She is going to murder a child to help herself get into Heaven. And incredibly Kathy Stuart says this was a common strategy around that time for people who wanted to kill themselves. She came across a case like this and then went looking for others like it. And now she has found around 300 most of them women. These people do not want to go to Hell. So the option that they choose is to commit a capital crime. Immediately upon committing the crime they run to the court. They confess what they have done and they essentially demand their own execution. So they demand execution knowing that before they go to the gallows they will have a chance to confess. And if they are truly repentant they will go to Heaven. And why kill a child? They kill a child because the child is seen as being in a state of innocence. So you might possibly be doing the child a favor because the child will also go to Heaven. You will go to Heaven. It is kind of a win-win situation. There is a happy ending for all. Yes the classic happy ending. An innocent child gets an untimely death. Ava has to try this twice before she succeeds. The first time she pushes a boy who is described as being tall as a chair into a river. But then someone spots them and it seems like that person might rescue the boy. And so she decides well she should just rescue the boy herself. And then the boy ends up running away and it does not work out. The second time she wanders to a nearby village called Traun which has a little waterfall. She walks by a house notices some baby clothes on a clothesline. Ava steals the baby who is this couple's only child. The woman's 37. The man is 58. Ava throws the baby into the river and then turns herself in. Later interestingly when she is interrogated she never actually seems too regretful about what she has done to this other family. Just before her ultimate condemnation in the last interrogation the interrogator asks her is there anything else you want to say? Is there any regret you want to express? And again she expresses regret for the distress and dishonor that she has caused her husband and her family. But she never even mentions the child or the child's parents. And I thought that was quite striking. Well she is not sorry. No she is not sorry one might say. So she is not going to Heaven right? She is not sorry for the murder. This whole plan of hers is not going to work. Well the pastor will say to the person being executed do you think God can be fooled in this manner? You know that by doing this you actually have committed suicide and so forth. And so the pastors really do address that theological problem that this is a loophole. You are trying to cheat God. But because they have enough time the condemned criminal can say oh yes I was trying to cheat God. I was trying to commit suicide and I repent. So confession takes care of it all. It does not seem fair. No it really does not. Kathy Stuart says these kinds of suicides suicides by proxy she calls them started in the mid 1600s. By 1700 officials in European cities were starting to notice this new trend of people murdering children so that they would get executed. And the officials tried to adjust the laws to stop it. In 1702 officials in Nuremberg made the execution more painful and shameful for these cases. It did not work. In 1767 they finally do the only logical thing to close this loophole. People are killing children because they want to get the death penalty. OK they remove the death penalty for this kind of case. That did not work either. Cases keep happening until the early decades of the 19th century. So it really seems like people did not get the memo. It probably dissuaded some people but people keep doing it. Today on our show we have a story about this cat-and-mouse game where rules are set and someone tries to bend around the rules to get what they want. As any parent knows starting pretty much as soon as a child is able to understand the fact that rules exist-- you know do not touch the stove do not put that in your nose-- they start to test the boundaries of the rule to poke at it to look for loopholes. Today we have the story of somebody who takes pleasure in doing just that. He takes pleasure in the ingenuity of it of finding a loophole that nobody else has noticed and exploiting it as long as he can until the authorities notice him. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. Stay with us. Act One Death Takes a Policy. Joseph Caramadre is a wealthy philanthropist and a devout Catholic. In his huge house in the Providence suburbs he has a near-life-size statue of Saint Joseph displayed in its own alcove in the living room. He is given millions of dollars to charities especially the Catholic Church. In 2009 the local United Way gave him one of its highest individual honors-- the Tocqueville Society Philanthropy Award-- for his work on behalf of more than 40 different charities. Joseph Caramadre is also depending on who you talk to either a criminal mastermind or just a regular law-abiding guy who managed to take advantage of loopholes to turn the tables on some of the largest corporations in the country and beat them at their own game. Jake Bernstein from ProPublica teams up with Alex Blumberg from our own Planet Money team to tell the story. Before the criminal indictment before the lawsuits before the exposes on the local news Joseph Caramadre had a prosperous business doing estate planning. He helped rich people prepare for their deaths everything from taxes to life insurance. To give you a sense of what kind of guy he is what makes him so good at this job consider this story. He was at a local office superstore and they were selling calendars with coupons on each page. He saw one of these coupon to that said 25 off any piece of office furniture. He read the fine print and realized the lawyers who wrote the language in that coupon had forgotten a key clause. I noticed that mistake there. It was normal for me to notice it. I am kind of hard wired for this. Wait. What was the mistake? The mistake was that they meant 25 off of any piece of furniture over 200. They forgot the over 200 part. So all the coupons were issued 25 off of any piece of furniture. And there was lots of furniture that was less than 25? It was even worse than that. There was stuff 40 on sale for 25. Caramadre bought all the calendars he could. He bought so many of them he says they gave him a discount. And when that month for that 25 off coupon rolled around he showed up at the store and bought every piece of furniture under 25 he could find. And they rang it up. All right it is 1200. And I just pull out a stack of coupons and say all right we are even. And the face on the managers-- the expression on the poor manager's face was such that the poor guy said I am going to lose my job. I said it is not your fault that Legal does not know what the hell they are doing. Who does this? Think of the effort involved. He had to read through 12 months of the fine print buy all those calendars remember the scheme and come back several months later to claim his prize. And for what? 1200 of cheap office furniture that he did not even need. He actually had to borrow a truck from a friend to take it all home where he says he stored some of it in his garage and gave some to friends family and charity. Joseph Caramadre has a compulsion for loopholes for seeing the angle in a deal and exploiting it. In fact when he discovers schemes like this he calls them his creations. He actually numbers them. There have been 19 of them in his lifetime he says. The office furniture one was number four. And it is number 18 we are talking about today the one that first landed him in trouble. The seeds of number 18 came in the mid 1990s in a place most of us would probably consider more likely to put us to sleep than spark an idea. One of the insurance companies was giving a seminar to agents which I am a life insurance agent where they were espousing the benefits of their variable annuities. So Jake. Alex. This is the part of the story where we have to explain what a variable annuity is. Yeah but do not worry. It is not that complex. The variable annuity was a product that was just becoming popular around the time Joe went to the seminar. And though they were sold by life insurance companies they were very different from a traditional life insurance policy. A life insurance policy you pay a little bit of money each year and if you die your beneficiaries your spouse your kids will get a big payout. Variable annuities are more like an investment. You have say a million dollars and you purchase an annuity which is then invested in a variety of different funds that you select-- mutual funds stocks bonds. The insurance companies give you an array of choices and you tell them which funds get the money. This is the variable part of the equation. Now you might be wondering why not just put the money in a mutual fund yourself? Why go through the insurance company at all? Well one of the main reasons the insurance company has offered something called a death benefit guarantee. With the death benefit guarantee say you invest a million dollars but the market crashes and so does your investment. If you should die before the investment recovers your beneficiary gets the original million even if the account is worth half of that. You get all the upside without the downside. All upside no downside. This is the Holy Grail for any investor. Most investment managers will tell you it is impossible. You cannot get reward without risk. Yet here it was sitting before Caramadre the proverbial free lunch-- with one very big catch. That is really not a free lunch. I have to die. To most of us that having to die part that would be a deal breaker a sign to walk away. But to Caramadre he could tell there was a creation in here somewhere he just needed to find the loophole. All we need to do is replace the necessity of the investor having to die with someone else dying. So if we could transfer and get a substitute life we have effectively accomplished the investor not needing to die. Joe started reading through prospectuses the 100-page documents filled with legalese that explain the rules of each annuity plan. Lots of companies offered these annuities Transamerica-- ING MetLife Nationwide. And it turns out the way these variable annuity contracts were written there was a loophole. Every annuity has three participants. There is the investor. That is the person who is putting up the million dollars say. There is the beneficiary the person who gets the money if the death benefit is triggered. And then there is a third party called an annuitant or what is known as a measuring life. And this third category that annuitant person that is where the loophole was found. The way the insurance companies intended it to work the way it worked most of the time was that the investor and the annuitant were the same person. For example I Jake Bernstein put up a million dollars to purchase an annuity. And if I Jake Bernstein die then the death benefit gets triggered. I am the investor. I am also the annuitant. The beneficiary would usually be a family member. But Caramadre discovered legally you could set it up a different way. There was no requirement in the contracts that the annuitant be the investor. In fact there was no requirement that the annuitant have any relationship to the investor at all. So in theory I Alex Blumberg could put up a million dollars but I could find someone else my ailing grandmother or a perfect stranger to be the annuitant to be the person whose demise triggers the death benefit. If you can get a short life expectancy you will be able to have your cake and eat it. You will be able to invest any way you want to in these mutual funds and know it is like going to the horses. When you leave the horse track if you won you keep the winnings. If you lose they give you your money back. Now there are laws against using insurance to profit from the deaths of strangers. You do not want people taking out an insurance contract on the neighbor down the street and then killing them. But according to a Rhode Island federal court an annuity is fundamentally different than life insurance. So those laws about insuring strangers they do not apply. Which meant Caramadre's creation was almost complete. But before he brought it to his clients he needed to test it so he decided to buy one himself. He started small an annuity for just 10000. He was the investor. His wife Paula was the beneficiary. All he needed was an annuitant who might not be around for long. In this case it was a friend of the family I knew that our family in church was praying for because they had cancer and I was helping to straighten out the estate of the family. So I happened to know the person and just asked them can I use them as a measuring life. Was that-- were you nervous to first have that conversation? Yeah I would say I was a little bit nervous because we are talking about someone dying and no one wants to talk about death. I think a lot of my success in the life insurance industry has been because I always treat death as a part of life and it is very easy for me to talk about it. I am around death all the time. Estate planning is all about death planning. So for me it was-- basically I guess I might have been the first one to ever ask anyone can we use their name and their health status for the benefit of others. Yes I was a little nervous but then on the other hand if the person did not want to do it they did not have to do it. This was an opportunity for me to test something. And if it worked then I could bring it into more of a multiple use. And it was also an opportunity for the annuitant who was very sick and maybe struggling financially to get some money. Caramadre says he initially paid this family friend around 500 for his signature and permission to use his name date of birth and social security number on the annuity form. Now a lot of people might find this gross taking a person's most vulnerable emotional moment and turning it into an opportunity for financial gain. But on the other hand this is not trying to upsell a grieving family on a super deluxe casket. Sure Caramadre and his clients were going to benefit. But Caramadre was giving this man and his family money not taking money from them. On the application the insurance companies only asked one question that touched on what Caramadre was planning to do. That single question? What is the relationship between the investor and the annuitant. I put N-O-N-E none. No relationship. But they do not ask how healthy is he? They do not say is he in a hospital? Is he in a hospice? None of that stuff. No not at all. Within a few months Caramadre's first annuitant died. Caramadre paid his respects to this family and submitted the death claim. His account had lost money. The original 10000 investment was down to about 9000. But the insurance company paid him his original investment plus interest no questions asked. And I emphasize no questions. Did they say anything to you when you put in the claim after only four months or three months or whatever it was? No. And let me make it a little bit more interesting. Right after that we submitted four applications to the same company with four different investor owners using the same measuring life. So they found one dying person and filled out four different applications with four different investors all using the same guy as the annuitant. When that person died? I actually sent in one piece of paper saying this person died pay these four owners. And they said nothing. So they had-- And they paid it? Yeah they paid it and processed it. The insurance companies paid and processed it because the insurance companies made a lot of money. Remember the way this usually works. You put in your million dollars and the life insurance company can collect upwards of 4 of that money in fees every year potentially for decades. The way the insurance company saw it these annuities were money makers. They did not need to ask that many questions. For Caramadre though it meant creation number 18 was fully operational. He would found the loophole that made the free lunch possible. OK so now I have a creation on hand that has been tested at least preliminarily with a little bit of money. It has been tested that the company does not seem to care or want to care about underwriting health questions relationship or even losses or gains. So I now start going to clients that are near and dear to me and tell them look I think I have something special here. My name's Carl Ferreira. I am a general dentist in Fall River Massachusetts. Carl Ferreira met Joe Caramadre through his accountant who told him about this smart attorney in Cranston Rhode Island who had a great investment opportunity. Carl met with Joe learned the details of creation number 18 and said sign me up. For me it was an ideal position to put some of my pension money in where there would be growth and guaranteed principal protection and I would protect both myself and my employees from the fluctuations of the market. Your pension money meaning the pension money that you are paying for your employees? Correct. And I also put some personal money in it as well. For Ferreira there was one other attractive feature to Caramadre's creation. One of the things I was thinking and I thought well is not this something? How many times had we dealt with insurance companies and been denied claims whether it is on your homeowner's or your medical insurance or your dental insurance and they refer you to some policy in fine print. And you say to yourself you need a lawyer to read this. And I said is not this great? Finally there is a lawyer that read this and is now going to hoist them on their own petard. So we have this Italian lawyer from the hill that went to Suffolk law school at night and beat these guys from Harvard and Yale and Princeton at their own game. Ferreira says he never had any qualms about benefiting from someone else's death. That was not really an issue for me. And I was so not squeamish about it that I brought that forth to my father when he was elderly. And he could not get the pen fast enough to sign. Oh so you actually said hey dad this guy Joe Caramadre he could give you a couple thousand dollars if you sign your signature? He just signed it without the money. It was just hey Pop I got this opportunity here. Do you want to sign this? And as I said he could not get the pen fast enough. If there was going to be something that was going to be an advantage to his children he was going to do that dead or alive or alive or dead we would say. Throughout the '90s and early 2000s word of Caramadre's creation spread amongst his clients and his acquaintances. It was never a big part of his overall business he says. He puts it less than 5 of what he made. But among a certain type of person getting in on creation number 18 became something like a trophy investment something to brag about. If there is a couple of people who are captains of industry at a country club they are always boasting that their investment adviser got them this and their car is the best and all this. Their doctor's the best. So it actually got to the point where if I wanted to I could have a waiting list of people to beg me to take a million dollars. People wanted a piece of this if they could hear about it and if I would allow them in the game if you will. Caramadre made money on this scheme in a variety of ways. Sometimes he simply collected a fee. The insurance companies had these annuities they were trying to sell and they paid the people who helped sell them a small percentage. Caramadre would take a cut of that percentage. On a few occasions he says he split some of the profit with the client. He would say to one of these captains of industry I have this great opportunity for you. Give me a cut of whatever your investment makes. And sometimes he would invest his own money in an annuity. Caramadre's lawyers have told him not to say exactly how much he made off of this scheme but it was likely in the millions of dollars. Regardless as he did more and more of these deals he needed more and more people who were close to death. I started asking doctors nursing homes hospices organizations funeral homes social workers if they knew of anyone who is terminally ill and needed money. If they refer them to me and they want to participate in this program I could find their money. Raise your hand please. Do you swear the testimony you are about to give will be the truth the whole truth nothing but the truth so help you God? I do. Would you state your name please? Charles Buckman. Please spell your last name. B-U-C-K-M-A-N. Charles Buckman was one of several dozen dying people who filled out paperwork for Caramadre's deals. Some of these were also used in a slightly different scheme creation number 19 which involved bonds but was a close cousin of the variable annuity program. Most of the participants in these schemes have died by now. We found two annuitants who are still alive but they declined to talk to us. But we do have video testimony of several of these annuitants taken before they died. In this video Charles Buckman has an oxygen tube going into his nose. He suffers from a chronic lung condition. He is also hard of hearing. He says he first got involved with creation number 18 in 2008. It started with his wife. It started my wife she had cancer and she was critical with cancer. And we had a visiting nurse who came two or three days a week and she mentioned to my wife she showed us a flyer and wanted to know if we ever got our 2000. My wife said what are you talking about? We had no idea. So she gave us the flyer. She said please call this number. So I did. By 2008 when Buckman got involved Caramadre had taken out an ad in a local Catholic newspaper which said-- Terminal illness? 2000. And then all in capital letters-- IN CASH immediately available. And the way it worked everyone who answered the ad and could prove they had a terminal illness got a check for 2000 whether they participated in Caramadre's program or not. If they decided to sign the documents and serve as a measuring life there was more money available usually between 3000 and 10000. Caramadre had a young employee right out of college named Raymour Radhakrishnan who was signing up most of the annuitants including Charles Buckman. He stopped in and he visited with us. Just a friendly visit like an old friend more or less. OK. Did he talk about-- And he said he had a check for us. OK. And he asked who do I make it out to? And he was in a rush. He had other places he had to go that day if I can remember correctly. OK. He said Mr. Buckman I would like to stay longer but I have other appointments. He says if you do not mind I will call you at a later date. And I would like to set up another meeting with you and come back to visit with you and your wife. OK. And I said fine. I said anybody that comes to my house and gives me 2000 is welcome anytime. A welcome visitor? Yep. Raymour came back a few days later with documents to sign. Mr. Buckman says Raymour read him the documents and explained that there is a group of people making an investment and these people could make money if someone dies. He says he knew that he and his wife would not get any of that money. Their only payouts were the checks they would collect for signing these documents. Buckman and his wife ended up signing papers on nine transactions. Caramadre says he paid the couple a total of 12000. To Buckman it was a great deal. He said so to Raymour. What I told Raymour was my wife-- I cannot thank him enough. And he can tell you I could not thank him enough him and his boss for supplying my wife with the best days of her life for the couple months before she passed away. And to this day I will be forever grateful. Buckman said he could not care less how much Caramadre and others were getting. No matter what they had I could care less how much they got. I know that my wife had the best time of her life because of what they did for her. And I will never be thankful enough. We heard this from other people as well. We spoke to a woman-- she did not want her name to be used-- whose mom had lung disease and signed forms with Caramadre multiple times. Her mom made around 20000 according to Caramadre. What he gave my mom-- at the time she had been sickly and financially as most people in her age group things like prescriptions were becoming a stretch to afford. She could not buy Christmas presents for her grandchildren and her great grandchildren. And there were certain things that she needed whether it be hair color or to go to Wright's Chicken Farm with the elderly and whatnot. She did not have her own money for that so she relied on us for that and that bothered her.  I am sorry. I did good until now. But working with Joe the compensation he gave her gave her back her dignity. She would go to the mall with my granddaughter and I and when I said no to a Webkinz my mom could say I can do this. And that made her-- that is what gave my mom happiness really. Throughout the mid to late 2000s Caramadre increased the number of deals he did as he took advantage of something people in the life insurance business now call the arms race. To an insurance company a variable annuity seemed like a great deal. You get this big chunk of cash. It is locked up and delivers a great stream of money from fee income. And so insurance companies competed with each other for the business of customers like Joe Caramadre by offering more and more enticements in their variable annuity packages. As companies figured out in the early 2000s that this was a great profitable situation their only goal was to accumulate assets. So they started with deposit bonuses. I give them 1 million. They put 50000 or 60000 right in my account day one. So I earn 6 the day I buy this. In other words life insurance companies literally paid people to buy these products. But wait there is more. They also provided increasingly exotic investment options for where you could put your money. Double beta funds inverse funds. You could bet the Japanese yen the Mexican peso. You can bet the Saudi Arabian nuclear fund. I am making a joke there but there were funds that I never even heard of. And these are all riskier and riskier funds but that offered potentially greater and greater returns? Yes. And we did not pick very stable secure funds government bond funds which we knew would not have much risk or much reward. I am going to pick the most aggressive fund known to man that is available in that variable annuity portfolio. Companies piled on more bells and whistles with fancy names rising floors earning enhancements bonus credits ratchets. For Caramadre and his team they watched each new enticement each new bell and whistle each new escalation in the arms race with glee and amazement. One broker I talked to said perusing the latest prospectuses and picking the best benefits for their clients was like ordering off a Friendly's menu. Every month or so my firm would come out with the top 10 lucrative variable annuities. Some of these were so incomprehensible when put on a chart I had people laughing out loud at my office. And so over time the insurance companies are taking what was essentially a sweet deal for you and making it sweeter and sweeter and sweeter. Yes and much more dangerous to them. I have talked with several actuaries and risk managers in life insurance companies and they say they were aware of the risk and they would urge caution when new enticements were being discussed. But the eagerness to increase sales always carried the day. Plus the insurance companies thought they would hardly ever have to pay out these death benefits. And also remember throughout much of the 2000s the market was doing pretty well so chances were your account would be worth more than the death benefit anyway. That all changed with the financial crisis. The initial investments had lost money but the insurance companies were still on the hook to pay that initial investment. So those death claims started to matter to the companies a lot more. And a few noticed that they were getting more claims than mathematical models predicted they would. Apparently they had done some sort of a map of where all these claims were coming from and there were a lot of red dots around Cranston which is where Joe was operating out of. This is Robert Flanders a former Rhode Island state Supreme Court Justice now in private practice who served as Caramadre's attorney when the insurance companies started suing him. Flanders represents Caramadre in cases brought by two life insurance companies both owned by the same conglomerate. The companies claimed that the applications that Caramadre filed were false and misleading in part because they did not tell the company that the annuitants were dying. To which Flanders argued essentially well you did not ask. Who kn