 Welcome back. You are listening to SNAP JUDGMENT The Passion live in San Francisco already in progress. And please note that while this next story is an absolute masterpiece of modern storytelling of which we are extremely proud sensitive listeners and those with small children should be advised.   Our next guest is a true Renaissance man. He is a writer a poet a filmmaker a director. The last time he told a story on the SNAP stage it touched millions of people around the world - his tale of family legacy. Today he digs even closer to home. Please put your hands together for Mr. Jamie DeWolf.   My daughter loved bedtime stories. Tucking her in I would read her three fairytales a night before she would finally fall asleep. Her favorites were Cinderella and Sleeping Beauty. But there was one I would always skip. When she would asked me why I would not read her Red Riding Hood I said I cannot it gives me nightmares. Maybe someday when you are older. I would kiss her goodnight lock the windows check the doors and smoke alone on the porch at midnight knowing there is worse than wolves in this world. Vallejo California I am 21 years old my girlfriend's 23 and we move with our newborn daughter into the only apartment complex welfare can afford. The rent is cheap because we are the first room next to the only door of a three-story complex and the doorbell is broken. So every hour people are pounding on the front door waking up my daughter from the crib and sending us screaming into the hall - next time call first. The complex is next to a bus stop and a porn store. We sleep with a baseball bat beside our bed and the only thing that separates us from the street is that door and our deadbolt. All I want is to shut out the world to ignore the slurred screams from the second-story the passed-out people on the sidewalk. But I cannot ignore the girl in the hallway. It is hard to. I see her every day. She has a gap-tooth smile messy brown hair and a doll that dangles from its only arm. Every day she asks me what is your baby's name? I say it is Nadia remember? She always wants to come inside but I do not know which door she belongs do not want parents to watch her going into a stranger's home. So I say maybe another time OK honey? Why do not you go run along now? Go play. Every day I see her coloring books on the staircase just another part of the complex like the white guy on the porch with bad tattoos who asked me for a cigarette every time I take out the trash. Every morning - what is your baby's name? I answer and she never remembers. So it becomes just another noise like the gunshots a block away or the sirens that become my daughter's first lullabies. One day the girl's crying - says she is hungry so we finally invite her inside and I give her cookies and milk like a stray cat. She wants to stay but it is our daughter's bedtime. You have got to go to your own home now OK honey? I will see you tomorrow. She waved goodbye to my daughter. Then I locked the door behind her and left her in the hallway. The next day she disappears. It is December 9 1999. By midnight cops are knocking. Two days later FBI agents are pounding on the front door. News van spotlights blast through the blind. Now the missing girl has become an official case. When I see her face on the 00 news it is the first time I realize I never knew her name. Xiana Fairchild. She is 7 years old born in prison to a mother in for auto theft. They sent her to her great aunt in Hawaii to grow up swimming in warm waters until her mother demanded her back. Xiana's only lived in our complex for six months. The rumor is her mother has been running meth missions down to Mexico and leaves Xiana for days alone on the staircase. The neighbors two doors down have been feeding her even called Child Protective Services but nothing changed. The rest of us did nothing and locked our doors to a girl we saw every day. Now her great Aunt flies back from Hawaii with an army of reporters national news candlelight vigils thousands of posters on every street corner. Hundreds of thousands volunteer to march through forests and marshes looking for an answer no one wants to find at their feet. Xiana's mother and her boyfriend are too strung out for the spotlight. I overhear him slur about having to make another appearance at the volunteer center in the morning as the police monitor their every move building their case. Bobby the boyfriend was the last person to see Xiana. He is the guy that asks me for cigarettes every time I take out the trash. His story of that morning changes every day. First he dropped her off at school then he took her to the bus stop then maybe she walked alone. They give him a polygraph test and he fails. And his prison record hits the front page. He is an ex-con just released for holding down his ex-girlfriend's infant son under scalding hot water. His past now exposed Bobby stops showing his face. The neighbor above me with the tattooed tears says if Xiana does not come home Bobby's going to go missing himself one day. Bobby and the mother avoid the press as canines sniff our staircase and lab technicians spray our dumpster for blood stains. The word is they do not have enough evidence to charge Bobby as the weeks turned into months and the reward grows to 75 grand. Bobby and the mother know the world is watching so they try to move out at midnight. But cameras come out of the shadows neighbors screaming at Xiana's mother for sticking with this monster. She shoves reporters out of the way and then there is a moment outside by the car where I am alone with Bobby. He asks me for a cigarette. I say no  way. I want to smash his face in to hurt him the way he hurts children. But then the cameras come back. And I know I missed my moment. They drive away past a poster of a gap-tooth girl grinning on the street corner. It is been eight months and Xiana still has not come home. Every new parent knows you are paranoid enough of thumb tacks on the carpet and every sharp edge to a table. But now I am awake until sunrise against my daughter's crib afraid she is going to miss a single breath. A month later another girl goes missing only blocks away. She is 8 years old kidnapped for three days handcuffed to a stick shift in a parking lot as her abductor is inside a Home Depot shopping for a body bag to fit her height. She escapes a car full of Polaroids and duct tape flags down a trucker on the freeway and finally the wolf of Vallejo bears his face. It was not Bobby. I was wrong. We were all wrong. It was worse. His name is Curtis Dean Anderson a taxi driver and a family friend of Xiana a man who I would open the apartment complex door for many times before. He was a monster a deadbolt did not stop. Just another cab driving down the same street my daughter took her first steps on a man who watched Xiana walk alone to school every morning as her neighbors locked our doors on a girl we saw every day. A year after she went missing they found Xiana's skull in the Santa Cruz Mountains identified only by her grinning gap teeth. Curtis pled guilty to avoid the death penalty claimed to have killed a dozen more girls but their bodies were never found. He bragged to his cellmate about what he had done to Xiana details I would never repeat. He died of natural causes in prison the same year my daughter reached Xiana's age. Xiana was across every headline. But now she is yellow in newsprint empty volunteer centers a testament to lock doors. She was a story I could never tell my daughter why Red Riding Hood gave me nightmares. Some girls never make it out of the forest. Some stories children should never hear. It is been 15 years and I wish I had someone to apologize to. I do not know if I could have saved you but I could have done something could have invited you in instead of shutting you out with the deadbolt. I am sorry. I cannot drive past our old apartment complex without thinking of you trying to open our door with 7-year-old arms. I did not know your story when you were alive but I can tell it now and ask the world to remember your name - Xiana Fairchild the girl I left in the hallway.   I do not want to ask for a moment of silence but I want to ask for a moment of noise for her. Make noise so she can hear you please.   Please put your hands together one more time for Jamie DeWolf.   I appreciate the bravery it took to come up here and share that story.   If this is the type of storytelling that moves you we have got an amazing surprise because we filmed this entire performance. You can see the entire show for a limited time only for free at snapjudgment.org. Who loves you like SNAP? Stay tuned. SNAP JUDGMENT The Passion returns right after the break. 