When I arrive at Margo's apartment for our interview-- Come on in. --she opens the door holding a glass of wine. Hi. Oh I need to have a glass of wine while I talk about my family. This is not totally a joke. She is got 11 brothers and sisters and yes Catholics old school Irish mom Italian immigrant dad. And the kids do not all get along. How many of your siblings do not speak with? I do not speak to-- Eddie Victor Mary Jo Marina Nancy-- five. You were counting on your fingers. Because I had to think. We sit down on the couch together. The living room is decked out for a Game of Thrones viewing party. And I mean like seriously decked out like 15 plastic swords stuck into the back of an older rattan chair to make a fake iron throne a miniature weirwood tree. I have no idea where you get something like that. It is totally distracting. On the coffee table in front of us she is gathered stuff for the interview. There is a glass of white wine. What kind of wine? Sauvignon Blanc. And there is a book. And there is a list. What is the list? This is the order of the items of the things in the order that I would like them from my parents' estate. Her parents' estate that is what I am here to talk to her about. When her parents died her dad in 2006 her mom two years ago they did not specify in their wills which child would get which items. No no no-- they left all that to the kids saying simply everyone should get an equal amount. Sibling number eight in the birth order Joe a lawyer the sunny one in the family was the sibling left with the truly thankless task of dividing the stuff. Their parents were these imposing brilliant people who they still talk about in this worshipful way. What they have left to them is just these things right? And this mandate-- to get along well enough one last time to split it up amongst themselves. And they do not want to screw it up. They want to honor their parents' last request. But they know it is going to be tough for them given how they are sometimes with each other. So they invented a process that is so elaborate honestly I found it kind of shocking impressive but extreme. It includes the book the one on the coffee table that Joe had created. It is thick and spiral bound with photos of all 196 items of the parents that are up for grabs. Each item gets a number. He is given a lot of thought to it. And there is four pages of rules and regulations of what you have to do. Actually it is five pages of rules single spaced 23 rules. Here's number 10. Number 10 the estate is not recognizing any alleged oral promises by mommy or daddy to give certain items to certain distributees. Thus all such items are available to be selected. Hard documented proof is required to show that intent and to exclude an item from the selection process. Thus far-- Notice how every I is being dotted here. Hard not to wonder what mommy and daddy would think of it. The kids so suspicious of each other that all this would be necessary. The mom's engagement ring for example. To prove to anybody who might doubt that this is actually her ring the one that she wore when they were little kids and her whole life until the viewing at her funeral there is a photo they took of the ring being handed from the funeral director over to one of the brothers who then took it to a jeweler who certified that it is in fact the original diamond. But the siblings that I talked to agreed all this is necessary because there are definite camps among the siblings. Depending on the issue they break down into two general teams. Do the two sides have a name that we should be using? No. OK how should we refer to them? Oh we can refer to them as the Rockaway crew versus the non Rockaway crew. Because they are the people who basically stayed in the neighborhood and the people who did not. Exactly. Rockaway by the way is a neighborhood on the water in Queens New York. Margo is a non Rockaway. And in describing other non Rockaways she says things like-- Very handsome. Or perhaps-- Generous kind brilliant PhD. But it is hard for Margo to even list the Rockaways without insulting them by the time she gets to the second person on the list. One of my brothers is an architect and he lives in Rockaway. And another one is a lawyer-- eh lawyer after a few times at the bar. He-- Margo and that brother have particularly bitter grudges against each other. But I will say I have never done an interview with somebody who drops her voice so often and so happily in the middle of stories to gossip on the record about their family. It made her really fun to talk to. Margo explained that when they were kids she and her siblings had normal rivalries that you would expect in any family that big. But then when their parents got old adult disputes and adult resentments came up between them. Like for instance who would get the house in Italy where their dad was born. It went to Mary Anne the oldest kid who'd fixed it up. Or whether Mary Ellen the next to youngest who for a while was responsible for their mom's care was doing right by her. Sibling number five Victor thought he should be the one in charge of her care. Some of the Rockaways agreed non Rockaways did not. And Victor stopped talking to a bunch of them like permanently. Here's Victor. Let us just say that I was disappointed in some of them because I knew what was best for my mom. I visit my mother every day of my life unless I was out of town. And after my father passed I visit my mother twice a day. OK? And I bought my home one block from her house. So they had a choice. I thought they should have backed me. The bad feeling between the two sides bubbled over even on the one day you would think they would put it to rest-- the day their mom died. Joe the one who adjudicates between the non Rockaways and the Rockaways was stuck in California where he lives that day. On the day my mother died April 8 2017 I was trying a case in San Diego. And I got the phone call from the nursing home saying excuse me we have to hold your mother's body because there are two funeral directors that have come to pick up the body. What happened is a few of the Rockaways had arranged for a funeral in Rockaway. And one of the non Rockaways had arranged a funeral at their mom's parish out on Long Island. So that was my-- I spent three hours brokering a deal to have the funeral in Rockaway. When it came time to start dividing their parents things Victor a Rockaway suggested Joe officially a non Rockaway that they do it using a lottery system. That is how their mother who was also an attorney by the way divided her mother's estate among her many siblings. The way the thing works is basically everybody looks inside the book that Joe made up and writes down the items they want in the order that they want them and then sends their list to Joe. And then to figure out which sibling gets to pick first and which picks second and which picks third and so on Joe had to come up with a system. And so my brother Victor called me and we discussed it. And he said how are you going to decide who gets to go first? I said I have a nice cute little five-year-old boy who lives next door to me. I think I am going to have him pick out of 12 ping-pong balls like the New York State Lottery. Like one number and each ping pong ball for each of the 12 siblings. He said oh no I would not do that if I were you. I said what? Who can find something wrong with that? I will videotape it I said it will be all hilarious. He says no people might be suspicious that you rigged it. It could have been the second video. The first video would have been no good could have been thrown out. My brothers and sisters are quite bright. And they will-- they will easily detect the possible loophole in something. I said what do you want me to do? Get Pricewaterhouse like they do the Academy Awards? He said that would be a great idea. So I literally got an accounting firm here in Orange County. And I called them and I said can you give me a list on your letterhead with the numbers 1 through 12 in random order. It was from the accounting firm that put their brother Eddie first. So he picks first in the first round. And in the second round it goes reverse order and he picks last. Then third around he is first again. Then the next round last. Like a fantasy football snake draft over and over until all 196 items are gone. If you get one of the most coveted items their mom's silver her engagement ring you have to sit out a few rounds after that. Another popular item is a pen that John F Kennedy used to sign a bill which they have because their dad Edward Ray was in the Kennedy administration at the State Department. He was friends with the Kennedys. And later a Chief Judge at the US Court of International Trade. So the book has a certain amount of historical memorabilia including a photo of the whole family with President Johnson and 11-year-old Margo shaking his hand. There are only 196 items in the book because lots of stuff was lost when Hurricane Sandy tore through their parents' house years ago. After the storm Margo says lots of items simply seemed to vanish mysteriously. Do not get her started on who she thinks might have taken those items. Or on the siblings who say that their mother and father gave them one of the items years ago when they were alive. People would visit my mommy and leave with items. I am like oh what happened to that painting that was here. Oh mommy gave it to you. Mm mommy's 90 she gave that to you? So then things would gradually disappear from the home. OK I do not really want it. It is just like what are you kidding me? It just feels unfair. It just feels unfair. The lottery was scheduled for Monday April 15 last week. I was interviewing Margo just a couple days before it would happen. She would already made her list of what she wanted ranked in order. OK so read your list. This is not going to air till after April 15 right? That is correct. Correct. She was scared that a sibling would hear what she wanted and pick it for themselves just to spite her. One of the items she was nervous somebody else might get was this turkey platter she had her eye on. Her family used it every Thanksgiving when they were kids. There is a cartoonish painting of a turkey on it colorful kind of kitschy. There is a big ugly ceramic turkey platter that we love. There is a little story to go with it that may or may not be true that it was bought at a garage sale from the Robert Kennedy's family when they were moving. And that they sold it and my mother bought it. Wait so in this story Bobby Kennedy the attorney general of the United States a millionaire has got to move from one place to another. And he is thinking what am I going to do-- I do not want to move all this stuff I am going to have a garage sale? And like people from the neighborhood are going to show up at Bobby Kennedy's house just to pick up random stuff from his family? It is my story. And I think it is true but I cannot swear to it. But it is my story. And do not you dare let me find out it is not true. This totally improbable story is backed up by both Victor a Rockaway and Joe a non Rockaway. I am confident where it came from. It came from the estate of Robert F Kennedy after Kennedy was assassinated. That turkey platter was Ethel Kennedy's. And that is how my parents got that turkey platter. My parents were good friends with the Kennedys. You could call it a garage sale but that is to me-- I cannot say it is wrong. But the garage of the Kennedy's is probably better than most. I think it was somebody in the Kennedy family was selling some items. And I assumed the money was going to go to a charity. OK? I am sure that the Kennedy family did not need the proceeds of a platter. It took me a while talking to Margo to understand why this process of dividing their parents things has been so emotionally charged for everybody. A lot of this is just whose mommy's favorite and daddy's favorite despite the fact that you are in your 60s. My parents always had favorites. So everyone was always a little bit jealous of everyone else. Joe agreed with that. We would talk about this all the time who is number one. There is no doubt who number one was. My sister Mary Anne was number one. And a lot of this just dealt with trying to get my parents attention affection and love. Because my parents had so little time to give to each one of us. Everybody was fighting for my parents' attention. I do not feel I knew my father very well until I went to law school. Then all of a sudden he took great interest in me. But where was he the first 22 years of my life? All of a sudden I became important. Before that I was just one of the runts in the family. One of the things Joe did back when he was little to be more than just one of the runts was he memorized all kinds of information about American presidents to impress his dad and his dad's fancy friends. Yeah my father would bring me out to dinner parties. And I would get all this attention from reciting the presidents and when they were born and when they died and who was Secretary of State who their vice president was. So my other siblings started memorizing it. It was all driven by the same thing. And that is oh look how he got attention look how he got affection why cannot I do the same thing? And so to this day I can rattle off the presidents' names. I learned that as a five six-year-old from-- OK wait-- bring it let us hear the presidents. Oh you mean Washington Adams Jefferson Madison Monroe Quincy Adams Jackson Van Buren Harrison Tyler Polk Taylor Fillmore Pierce Buchanan Lincoln Johnson Grant Hayes Garfield Arthur Cleveland like that? Yeah like that. And we used to time it on who could do it the fastest. But my father was very competitive. So he has to take some responsibility. He was always number one in his class. He spoke five languages. He played seven instruments. He was a student a Buddy Rich's. He was just a Renaissance man. He was Assistant Secretary of State. So to measure up to an imposing parent like that you are always going to feel inadequate. That is what my brothers and sisters have to take with them. Wow what a harsh legacy to give your kids. In a way it is like something nobody would wish on their children that kind of legacy. Yeah life's a bitch is not it? It is a-- that is the way it goes when you have great parents. People-- you often see families fall apart when the parents were great people. When the parents are gone there is all kinds of unforeseen stuff they leave us with stuff they never intended. The objects and the money and the property they leave behind in a way it is so straightforward compared to that other stuff. There comes a day it is divided and then it is over which by the way did happen for this family. They had the lottery a day early on April 14 last Sunday. Margo did get the turkey platter she wanted. Victor got the judge's robe that his dad used to wear that he wanted. Joe got JFK's pen. By all reports everybody was pretty happy with what they got. And very soon after the property is actually handed out to each sibling in a way it is like the official end of them as a family. Margo anyway says that she sees no reason why she would ever have contact with like five of them ever again. The others though I have to say she is super close with maybe closer after all this. Ready for the next phase whatever that is. I think it will be really good we just-- go on with your life. Enjoy your life and get over it including myself I say that too OK. Well today on our program people leave us and we will have to scramble and figure out what to do next. We have stories of an entire town up and leaving except for four guys. And another town where kids got home one day from school to find that their parents were gone. And what do they do now? From WBEZ Chicago this is American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us.  Act One The Sudden Departure. When we started putting this show together we talked a lot about the rapture. You know when the righteous get lifted to heaven just a small number of them leaving the rest of us behind. And I say us because I know exactly where I end up in that story. Maybe you have seen the TV show about this kind of thing The Leftovers. Anyway one of our producers Lilly Sullivan she visited a town where all in one morning hundreds of people learned that their loved ones are gone and they were left behind. Anna heard when she was at school. She was a junior eating lunch by the football field. And one of my teachers she came up towards me and said someone needed me at the office. So I just got off the bleachers and walked to the office. I did not think too much of it. When she got there her mom and her aunt were waiting for her. And my mom just came up to me and hugged me. And she looked at me and she is like it is OK we will get him out. I still did not understand. Not far away when school ended 13-year-old Adrian had a feeling that something was going on because his dad was not acting normal at all when he picked up him and his little sisters Gabriella and Eva. Like I was sitting in front of the car. He was kind of upset or something like he usually says to us like oh how was your day. This is Gabriella. I remember asking can I use the computer when I get home. He said no. And then I asked him can we go outside. And he said no. Like I saw in the mirror like if he was in a different world not here. Their little sister Eva was 10. And me and my sister were like what is going on dad? And he-- then he was like I am going to tell you when we get home. So then we got home. He said to sit down on the couch. And he started to tell us that they got my mom. He was like the immigration got your mom. Then all of us like just started to cry. Did you know what that meant? Sort of. What happened was that immigration had done a workplace raid the kind where ICE swoops into a factory or business and arrests hundreds or dozens of undocumented workers-- big workplace raids where hundreds get arrested all at once. The US had not done them for a decade. But then the Trump administration brought them back. ICE says that when they do these operations the employer is the primary target the boss. When they find undocumented workers at a work site they do not turn a blind eye. And since they know ahead of time that workers will probably be there they often bring buses. So anyway my co-worker Lilly Sullivan she was interested in these big raids because she would heard that when one of them happens it ripples through the whole community. It does not just affect the families that lose somebody but everybody else in town as well. And the place she visited was the very first place that the Trump administration hit with one of these raids Morristown Tennessee. That raid happened a year ago this month. She put together this story about first the families impacted by the raid and then everybody else in town. We have changed all the kids' names in this story here on the radio. Here's Lilly. ICE picked up 97 undocumented workers that day almost everyone working at a slaughterhouse outside of town. People told me it was like a bomb had gone off. Helicopters were circling the town. A big public road was blocked off. Officers in uniforms they did not recognize directing traffic. Factory parking lots all over town that were usually full emptied out as workers scared of ICE fled home for the day. One family I talked to a lot about the days that followed I will call them the Garcias. Their dad had been picked up the morning of the raid while the kids were at school doing school stuff. Manny was in the sixth grade and rode the bus home with his friends. They were talking about math homework and gossiping. That is his word. He was surprised to see his mom's car in the driveway when the bus pulled up. He usually gets home before her. So I was like OK mom mom. Mom was home. But the door was locked. I was like ma ma-ma. And I did not hear anything. So I would start knocking and I say my little brother's name and open up. Were you surprised it was locked? Yeah. He never locks it unless he is like scared or he is doing something. Manny figured his little brother Eric was making videos and had locked the door so nobody would walk in on him. Cause like he records videos of himself like making some slime. Videos of making slime? Yeah. This really ooey gooey liquid that he could play with he did that all the time. Eric finally let him in. And he just immediately told me hey our dad is gone. They took our dad. I felt my stomach it was-- felt like I was going to vomit. Eric who is nine had gotten home right before Manny. Their mom was home and she told them right away. And then my mom said that they got your dad migration. And I was just like-- I said what is that? What does that mean? Their mom had locked herself in the house. She would been sitting inside curtains drawn lights off hiding quietly since morning. They sat with her on the couch making no noise. She would been watching Facebook Live updates all day people posting about their families. She knew that a lot of people had gone to where the arrested people were being held in a big armory outside of town. All day their mom had been too afraid to head down there afraid to get so close to ICE. She is undocumented too. If she were taken her kids would be completely on their own. But after seeing so many people there all day including some people that she knew did not have papers she decided to risk it. Her husband's diabetic and he needed his medication.  And so I pulled myself together she said and I took the risk.  I said let us go they cannot get all of us who are down there.  If they take us they take us.  I got up and I went. She brought one of her older sons with her her 13 year old. He is a citizen. And she left her younger two kids at home. She told Manny to take care of his little brother until they got back. As she left she did the thing that lots of moms do to distract their kids in an emergency. My mom told me start cleaning and then we started cleaning. So first we do living room like sweep clean what is on floor. Then we do the dishes put them back where they are. And then dining room clean the table clean the chairs. But it was usually quiet. We never liked talked on that day. We did not talk the whole time we were cleaning. And after we were done cleaning which was nighttime I got something to eat. Manny made Eric dinner a pop tart and milk and put on cartoons for him Teen Titans Go. He sat next to him while he watched. Manny himself was glued to his phone watching all the Facebook updates and Snapchatting with friends trying to find news. Around 1100 they got a call from their mom. She told them to go to bed. They had school tomorrow. She said they would be home soon. But neither of the boys could sleep. I was feeling sad that-- that-- oh he is not actually coming back. But then every time my mom always said he is coming back he is coming back. Did you not believe that he would come back that night? Or were you worried that he would not? I did not believe he was coming. Why not? I do not know. Yeah were you scared? I was pretty scared cause-- I was scared it was going to be me and him all by ourselves. And they would be gone. And we would be just me and him. Just I was thinking all of that in my mind. Cause I have to take care of him. I have to cook him food and I have to like you know take responsibility and take care of him. Wait but how old are you? Is not that too much to do? I mean I am 12 so I am pretty-- I already know everything about him and what he likes and everything. So I think I will be pretty good in taking care of him. Eventually their mom came home. Their dad did not. At 1100 that night he was one of 54 people that ICE sent to detention in Alabama. A teacher who'd gone to the armory that day to be with his students and try to help he told me that seeing these white buses line up and file out in the dark no goodbyes no information it felt like something out of the X Files. Of the 97 undocumented workers picked up that morning ICE let 32 people go one by one over the course of the day. ICE had put them into deportation proceedings but said they could wait for their court dates at home. It was strange who got released and who did not. They released mostly women some single mothers but not all of them. They released some people with chronic illnesses but not all of them. There were a few couples who worked together at the plant couples with kids both parents detained. In cases like that someone told me that ICE told them to choose-- said we will let one of you go home choose who. People always chose the mom. I talked to the special agent in charge of the Morristown operation. He told me ICE has a policy to not leave kids with no parent or caretaker. So when two parents are detained they might release one. It is at the officer's discretion. Morristown is small enough under 30000 people that nobody in town could avoid what happened. Everyone saw the helicopters. Lots of people knew someone who'd been picked up or knew their kids or other relatives. When dozens of officers come storming into a small town rounding up a hundred people it is the kind of thing where people spill out of their houses and watch. Krista Etter lives up the hill from the plant. She had been scared that there was some criminal on the loose. She called her daughter who was at home and told her to lock the doors. When Krista heard it was a raid at the slaughterhouse she hiked across the field by her house to go see. She saw the ICE trailer officers cordoning off the entrance to the plant. Krista's a Trump supporter. She is not a fan of illegal immigration. Most of the area is that way. The county went 77 to Trump. She did not know anyone who'd been directly affected. Over the weekend she went to a vigil for the parents who'd been taken away not because she wanted to. She did not. She is the general manager for a local paper. And they asked her to take pictures. She says that when she showed up she was actually a little angry that all these people were there at all like what do they expect? These people broke the law. They should have seen it coming. I thought this possibly was a good thing that ICE was cracking down on immigration. They are here illegally. They need to go home. And then she started listening to the kids at the mic.  There was a young man. He was a teenager 14 15 years old that said he just wanted his mom to come home.  He did not have anybody else. He just wanted his mom to come home.  It just really just shook my soul. It was-- it was almost overwhelming because there were so many children speaking. And-- and I actually kind of had to get out of there. Because I was like it is getting hot. And I have health issues. And I was like I need to-- I have to remove myself you know walk out to my car get a breath. And God's kind of going see I wanted you here because you are not correct in your thinking. You are not correct in thinking that this is so black and white. Because when I heard crack down on illegal immigration I interpreted it as a crackdown on illegal immigrants that were criminals. If there was a drug situation you know violent criminals pedophile any kind of situation of that nature. That is what I expected. And I really believe I am not the only one who did that. I do not think anybody ever really stopped to think that they were going to go after the family man working at the meatpacking plant. That is not what I had in mind. I am still a President Trump supporter. I guess I have to hold out hope that maybe he did not understand he was going after the guy in the meatpacking plant. I mean I guess he probably does. I talked to a lot of people in town who after the raid said they felt stunned. People kept reminding me this is the Bible Belt. This town's God fearing. There is over 100 churches in the area. Love thy neighbor people take that seriously. And that really shaped the town's response to the raid. Reverend David Williams is a pastor in town at a Southern Baptist Church. He describes himself as Republican conservative very pro-life pro military pro Second Amendment. Also he led a prayer at the vigil. That Jesus loves the little children.  Regardless of their color.  Or the status of their citizenship.  He felt he needed to do it after driving past the raid all day on his way between his house and his church. And it was very creepy to see a particular ethnic group basically rounded up. As Americans we are better than this. I am just trying to understand this is kind of exactly what President Trump said he would do. He promised workplace raids right? And then everyone was really shocked when it actually happened. Why are people surprised do you know? I do not know. I do not-- I hope-- I do not think when people voted for Trump that they were voting for more raids. I think people were voting for a secure border. You know surely people did not vote that families would be separated and that families torn apart and children scared when am I going to see my mother or father again? We are talking about our neighbors. They are in the shadow of the steeple of the church where I serve. So I have a moral and biblical obligation. It became-- it became a divine thing yeah. I hope I have a job after this interview. Other people told me the same thing their faith told them that they needed to help these families. So this very conservative town stepped up to help the people who'd been detained and their families. Morristown's pretty small but it is also pretty well integrated. Latinos have been there for decades. Whites and Latinos live in the same neighborhoods. The schools are mixed. By the morning after the raid the town had raised 30000 to bond people out of detention and to help with necessities. Two weeks later it was up to 90000. Again here's Krista. I think some of it was guilt. It was guilt. Because you do not raise the kind of money in these communities because we all thought we were right in our assumptions. Do you see what I mean? It was guilt. We were like wow we all thought that they should all go home. We all thought we needed to build a wall. And then all of a sudden we watched families being torn apart. We never thought about those that were left behind. Now they did. Pastors in town started a telephone chain opening up churches around town as sanctuaries with cots for people who were scared that ICE would come back. When an immigration raid hits you do not usually hear about this kind of response-- a town wide effort to pick up the pieces. Longtime residents lined up to volunteer at churches brought trucks full of food and donations. One organizer told me that a local bishop dropped off 5000 and said this is from my church I am sorry this is not what we intended. People connected families with lawyers wrote hundreds of character references for people detained. The Garcia family where the kids cleaned the house the day of the raid the kids' teachers came by each week with bags of groceries. And two months later at the crack of dawn their dad came home. The town donated 1000 to go toward his bond. And the mom was able to scrape together another 9000 and bond him out. His older sons picked him up from Louisiana. They drove all night to get home. He had not told his younger sons he was out. Their mom got them out of bed saying wake up we are going to McDonald's for breakfast. Hurry up we are about to leave. They were putting on their shoes when their dad opened the screen door and said so what are you going to get me from McDonald's? Their mom actually videoed it on her phone.  The second his dad walks in the youngest son Eric loses it. Starts wailing.  He is hugging his dad and saying papi. The raid happened a year ago this month. And even now the kids still cling to their dad. You always want to go with him wherever he goes? Yeah even just like go pick up tortillas for whenever mom's cooking. Or if he is just going to run errand or go pay a bill or something like that. He is like oh only one person can go because we cannot all go. So we all take turns going with him sometimes. Because it only gets fair. Are you serious? You take turns going with him when he goes out? Yeah. Their dad has his reasons for only taking one kid at a time.  Well no because they asked for a ton of stuff. And then one of them does not have his shoes on and one is not dressed. So I just take the one who is ready.  The first one and then later if I go back out I take the other one like that.  It is like wherever I go they want to go too. And sometimes their mom does not wa