 This is Radiolab Im Jad Abumrad. Today a story from our producer Julia Longoria.   So Ive been working on an episode about sex discrimination for like months now.   Yeah   And were supposed to release it...  NEWS MONTAGE   This week!  NEWS MONTAGE   The story were gonna tell is not about sexual harassment but I cant think straight with all the stuff thats happening  NEWS MONTAGE   And I cannot help but think that weve seen this before this outcry for public change and a backlash.   They claim theres a war on women out there. No one takes them seriously   If you cant handle some of the basic stuff thats become a problem in the workforce today like you dont belong in the workforce   Like were in our respective corners and   We need men to help us   Letting out a big scream   How did people not know?   But when things quiet down will there be a change?   And what kind of change is the kind that will stick? Todays story is about a time in the not so distant past when there was a similarly loud raucous division in our country over sexual equality. And one woman   Quietly   Strategically   Laid the foundation for real change  INTRO MUSIC   Here we are. Im going to ask you and utterly false question which is where would you like to start?      As if we havent been doing this for so damn long.   OK. So let me outline the basic dilemma thats at the heart of the story here   All right.   and Im gonna put it to you as a question.   Bring it.   If you were to do a controlF in the Constitution how many times do you think the word sex comes up?   Oh. Thats interesting. Six? I dont know Im guessing. What whats the answer?   Its one. One time in the 19th amendment which grants people the right to vote based on sex.   Really?   Yes.   Thats the only time?   Thats the only time. Which is crazy because we already have--   What is it like a non--is there a sex word thats not sex like gender or something something?   No. Nothing.   Is there like ladies in the Constitution?   No   Women?   No.   Really?   OK. Constitutionally women have a problem which is that basically were not in the Constitution except like in this one little spot. So when it comes to discriminating against women some people have argued that you--theres nothing in the Constitution that says you cant do it.   Certainly the Constitution does not require sexual discrim- discrimination on the basis of sex. The Constitution doesnt require it. It simply doesnt forbid it.   Thats the late justice Antonin Scalia.   It doesnt. Nobody ever voted for that. So where do you get it from?   There was nothing that said that? I mean not those words explicitly but there was nothing that says you cant discriminate?   Uh. not on the basis of sex.   Thats legal editor Cristian Farias.   We had a fourteenth amendment that told people that were equal under the law. That everyone has equal protection of the laws.   But doesnt that say? I mean thats kinda? Eh? No?   They never applied the 14th amendment to women.  They didnt apply the 15th.   Thats Martha Griffiths Congresswoman   When you think about the history of the 14th Amendment   As legal editor Linda Hirshman says...   The 14th Amendment was passed in the aftermath of the Civil War.   Along with the 13th and the 15th   13th Amendment abolishing slavery.   The 15th amendment essentially giving black people or black men the right to vote   If you understand the 14th Amendment to be part of that trio of amendments youre like Oh. Okay. It was meant to bring equality to black people.   When the 15th Amendment had been written which said that every citizen could vote in the name of heavens why couldnt women vote? Why did you have to have the 19th Amendment? Well of course the answer was they didnt consider women people.  MUSIC   There was this basic assumption in the law that you know equality for black people is one thing but men and women? Theyre different.  MUSIC SHIFT   It was the case that the Supreme Court had never met a distinction between men and women that it didnt like.   Wendy Williams law professor emeritus at Georgetown.   What are some like greatest hits of the ridiculous distinctions?   Okay. Here-- There was a case called Bradwell and it was 1873 or 4. In that case a woman wanted to become a lawyer   Illinois Bar said no.   The justices said that that was a perfectly good rule because the justice system could be seen as not appropriate for women. Now lets jump clear into the next century here   1948   This case was called Goesaert v. Cleary that went to the Supreme Court. And the issue was whether women could be bartenders. The Court thought that that was pretty humorous that it made sense that women could not be bartenders unless their husbands or fathers were in charge of the bar.  MUSIC   Both those laws you know women are not supposed to be at the bar...   At either bar!   Yeah  right.   Those two cases represent attitudes almost 80 years apart that women belonged in the private sphere. That was not only their place it was built into their bodies.   And that was the assumption for a long long time.   But just about 67  MUSIC   There are a lot of women in this country who feel that theyre being pushed around    things had started to come to a boil.   and theyve become very vocal. They call themselves the womens liberation movement.   Sex and race because they are easy visible differences have been the primary ways of organizing human beings into superior and inferior groups.   So in the late 60s and early 70s people like Gloria Steinem.   ...We are talking about a society in which there will be no roles other than those chosen or those earned.   Free from the diseases of racism   Audre Lorde..   Of sexism of classism and of homophobia   They get some traction saying OK. Its time to put us in the Constitution. Hurry up.   Some historians say its a constitutional convention for women.   I move the adoption of the following resolution.   And what you see is this push for something called the Equal Rights Amendment   The Equal Rights Amendment should be ratified.  ERA CHANTS     What are your hopes for it? Do you think it will be ratified?   It will be ratified early next year. I am quite sure of that. In 1975 it will be ratified.   But it didnt get the votes in 1975.   I hope that 1976 will be the year...   Or in 1976.   A special report on the 1977 national womens conference.   Or in 1977.   And the movement is stalled.   Why what stalled it?   Well a lot. But much of the credit goes to this woman.   Phyllis Schlafly of Alton Illinois.   A woman named Phyllis Schlafly.   I would like to thank my husband Fred for letting me come today. I love to say that because it irritates the womens lib-ers more than anything that I say.   She was a lawyer and a self-described housewife who started a movement called STOP ERA.  The whole thing is misrepresented as a womens rights amendment. In fact the principal beneficiary will be men. it will give men a great opportunity to get out from under their obligations. Their obligations   Her position was that the Equal Rights Amendment would actually strip women of this special privilege that they have that comes from being a woman   I think the laws of our country have given a very wonderful status to the married woman. And the wife has a great deal of many rights. For example she has the legal right to be supported by her husband.   And she said if this amendment passes there will be certain unintended consequences.   The Equal Rights Amendment says you cannot discriminate on account of sex. And if you want to deny a marriage license to a man and a man or to deny a homosexual the right to teach in the schools or to adopt children it is on account of sex that you would deny it and that would be unconstitutional under ERA.  And that argument caught on.   I would caution the members of this platform committee from the passage of an ERA amendment that none of us would like to see happen.   I think that families would generation after generation deteriorate. I think that there would be homosexuals that would expect preferential treatment.   He said brother were all in danger. You gotta hear what I have to say. Cause you know whats going to happen if they pass the ERA. There will be women in all of our bathrooms women using all our stalls. Theyll be wasting the paper towels. Theyll be hogging the urinals. Theyll be pushing the old soap squirters. Pushing hot air dryers too. If they pass the ERA lord I dont know what were going to do.   Had the Equal Rights Amendment passed   Legal editor Linda Hirshman again.  LINDA ...it would have looked a lot like the racial civil rights movement did.  But the Equal Rights Amendment did not pass.   It fell three states short. To get a constitutional amendment passed it turns out you need three quarters of state legislatures to say they want it. That is 38 out of 50. They only ever got 35.   Dude   So the question is if you want to get equal rights for women written into the law what do you do? Theres no ERA. The womens lib movement sparked a backlash. Like what do you do? Well. Enter stage left...  MUSIC   There she is. The notorious RBG  SFX   Ruth Bader Ginsburg.   RBG can do 20 push ups and not the so-called girl kind.   Now before she was a Supreme Court Justice..   She was a feminist icon.   Or a work out sensation...   Show us all the moves.   Before all that...   Ruth Ginsburg she was at the ACLU.   This was in the 70s.   And one of the characteristics of Ruth Ginsburg which exists to this day...  WARREN E.  Very well.   You can hear this. Its the first time she argued in front of the Supreme Court in 1973.   When youd ask her a question there would be silence. Enough silence  WARREN E.  Mrs. Ginsburg?    ...to make a person nervous and start trying to help her answer the question.  JULIA LAUGH  WARREN E.  Ginsburg?   You had to wait.   But we can imagine it was in one of those long pauses that Ruth Bader Ginsburg rescued some of the key principles behind the ERA re-packaged them and marched them in through a side door.   Mr. Chief Justice and may it please the Court sex like race is a visible characteristic bearing no necessary relationship to ability. Sex like race has been made the basis for unjustified or at least un --  MUSIC   Wait so back it up a second. What exactly did RBG do?   So let me walk you through it now because its--its beautiful. The ERA fight is underway and RBG and her colleagues are watching this happen right. And theyre getting worried. What if the ERA doesnt pass so what are we going to do if thats the case? How are we going to get equal rights for women? So they decided OK. As an alternate approach lets go back to the 14th Amendment...   The 14th Amendments immediate objective was to provide national protection for the newly freed slaves.   ..You know which as we said was designed from the beginning to be only about race.   But its sweeping provisions suggest broader objectives. The states were prevented from depriving any person equal protection of the laws.   Well it says the word person. So that should include women.   Yeah.   If they could just get the courts to see it that way then by default almost we would have a sort of ERA.   And accordingly the task was showing that the racially inflected 14th Amendment applied to sex.   What about the law is she trying to change? What does she want the court to say?   She wants the court to say that sex will be treated just like race.   And heres why thats so important. When the Court sees racial discrimination happening under the 14th Amendment it takes a really hard line. It looks at it really really closely. Or at least its supposed to. Whereas other kinds of discrimination not so much. Because actually some discrimination is necessary.  LINDA HIRSHMAN The law discriminates. It has to.   It discriminates between 18 year olds and 17 year olds. Between criminals and non-criminals.   There would be chaos otherwise right?   But the courts decided that RACE is gonna be a big red flag. Theyre going ask the governments the legislatures presidents to have a COMPELLING reason...   A compelling state interest!   ...to do race discrimination.  Otherwise its going to be unconstitutional.  You with me so far?   Yes. To to discriminate based on race you have to pass a really super hard test.   And by the way the legal name for this test its...   Oh God.   STRICT SCRUTINY.   Oh.   I know they should have called it like we mean business or something like that. But anyway the point was like they took it seriously. Which you know back in the day they werent doing with sex discrimination at all. Because when legislatures would come up with these laws -- like this women cant be bartenders law -- The Supreme Court would be like you know you guys probably have a good reason for that...   it doesnt have to be THE reason. It could just be A reason.   It doesnt have to be very good.   It doesnt have to be good. They could maybe even make it up on the fly. It just has to be a reason for upholding this law.   Like in the case of the bartender law bars are dangerous. Women need protection from them.   And courts would be like OK. Sure.   So RBG needed a way to convince the Court to be as intense about sex discrimination as they were about race discrimination. But how do you convince an audience of men who are used to discriminating on the basis of sex who have been doing it for years... How do you convince them that discrimination is a bad thing?   I think people who want to keep women down would like nothing better than women to go off in a corner and speak only to women. Nothing would happen.   This is her giving a recent talk about her 1970s strategy.   You need to persuade men that this is right for society.   Part One of her strategy choose your words carefully.   I had a secretary at Columbia. Who said Im typing these things for you and jumping out all over the page is sex sex.  Dont you know that the audience you are addressing the first association of those men with the word sex is not what youre talking about.  So why dont you use a grammar book term. Use gender.   Because you know the word sex has a charge to it. Gender is cooler. And Part Two of her strategy choose your cases carefully. This is all happening in the 70s as RBG is the head of the ACLU Womens Rights Project. So shes deciding which kinds of cases the ACLU is going to support as they make their way to an all-male Supreme Court. And her strategy was if we live in a mans world right now we need to find cases that these nine men at this moment can handle.  So for example early on in her tenure at the Womens Rights Project the other lefty lawyers are suggesting that the womens movement needs to take up the cause of lesbian rights and she says  NOT YET.   And I think go slow is the right approach   She said first we need to go after that small and insidious idea that the Supreme Court had been keeping alive for years   The laws of our country have given a wonderful status to women.   That Phyllis Schlafly idea that discrimination is actually good for women.   Gender classifications were always rationalized as favors to women.   And so RBG decided not just to bring cases where women were the victims of discrimination   Okay. My name is Curtis Craig.   She brought cases where men were the victims.   Who were you as an 18 year old?  Oh thats a great question. I was like any 18 year old young man. Invincible. Thought I was quite the ladies man. You name it.   He made it into Lambda Chi Alpha at Oklahoma State and he was living...     ...At the frat house.   Our fraternity was primarily made up of wrestlers so it was uh. When you went down the hall YOUTUBE BODY SLAM you were about to be taken down at any moment so. Youd be thrown into the walls and youd leave a body print.   What do you mean like an indentation literally in the wall?   Yeah.   Oh my god.   Yeah. It was amazing.   There was a lot of partying going on of course.  CHANTING   Lot of beer.   The yard would be filled with beer cans.   And heres the key. If they wanted to get all that beer...  MUSIC   ...they had to enlist the help of the ladies.   Yeah I mean--   The sorority sisters.   You would have a female buy you beer and youd go out and party.  MUSIC   They needed the women to buy the beer?   Yep   Why?   Because in Oklahoma state at the time..   Oklahoma had a very silly law. Girls could buy beer at age 18 but the boys had to wait until 21.   There was something about the level of maturity I guess for women versus men at that time.   The basic principle was that boys got into more car accidents so they should be trusted with less beer?   Huh   And did that make you angry?   Oh absolutely. Well it was extremely unfair. Yeah I would say it made-- I think most men angry at the time.   And a Supreme Court case was born.   So the thirsty boys at a fraternity-- brought this case.   RBG gets involved in this beer case?   Yes   But this is a situation where women have rights men dont have. Why would she want to argue this case? Id imagine shed want the opposite.   Well this is where her strategy is kind of like a Trojan Horse. If you look at this case right. On the outside it looks like a case about men being discriminated against.   Yeah   But if you think about it beneath that discrimination is actually this kind of unspoken idea about women. So go with me on this right.   Yeah.   If men are irresponsible they cant handle beer then women--   Girls are more responsible and well-behaved.   Theyre more delicate. They could be trusted with something like beer because they wont abuse it you know. So with that line of thinking its not long before youre trying to protect women protect them from you know scary places. Like bars or courtrooms or-- political office. Using this case RBG is able to walk into the Court this discrimination about men but also the discrimination against women thats attached to it--or inside of it .   Whoa. Thats clever.   Were just getting started  MUSIC   More Perfect continues in a minute.  ADVERTISEMENT   This is More Perfect Im Jad Abumrad. Im here with Julia Longoria who is telling the story of a case involving boys and beer that became a Trojan Horse...  MUSIC   ...in the battle for womens rights. Now the story of the Trojan Horse maybe you know this its you know ancient Greece. Youve got Sparta fighting Troy. Spartans want to get into the city of Troy but its this giant walled city too big. They cant get in. And so Odysseus comes up with this clever plan. Well give the Trojans this giant wooden horse. Theyll bring it into their city. Theyll think its a gift that were retreating. Which is what they thought. And then at night our soldiers who are hidden inside the horse will come out.  MUSIC   And they will take the city. Now in our case Odysseus is RBG the city shes trying to get into is the all male Supreme Court. But in order for this very admittedly imperfect analogy to work we need someone in the horse to come out. The warrior in the horse the warrior.   And in Our case that woman warrior?  MUSIC   She didnt even know she was going to go into battle.  CAR MUSIC   Julia you take it from here   So I got in the car and I drove a long time..   Tiny little gravel road leading up to a narrow street of houses.   to Sparta NC.   Its called Sparta?   I KNOW.   Cows and horses and Trump signs  Tractor out front. No trespassing sign.   And so I walk up to this house. Its this beautiful cream colored cottage perched on top of a mountain.   Wow.  JULIA KNOCKS START   And I can hear..  Whitney Houstons Saving All My Love For You blasting.   Did you have any trouble?  Hi. No. I didnt. Are you Carolyn? Hi very nice to meet you.   And I meet. Carolyn Whitener   Im 76 soon be 77.   She   I have a beer. Do you want a beer?  ...immediately offers me a Coors.   Ive got a Coors Light.  Yeah?  JULIA  JAD LAUGH  BEER OPENS  Will you have a beer with me?  No I cant. Im a diabetic.  I can drink a little but not much.  Thank you.  And Ive got some brownies over here.   What does she look like? Describe her.  Reddish blonde hair green eyes shes wearing golden hoops. She has like this.. This air about her that she could have been a beauty queen yknow? But she also couldve been like a car mechanic.   Well tell me about yourself.  Well I am --   We get to talking. I tell her a little bit about who I am about the story. She actually told me like upfront shes like--   Im proud of the young women. I have a granddaughter thats--   Im so proud of you. Your generation. Theyre finishing the fight I started. I was essentially like no no..   This stuff like your story has like a huge impact on like women like me. You know?   I cant imagine.  But see my name was never tied in with it. It was always Craigs name. So you know it wasnt that big a deal.  MUSIC   She told me she grew up bouncing around different oil fields.   I was an oil field trash. Thats what we were called. Oil field trash.    That meant Carolyn and her brother and sister split the school year between two or three schools a year.   We moved a lot.   She said school didnt come easily to her.   But my dad he taught all three of us how to weld. He was a welder. How to work on a car.   She was very independent. And when she was about 13 they moved to Chickasha Oklahoma.  MUSIC   And that is where she met Dwayne.   That was the first boy I went with.   They met in high school. And they were roughly the same age but he was three years ahead of her in school.   And what attracted you to him?   His mind. He had an excellent mind. And he was just a farm boy with no education. He never went to college but he couldve been about anything he wouldve wanted to have been.   What do you think attracted him to you? Like what do you think he saw in you?   I was somebody new in town.   Talking to Carolyn I got the sense she didnt have any shortage of suitors.   But I married him when I turned 18  Oops. I dont know who that is. I better turn that off. And when I married my husband I was equal to him except the money and he didnt think anybody could handle that but him.  He acted like he was raising me and he probably was    She says she was really comfortable with him. He was a quiet man with this brilliant mind.   He just - he was pure German girl. Have you ever met a German man? OK. They are in total control.   And how does Carolyn connect to the case with the frat boys and RBG?   OK. Heres what happens. Its 1962 Carolyn and Dwayne are about 20 years old at this point. And they move to a town called Stillwater OK to open a business. And Stillwater..     ..is a college town. Its THAT college town. OK youve got Oklahoma State University right there tons of fraternities including Lambda with the wrestlers. Huge homecoming drawing over 40000 alumni.   We didnt know what homecoming was. Had no idea what homecoming was!   But shortly after moving to Stillwater they opened the doors to the Honk and Holler.   And where we went in was just about three blocks four blocks from the college. And we went into business there.   A drive-thru convenience store   It was like a real old gas station with an oil pit in the floor   Heres how it would work. Customers pull up to the side of the convenience store and   Theyd drive through.   Honk their horn. Holler their order.   And youd have to go out and wait on them. Come back in. Get what they wanted. And take it back out.   So its a lot of in and out and in and out. All night long.   You wear tennis shoes out real fast.  So it was all sheer energy and guts.   Homecoming night...   We were supposed to close at 11.   The store is FLOODED with customers.   Til I think 2 or 3 oclock in the morning.   Theyre like thrilled because theyve never run a business by themselves before and all these college kids are coming in and buying Coors beer. Including of course a steady stream of girls buying beer presumably for their boyfriends.   And it-- Yeah I never did get to see homecoming. All I saw was cars coming in and out.   Fast forward a few years. Its 1972 back at the University.   He was tall had long blonde hair.   Curtis Craigs buddy named Mark Walker...   was the president of the Lambda Chi house at the time.   ...is in a political science class. And the professor is talking about the whole fight for the ERA which is happening right at that moment. And at this point Oklahoma hasnt ratified the ERA. And somehow the conversation turns to this beer law. Marks like talk about discrimination this beer law is discrimination against us!   And the professor challenged him about doing something about the beer laws if he was going to complain about them.   And so one day...   I was behind the counter people coming in and out.   Mark Walker walks into the Honk n Holler   A young man came in to talk to me.   She doesnt really have time to talk. Shes running in and out.   But he stood there.   Waiting patiently.   I bet he was in there four hours. And was looking at the beer license.   He looks at the beer license and notices that Carolyns name is the one on it because actually..   My husband lost his license.   ...after he sold beer to a young man.   So he put them in my name.   Anyway at a certain point in between all the honks and hollers...   He asked me what I thought about the beer laws. And I told him. I was very vocal about it. I always had been.   She says it doesnt make any sense. We send these young men off to war   They were being drafted at 18   But we dont let them drink beer when they come back?   Was that just?   Not to mention the liability issues. You have these 18 year old girls coming in and buying beer slipping it to their boyfriends. How am I supposed to stop that?   You cant prove who buys what.   So eventually when Mark Walker asked for her help...   He said he was going to do a term paper.   She was like sure why not?   I was always willing to help him because they had helped us get started. And I still thought it was a term paper.   So was he not being completely honest with you then?   Well I didnt hear half of what he said. I was busy every time he came in so you know it wasnt that important at the time. So I didnt think anymore about it. He left. My husband was gone. He was out of state workin. And I didnt even say anything to him about it. It wasnt important. You know I just thought it was a conversation.    But it wasnt just a conversation. Because before that meeting Mark had gone out looking for a lawyer.   Thats correct.   And Curtis and Mark and the other frat brothers had tried to raise some money.   That was flawed in a campus town. Everybody uses their last dollar for that last beer.   But they managed to find a lawyer whod do it for cheap.   Alright well Im just Fred Gilbert attorney at law no big deal.   I remember him always wearing his military boots. Actually I believe he wore them even to the Supreme Court.  Fred had worked on another male discrimination case in the past. And to him this case was pretty straightforward   Men couldnt buy beer until they were 21 but the most irresponsible and drunken woman in the state could buy it in unlimited quantities at 18. Well that was discrimination. Was kind of more a male rights case. Well it was!   And do you remember corresponding with Ruth Bader Ginsburg?   Yes. I knew Ruth Bader Ginsburg  before she was on the Court.   Somehow Ruth Bader Ginsburg noticed this case. And she watched as Fred made his way up the courts losing at every level. And by this point Ruth Bader Ginsburg was head of the Womens Rights Project at the ACLU Shed already argued a few cases before the Supreme Court which had inched the Court slowly toward this idea that sex was like race. And she thought that this case was interesting. She gave Fred a call.   You know we have a problem in a personal relationship. There was no question I was something of an unreconstructed male chauvinist and she was not.   Fred did not see this as a womens rights case.  It was just kind of an unnecessary insult to men for no reason at all so.   And Ruth looking at this cause thought No Fred its more than that.   It didnt matter to her if the plaintiff was a man or a woman. Because in most of those cases the discrimination against the man was derivative of a prior and worse discrimination against the woman.   Heres to the ladies. The fair and the weak. How do they do it? Where do they find all that energy? That seemingly inexhaustible store of pep and ginger.   Again Ruth was after the stereotype of women that was nestled inside the beer law. That women are more responsible and well behaved. But in order for her to make that connection she needed Fred to write his brief in a way that would be useful to her. So refer not just to male discrimination but discrimination based on gender.   Well I supported her. I just wasnt shall we say a militant feminist.   So Ruth had her work cut out for her.   At this point she was kind of used to dealing with these roobs from the stix.    So with other local lawyers that shed worked with in the past Ruth had been more forceful insisting that SHE make the argument. But that had backfired.   So she like was like okay you argue it.   She wrote to Fred telling him that she didnt need to be the one to present oral argument before the court. She was fine if hed do it. But she very gently very persistently was able to convince him to let her help him with his legal brief.   But uh I think it was a couple of months later because my husband was out of state every month.   Meanwhile back at the Honk and Holler Carolyn has no idea whats going on.   No.   No idea.   I got a phone call my husband was on the phone. Well I had salesmen in and I had people coming in and out.   And he was irate. He was furious. I couldnt figure out what was going on.   She was like case? What are you talking about?   Well he had picked up a newspaper in North Carolina in a bank. And it was on the front page of the newspaper. With my name and about us suing. It looked like we sued everybody in the state of Oklahoma that was in office all the way down to the garbage man.   He was like what did you do? How--we dont want to get mixed up in this. We dont want our name on this we dont want to make a fuss like. This could hurt business. Like how dare you.   You know I didnt what had happened. I really didnt know.   And eventually she figured out it mustve been that kid who came in here. And now its at the Supreme Court. What?   I was back and forth on that phone with him trying to wait on customers and I bet that took about three hours and he would not let up. I mean he kept calling back and calling back. He called a lawyer. He was mad. And then the last phone call he said I am flying back in and he said you pick me up.   A couple nights later she drove to the airport.   Picked him up and he was still mad. That was the longest car ride.   As they drove back she says he just lectured her the whole ride   I just listened to him.   What did he say?    I dont know what he said word to word I just know he was strong with what he said. With my husband it was best to just be silent. I was never afraid of him but I knew how far to push it. By the time we got from the airport to the other side it was about an hour and twenty minutes. Thats a long hour and twenty minutes in the car where you cant get out.   And over the course of that hour and twenty minutes she said something in her just kind of shifted. And at a certain point she basically turned to him and was like no. Like I know you want me to drop this case but Im gonna fight this.   He threatened me every which way. I didnt budge. And probably the reason why I didnt budge because he fought me so hard on it. You know I believed in it. I had never stepped out like that. Thats the first time I really put my foot down and didnt budge. I gave so much to him. I mean I didnt get a salary for 25 years. I didnt ask for it.  I figured we were equal. I figured I worked the same hours he did. And I figured I stood beside him. Not behind him and not in front of him.    October 5 1976 the day of oral arguments the lawyer Fred Gilbert   I havent run across many people that I didnt care for. I didnt care for Fred. He he was so pushy.    ...insists that Carolyn needs to come to DC   I didnt have the money to go and I didnt want to go. Id never traveled anywhere by myself.   What I recall that day   And Curtis Craig came too.   I was dressed up.   Suit and tie   I had borrowed a dress plastic looked like leather.  Walking up those stairs.  Wore high heels.  I remember that distinctly  It was so big.  Beautiful building.  I felt like I was walking forever up those stairs. I was burning up I was sweating.   Well hear arguments next in 175628 Craig against Borum.   Mr. Gilbert you may proceed whenever youre ready.   Fred Gilbert starts things up. He walks up to the podium in with his combat boots.   The law is broad and all encompassing in its sweep. It says that all females even those that are the most drunk most alcoholic most immature most irresponsible may purchase 3.2 percent beer at age 18 in absolutely unlimited quantities   The law doesnt say it in quite those words does it?  LAUGHTER   And by all accounts he didnt exactly kill it.   No your honor. And the law doesnt say quite the words that all males--  The justices just kept hammering   You honor the--   The only way he can get relief is to move his age back and drink   Hammering   In a technical sense   In a technical what--   All right you honor that is technically -- the way the complaint is drafted and what is before the court--   Well but you say whats before the court. Whats before the court is your complaint   Curtis was sitting beside me. And I kept punching him. What does that mean? What are they talking about? What does that mean? And he kept saying shh. Shh. Just be quiet till its over. Ill tell you!     I didnt understand what they were doing   The beer law we challenge today was originally enacted in 1890   But she says what caught her ear was a moment when Justice Rehnquist   when he called me   When you say we youre referring to your client who is the tavern keeper?   A saloon keeper   Yes your honor and--   Ill tell you when he called me that in the Supreme Court I came so near standing up and correcting him and Ive always wondered to this say why I didnt   Well if he technically turned 21--   As arguments went on Fred did at least try to do the thing Ruth wanted him to do..   Your honor I would say anything could be you could pass a law saying no negro will drive while intoxicated.   Compare sex discrimination to race discrimination   Now this relates to the public thing. But the thing is you cant discriminate even for something like public safety on the basis of certain criteria.   Well has the court ever held that discrimination of this sort is of the same class as discrimination on the basis of race.   Your honor this court has come very very close.   Well I asked you a question has it ever held--   No. It has never held it is totally to be treated the same way as race your honor   To make a long story short by the end of oral argument things werent looking great for Fred   I mean I think that depends on the thrust of our decision.  Alright. Alright. Let me explain this. First of all--   At one point he even interrupts a Supreme Court justice which you dont do that   Supporting the denial of beer to young men 18 to 21   It just--yeah. Wasnt happening   Well I dont have time for a parting thought I thank you for your time.  Thank you gentlemen the case is submitted     Well. You win some you lose some right ladies?   What no no no  MUSIC IN   Here comes the craziest part of the story.   OK   Its like a double Trojan horse. Horse within a horse because after the Fred Gilbert debacle there was another case at the supreme court that afternoon.   Well hear arguments next in    and it just so happened.   ...75-699 Matthews against Goldfarb.   That the case was being argued   Mrs. Ginsburg?   By none other than Ruth Bader Ginsburg   Hm mhm Somehow she organized to get that argued the same day.  That was on purpose?  Yeah oh yeah.  Oh my god. Thats genius. Wait wait wait.  Yeah no  shes a genius.   Mr. Chief Justice and may it please the court.   Wait youre saying she somehow managed to get in the court on another case on the same day?   So I couldnt confirm that for sure. I dont even know how you would do that. But what I can tell you is that she arranged to go second. Because she knew there was probably a good chance that Fred   The completely incompetent lawyer   Was gonna be you know less than amazing   The court was asking him questions that he was completely incapable of answering. So finally the court just went oh nevermind. And then when Ruth stood up to argue her case they asked her about Craig v. Boren.   We heard a case this morning just to be concrete involving a law that would not permit males to make certain purchases that females could make. And it was attacked as discrimination against males.   Yes.   My question is whether we should examine that law under the same or a different standard than if it were discrimination against the opposite sex.   My answer to that question is no in part because such a law has an insidious impact against females.   And then she told justice Stephens even in this case where it seems like men are the ones that are being discriminated against beneath that discrimination is a more insidious one.   Against females. It stamps them docile compliant safe to be trusted--   But your answer always depend on their finding SOME discrimination against females   Is it your view that there is no discrimination against males?   I think there is discrimination against males  And if there is  Yes.  ..such discrimination against males is it to be tested by the same or by a different standard from discrimination against females.   My response to that Mr. Justice Stephens is that almost every discrimination that operates against males operates against females as well.   Is that a yes or a no answer?   I just dont understand you are you trying to avoid the question?   No Im not trying to avoid the question. Im trying to clarify the position that I dont know of any line that doesnt work as a two-edged sword.   They go back and forth a bit. Justice Stephens is basically like why do you keep insisting on this why do you keep saying that discrimination against men contains within it discrimination against women. Theyre different. And shes like no theyre not different.   So your case depends then on our analyzing this case as a discrimination against females  No. If my case depends on your recognition that using gender as a classification resorting to that classification is highly questionable and should be closely reviewed   She makes this point again and a again. All discrimination based on gender is bad and it should be checked with something at least approaching that hardcore standard that the court uses for race   That was really something seeing this little woman get up.   I dont know of any purely anti-male discrimination.   Ill never forget that. Because she was small.   In the end the women are the ones who end up hurting. Yes.   Shes so small in person. But she had a lot of force.   Mrs. Ginsburg the case is submitted.   About two months later...   The judgment and opinion --    December 20 1976   Craig against Boren.   Justice William Brennan announces that the court   We reverse!   Is striking down the beer law.   We hold that Oklahomas gender-based differential does constitute an invidious violation of the equal protection clause   This silly beer case was the first time the court clearly said that when you discriminate based on gender you need to pass a harder test. It wasnt as rigorous as race. It wasnt STRICT SCRUTINY. They settled on a standard that we now call intermediate scrutiny. And it was pretty damn close.   RBG would go on to strengthen this standard over time but this was the case that first got us a kind of equal rights amendment through a side door.   We wish that the court had picked a less frothy case to make that announcement  course we were very pleased that after that--   The day the decision was announced   I had just came in from work I was at home by myself there in Stillwater.   Shes by herself in the kitchen   And the phone rings. Who calls?  Who called? National news called to tell me that we had won I didnt ask what we had won. I didnt ask anything. I just said okay.   She hung up   Stood there for a little bit and then Craig called  MORE BEER CHANTS   And he wanted me to come down and celebrate with the guys there at his fraternity. Yeah   She told him no thanks. CHEERS STOP And then she hangs up the phone. And she gets one more phone call.   And it was my husband. He was in North Carolina again and he heard he heard something about the case but he didnt hear it all. And he said whats going on now? And I said we won.   And he says is it over?   I said its over. Its totally over with. He said good. And he hung up. I fixed me a very good drink. Vodka and coke. Sat down in the middle of the floor and thats the way I celebrated. I drank that drink all by myself and it was over with. It was over with.  MUSIC   Carolyn says that for decades after this case she did not understand what it meant. She didnt understand what it meant as a legal principle or that it ushered in this new era for women in this country. But even so in her own life this case was a beginning.   A couple of years after we won that case I went in to China right after it opened up   She saved up money and went with her sister-in-law because Dwayne didnt want to come with them.   I did. I was so curious. And we never went like the tourists went. Wed get on a train and if we saw something we wanted to stop and see we would stop. We never had a schedule. And I never really did go to shop. I was just curious about the people. And how they lived. I saw so much and I talked to so many people while I was gone that uh it was like a hunger. And you grow from it. And I just wanted to see things. And that just opened the doors for me.  MUSIC   What happened to Carolyn in the end?   She and Dwayne divorced in 2007   And when you said she didnt know the effect her case had for decades like when did she figure it out? Like what--how?   So in around 1996 this professor guy named Bob Darcy calls her up and invites her to speak at a class. And shes kind of learning from the students and the professor like what the case actually stood for and then eventually the professor puts her in touch with Ruth Bader Ginsburg and they meet again in person. And it sort of starts to dawn on her Papers shuffling  One of the letters I dont know if thats the one.   And when we were sitting in her bedroom she was looking through some old letters and pulled out one with the Supreme Court seal on it.   Can you read it?  No I dont have my glasses youll have to read it.  OK. It says Dear Carolyn As I told you in 1996 when we celebrated the 20th anniversary of Craig v. Boren YOU are the true heroine of that case. Although no financial gain was at stake for you you realized the potential the case had in paving the way for the courts recognition of equal citizenship stature of men and women as Constitutional principle.   yeah. I was going to get that framed but I havent done it yet.   Signed Ruth Bader Ginsburg.   Mhm. I need to get it laminated before I have it framed.  MUSIC   Producer Julia Longoria. Im Jad Abumrad thank you for listening. And here is More Perfect and Radiolabs David Gebel to read the credits.  CREDITS