  Listener-supported WNYC Studios.   Hey. I am Jad Abumrad. This is RADIOLAB. And today - a story from our very own Molly Webster.  So yeah. So today we are talking about a medical mystery.  Oh good. Let me put on my wool cap then because it is an important part...  Oh he really is putting on a wool cap folks.  OK.  OK.  A medical mystery.  Yeah.   It starts with a woman...  Hello?  Hi. I am trying to reach Joveria please. ...Named Joveria Farooqi.  This is Joveria. How are you Molly?  Oh my gosh. Hello. She works at a hospital...  At a teaching hospital in Pakistan.  ...In Karachi.  It is The Aga Khan University. And I am a medical doctor specialized in medical microbiology.  Joveria various works in the hospital lab. And so when someone has an infection she gets sent you know some blood or urine or something and she tries to figure out which bug is causing the problem.  So the very first month that I was in the lab...  In the fall of 2014.  ...The third week of October I found three bugs...  In the blood of three different patients.  ...Which looked exactly the same.  And like nothing she would ever seen before.  Creamy in texture. It had a whitish ring and it had another ring of light brown around it a white center - and very very white. It is sort of like when you put UV light on white and it sort of shines with a bluish tinge.  And what she saw was not a bacteria or a virus. It was actually a fungus.  A yeast.  But beyond that she sort of had no idea what it was.  I shared it with all my friends who were working in other labs and I asked them if they had encountered something like this. And they all said no. But the patients were all very very sick.  Yeah. Well so what happened is that we started seeing patients with fever high white cell count.  So the three patients those samples had come from were all at the same hospital under the care of this guy.  Dr. Faisal Mahmood - I am an infectious disease specialist here at The Aga Khan University.  And all three of them were patients in the ICU.  Older patients folks who would been in the hospital for a week or two weeks.  You know with patients like that they definitely deal with fungal infections from time to time.  So the symptoms were really nothing spectacular nothing weird.  But when he found out that they all came down with the same mysterious fungus all at the same time...  When it was identified we were like OK that is weird.  Maybe some kind of coincidence.  But then...  While I was looking at those I encountered yet another one.  Another one popped up.  ...Exactly the same yeast.  And another one popped up.  In the same hospital but this time not from the ICU.  And I thought oh my God.  ...Which was really strange because they had never seen this fungus before and suddenly it is popping up all over the hospital.  I would have been OK if it was just one case. Or two cases in a whole year - that is all right. However to encounter them in a whole - in a cluster is alarming. You know? What is it doing in our hospital behaving so angrily and killing people off? I mean two of our patients had died by then.  You know we just sort of kept seeing them - tuck tuck tuck tuck . I think within six months we had like 19 cases.  And by then six months in eight of the patients had died.  So this fungus is pretty nasty.  Yeah. I mean the people who get it seem to have other sicknesses as well. But once you got it the mortality rate's like 20 to 60.  Oh damn.  And that is about the same time when Joveria sent some strains to the U.S. CDC.  Joveria basically sent them an email and just said you know hey will you look at this thing? And this is when the mystery of this fungus went way way beyond one hospital in Pakistan.  We were informed by colleagues in Pakistan that they were having a large outbreak.  One of the guys that got that email eventually was Tom Chiller.  Chief of the Mycotic Diseases Branch here at the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta Ga.  And he and his colleagues pretty quickly identified the fungus as...  Candida auris.  They said it is Candida auris. And I am like Canda-what ? I was like I have never heard of Candida auris before.  Now Candida is kind of a big group of fungus. It lives on our skin and in our gut and can cause yeast infections and thrush in babies. But this particular Candida was totally new.  It was first isolated from an ear infection of a Japanese patient.  And that was in 2009 and it was really just causing some sort of goopy goop to leak out of this woman's ear.  On the skin where we know some Candida species can be and we did not think honestly much of it.  Until six years later they hear from Joveria that this Candida auris is getting into people's blood and causing serious infections.  You know horrible bloodstream infections and even death.  And so he thought OK this thing that we saw once that we did not think was a big deal is now killing people. So what is going on? And so he started poking around and he came across reports of Candida auris outbreaks in South Korea in India.  And South Africa had described clusters.  And we figured - we found that it is popping up all over the world.  And actually while looking into this...  Colleagues from London were talking to us about a very similar phenomena with the same organism.  A hospital in London had an outbreak.  To the point where they had to close their intensive care unit for a period of months. So what we saw were that there were essentially four different clades for lack of a better word that were emerging in three different continents all about at the same time.  Meaning it was not like it started in one place and then went to all these other places.  It could not be explained by travel. It could not be explained by the - you know by the fact that these were in some way related except that they were the same species of organism. They truly were emerging at around the same time in four parts of the world.  So the big question that arises out of this moment is why now?  Yeah.  Wait. Just so I make sure I am getting this - you have one fungus appearing in four totally different parts of the world simultaneously?  Simultaneously.  Weird.  It is definitely not normal.   No it is absolutely  abnormal. And you know people around the world are trying to figure out how this happened why it happened what - why is it...  So this is Snigdha Vallabhaneni and she was part of the team at the CDC that was tracking the fungus and trying to figure out what was going on.  So initially we thought like could - is it possible it is some contaminated medical product or something that got distributed.  Something that got distributed to these hospitals. But then they thought four different hospitals on three different continents?  I mean you do not expect it to be that worldwide.  So it was like scratch that maybe it is...  The way you know different antifungal drugs have been used around the world.  Like we all use you know antifungals in our body but the more important thing is farms using antifungals where they spray their crops. So it is maybe the fungus are adapting to fungicides and it is just getting stronger.  So would it be that the farmers are training the fungus and then those fungus are then somehow getting away from the farm and into the hospitals or...  Yeah.  OK.  But that still does not explain why it would happen in all these separate places at this one particular moment.  Why now?  Right. You need something that was happening to all of these fungus in different places at the same time.  And that is why people are looking for more of this - not just environment but sort of a bigger-picture ecological analyses.  Meaning what?  Well I just at this point feel like I should just start talking about dinosaurs.   Wait. Wait. Wait.  It is a little bit of a detour but I promise it will pay off.  No it is - my relationship with dinosaurs in general...  Yeah.  ...Is I am like oh God here we go.  There is a lot of history there.   Ladies and gentlemen please welcome to the stage your hosts for this evening Jad Abumrad and Robert Krulwich.   But trust me it will be worth it.   What is up Seattle?   To loop everybody in about seven years ago we did a live show called Apocalyptical that had life-sized dinosaur puppets traveled to 21 cities - super fun but it completely broke us and we all nearly died.   Yes it is true.  Yeah.  But part of that live show is a story that I reported for you guys about an asteroid that hit the Earth and put an end to the dinos.   So it turns out on that day as the fire was raging above on the surface somewhere in a little hole in the ground happened to be a furry little animal.  And about how after the cataclysm this mammal - small little mammal - crawled out of its little muddy burrow into a dino-less world and became the...   Great great...  Great...  Great...  Great great...  Great...  Great...  Great...  Great...  Great...  Great...  Great...  Great great great great...  Great...  Great...  Great...  Great great...  Great...  Great...  Great...  Great...  Great...  ...Great great great - et cetera - grandma of everybody in this room. It is true. There was a creature down there...   There was a creature down there.  I thought we should stop there because...   ...We were getting away with something and I did not want to push it too far.  All of a sudden it was just you and me.  Yeah though...  Aw. I miss Robert.  I know.  Anyhow continue.  Story goes like this. With dinosaurs out of the way the idea is that mammals crawled out of the hole and they just inherited the Earth - so big reptiles out crafty little mammals in.  Yup.  But there is a new idea about this fungal friend of ours this one that we have been talking about that sort of messes this story up a little bit.  So here we are in the realm of hypothesis speculation. We do not really know what happens 65 million years ago or a hundred million years ago.  The idea comes from this doctor and microbiologist Arturo Casadevall at Johns Hopkins University. And he says the first few beats of our story are all good.  Right. We know that there was a catastrophe. The asteroid hit the Yucatan and we know that the Earth had a really bad day. And the animals that then follow are - is the age of mammals. So...  Yeah because I feel like we like took down all those dinosaurs and there was a big hole and we are like ahh  and we crawled out of it .  Yeah. I think that people thought that you know because the dinosaurs were wiped out that it created a space.  This is absolutely what I think.  Right. So there is a little bit of a problem with - in my mind with that.   OK.  And I add that this is my problem . But I will show you what the thinking is. If you look at our world today we still have reptiles.   A crocodile-infested riverbank.  We have alligators.   This is a Gaboon viper from West Africa.  We have lizards.   A monitor lizard is out hunting looking for the entrance to the galleries in which the mammals take shelter during the daylight hours.  So clearly some reptiles survived the catastrophe.  There were reptilian creatures that were living in the you know riverbank in the same way that the mammals were and got out of the fires and the ash and came out.  And it is always bothered me how come we did not have a second reptilian age?  So you actually have a moment when either of them could have taken the crown.  I thought the idea was that just - we got lucky.  I mean we would have had to be really lucky because according to Arturo reptiles had two big advantages over us straight out the gates first one being...  Reptiles in contrast to mammals do not need that much food.  Which you know is great because at the time most of the plants had burned up. The planet was covered in ash. There really was not that much food. And whereas mammals have to eat all the time like reptiles can just chill for a while. So that is definitely a win for reptiles over mammals.  They also reproduce a lot faster.  The second one is that they just make more babies. They can spread a lot faster. Their chances of survival are greater. So Arturo's like...  If the reptiles are able to do well with less food and they reproduce faster why did not they just take off and create a whole new world which was reptilian too?  Now his idea for why this did not happen why there was not a second reptilian age is that there was another player on the dino-free stage - a small invisible yet powerful player. And to understand you have to know that before the asteroid hit...  It was a forested planet that was in fact a lot warmer than it is today. There were forests in many parts of the world. The cataclysm is thought to have led to rapid temperatures that fell and you also had no sun. So imagine a dark cold world of decaying vegetation. This cataclysm was associated with a massive proliferation of fungi.  Huh.  And actually if you look at like the - right above the K-T boundary that line that demarks you know no meteor meteor dinosaur no dinosaur...  Yeah.  If you look right above there it is - the soil is filled with spores.  No .  And so everyone knows it is really well-documented that it was...  Wait. So at the layer after the impact...  Yes.  ...There is a layer one or two up which is filled with fungi spores?  Yes.  That is interesting.  And so he said it is just very well-known that there was fungus growing on things that got burnt fungus probably just growing 'ecause it is wet and damp and why not?  So there is mold and mushrooms everywhere.  There is also dead bodies. There is like things decomposing.  Which fungus like.  They love I have heard at parties.   So it looks like you have a couple of shrewlike creatures walking around. You have got some alligators. But you have got a crapload of fungus.  And you have got a crapload of fungus.  Fungus yeah.  Is it funj-eye ? Funj-eye? Fun guy ?  .  Is he a fun guy or is he the funj-eye? Probably funj-eye.   I would say whatever you like.  No probably whatever you tell me.  No seriously.  OK.  Some people pronounce it fun guy and some people pronounce fun guy.  OK.  ...Or funj-eye.   Anyways whatever you call it if you are an animal a reptile or a mammal fungi can be deadly.  That is right.  And while reptiles could skip meals and make a bunch of babies when it came to fending off fungi we had an advantage.  We have two pillars to protect us. One of them is that we have advanced immunity.  The immune system is obviously like the kung fu fighter. It really takes up like the weight of keeping something out.  But the other thing that we have that frogs do not have and that trees do not have and that insects do not have is that we are really hot relative to the environment. We are warm. We are warmblooded.  Mammals actually use some of their energy to keep their bodies warm. So if you think about us it could be really cold outside it could be really hot outside but we stay at a steady basically 98.6. Now if you are fungi you actually like it kind of cold.  They do very well until about 30 degrees.  Like 86 degrees Fahrenheit.  Right.  Any hotter than that...  It could - it denature them irreversibly.  Their proteins start to fall apart. The cells start to melt. And so if a post-apocalyptic fungi got into a post-apocalyptic very warm mammal it would die.  These high temperature creates you know a heat barrier. And this heat barrier means that the majority of fungal species out there cannot grow or replicate inside your body because you are too warm.  Our heat keeps the fungus out.  You got it.  If you are a reptile you are coldblooded. You do not have a way to keep yourself like steady and warm. You have to go look for ways to become warm. You know have you ever seen lizards lie on rocks you know where they are just like out in the sun soaking up the heat?  Sure.  So that will warm their bodies up. But also - and I never knew this - it also will clear like fungus from their body.  Oh.  So if they are sick because it warms them up so much that warmth attacks the fungus.  Do they not do fevers?  They do not - they cannot do fevers.  Oh wow.  So their way of getting as hot as possible is doing that sun skate thing.  Oh .  I know. So he was saying that if you are a reptile and you get a fungus but there is no sun to warm yourself in because the apocalypse has just happened...  Right - kicked up the dust blocked out the sun nuclear winter.  Mmm hmm. So you die because you cannot withhold the fungus. But if you are a mammal a fungus comes your body temperature naturally kills it. And so suddenly his theory goes...  Interesting.  ...You have mammals filling the hole and really flourishing in a way they never did before because fungus helped them do the mammalian explosion.  Right because we went through this fungal filter and therefore we are not...  A fungal filter.  A fungal filter at the end of the Cretaceous.  Wow.  Now it gets even weirder because then Arturo decided he wanted to find out if you are warmblooded...  What was the optimal temperature by which you get the most protection against the fungi and yet you do not have to eat all the time? And...  What is the optimal temperature to keep us from eating all the time but still give us defense? The reason we eat three meals a day is to stay warm and functioning. If we were less warm we could eat less.  Oh so it is like how little can we eat and still be protected against fungus and...  Yes.  ...Stuff?  That is correct. And what Aviv did...  And so what Arturo did was he got together with this mathematical biologist Aviv Bergman and first they just gathered some numbers.  What is the temperature susceptibility of fungi?  Like most fungi do not like it above 86 degrees Fahrenheit.  And then he looked at the well-known formulas for calorie use. And then he asked the question if you put these two formulas together what is the best temperature that keeps out most fungi but does not require you to have to eat all the time?  They basically crunched a number that had to do with like how many calories you need a day and like just like the energy that would take of eating and then keeping out pathogens.  And what he found was that our temperature...  Ninety-eight-point-six.  ...Is that temperature that best balances protection against the fungi versus the need to eat food.  Whoa.  Bing bing bing.  We were amazed and tickled by it and so...  He is saying the reason our bodies are precisely 98.6 degrees is because of fungus? Like they shaped us to be that?  My heart wants to say yes but to caveat he did say it could be totally correlational.  Right.  Obviously he is not been able to take the temperature of any of our ancient ancestors. But you know it is a very interesting idea that part of being a mammal is about being good at fending off fungi...   ...Unless part of that equation changes which it will after the break.   This is RADIOLAB. I am Jad Abumrad.  I am Molly Webster.  OK. Where we left off you told us the startling fact that our bodies may have chosen 98.6 degrees to fend off fungus. But then you said somewhat ominously that is unless the equation changes which it will.  Yeah. So this brings us - some might say finally - back to our medical mystery which is that Arturo wonders what if in light of this dino-mammal-fungus detente this thing that seems new Candida auris has actually been here the whole time? So say these fungi typically live outdoors in soil and on rocks. And they live in a place that is like you know normally 75 degrees. It is...  Hawaii.  You want - OK.  Let us say Hawaii 'ecause they are big into mushrooms there.  OK. Their ideal temperature is 77 degrees. And if they go above that they start to feel a little queasy really start to fade and it is a struggle.  All right.  OK. So one day it is 81 degrees. And like the fungus are like oh  this is hot.  All fungi have the capacity to tolerate short burst of heat but...  But what if the 81 degrees lasts for many days not just one?  A heat challenge.  In that case most of the fungus would die. But the more 81-degree days there are the greater the chances that in the Russian roulette of evolution one day you would get a fungus who is like you know what? I think I feel pretty OK. And the reason that fungus probably feels that way is because it has like a mutation of some sort.  That give it the capacity to survive the heat.  Maybe it can even fight a little harder.  Turning on some of the defense mechanisms like heat shock proteins.  However it does it this one fungus lives.  And then it creates a copy of itself.  And then that fungus has fungus babies.  ...What is called a bud.  And then that bud has buds.  So the original cell may make 50 copies of itself before it basically runs out of fumes to make anymore. But those 50...  And so suddenly you have a whole batch of fungus that survive at 81 degrees.  Yeah.  OK.  And then after that you take the survivors and you expose them to 90 degrees.  Let them sweat it out and then boom you got a whole batch at 90 degrees.  You got it.  And you can just keep bumping this up degree by degree.  Exactly.  A string of 91-degree days 92-degree days 93-degree days 94-degree days.  Ninety-five degrees.  Ninety-six degrees 97 degrees 98 degrees and ultimately 98.6 degrees.   Now you have the capacity to survive inside the body of a human.   It reminds me of water. Like if you are water and you go from 34 to 33 you are still water and 33 to 32 you are still water but there is this seemingly insignificant threshold between 32 to 31 that when you cross it you become ice. And it is this almost minute transition that Arturo thinks happened with Candida auris.  That it was out there living in the environment and it gradually adapted to be able to grow at higher temperature and it - and when it did that it acquired the capacity then to cause disease in people. Essentially its adaptation defeated our heat defenses.  Wow.  Yeah yeah.  So fungus are being trained by the rising temperatures and they are adapting along with those rising temperatures.  You got it.  And then suddenly it is not that far from like you know that fungus in a soil getting caught on somebody's shoe who walks it into a town that then goes into a hospital.  Into an IV line. It can get into a wound and then it can colonize patients.  Huh. That would explain why Candida happened in all those places simultaneously. It was always in those places being tracked in on boots into hospitals but only now it gets tracked in with this new ability to live in us.  Yes.  Wow.   Japan is suffering its hottest day on record a city...  And this is an interesting thing. Like all of a sudden it made me think about all the headlines you see around the world...   Even in India it is rarely been this hot.  ...About like...   The country has been experiencing a deadly heat wave with dry air far hotter than the human body.  It is the 10th straight day above 105 degrees in New - in Delhi.   All across the west...  You know or it is like...   ...It was another day of oppressive heat.  Idaho's having the hottest August on record.   Funerals were underway in Karachi on Friday for some of the victims of the scorching heat wave.  You know many people say when you tell them about this but how can that be? You know they say that the average warmth it may be 1 degree centigrade.   This is a so-called cooling station in Las Vegas.  I say that is not the right way to think about it. The right way to think about it is to imagine...   The triple-digit temperatures.  ...The number of really hot days because each hot day is a hoop you got to jump through.  And then just one last dash of interesting in looking at all this like fungus temperature stuff - just as the fungus are learning to jump through our hoops it turns out we are actually making it easier for them.  What do you mean?  So there was actually - in looking at all this like fungus temperature stuff there was this paper recently that was talking about how the human body temperature has been declining. It is been steadily declining for decades at a rate of like .05 degrees Fahrenheit per decade.  Really?  Yeah.  So we are not 98.6 anymore. What are we?  They think it is actually more around like 97.5. But in fact...  Interesting.  ...What they are - do you get that a lot when you measure your kids?  Yeah. I am always like oh you are not - you are colder.  The one thing that the researchers were talking about though in the declining is that they looked at Western records. But you know they say - well they did a small study on people in Pakistan and they were more around 98.6. And the researchers were talking about how - essentially how hard your body has to work to stay healthy and consequently the health care system that you are in is what is like affecting the temperature decline. So I do not think they think it is like worldwide. I think it is a - it is like a developed-country Western kind of thing.  I see. So in countries where there is more advanced health care you are going to see internal body temp start to lower.  Basically yeah. So essentially in sum there is you know this head-to-head between fungus and us and it is a very fine line going from being insignificant to you know king or queen of the castle.  Many organisms that you recover from the environment can only grow at environmental temperatures. But some of them have - it is a whole range of temperature susceptibilities - or temperature resistance is a better way - an easier way to put it. And some of them happen to - their maximum happens to be just below your temperatures. And these are the ones that we worry about because many of them may have the capacity to cause disease but they cannot do it because they cannot survive the higher temperatures.  Wait. What are the other ones that are just below my 98.6?  Well there are probably - I do not want to be alarmist but there are probably in the hundreds of thousands or even millions.  .  I do not...   I mean I do not want to be alarmist either but now I want to know. What is like marching at my heels? Yeah.  Right.  Wow. That is just so weird. Like out of all the things that climate change can do to me I was not thinking about like it is warming up microbes on the sidewalk and they are like oh finally I can crawl into it a human.   And this is the moment we have been waiting for for millions of years.  It is some image yeah .  Yeah.   Wow. Molly thank you I guess for just giving me one more thing to have nightmares about.  Sure. I am always happy to seed your fears.   This story was of course reported by Molly Webster produced by Molly with Bethel Habte production help from Tad Davis. Special thanks to Luis Ostrosky . Until next time I am Jad Abumrad. Thanks for listening.   Hi. This is Katie  from Boulder Colo. RADIOLAB is created by Jad Abumrad with Robert Krulwich and produced by Soren Wheeler. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Suzie Lechtenberg is our executive producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Jeremy Bloom Becca Bressler Rachael Cusick David Gebel Bethel Habte Tracie Hunte Matt Kielty Tobin Low Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Sarah Qari Arianne Wack Pat Walters and Molly Webster with help from Shima Oliaee Sarah Sandbach and Russell Gragg . Our fact-checker is Michelle Harris.   Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 