OK so let us start today with this video. This woman posted it on Facebook saying that these girls little girls walked up to her on the street and after talking to them for a while she just knew she had to record them. Zoe Chace one of the reporters at NPR's Planet Money saw the video online and she is the one you showed it to me. OK so there is two little girls. They look to be about 10 11-ish. They are in a parking lot and the video opens you do not see anybody and then they run into the video and they are right up in your face. And they are super cute. Excuse me madam. Hi how are you? I am fine. How are you? I am fine too. My name is Asia Newson. The name of my company is called-- TOGETHER Super Business Girl. Our mission is to recognize the true potential in every child-- And to develop intrinsic security that makes optimum use of their individualized talent. Yeah. Pause it for a second. So the girl who is talking right now she is wearing big black glasses but do they have-- No. Lenses in them? Those are not real glasses. That is just part of her thing. And she has this little gap between her teeth that she puts right up into the camera and grins at it. Yeah. So let me break it down on an immensely biological basis. This awesome trainee right here is learning how to become a entrepreneur how to make their own money and buy the things that they would need in their life. OK so here she is gesturing at the other girl the trainee who is selling candles. Today I am selling some of my awesome candles 'ecause I am raising money to buy my own school clothes and school supplies for the upcoming school year. Now I am going to do a rap for you. OK now-- It is a lot of rhythm see? Super Business Girl Girl Girl-- TOGETHER Girl Girl Girl Girl. Super Business Girl Girl Girl Girl Girl Girl Girl. Super Business Girl Girl Girl-- It gets in your head actually just the words Super Business Girl Girl Girl Girl. Like it gets in your head. It got into my head. And that is actually her company. Like that is her branding. That is her selling her company is just repeating the name of it again and again. TOGETHER Girl Girl Girl Girl Girl Girl. Super Business Girl Girl Girl Girl Girl. That is it. Get it girl. Bye. Bye. So at this point in the video is when she actually really introduces the thing that she is selling which is these candles that she makes. And she just sticks the candles right into the camera. She is like Smell 'em. That is it. So when Zoe saw this video she watched it over and over totally charmed by this kid. But also as a business reporter she had all kinds of questions. Like who is she? Was this real? Is this like a one-off? Does she do this all the time? What is Super Business Girl? Like is that a thing? So Zoe tracked her down. Her name is Asia Newson. She is 11. Super Business Girl is a thing. It is a website that sells candles. Asia lives in West Detroit but she happened to be coming to New York City to see her family that weekend the one that Zoe called. And that also happens to be where Zoe lives. And I asked Zoe to play me the tape of their encounter because our program today is all about business and the kinds of people who decide to go into business and the kinds of people who succeed in business. So we meet up on 125th Street in Harlem. And basically as soon as we meet she is-- she is with her dad she is with her mom she is with her cousin. And they just book it across the street to this deli. We are going to get our product. I am selling my lollipops. And I am also selling my candles. But first I am getting my lollipops. Now Asia usually sells candles back home in Detroit but candles are heavy and hard to carry. So today in New York they are going to sell lollipops. She buys them for 0.25 per Blow Pop and sells them for 1. It just-- it just makes sense to me. I will not have to spend so much on something then I can sell it for more. Mhm. Making 300 profit. 300 profit. So that is her business model. And she is so full of confidence that she basically walks right out of the deli turns to the group of guys that are just kind of hanging out outside on the street corner and makes the pitch to them. Excuse me gentlemen. Hello my name is Asia Newson. I am known as Detroit is youngest entrepreneur. And the name of my company is called Super Business Girl. Today I am selling lollipops because I am raising money to buy my own school clothes-- Now of course anybody who lives in a big city has been approached by kids-- you know selling candy asking for a couple bucks for it saying it goes to their education or whatever. And Zoe's been approached and all these guys have probably been approached. Zoe says this just feels different. The way that Asia sells it is way less a sort of charity move than this kind of opportunity. Like here I am. I am very special. You should pay attention to me. I am giving you a chance to invest in my future. And yeah you can hear on the tapes people are charmed. As Asia works her way down the street going into crowded barbershops and hair salons they are happy to give to her. Because you will make a difference in my life. Thank you for listening to my presentation. That was beautiful. That was beautiful. How much? Well I am only asking for 1 investment because you will make a strong strong impact to my education. I will? Yeah.  You are beautiful sugar. She is a sweetheart. Oh well thank you for the lollipop. Thank you. I hope you have an awesome day. And I hope you have a blessed one as well sweetie. I am loving you!  Why'd you buy it? Why did I buy it? To support her. Why? It is a good cause. She is just very outspoken very outgoing. Good personality. The number-one thing is give energy. Two speak very loud be articulate use hand gestures and make eye contact. Now this is what Asia tells other kids to do when she trains them. But of course that is like somebody who is always been skinny giving advice to people on how to diet. This stuff just comes easily to her. It is a hard thing to teach. I saw her try to make her cousin do this pitch who was with her and he just could not handle it. What happened when her cousin tried? Um people would not really respond to him because he was kind of looking down. He was not really looking at people. Oh he was a kid. He-- yeah!  He was a regular kid. He was a kid that was 10 years old and like embarrassed to be talking to adults. At this point Asia has an office in a business incubator place in Detroit. She gets mentorship there she gets classes. This by the way is an adult business incubator where she is the only kid. Everybody else is grown up. Her dad is a salesman. And he is very involved in what Asia does which Zoe says can be a little unsettling to watch seeing an adult stage-parent their kid this way. Though she says that Asia is so clearly into what she is doing it really does not feel bad to watch it. It is like watching a stage parent whose kid totally loves being on stage. And for Zoe as a business reporter what was interesting about Asia was her instinctive comprehension of a basic business principle-- a principle that some adults do not always seem to grasp. She has this kind of sophisticated understanding it seems like that people are just excited to invest in other people. Like it has really nothing to do with what Asia is selling you know? Asia's selling Blow Pops that nobody wants. It is so obvious that she knows that she is just selling Asia. And this is not something that all people that are making pitches to investors or customers or whatever get. Like a lot of people are kind of nerds and they are like This is my product. This is my platform. I built this app or whatever it is and I want people-- Right. They think the thing will speak on its merits. They have a great product. Yeah or that the idea is so special. But they do not realize that people connect to other people. But Asia knows this. Do you think that you are selling more like you are selling you know-- More of myself and my services than my product? Yeah I do. Or was that not what you were going to say? People ask me that question all the time. Yeah that is what I was gonna ask. That is what I thought. I was not even there yet with my question. I was trying to tease this thing out of her the way you do especially if it is a little kid. But she already knows. She already knows what she is. I was a cute girl who knew about business and who liked what I did. So you know that you are cute. Yeah. And how do you use the being cute in your business?  Um--  I just act like me. I am a little girl running my own business. That is the best advantage ever. But I am 11 now so as I am getting older it is kind of going away a little bit which makes it a little harder for me to sell my candles and my suckers. Oh no! She is getting older and she is losing it at 11? LAUGHING Yeah. She knows that she is not gonna be cute forever. Wait wait wait did she make more money when she was littler? LAUGHING Yeah. She remembers being five and making a sales pitch and people were more excited to give her money the littler she was. Luckily as she ages she also has charisma mentors and plans-- big big plans. And today on our radio show It is Not the Product It is the Person we have stories of adults who do not always seem to understand that idea as well as this 11-year-old girl does. And also of adults who do understand that they are the product and they are struggling to live up to the job of being the product. Just think for a second-- how does it make you feel when you know you are the product and the world is deciding not to buy? From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Act One I Got 99 Problems and a Pitch is One. So here's a thought that is got a lot of people into a lot of trouble-- the thought I can do that. I can land that skateboard trick. I can start my own band. I think I want to open a bookstore. You know I have always loved books. I could own a bookstore. There is just that moment when you go from observer to doer can be very very treacherous. Well This American Life producer Alex Blumberg is in the middle of this moment right now an extreme version of this moment. For several years now Alex has been running Planet Money. That is the podcast about economics and business that Zoe Chace works for who you heard just a minute ago. Recently Alex quit that gig at Planet Money. He stopped reporting on other people's businesses and he decided to start his own business instead. And he started recording the process of making a new business with his audio gear because although he really does not know much about running a business he knows a lot about recording conversations and he felt like he needed something to feel good about. He has this true account of one man's journey from man to businessman. One of the great things about reporting on yourself? All the access you get. As a business reporter reporting on myself as a businessman I would be privy to all this behind-the-scenes stuff that most businesspeople never ever talk to reporters about. For example this detail. When you are going out to do something you have never done before-- meet an investor at a venture capital firm and try to convince him to give you money to start your company-- what do you wear? Suit and tie? Tech golf-shirt casual? I was on my way out the door and my wife Nazanin stopped me and told me to change my shoes. They are fine. They are just-- there would be a higher chance that he is going to give you money if you are not wearing running shoes. Do not you think that is true? But these are the only shoes that I can wear that my feet do not hurt in.  Um. Like a lot of conversations between married people what we are talking about is not actually what we are talking about. Here's what we are actually talking about. We have a two-year-old and a four-year-old. My wife has a demanding job where she works till 11 oclock most nights a week. I am leaving a full-time job with a good salary and benefits for an uncertain future. Our plan if you can call it that is to spend down our meager savings go into debt and hope it works out. I have a lot of anxiety. Nazanin has a lot of anxiety-- which is all focused at this moment on which shoes I should wear. I do not know. You think these look better? Not sure they look better. I think these look like nursing shoes. Why did you buy them? To play tennis in.  Oh they are like actual tennis shoes. Yes. Oh OK. Then yeah wear the other ones.   There are over 28 million businesses in America. And I imagine they almost all started the way mine is-- with nothing but a story a story I am telling not just to my investors but to my wife and to myself. That story that I am telling that we all probably tell I am the guy in the garage with the great idea. I am Steve Jobs. Just not the actual Steve Jobs of course. I am the Steve Jobs of HVAC repair or the Steve Jobs of farm-to-table gastropubs. Or in my case the Steve Jobs of 20- to 40-minute weekly podcasts. That is my business. I love podcasts. I want more of them. I looked around and there did not seem to be anybody inside or outside of public radio devoted to making the kind of podcasts that I love. And then came the other thought. Well I could do that. The story though that we tell ourselves is a lie. Most of us are in fact not even close to being Steve Jobs. Of the hundreds of thousands of businesses that start every year only 3 in 10 survive out the decade. Chris? How are you? Hey how is it going? Good good good. Thanks for meeting me. It is Friday lunch mid-spring and I am at a hole-in-the-wall sushi place on Pico Boulevard in Los Angeles. I have flown out here from my home in New York to meet a guy named Chris Sacca. Chris is the kind of guy that people like me need to sell our story to. He is a professional investor. Now before I was in public radio I was a teacher and before that a social worker. I have worked in nonprofits my entire life. If I actually start this business CEO of my own company will be the first full-time job in the private sector I have ever had. All this to say Chris Sacca and I traditionally run in different circles. But this is where covering business helps. I met Chris on a Planet Money story I worked on about the patent system and how it seemed to be slowing innovation in Silicon Valley. Chris had a lot to say on the subject so I ended up talking to him for a while. Years later when I was starting this company I reached out to him about being an investor. Honestly he was one of the only people I knew who did this for a living invested in stuff. And he remembered me. Turns out he is a fan of This American Life. And so he said Sure. Come on out. We will talk. Now I knew that Chris was successful but I did not realize exactly how successful until this lunch. One of Chris's first investments as an independent investor was in a company a former colleague of his at Google was starting. The colleague's name? Evan Williams. The company? Twitter. Evan showed Chris an early prototype of the idea. It was compelling and a little bit addictive and released dopamine every time your phone buzzed with a new tweet. And it played on a little bit of narcissism and exhibitionism and exploration-- all these things were happening that were pretty exciting. And so when Ev gave me the chance to invest in that company I found it irresistible. He wrote a check for 25000 which he probably had no business doing. He had a little money sure but 25000 was still a lot of cash to him. Unlike the majority of investors in Silicon Valley who Chris says can break off a check for 25000 like it is nothing he really needed his bet to pay off. So he just started showing up at the headquarters of Twitter trying to help out however he could. To say that this gamble paid off is an understatement. Chris Sacca would not say exactly how much he personally owns of Twitter but at the time of Twitter's IPO his venture fund was the single largest shareholder in the company with a stake of roughly 15. For Chris what started as a single 25000 investment is now a stake worth hundreds of millions of dollars. Now one Twitter in your portfolio is something any investor would dream of. Chris has a lot more than one. Kickstarter Instagram Uber-- he was an early investor in all of them. And he is developed something of a philosophy for successful investing. Sure you evaluate the idea you look at the numbers kick the tires-- that is all important. But he says he also looks hard at the conviction of the people who are pitching him. The ideas that we back and the entrepreneurs we back there is so much conviction about the inevitability of success it is contagious. I mean when I first sat down with Kevin Systrom the founder of Instagram and he started talking about why Instagram and pitching me on why I should get involved there I sat down with in the back of my mind look photo-sharing has been done a bunch of times. I feel lucky to have already gotten some money back out of Photobucket before. Like I might be the one guy who is made money in photo-sharing and there is no way lightning's going to strike twice. But as you listen to him you get the perception that he is actually looking through you to some spot behind you that is five years in the future. And he just knows the inevitability of the success of his platform. And by the end of the conversation you are like please take my money. So what starts as this like all right kid what-- whaddaya got? It is just like wow let me get on this thing. The train is leaving the station. This was thrilling to hear because that conviction I actually feel it. And conviction in general is a pretty rare feeling for me. I am much more intimate with doubt and ambivalence. And Chris is like a teacher handing me the answers to a test he is about to give explaining exactly what he wants to see from me in order to invest in my company. I need to project conviction. Check. And I need to instill FOMO. For you non-Millennials FOMO is an acronym-- Fear Of Missing Out. Airbnb multi-billion-dollar business right? I was one of the first people to see the Airbnb page. And I pulled them aside and said guys this is super dangerous. You are renting out a room in somebody's house while they are still there? Somebody's going to get raped or murdered and the blood is gonna be on your hands. There is no way this'ill succeed. That is a 10 billion business today that I am not an investor in. Dropbox. I saw the Dropbox guys and I was like this is great and everything but Google's going to crush you. They have a thing internally called G-Drive and it is going to absolutely crush Dropbox. There is no way this thing's going to succeed. That is a 10 billion business today that I am not an investor in. A 10 billion business that I am not an investor in? That is FOMO. Once you have FOMO on your side says Chris you no longer have to ask people like him for money. They are lining up to give it to you. So I would traveled out to see Chris Sacca with what is called a pitch deck which is basically a PowerPoint on a laptop telling the story of what my company is going to do and how it is going to make money. Not surprisingly you can read a lot on the internet about how to make a killer pitch deck. And like screenplays pitch decks are supposed to follow a standard three-act structure. What is the problem out there? How is my company going to solve that problem? And how is solving that problem going to make huge amounts of money for everyone? And usually there is a conference room maybe even a large-screen monitor where you plug your computer into show your PowerPoint. But after lunch Chris says OK let us take a walk. You can give me your pitch. And that is how it came to pass that right there on the sidewalk along West Pico Boulevard I made my pitch to Chris Sacca. Well I have a deck which I like-- which I have used with people. Yeah yeah the deck is a crutch. It was a crutch. I got used to it. All right so what is my-- yeah. So-- Pretty much immediately all the confidence that I felt during the lunch evaporates. Remember the structure Blumberg I tell myself. Problem solution money. Here's the problem. In the world of audio right now most people consume-- the kind of audiojournalism that I do most people consume it over the radio. Those people are leaving the radio in droves and they are migrating to digital. They are migrating to digital listening. The number of obviously smartphone handsets are going through the roof. The audio dashboard is becoming digital. iTunes Radio podcasting is all going to be on your dashboard. And there is this whole world of-- so there is all these people going there and so I want to start a company that will create the content for all these people to listen to who are like moving into the digital future-slash-present. Digital future-slash-present? Who says that? It is so hard to listen back to this tape and hear myself dropping out this jargon talking about listening to the radio as consuming audio. I just sound like such a jerk. I sound like such a poser. And notice the more nervous I become the higher my voice gets. So you-- you are uniquely positioned to do it because you are better at it than anybody? Yeah. I am. Do not apologize for that. I am doing so badly that Chris is now stepping in and feeding me lines. One question he asked. What is my unfair advantage? I knew this was a critical question but I had no idea how to answer it. Not only do I sound like a poser I am the wrong kind of poser. I am not even doing it well. Still I sallied forth. I explained to Chris my plan on how to make money-- ads of course-- with a second main revenue source-- you guys listeners. Not that we would charge for podcasts but for those of you who do not obsessively read everything written about the future of media there is this concept called freemium. It basically means you make your stuff for free and then you offer a little something extra that some percentage of your listeners will pay for. One time we did this on Planet Money sold 600000 worth of T-shirts. That is how I explain it now. Here's how I explained it to Chris in the language of Poser. And I believe there is a huge opportunity in audio specifically to really do the thing that all media's dreaming of doing which is making this-- making this freemium model work. And I watched Chris Sacca's face cycle from bored to confused to annoyed I realized despite being given the answers to this test ahead of time I am still somehow failing. I am generating no FOMO in Chris Sacca's heart. If anything I am generating the opposite. You gotta tighten up your story. So the-- Well start again. So you have now kind of meandered. Really tight this time. How are you going to make money doing this? So you make money a combination-- so there is three major-- there is three major revenue streams. I start again. I meander my way through the ad rates Planet Money. At a certain point I find myself deep into an explanation of my friend's successful Kickstarter project. Chris interrupted. You lost track of your own outline. Yeah I did. What you have not given me is the outline of your story right? Uh-huh. If I were calling an Uber right now and it said it is going to be here in two minutes and that was all the time you had-- Uh-huh. What are you doing? So I am making a network of digital podcasts that we will mon-- that will-- that will-- that is going to meet--  Sorry. I am imagining the people out there listening right now who actually know who Chris Sacca is. I did not realize his reputation when I first arranged to meet him. I thought he was just a rich guy in Silicon Valley. But after enough conversations with people who were like you are meeting with Chris Sacca? I realized that in this world he is this huge kingpin. Not a murderous criminal-underworld kingpin-- a universally admired really friendly billionaire kingpin that pretty much everybody with a startup idea wants as an investor. In other words this walk we are taking along Pico Boulevard? Thousands of people would kill for this opportunity. And I am blowing it. At a certain point Chris drops the pretense that this is an actual investor meeting and just starts coaching me on my pitch feeding me questions and then correcting my answers. And so what is it going to take to do it? So it will take a million and a half dollars I think. And-- Take out the I think. Yeah. It will take a million and a half-- I am looking for a million and a half to 2 million in seed-stage funding. No no no no no. Yeah. You were looking for a very specific amount of money. I am looking for--  Finally after about an hour of this I look over and see Chris holding up his hand. Give me a second and I am gonna give you your pitch back. All right. But let me write-- And then right there not far from the freeway overpass near Pico and Bundy he steps into the role of me starts giving the pitch I should be giving. Hey look can I get two minutes from you? So here's the thing. You probably know me producer of This American Life been doing it for 15 years. You know it is the most successful radio show top of the podcasts in iTunes et cetera. So here's the thing. I realize there is a hunger for this kind of content out there and there is none of this . It is just a bunch of jerk  podcasts. Nothing's out there. Advertisers are dying for it. Users are dying for it. And if you look at the macro environment we are seeing more and more podcast integrations into cars. People want this content. It is a whole new button in the latest version of iOS. So here's the thing. Nobody else can make this . I know how to make it better than anybody else in the world. And so I have already identified a few key areas where I know there is hunger for the podcast. We have got the subject matter. We are going to launch this . I know there is advertisers who want to get involved with it. But here's the unfair advantage I have. Because of what I have done in my past careers with This American Life and with Planet Money people are actually willing to just straight-up pay for this stuff. And I am not just talking about traditional subscriptions. I am talking-- we did this T-shirt experiment at Planet Money where we got 600000 coming in where people actually gave us money to buy a t-shirt with our logo on it as part of the content. It was integrated directly. And I know we can replicate that across these other platforms. So here's what we are doing. We are putting together a million and a half dollars. That is going to buy us three four guys who are going to launch these three podcasts in the next 12 months. We think very easily we could get to 300000 400000 net subscribers across the whole thing. With CPMs where they are in this market right now I know on advertising alone we could get to break even. But as we do more of this integration we get people texting in to donate to this stuff buying some of this product doing some of these integrated episodes I know that we are going to have on our hands here something that will ultimately scale to be a network of 12 15 podcasts. The audience is there. They want it. Nobody else can do it like we can. Are you in? That was amazing! That is your story right? That is great. Holy . I thought I was a storyteller. Now I feel bad about my job. So what-- That was good. So good that I am thinking oh if he pitched my idea that well he must be into it right? He is going to invest. But then he goes on. I could come at it from the other side. Yeah yeah yeah. Media's very very hard as you know. This content's really hard to consume. It is longer form. You are counting on people spending that kind of dedicated time. I mean you are fighting an overall trend of attention and every other format is going to shorter and shorter content pieces. And so you are actually swimming upstream with that stuff. You have a lot of platform risk because you are depending upon Apple and Google to distribute your content. The kind of stuff you are doing with Planet Money is exciting but it is all under the veil of being a nonprofit. People feel a moral obligation to contribute to those kinds of things. You come outside from under the public radio veil and you have to worry about whether people are going to be a little bit jaded and feel like they do not necessarily need to donate to a for-profit company to make for-profit content for guys who are doing this for equity and hoping to get rich. You know frankly you think you might actually be uniquely qualified to do this but we have started to see more and more news podcasts make their way out there. Some stuff from Khan Academy is moving up the ladder right now. So ultimately you are not going to be the only guys in here and it is going to be pretty competitive. Audio is kind of a niche market and so I do not know. I do not-- I do not know if this is a fit for us. At this point I have no idea what to think. I am drained my pits are drenched and Chris Sacca has just given me two completely convincing cases in favor of and against investing in my business. Whatever shred of conviction I had about this process at the beginning is gone. I also learned something about how investors like Chris see the companies they might invest in. I came out here thinking I could build a nice profitable business but Chris is not looking for profitable. He is looking for Twitter something huge. Or if not Twitter then at least a company he could sell to Twitter or some other big company. He asked me this question. What would the exit be? And by that he means what large company will buy your company in three to five years so investors like me can get our money back at 10 to 100 times the amount we put in? I had not really thought about that question. I do not know if I want anyone to buy me. This experience with Chris makes me realize this simple vision I have it is not a vision people like him are looking to invest in. This was my big chance a huge Silicon Valley investor with enough money to snap his fingers and get me started on my new life and I would blown it. My failure it seemed clear had nothing to do with my shoes. Alex Blumberg is not quite a businessman in New York City. As he continues trying to start his business he is going to be documenting each painful step-- and the occasional success too we hope-- on a new podcast. The podcast is called StartUp. One quick sample. In the episode where Alex tries to come up with a name for his company he gets his wife Nazanin to weigh in on one of the leading contenders. Orelo. Orelo? What is that? What is that supposed to mean? Well it is uh-- it is ear in Esperanto.   Oh my god!   That is so dumb. That is so dumb. The StartUp podcast is that hearstartup.com. That is hear H-E-A-R startup.com. Coming up Mike Birbiglia and why anyone starting a business lives low to the ground. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Each week on our program of course we choose a theme bring you different kinds of stories on that theme. Today's show It is the Person Not the Product. We have stories of businesses in their very early stages and the people trying to start them and what happens when you know the most important thing you need to do is to win over people make friends influence people and you also know you are not doing it. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two The Business of Show. Being a comedian I have to say is-- it is a little bit like starting a business where no one wants that business to exist. Really. Like no one. Not your family or your friends or the audience. And in so many ways they are right. They are right of course because you are bad. That is comedian Mike Birbiglia. And he says at first you just do not know what you are doing. And he says that the normal laws of supply and demand they apply to the comedy business. And so at first there is no demand for you and your services. He tells this story from his early days trying to start the business of his own comedy career out of nothing with nobody believing in him. When I moved to New York 13 years ago to become a comedian my parents were very upset because my-- and they really really were. They were very concerned. My dad is a doctor my mom is a nurse-- those are professions where people help other people and are ashamed of their artistic children. But my parents were so worried when I moved to New York. And in fairness I mean I was really struggling. I was broke. I was living on an air mattress in Queens. I could not afford a dresser for my clothes. When you are broke everything is low to the ground