A quick warning-- there are curse words that are unbeeped in today's episode of the show. If you prefer a beeped version you can find that at our website thisamericanlife.org. David so what problem was this supposed to solve? The teachers were trying to get the kids to stop tattling. And why was that so important? Because it is a pre-K classroom and it is constant there. Right. I should say by the way that you are David Kestenbaum. You are one of our producers our managing editor right now. And this classroom is your kid's classroom right? Yeah. Both of them went there. I still do not get-- it seems like kids tattling on each other is just a fact of pre-K. It is but you have got 20-something kids. I mean you know it is hard being one parent with two kids doing it. Imagine you are in a classroom with like 20 kids. And if they bring it to you as a teacher all these little injustices you have got to get involved in all these cases you know? Right. And it is just a time suck. Yeah it is just a time suck. And so one of the teachers had this great idea. She took a tissue box hung it on the wall and then took this plastic phone receiver and hung it in it and said something like that is the tattle-phone. Tell it to the phone. And I thought it was just brilliant. And I just want to say this is a place that loves kids. I would go to pick up my son Max and I would have to wait because he would want to hug every single teacher. And I would go to get Auggie our older kid and he would be like I need five minutes I am in the middle of something. Like-- They just want to stay longer. I mean I get choked up thinking about this place. And I love the idea of the tattle-phone just as a vessel for all the little injustices that go on every day. And I wanted to hear what was said into it-- like these little three year olds four year olds talking into this plastic phone. OK. And I should say this is the part of the story I know very well what happens next. We asked if we could put a phone in the classroom that would record the tattles. The daycare was fine with that. I reached out to the parents. I did not know how they were going to feel about us recording their kids at like the worst moment of the day. But every single one of them said yes. Some of them said please yes do this. So we got a phone. It was this chunky red phone kind of like 1980s style we had it set up to record. And we needed an outgoing message for it. And that is where I stepped in. Hey there you have reached the tattle phone. OK tell me what happened after the beep. Tell me the whole story. I really hope to make some inroads in that four-year-old market. I really hope that helps our ratings. So what we are going to do now David is that you are going to explain what you heard on those recordings on the tattle-phone. And when you are done I am going to come back and I will explain what today's show is about. OK. So I brought the phone into class and I set it up. And the kids started to use it immediately and with great enthusiasm. Eli told me a lie. Seamus was not sharing with me and I do not like it and I am very upset. Nathan farted in my face and I said yuck Nathan. Catch that one? Nathan farted in my face and I said yuck Nathan. But the real crime? And he did not say excuse me. I think there was enormous excitement just having a phone in the class. It was larger than they would probably ever seen in their lives-- bright red with buttons on it. It was an old touch-tone phone. Everyone wanted to use it even if they did not have a tattle. Kids sang a song into it. One tried to order a pizza. Someone said hi mom please pick me up early. Hi Dad. I love you. Bye. Uh our baby turned into a ducky and I do not know how it turn into a ducky. And that is why her turned into a ducky and turned back to a baby. Uh-- I am sorry I need to hang up on you for one second. Several calls later conscience heavy that kid calls back. I am sorry I had to hang up on you. I am just sorry. The tattle-phone was like a magic portal into one preschool classroom in America which is kind of incredible. Like most parents I will ask my kids what happened in school today and I get nothing. School is like this black box-- you drop them off pick them up and you have no idea what happens in between. But now I had this phone. It was set up so it sent me the messages as they happened. It was funny listening to them from my desk. The portal into this classroom would open for a second I get this little report from a kid hear a little sound of the room and then it would close-- sometimes for a while. Then the portal would open I would hear something and then silence again. There were never any tattles between 1 and 3 oclock because that was nap time. Then they would start again these little dramas. Ramon is not listening to my teacher Mr. Evans but he is my favorite teacher. And I know-- and I know he is mad at me but I do not want him to be. So I am trying my best to listen. My friend Simone said no at me. My friend Simone. It is always their friends who are bugging them. My friend Jack was in my face when I was waiting to go to an area. And that made me really upset. SINGING Eli hit me. Eli hit me. Um when I am playing family with Simone  keeping me awake while I am trying to sleep pretend sleep. Can I just say I am not sure that one is actionable. You are pretending to sleep and complaining that someone is waking you up? I do not know. People are not sharing the tattle-phone. How much of their day is about like justice? Oh! I could not put a percentage on it. But I could say the majority of the day.  This is Kathleen Jones the lead teacher in the class. It is everything-- and rules. They live by rules. They can sit down to play a game and that whole playtime will be nothing but arguing about the rules. And then there is no playtime left and they feel good about it. It is funny. Like they cannot make breakfast for themselves they cannot get dressed they can barely talk and they are just full of that is not fair. But they are dynamos. Every one of them has something that-- It is awesome. Yes exactly. It is awesome. They are wonderful. There is actual scientific research on this. Kids know when something's unfair some when they are just 12 months old. My kids were not even walking then. And I know this is kind of obvious but so many of the conflicts in this world come down to some version of what is going on in this classroom-- what is fair how do you divide up something that there is a limited quantity of. You know magnet tiles? We only have one acrylic one that is yellowish gold. That is it. That is the prize in the class. Whoever gets that is like I am the king or the queen and ha-ha. The gold-- that is what they call it the gold. I sometimes think that the main usefulness of numbers for my son Max the whole reason he knows how to count is score-keeping-- how many of something he has and how many his brother has. It is a weighing of the scales of justice no matter how tiny. So did it work for you? Like did they stop coming to you with their complaints? Yes it did. It does work. Yes that phone holds a lot of power. It gave the teachers the break they were looking for. I wanted to see if the kids thought it worked whether the tattle-phone helped them deal with stuff. So the other weekend I interviewed a bunch of them-- which I have to say these were some of the weirder interviews I have done in my professional life. Bob Woodward I know this is not right but I had to pay one interviewee a piece of gum. Another kid Nicky insisted on performing magic tricks before granting an interview. I did not have high expectations. And then if I do this-- Wait that worked really well. Wait that was actually amazing. I know. That was good. Yeah. Nicky then refused to talk about the phone at all. But others clearly used it a lot. You have to tell the tattle-phone the whole story what happened. That is Gabriel. This is Deenia. Tell me the whole story. That is all I can remember. One girl's parents told me that they were on vacation staying at a hotel which of course had a landline phone. And their daughter Simone said look a tattle-phone as if there was some sort of national tattle-phone network staffed around the clock by government workers entering everything into a database. My friend's kid Sean who just turned 5 and who I adore was the only one who could remember a tattle-worthy event from school in any detail. He whispered it to me. He was clearly kind of excited about this. His friend had kicked him. WHISPERING He kicked me in the penis. WHISPERING He what? WHISPERING Kicked me in the penis. WHISPERING He kicked you in the penis? Did you tell the tattle-phone? WHISPERING That time we did not have any tattle-phone. WHISPERING Oh you did not have the tattle-phone? WHISPERING No. WHISPERING If you had the tattle-phone would you have told it? Yeah? OK. It sounds like it might have been an accident. Sean stood up and acted out the whole thing in slow motion for me. Slow motion. Like it was a scene from an action movie. His friend was trying to kick the ceiling. So he went like . They should have a security camera in the classroom. But they do not. They do not? Just the tattle-phone? Mm-hmm. A bunch of kids told me they felt good after talking to the tattle-phone though the why it made them feel better it took all my interviewing skills. This is Gabriel. How did you like having the tattle-phone in the classroom? Good. How did it feel after you said something to the tattle-phone? Good. How come you felt good? Uh because-- well I felt good because I told on the person. One girl told me talking to the tattle-phone felt like eating ice cream. It is nice to think that just getting something off your chest can solve a problem that if you just release the fact of the injustice into the world you feel better. And sure I think that can be true. But we had the phone in class for a month and I did notice toward the end we got fewer messages. They came in regularly but not with the same energy. It is possible the novelty was wearing off. I think there is something else going on as well. Before we put the phone in the class I had it set up in my house just to make sure it was working. My kids used it a couple of times. And then our younger son Max was complaining that his brother Auggie who is a year older had pinched him. Tell it to the tattle-phone I said. It is not working he told me. I picked the phone up worried that there was some technical glitch. But it was fine. It is working Max. No he said it is not. It did not do anything. It does not even work to me. It does not even do anything. It listened to your tattle. No it does not. What do you mean? It listened. It did not. It did not stop Auggie pinching me. It did not stop Auggie pinching me. I know Max. I know. Sometimes you want more than just to speak. You want actual justice. Thank you David. You are welcome. And that brings us to-- like what are we 12 minutes into the program-- it brings us to what we are doing today on our show. Today we have people some of them young some of them old wanting justice feeling a sense of injustice on things as big as the constitutional foundation of our entire country and things as small as the question of whether a ball is in or out. And in all those cases people young and old not trusting the system to deliver justice. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. Stay with us. Act One Hoop Reams. The journalist Michael Lewis who wrote Moneyball and The Big Short and lots of other books and who contributes to our program now and then he was looking around at what is going on in America these days. And he noticed that one way you can describe the current moment that we are all living through is that Americans do not trust the refs-- in all walks of life. They do not trust their impartiality. I am talking about police Supreme Court justices journalists the people who regulate the banks and Wall Street and student loans the people setting medical costs judges. So many people today feel the system is rigged. I mean Bernie Sanders and Donald Trump both ran on that. So many people feel that the figures of authority charged with enforcing rules impartially keeping everybody on a level playing field that they are failing at their jobs. It is not fair. Michael Lewis has not published this reporting that he is been doing on this in a new book. He is decided to make it into a podcast. They launched this week. It is called Against The Rules. And Michael has adapted a version of their very first episode for us to play for you right now. The first episode is about people not trusting the refs in the most literal sense of that. It is about basketball referees. Here's Michael Lewis. For me this story really begins with my 11-year-old son Walker. He plays on a basketball team run by a Japanese Buddhist temple. My son is not a Buddhist though most of the time he could pass for one. He has no conflict with his teachers or his classmates or his Japanese Buddhist teammates. I would not say his mind is exactly pure but usually it is calm. The exception is when he deals with refs. Even in what amounts to a Buddhist basketball game anytime a ref blows the whistle on him he throws up his arms in astonishment. Then he jumps up and down with his little fists balled up and his mouth clenched tight so everyone knows just how much injustice he is suffering. Then he marches off with a scowl. And he does not get over it. After a game this season he gets into the car and starts bitching and moaning all over again. How did it make you feel when the ref made those calls? Very mad. Do you feel any better now? No. Tell me how it feels. It feels like someone keeps poking you in the back of the shoulder and then saying foul foul foul foul. Have you ever fouled out in your career? No. Did you know that you were at risk of fouling out? Yes but I also knew if I did it would be unfair because I knew that he was calling the stupidest fouls. He will look back and say oh I was being a huge-- asshole. Klay with the steal. Klay in a footrace. Cousins trying to catch him. He cannot! Klay with a very deep three. The thing is I know why my son does what he does. He thinks he is Klay Thompson the all-star shooting guard of the Golden State Warriors. They reset back to Thompson. Three-pointer-- bang. When Klay hits a three Klay pounds his chest and points to the sky. And so when Walker Lewis hits a three he too pounds his chest and points to the sky. And I think we have a technical foul as well. On Klay-- very unusual. When Klay is called for a foul he scowls and throws up his arms in astonishment and sometimes even says something to the ref that gets him slapped with a technical foul. He only had one during the entire regular season. And Klay's the famously most laid back all-star in the entire National Basketball Association. Something has happened in the relationship between referees and players over the last I guess year or two. That is Ramona Shelburne. She is covered the NBA for the last decade for ESPN. It is been quite frankly ugly this year. One of the Warriors head-butted a ref. Another chucked his disgusting mouth guard off a ref's chest. And Curry has been thrown out of the game. And some of the stuff I have seen I mean when Draymond Green is getting fined for calling Lauren Holtkamp a-- can we cuss on your podcast? I think we already have. You know a fucking bitch-- like when he is saying that to a female referee man that is next level. And I have not seen that before this season. It is the stars now who are really pushing the issue right? It is Kevin Durant getting thrown out of games. It is Steph Curry getting thrown out. And the Golden State Warriors have completely unraveled. Last year bad behavior got various Golden State Warriors tossed out of 10 different basketball games. Kevin Durant their best player got thrown out of five-- four more than he would been thrown out of his entire career up to that point. The men who coach the stars are not much better. Even Steve Kerr the Warriors' famously decent civic-minded coach-- I can snap. I can completely lose it. If you back away from the Golden State Warriors I mean they are exemplars of the way people should behave. Especially your stars they are like impeccably behaved people. I am so pleased to have my son emulating your players. The only time they have problems really is with referees. Yeah. I cannot imagine you in your life have another relationship like you have with referees. No you are right. You are right. I would never say the things that I do to referees to a person in normal life. It happens two or three times a year. I have been caught on camera you know MF-ing a ref. And you know my daughter will send me a text like Dad what are you doing? It is all over Twitter. I can read your lips. This is embarrass-- and I am embarrassed. So why is that? It is a sense of right or wrong. You know I feel like there is this personal offense like something unfair is happening. The players get fined if they talk about the refs so we will not be talking to them. But it is not just them or their coaches or my son who are treating refs in ways they would never treat an ordinary person. It is the fans in every arena who spend meaningful amounts of their time looking for the refs' mistakes on the JumboTron. It is the cable sports channels playing and replaying the refs' mistakes so their viewers can tweet and retweet about them. It is this entire infrastructure seemingly built to focus attention on whatever mistakes the refs make for the sole purpose of generating outrage. CHANTING Ref you suck! Ref you suck! Ref you suck! Ref you suck! If there is one thing that unites Americans just now it is their belief that the refs suck-- which is weird because they almost certainly suck less than ever before. Before you hate me for saying that give me a moment to show why. So we are walking across a parking lot in Secaucus New Jersey. And there are chain hotels and motels in someone's idea of a mall. And we are surrounded on all sides by freeways. It is like what people think about when they tell jokes about New Jersey. And we are approaching a four-story rectangular otherwise nondescript concrete building. There is a discreet little sign here that says NBA and shows a logo with a basketball player. Inside a recent concession to the world we live in-- the Replay Center a place where basketball referees review the calls made by other basketball referees in real time to minimize referee error. The Replay Center was built to persuade people that life was fair. And the door is locked. Someone eventually unlocks the door and leads me down a hall filled with a lot of old basketball stuff-- jerseys and bobbleheads and basketballs and posters of Michael Jordan. The Replay Center was the ultimate man cave-- Ultimate man cave right? It is also the latest weapon in the battle for fairness. So this place just on first view is amazing. It really is. It is wall-to-wall screens 110 of them. What is on them is whatever is captured by all the cameras in 29 NBA arenas across the country. They may have a screen somewhere with scores on it but I did not see it. And they are all muted. What you hear is referees staring at basketball games. What you see is nothing but angles on professional basketball courts. Nobody's ever walked in here and walked out and said this place sucks. That is Joe Borgia who is run the center since 2014. Before he volunteered for Secaucus duty he refereed NBA games. His father was an NBA ref before him. With a break in the late '60s a Borgia has been reffing professional basketball games since 1946. If you went back to your dad at the beginning of his career and said this is what it is going to look like what do you think he would have said? If I told him we would have replay he would turn over in his grave forget about a replay center. Is that right? Oh absolutely. You see the refs used to insist on their authority. And everyone agreed that there was no better way to ensure the fairness of the game than to let the ref play god. The Replay Center is an admission that the ref is not god that he makes mistakes. I think the mention of replay none of us liked it when we first heard it. It is a necessary evil. It is necessary. You have to have it today. Everything is taped now. Everyone pays more attention to the referees' mistakes. So the NBA has to as well. Now when a ref thinks he might have screwed up some call or did not get a good look at the action-- Watch the referee on the bottom of the screen. --he twirls his fingers in the air. There is your signal. That is the signal to the ref in the Replay Center who goes to work reviewing the tape looking for the best angle to figure out what actually happened. Sure Dick. We are going to give you two good angles all right? That is the first one. The other one's going to give you a better look. The refs here sit dressed in black staring at screens waiting for a signal from somewhere in America. The end of games is when they get most involved because that is when fans and coaches and players are most likely to accuse some ref of having made the mistake that changed the outcome. Of course a mistake at the beginning has just as much effect on a game as a mistake at the end but the end is what people notice and get outraged about. So the justice at the end of the game must be more exact than it is at the beginning. These Replay Center refs have video technicians with them who can freeze a moment on screen then zoom out or zoom in so that the entire screen contains only a player's fingertips or his toes. Here you just scroll through tiny slivers of the game not the game itself. The sliver is where injustices might occur. I mean goodness gracious if you do not have slow motion in here or freeze frame it is very difficult. Of course in slow motion you can see things that the naked eye misses. Magicians sometimes perform during halftimes of the NBA games. When Joe Borgia slows it down he can see how they do their tricks. It is kind of the same thing with the players. Exactly. I can go 160 of a second at a time. You are gonna pick a lot of little things up. So what these players have gotten good at is creating optical illusions. And then-- Of course. The sort of things that a magician does. Well is not flopping an optical illusion? Flopping is what they call it when a player pretends to have been knocked over by another player. Tricking the refs into making bad calls is now considered a skill. For possible flagrant? There is blood on the screens. Kevin Love's front tooth got knocked in. Love plays for the Cleveland Cavaliers. And the question is did the guy who popped him in the mouth do it intentionally? We are looking for the unnatural. Did he throw his elbow out? The refs need to decide if the violence was not just excessive but unsportsmanlike which sounds archaic because we have sort of lost the concept. Did he lead-- But the foul was on Kevin Love. I thought he was outside-- Yeah but he was moved. He was moved. He was late. Come on you gotta be quick on these. I am still stuck on the blood coming out of his mouth. Yeah I know. It is ugly. The players all stand around scratching themselves while the refs put on headsets and talk to the Replay Center. So the blood does not sway the decision? Listen there is a lot of contact. A lot of it is accidental. That was accidental. The only thing stopping the Replay Center from checking every decision is that it slows the game down. Here in Secaucus they are still trying to figure out how they might talk to the refs as they run up and down the court. Because if they could do that they could just fix every call on the fly. The special forces we found that we actually use a chip over the molar that worked off the vibration of the bone. Believe it or not we did. We got a handful of G League referees molded and we tested that. To wear a chip over their molar? But it was not good enough because they did not know where the voice was coming from. It was just a voice in their heads? They did not know where it was. Was that a coach talking to me? It is insane. The time and money now being spent to ensure the fairness of what after all is just a basketball game-- a bajillion miles of fiber optic cable connect this room directly to the NBA arenas around the country all for two calls a game. At two calls a game-- 15 million to build this room to get two calls during the game. But you gotta do it. You gotta do it. Can I just pause here a moment just to consider what the NBA has done in the past few years to improve the calls? For example they have brought in serious managers to hire and train the refs. Joe Borgia calls his boss the general because she actually was a general and an Air Force pilot. Her name is Michelle Johnson and before she supervised NBA refs she ran the Air Force Academy. It sounds like overkill to use a general to make sure basketball games are well reffed. But the NBA thought it needed overkill. So adjust your mic a little bit. Or at least Adam Silver the NBA commissioner did. If people do not believe that the league office is unbiased and that the officials are unbiased you are going to have a problem regardless of the accuracy of the calls. People watching at home are scrutinizing every call on their phones and their TVs. They had just enough information to be suspicious of the league. There is 18 cameras covering every game that there is 18000 people watching games with sophisticated smartphones that have high definition audio and video. We started to get into trouble. Silver took over in 2014 and also hired Joe Borgia to run the Replay Center. Since then he is taken a ridiculous amount of grief just for trying to improve the justice on a basketball court. So here's what else Silver's done. He is broadened the pool of people from which refs are selected. They used to be mostly white men mostly from the same background. At one point four NBA refs came from the same high school. He is hired more black refs and female refs. He is insisted that referees be physically fit so they can get into position to see all the plays. While everyone else in America is getting fatter the refs are getting buff. They are also now getting new feedback on all their bad calls. Silver decided to publish the mistakes made by every ref in the last two minutes of every game so everyone could see them. He gives the teams and the refs a private document listing every refereeing mistake. All this new data on refs means that we and they know all sorts of strange things about their minds. For instance we now know that their calls have tended to favor whichever team is losing. Their calls also favor the home team. Some large part of home court advantage is just the refs. The analytics department of the Houston Rockets has even done a study that shows that the home team that gets the best calls is the Utah Jazz. Why Utah? Who knows? But you can be sure that someone will figure that out. There is now basically a small army of geeks analyzing all this new data. Look I do not really like writing papers about sports. I would prefer to write about the economy. That is Justin Wolfers a behavioral economist at the University of Michigan and the co-author of a paper about NBA refs. But the thing is this is a domain where the NBA referees have tremendous incentives not to make the wrong call. Every error they make is tracked. Those errors determine whether they get more games. Those games determine how much they get paid. This is arguably the most analyzed workforce in the country. Basketball referees are now picked apart in ways that not long ago would have seemed preposterous-- not just for the fairness of their calls but for their unconscious behavior. Wolfers took data from over a decade of NBA basketball games more than 250000 of them. Then he set out to look for evidence of the refs' racial bias. The question here is not whether people are anti-black or anti-white but whether there is an in-group bias. So if a predominately black team is playing and the refereeing crew is predominantly white are there more fouls called against them than on nights when the same team is playing with a predominantly black refereeing crew? And it turns out the answer is yes. Wolfers wrote his paper back in 2007 before this new age of referee transparency. Well it was a bit of a lesson for me. You can probably tell by my accent Michael I am an Australian. You know I thought it was an interesting piece of social science. It turned out The New York Times put it on the front page. And the NBA was not happy. The commissioner at the time attacked the study and embarrassed the league by trying and failing to refute its findings. This morning we will hear from the NBA commissioner David Stern. Our referees are the most reviewed most ranked and most rated. And that is why we take exception to what The Times did here. That is Stern on NPR in 2007. The result of all this coverage every single referee was made aware of his unconscious bias. When the dust settled Justin Wolfers was curious to know if his paper had had any effect. He made another study of referees after the controversy he would created. And guess what. The most recent study that we did seems to suggest that that form of racial bias has gone away. For a while anyway. He has no idea why. Maybe simply making the refs aware of the problem was enough to correct it. By the way the NBA disputes this study too. But in the end this became a case study-- not in ref ineptitude but in ref reform. NBA refs have now achieved what police forces can only dream of though the refs have no choice. The world's now too good at seeing their mistakes. Look there is no way any basketball referee is going to be perfect. But there is also no way these refs are anything but more accurate than they have ever been. I mean even home court advantage means less than it used to. And yet these refs are treated as if they are trying to rig the games. CHANTING Ref you suck! Ref you suck! Ref you suck! Ref you suck! Ref you suck! The sound of those 18000 people screaming at you or booing you does it sound any different than it sounded when you started? Yeah. There is a little more anger involved. And you know it used to be sort of of the garden variety. You are terrible you suck any of those kinds of terms. That is Monty McCutchen who started reffing in 1993 and so got to see firsthand the effect that the arrival of the internet has had on referees. A few years back twitter exploded in game five of the Miami Heat and Oklahoma City Thunder finals from years ago. One of the players hit a three point shot. McCutchen was giving the signal for three and running to beat the players back to the other end of the court when he realized he had lost his balance. Falling for a referee it does not get much more embarrassing than that. It is bad. People are on you pretty good you know. And I am trying to hold it up and Erik was on the sideline. And he sees me fall. Erik is Erik Spoelstra the Miami Heat coach. And he sort of just stood onto the floor and braced me. And our arms sort of interlocked as he braced me righted me. I yell out thanks as I go on by and I run on down to the baseline. After the game Twitter exploded that the NBA is rigged. If you do not believe that watch Monty McCutchen give a high five to Erik Spoelstra after this three. And the reality of that was just so far and away wrong up against this real human moment of just a reactionary thing that a good person does for another good person. You see someone falling you help them not fall. He says that when he started out reffing no one would have even noticed. And if they did it would not have mattered. That is changed. Mistakes get made as NBA referees. And they are just mistakes. But they often get interpreted in this wider scheme of thought process that a lot of our cultures is dealing with right now which is there must be a fix in. There must be a reason for this. Do you think the world is looking for a fix more now than it was when you started? I think that the t-shirt I saw recently has merit-- I am not saying it is your fault. I am saying I am blaming you. You feel abused. Yeah. Now you know people do their research. Things are out there on the internet. They know your record with their team. There is all these sites on all these different-- Do they know personal things about you? Oh sure. Of course some death threats are made from time to time in playoff series and you will get security all the way to both the hotel and then the hotel the next morning ou