 We have all gone to the circus and seen how fun it looks to fly from the flying trapeze to juggle all those balls in the air to walk the tightrope. But the time and effort it takes to master any of these disciplines it can really be a tremendous pain. Our next guest he wanted all the adulation without the hard-working bother. And it turns out it does not take much work to start a circus. And for some people it does not even take any talent.  This is the one and only Chicken John.  Hey my name is Chicken John.  Chicken was a touring musician from New York. But after his bandmate's death from an overdose Chicken decided to change it all. So he moved to Los Angeles.  You know I went to LA to start a new life. I was going to be a stand-up comic.   Hey who is out on a Monday night? You have seen this guy before. He is back for more. Give it up for Chicken John.  There was only one problem - no one was laughing.  I bombed like 60-something - 62 times in a row. And I kind of started to like it. Here they are telling me you are in a hole stop digging. No I would just dig more just like to see where it was. Was there more? And then in the process of doing that I like - I realized that I could only bomb so much as one man. I was like we need more people bombing. They are like yeah start a circus.  So Chicken put out an open call for performers and pranksters to tour the United States. Anyone could join but this was not like any other circus.  And there was only one rule - no talent. You are going to do like a show on a stage. Here they are the da-da-da . You know you are going to introduce this person who is doing this thing but that thing that they are doing cannot involve any talent. Like you could juggle one ball because juggling two balls requires some kind of talent. We cannot have that kind of thing in our show. As a matter of fact if you had talent you are welcome to join but you have to do something else for the show.  And so the Circus Redickuless was born and Chicken John started hunting for venues across the country.  I would book ourselves in like rec halls and like a recycling center.  From garbage dumps punk-rock dives to a rehab Chicken pushed for venues that had never seen a clown before. And in every city they went to the circus began to grow.  The first show that we did we had 17 people. And as that tour went on we would collect strays. We would never say no. Somebody like came and saw the circus and was like hey guys you are amazing. I want to - I get it. I am joining. I said OK hop in.  And then the show would begin.  That is right. It is everything you have never wanted in a circus and much much less. There was this one-man band Elvis impersonator. Then we would do like a 35-minute freak show.  But Chicken's no-talent rule created new kinds of performances.  Some of the acts were just incredible what these people came up with like the reverse stripper. That was always fun.   Girl comes out completely naked. The bands like . I was like well what do you want to see her do? Come on. And get the audience to chant put it on.   Put on like a tank top a glove and another shirt a sweater and a onesie. By the end of it she is like in a sleeping bag wiggling back and forth on the ground in a sleeping bag .  Reverse stripping the temporary tattooed man the speed metal tap dancer and the world's only drunken knife thrower.   He is like all right I need an audience participant from the audience and he is like drinking out of a Jack Daniels bottle.  ...Who asked for a volunteer who would allow themselves to be tied to a target.  And we blow up these balloons and we tape the balloons into her armpits and next to her head. And then he gets out the knives right? And he like gets on the other side of the stage and he is like OK going to throw the knives blow the balloons. Holding the knife he is getting ready to throw it. And it is like wait a minute...  ...What about the blindfold?  He is like oh that is right the blindfold right? And he puts on a blindfold. So we blindfold her. The drunk knife thrower takes off his blindfold and he is no longer weaving or drunk. It is an act you know? And then I am standing right next to her. And I say OK ready ready to throw the knife? OK spin him around a couple times. OK there you go. He is not spinning. He is like OK you ready to throw the knife? And he is like OK I am ready. He is not even holding the knife up. And then I pull a knife out of my pocket and I pop the balloon and stick the knife into the wood right next to her head. He puts his blindfold back on. We take her blindfold off. And all she sees is the guy standing there weaving around like he just threw the knife at her. I mean we were basically providing no content as our content.  But Chicken's show came to take on an enormous life of its own.  The circus was like 30 and 40 people traveling for like six months a year for five years.  Over 200 people performed in the Circus Redickuless. Couch surfing sleeping in the backs of buses and pulling up at truck stops wearing signs that said will clown for food.  Two-hundred performers - just a constant revolving door of people coming and going.  Until the circus designed to bomb in front of every audience did the unthinkable.  The Circus Redickuless enjoyed some curious success. It got a 9-page 18-photo spread in Spin magazine.    I like to praise you like I should.  A huge expose on our show pictures of all of us and the dog in the bus.  The world said the no-talent circus had talent.  Like we are the cool hip thing - and it killed it - dead. Because with that kind of attention people in the troop were expecting things to change now that we were successful for there to be food maybe cigarettes or something you know like some improvement. Just because someone reads your name in a magazine does not mean that you get any money. They thought it was like this is going to change everything today and it did.  And the Circus of Redickuless went from one that craved chaos to one that craved success.  The heartbreak when they realized that vibe that anything can happen - I am really good at creating that vibe that like anything can happen. But eventually anything could happen has to become something. That was the end.   A victim of their own success the heyday of the Circus Redickuless came to its end. But Chicken continues on with new cohorts on their mission of mischief challenging the world to ask what talent really means. And you will never know when they will strike again.  You know we are like the militia. We are always in reserve - you know what I mean? - to come ruin the day or save the day whatever is more important.   Chicken John's misadventures are continued in The Book Of IS. We will have a link on snapjudgment.org. That piece was produced by Jamie DeWolf and Mark Ristich. 