 Listener-supported WNYC Studios.  Wait. Wait. You are listening ...  OK?  All right.  OK?  All right.  You are listening...  Listening...  ...To RADIOLAB.  RADIOLAB.  From...  WNYC.  See?  Yeah.   Oh God. It is so hot. OK. I am calling Lulu Miller.   Hey.  Hello.  How is it going?  I am good. I just started running. It is crazy hot.  Latif is this our first run together?  This is our first run together although it is you know apart together.  Separated by like 2000 miles.  Oh my God. I am already out of breath. Like I have not even been running...  .  ...For like five minutes.  OK. Here we go.  Hi I am Latif Nasser.  I am Lulu Miller.  This is RADIOLAB...  ...On the run.  And we are on the run. We are out for a little jog. It is fall season. It is getting to be the nice running weather in some places at least here.  Not here. But I am doing it anyway.  And so we thought we would just play this old piece this lovely little piece that is about running. But...  Rerun as you - a real rerun.  Rerun run. Yeah but it is also like - well A I love RADIOLAB doing a sports story. I just do. But it is also about - it kind of offers some keys on how to - a surprising key on how to unlock endurance for anyone.  Yeah it is a very beautiful story. As I run and still do not comprehend why people would willingly voluntarily do this this story helped me understand that at least a little bit.   Perfect. All right. Well it comes to us from producer Mark Phillips. And we will just let Jad and Robert take it from here.  Enjoy.   Hello.  Hey Mark.  Hello.  I am Jad Abumrad.  And I am Robert Krulwich.  And this is RADIOLAB...  The podcast.  ...The podcast. And today on the podcast we have a story from reporter Mark Phillips who is here with us.  Yes.  OK. So Mark what are we hearing?  Well I went to visit this incredible woman...   ...Named Diane Van Deren. Hey.  You found us. Come on in man. Nice to meet you.  Nice to meet you. Yeah.  What was her last name?  Van Deren.  Van Deren.  Yeah. She lives just south of Denver in the foothills of the Rocky Mountains. It is a cool view of - makes Denver look tiny.  Does not it?  So who is she? Why is she a person of note?  Well she is one of the best ultra-runners in the world.  ...Lead a very active lifestyle...  What is an ultra-runner?  The definition is just anything longer than a marathon. The majority of them that she runs are 100 miles.  100 - these are continuous miles?  Continuous. There is no sleeping.  No sleep 28 hours straight.  Wow.  You know I can tell you what pain is . I can tell you what pain is. And I was fortunate. I got runner up to Lance Armstrong for outdoor person of the year years ago. And I kind of think Lance and I have stories that are very parallel.  How so?  Well it is interesting. She was always an athlete. She actually played professional tennis for a while. She came to running later in life and oddly enough her running career started with a seizure.  My first seizure - gosh I do remember it.  It was 1988. Diane was 28 years old.  I had two children married. I was three weeks into my third pregnancy.  And one day...  I was with my mom. We were in the car. And as we were driving around I remember reaching for like the glove compartment box. My mom had asked for me to get some gum out. And I remember as I was reaching for that that is - I had this funny sensation. It was quick and it was brief. And then boom. That is the last thing I remember.  And next thing she knows she is waking up in the hospital.  I was confused. I did not know where I was what I was doing what happened. And eventually I ended up getting with a doctor Dr. Spitz .  And after some tests...  They sent me off for an MRI.  He told her...  What you have is epilepsy.   That was the first time I heard that word.  This seizure was just out of the blue?  Well what the doctors eventually figured out is that when she was a baby she had a fever.  And I ended up throwing a grand mal seizure which lasted almost an hour.  That is the...  That is the big one. Yeah. And they kind of put together that she probably damaged a part of her brain from that seizure.  And 24 years later basically boom. Seizures recurred.  And you said earlier that this somehow led to her running?  Yeah. OK. So after the seizure - the first seizure in the car - they started to happen more and more. But before the seizures would come on she would have this warning sign.  It is called an aura. I would have an aura. I would have a sensation before it did go into a seizure.  People with migraines have that.  Exactly. Yeah.  I would get really tingly all over my body. I would feel kind of floaty - the premonition that something's about to happen.  She was in the shower. She would have to get out.  OK. Where do I need to be? What do I need to do? And then...   ...It would happen. I had tried every medication that was available. Diets nutrition - I mean I tried it all.  Basically nothing was working...  Nothing worked.  Until...  I found the only way I could break the cycle of a seizure for me. Whenever I had that premonition a seizure was coming on I would have my running shoes by the front door.  She would be eating dinner. She would feel a premonition just drop her fork and knife.  Throw those running shoes on. And I just showed you these mountains here by my house. I would run to the Pike National Forest.  Here let us just run in silence for a second...  OK.  ...So we can get some sound of that.  Yeah.  Her house is literally you know on the foothills of these mountains.  Sometimes you can see a herd of elk out here. I have seen them out lying out here. A lot of deer. Whenever I had a seizure coming on I would go run. Well of course my family my mom - everybody was panicking. Because they are thinking oh my gosh. Diane's going to be off running in the middle of nowhere have a seizure and we are not going know where she is how to find her what we are going to do.  But...  I found that it worked.  She was not having seizures.  So when she would run she would have a premonition...  1 2 3 4. 1 2 3 4.  ...But no actual seizure at the end?  Yeah.  1 2 3 4. 1 2 3... When I ran from the seizures and I would run to the forest I would just feel me just getting more relaxed. My heart would not be pounding. Calmness set in. And that is where my love for running began.  She did this for years. She would feel this aura and then she would just run - literally outrunning the seizures. And at first it would just be an hour or so. But then she was going for longer and longer - two hours five hours six hours. And it sort of worked for a while.  1 2 3 4. 1 2 3...  But eventually...  The seizures basically just started overcoming.  They caught up with her.  I was having three to five seizures a week. I was not getting those premonitions like I did in the beginning.  It got to the point where she did not have enough time to get her running shoes on.  I did not have that long of a premonition. It was like boom seizure. So I could tell that part of my brain was actually getting weaker. And I knew at that point time I really was at more of a risk of dying from a seizure...  You could die from a seizure?  Happens all the time. People die of seizures all the time. For example a friend of mine - his wife - she went up to go take a bath had a seizure. Went up later and he found her dead in the tub. You know my kids - I always had to tell them hey Mom's taking a bath. Come check on me. My children at a very young age had to learn how to drive a car. Because what if Mom had a seizure while she was driving? I as a parent as a wife as a mom of three small children - I was running out of options.  And you know she talked with her doctors and they said well there is a chance you can have a surgery that would fix this. If the seizures are coming from just one discrete part of the brain they can cut that part of the brain out. But first they have to figure out if it is that type of seizure and where it is coming from.  To see if it was operable.  Which meant she had to go the hospital and actually have a seizure in front of them.  I had to have 64 electrodes basically glued onto my scalp. And I had this cord out of each one of these electrodes that was in my head. It was tethered into a TV set.  She was hooked up to an EEG machine. And...  I had a camera on me 247. And...  There is footage of this. She showed it to me.  I remember laying there in the bed saying I cannot run. I need to let it happen.  What you see on the screen is she starts to jerk. She is clenched. She is shaking. You hear the bad sort of rattling. And she bites her tongue so hard that you know there is just this pool of blood below her face. She is choking on her blood. It is...  She is biting her tongue real bad.  It is horrifying.  And then as I came out of it honest to God I felt like I would been run over by a truck. I was gurgling still on some blood that was in my throat and I had a massive headache.  But the doctors are standing right next to her cheering.  All right. All right. We got it. We got it.  Because they actually found that the seizures were coming from one spot in the brain.  When they said well what do you think? We found the spot. You could be a surgery candidate.  I mean you know it is a big risk.  Yeah.  It is not like just taking a pill. I mean you are cutting out a chunk of your brain. Was it a tough decision? Or was it just sort of a no-brainer? No pun intended.   Let us see here. Well in all honesty it was hands-down. I was like let us go.   So they sawed the side of my right head open. They just literally just sawed it open. And so there was my brain exposed while I was on the table.  So the doctors huddle around. And they look in. And they can actually see this gray discolored spot from all the seizure activity. It is on the back-right side. It is a part of the brain called the temporal lobe which is the part of the brain that seems to be involved in memory spatial reasoning and temporal reasoning time.  And they had to you know decide OK well how much of her brain are we going to take out? And they go back and forth. I mean obviously the more brain that they take out the more consequence the more side effects. Well they ended up cutting out probably the size of a kiwi out of my right temporal lobe.  That is big.  Yeah. It is not insignificant.  Kiwis are like the size of golf balls right?  Bigger.  Wow.  When I came home I just had horrific headaches and this extreme pain. I mean I just remember just holding my head just trying to hold my head together. It just hurt so bad. And seizure-wise they did not know. So everybody was kind of on pins and needles. Did it work? Did it not work?  And as the days went on they waited and waited and waited.  And I was not having seizures.  None at all?  No. She is not had a seizure since the night before the surgery. So you did not really get into the competitive ultra-running until after the surgery. How did that come about? I mean - yeah.  How did I get into this? It was interesting. I did a 50-mile race. I won that. Then I thought OK...  Wait. What?  Here's where things kind of get interesting. After a year or so of no seizures Diane decided to enter this race a 50-miler on a whim.  I just read about it in a magazine. You know I love to run. And I thought oh man I have this new outlook on life. I am not having seizures. OK. I am going to run a 50. I won that. And then I signed up for my first hundred-mile race. Of course everybody was like oh my gosh - a race in the Bighorn Mountains of all places. Did well - I ended up placing.  At the same time back home - when did you start to notice you know that things were different working differently in your brain?   I did not. My family started noticing things. Moms forgetting you know what time my appointments were. We are late to school. Mom's not here to pick me up.  So she was having short-term memory loss?  Yeah a lot.  You know meeting somebody in the morning - later on that afternoon maybe I see them again and I have no idea who they were. They will have to say hey remember I saw you? Those kind of things. But - let us see. What was I saying?   Meanwhile first overall in the Alfred Packer 50-miler second overall in the Bear 100-miler first overall in the Tahoe Rim 100-miler. I could keep going.  Yeah go.  First overall in the 24 hours in Frisco trial run first for women's in the Dances With the Dirt 50-miler in Hell Mich.  Dances With the Dirt in Hell Mich.  First in women's in the Canadian Death Race 78-miler in Edmonton Canada.  The Canadian Death Race?  Yeah.  The Yukon Arctic Ultra 300-miler was -48 degrees when we began the event. The shoes literally froze on my feet. And only two of us finished. I ran the first hundred miles with no water. Did 430 miles in the Yukon pulling a sled.  During which time she would sleep only about an hour a night.  For 10 days.  Wow. Really.  The crazy thing is that through all of this she cannot read a map.  What? What do you mean?  Well one of the main functions of that kiwi-sized part of her brain that the doctors took out as I said was spatial reasoning. And so after the surgery maps just look weird to her.  It is like just a bunch of information on a piece of paper. All those lines all those squigglies.  Just noise.  So then how did she navigate through a race?  Well I take a pink ribbon with me. So when I am out in the middle of nowhere and I have three ways to hit a trail and I am not quite sure which way to go...  Is it left? Is it right?  I will pick a way. I will drop a ribbon.  And after a couple hours if she feels like she is not on a trail anymore she just goes back until she gets to the pink ribbon and then she picks the other way.  On the Yukon there was a time where - gosh - I was lost for two hours. I was out in the middle of nowhere all alone huge heavy winds just ripping across the Yukon River.  Did you win that year that you were lost for two hours?  Yeah.  Mostly Diane finds these sort of workarounds for what she lost in the surgery but the fact is she only became this amazing runner after the surgery. So while we were talking I just could not help but wonder - well I mean I am - I wonder like do you think - did having part of your brain removed make you an ultrarunner? Do you understand the question?  I do.  And she says no.  I think having a brain injury puts me at a disadvantage. I - let us see. What was I saying? But I think for me the one advantage if I had to say I have an advantage over the other athletes would be time. Time - I can really get lost in time.  When the doctors removed that part of her brain they took out a basic awareness of time passing.  Time's hard. So when I am on the Yukon I am going for 10 days. I kind of forget how many days I have been out there. You know some of the racers are saying oh I have been out here six days. I am exhausted. For me...  I cannot look back. I cannot think you know how long I have been running because I do not know.  I stay in the moment.  Because of that she does not know how tired she should feel.  Huh.  Think about it. If you do not know where you are in time you do not know how much further you have to go how far you have been. You are just running. You just hearing your footsteps and that is it.  I get a rhythm in my mind. That is what I want to hear in my feet. I go by rhythm. I know the sound that my feet - about what an eight-minute pace would be how my feet would sound.  So count out the beat for me.  Two three four. One - three four. One two three four. One two. You are a drummer. You hear it?  Yeah.  One two three four. One two three four. One two three four. And even with my breath - in two out two. This is all breathing and feet. They all go together. And if you are smooth - you know you are smooth in your gait you are smooth in your run.  So how does the breath and the feet interact?  I just know two breaths in two breaths out. Match my feet. See the rhythm?  Yeah.  That is all I have to hear for 28 hours. That is what I want. That is music. That is my music. There is nothing else in my mind but my feet and my breathing. That is the music to an athlete's ear. That is the flow.  Thanks Mark.  Yeah. No problem.  Reporter Mark Phillips.   For more information on Diane Van Deren you can go to our website radiolab.org. We have got some links there. And I guess that is it. I am Jad Abumrad.  And I am Robert Krulwich.  Thanks for listening.  Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.  New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.