 OK snappers. I am backstage at this gorgeous Nourse Theater in San Francisco. On the other side of the curtain right in front of me are 1800 snappers waiting for the show. It is going to be - it is going to be hot. The band's out there now. People are waiting. People are waiting. Show time.   OK so...   ...I was working for a big soulless corporate entity right? Bean counting bean counting bean counting bean counting bean counting bean counting. No apologies. I had bills to pay. But it felt like there was something out there - arts music life that I was missing. So one day I enrolled in an acting class and was sitting there - right? - budding thespians all. And the director finally rolls in. He is got arm patches. He is got his hair slicked back like he is come from Morocco or Buenos Aires or something like that. He takes a big flask and a long draw.  Actors are so stupid. I hate actors. And I am thrilled because this guy knows his artistic side. And he asks a woman - beautiful - in front to  come and stand next to me. Stand here next to me. And then he picks me.  Come here. Now I want you to show the passion. I want you to kiss the girl. Kiss her as if she is your long-lost lover. Kiss the girl. Bean counter bean counter bean counter.   Give her a nice little friendly peck on the cheek there.  No. You show the passion. She will disappear. She will move to the moon. She will dissolve into sand. Kiss the girl. Kiss the girl. Kiss the girl. We make out for 10 minutes.   And it is then that I know I must be an actor. Welcome...   ...To   So it was cool right? I got to hang out with the actors the poets the magicians the artists the people who wore hats...   ...Unironically.   Until one day the director he is more angry than usual. He comes in with this big stack of scripts. He is holding it and he throws them to the ground.  This is all ridiculous. This is garbage. I shall write a great American film. I shall do it here and film it. Perhaps you shall be in it perhaps not. Until then goodbye. And he leaves and he goes into this loft overlooking the studio. And we are all thinking Hollywood film? He is going to make it here? That is fabulous. But who is going to teach class? I go up - I am elected by the group - to go talk to him. He is taking another pull from his silver flask and he hands it to me like a baton. And I take a drink.  I am the assistant. I go back down the stairs. Everybody's waiting. Now I do not know anything about acting. I do not. But I have watched a lot of TV. The whole class is taking on a new tenor because we are actually working for something. People think there might be an actual film. It used to be that we could kind of play around maybe during the action scenes. But now open-face-palm slaps across the face. It is getting painful. And then someone else shows up. They are the lighting person. They come on where do I put the lights? Put them over there. Someone calling himself a stunt coordinator shows up and wants to know if it is OK if he plans an explosion on the Windsor Bridge. I will get back to you. And all the while the tension is rising. I am pretending to teach people acting actors are pretending to learn we are all pretending that it is been our fondest wish forever to be in somebody else's vanity project. I am starting to lose sleep. People are asking me what is the picture about? Is it a murder-mystery? Is it a fantasy? Is it a karate movie? And I do not know. I do not know. I have got to find out I have got to see what is going on. I have not seen the director. I do not know anything. I go up the stairs. I open the door and it smells like people and feet and alcohol. And I was like look man director man I would love to help you but I have got to know what is going on all right?  Everyone wants my script. You want my script? There. Look look look there is my script there. And I look on his chalkboard and it has three words - man crosses bridge. But the last part kind of crossed out.   I have been had. I turn around. I am holding everybody's hopes and dreams and wishes in my hand. They are all waiting for me. Bad news - there is no script. So there is probably going to be no movie. And I am waiting for people to be upset but instead they say Glynn you do not understand the process. There is a process here. I do not understand the process. I am a bean counter I know nothing but process. Hippies.   If you all want to stay stay. I go down the stairs I walk out of the door and I never go back. So imagine my surprise just a few years ago when I see an article about a band of actors who made a movie about a man crossing a bridge.   I could have been in that. I could have been a star. What did I do? What did I do? And that same day I got a call from the Corporation for Public Broadcasting. And they wanted to know what do you think it would take - what do you think it would take in order to start a weekly radio show? Do you know what it would take? Yeah it takes some cash.   Oh no no we do not have any of that. We do not have any of that. But we were wondering maybe if you knew people people that might be able to participate in such a project. Do you know any people like that? I thought about the actors the writers the poets the people who wore their hats unironically.   And I told the woman yeah yes I do.   Today San Francisco we proudly present Passion stories from the heart and the soul. This here is elling with a beat. But there is no beat without a band. Please give it up for Mr. Alex Mandel.   On the bass Tim Frick. Tim Frick Tim Frick Tim Frick. Tim Frick. Dangerous David Brandt. 