   We are gonna start with a conversation that I had with Jad a few weeks ago.   Okay.   So I like medical stories.   Mm-hmm. This I know about you.   This you know. And I read this website called StatNews.com which does sort of really -- it is like a new website out of Boston.   It is new right?   I mean basically it is this collection of really amazing like medical reporters and I will click on stories that look interesting. And there was one about we have just grown embryos -- human embryos for a long time in a lab.   Mm-hmm.   And that was when I read the phrase The 14-day rule for the first time and it was that apparently there is this thing that you cannot grow an embryo in a lab past 14 days.   Huh.   Which I did not even know you could grow an embryo in lab at all.   Right right.   Or -- or that people were. Or that -- I mean I guess I knew IVF happened.   Sure.   Like test tube babies.   How long if -- in the average IVF situation how long is an embryo in a dish for?   And then I realized I did not actually even know that either. So then I just spun out. So like the whole article was just interesting to me because I was like ...     I do not know about any of this.   Right right.   I am Molly Webster.   Oh and I am Robert Krulwich. This is Radiolab.   And today on Radiolab. We are gonna zip down a wormhole into another universe and Robert you are coming with me.   Okay. What -- tell me about this universe before I buy a ticket.   The universe -- oh okay. You are going to want to buy a ticket because in this universe are twins and souls and mice and something called the primitive streak. And they are all gathered together around a certain rule.   And remind me again what the rule was?   Well so you know how you can fertilize an egg? You get an egg and a sperm and you put them together.   Yes.   Fertilizes the egg?   Right.   And then the egg -- the fertilized egg it multiplies multiplies cell divides.   Right.   So a scientist could take it to watch it grow to learn about human development. But then they have to stop at day 14.     That is the rule.   Is this is a medical kind of thing? Or a science limitation?   It is -- it is medical -- it is all those things. It is medical and it is science and there is like philosophy and ethics and obviously religion. And ...   And that is the ticket I am buying huh?   Yeah you are buying it now right?   I see. The whole shebang.   I have water.   Okay.   I will take a sip.   Okay.   And we are going to begin with this guy LeRoy Walters.   Okay.   He was an ethicist at Georgetown University now retired. And to me he is sort of the father of the 14-day rule.   I never -- I never thought of myself as the father of the 14-day rule.   But he is. He totally is.   Well we should not forget the context of '73.   All right. So 1973 Leroy has recently graduated with a doctorate in ethics from Yale University and he is settling into his job. And at the time medicine and ethics were on sort of a collision course.   Yes yes. Mm-hmm.   Good evening.   January 1973.   In a landmark ruling the Supreme Court today legalized abortion.   Roe v. Wade happens.   It is clear at least under present law that unborn fetus is not a person within the meaning of the Constitution.   But just six months after that decision ...   The issue of fetuses and research done with them ...   Fetal research became a hot topic.   Some of the testimony in here is shocking.   There were news reports ...   Of butchering and cutting up ...   About dissecting fetuses even an instance of decapitating fetuses.   Oh man.   And then around the same time ...   ... used as a human guinea pigs.   Research involving human beings.   The controversial Tuskegee syphilis study ...   News reports of the syphillis studies that were done on African-American men without their knowledge.   There was the sterilization of ...   Two daughters had been sterilized without their informed consent ...   ... women with intellectual disabilities.   ... experiments in genetic research.   Genetic engineering was coming into its own. You have all these questions swirling about like how we feel about the human body whether or not we want to experiment on it? What do we protect and what do not we protect? It is just sort of this whirlwind and ...   You are about to see a historic birth ...   Then most relevant for our story ...   We are going to deliver her by Cesarean section.   On July 25th 1978 ...   Scientists in the UK ...   We are now incising the uterus itself.   Produced a child with the aid of in vitro fertilization.   The first baby that was born from an embryo that was grown inside a tube.   Baby Louise Brown.   Baby's not opened her eyes yet.   Everyone in the world was fascinated but there were people who predicted doom.   What was the doom?   That in vitro fertilization would lead to reproduction as a form of manufacture.   So the government was grappling with we need more regulations or we need as a country to think about like what are ethical guidelines are.   Right. So ...   The department of Health Education and Welfare ...   And they put together something called the Ethics Advisory Board.   The panel of doctors laymen academics ...   Even a Jesuit priest.   To consider ...   ... some fundamental moral and ethical questions ...   questions involved in test tube human fertilization.   Its meetings and discussions open today.   Now as part of those meetings the board will call on these expert witnesses. And one of those witnesses was our Boy LeRoy.   Right. The staff director ...   And they asked LeRoy like ethically tell us what we should be thinking about when it comes to embryos?   And how we are to regard them.   And he says Well there is a spectrum. And on the one side you could argue ...   ... that human embryos should be protected from the time of fertilization forward.   We should not even be growing embryos in a lab at all.   But ...   Then there is the other side.   ... the most permissive position was that research could be done until about eight weeks ...   Because ...   A fetus at about eight weeks can have a reflex response to a stimulus.   Hmm.   And then ...   At some point a committee member turns to LeRoy and she says where would you draw the line? He pauses and he says Well ...   I would say for me 14 days.   Why 14?   Well LeRoy had a couple different arguments. For one before 14 days ...   About 50 of early human embryos are simply sluffed off.   They are just sort of shed from the woman's uterus.   And do not develop further.   So the thinking was if we are already losing 50 of them naturally ...   We do not have strong moral obligations toward early human embryos.   I see.   You can even pose it as a metaphysical question. If these are important beings why do 50 percent of them disappear and we never have any knowledge of them?   Argument number two?   Early embryos can split into two.   As in twins.   Or two separate embryos can recombine ...   Into one embryo.   Right.   Like before 14 days an embryo does not know if it is one embryo or if it is like gonna be one person or if it is gonna be two people. So as LeRoy put it it does not have a ...   A biological identity.   And that happens right around 14 days.   Mm-hmm.   Argument number three ...   The primitive streak appears.   The primitive streak appears?   The primitive streak is the first indication of a -- an axis of the future body.   People see it as like a -- the body starting to organize itself.   You might say it is the outline of the spinal cord that will develop later on.   It is the first hint of like ...   Shape.   All of those seem to kind of converge around 14 days.   Eventually the committee decides to take LeRoy's suggestion and recommend that all research on human embryos be stopped at 14 days.   With high expectations we submitted the report to Secretary of Health Education and Welfare Joseph Califano on May 4th 1979. And on July 19th 1979 before he could respond Secretary Califano was fired by President Jimmy Carter.   It was part of a whole cabinet shake-up.   And so the report has been sitting on shelves gathering dust. And there has never been a formal response.   It did end up becoming a guideline in the U.S. It is actually an international guideline but we never actually needed it because 14 days ...   That was so far beyond the capacity of researchers to culture early embryos that it also seemed like a safe -- a safe marker a safe boundary.   Because -- and this is the interesting thing ...   Uh-huh.   ... with IVF we are familiar with like days zero one two three four five six which is about the time they put the embryo into the mother.   Uh-huh.   And so nobody had ever really seen how an embryo develops from days 7 through 14.   Oh interesting.   You cannot photograph it through the body for like various reasons. For one no one ever knows they are pregnant that early. Like when did you and your wife realize you were pregnant? It is like a month after the fertilization happens.   Yeah it is funny. It is like when she -- you even if you are trying you do not actually know for weeks until ...   Yeah. And it is so small that even if you did know the way it attaches to the uterus it sort of burrows in and you kind of cannot see it.   Uh-huh.   And at the same time scientists are pretty sure that this is a very important moment in development and they just cannot get to it.   Wait -- wait a second. Life Magazine 50 years ago published these gorgeous pictures of -- of a fertilized cell and then beautiful little baby with eyes you know just ...   Yeah but the -- that -- they have pictures of sperms and eggs then there is a blank spot until at least three and a half weeks. So that magazine spread ...   Oh so -- so Life did not show the first few -- the second or third ...   No.   Really?   Yes.   You -- you are saying that there is a place in the development of the human being that no scientist has seen?   No.   Ever?   No.   Really?   Yeah.   So this is this kind of period which in the textbook you will find described as a black box.   Which brings us to Magdalena.   So I am Magdalena Zernicka-Goetz at the University of Cambridge in the UK.   She for years had been trying to figure out how to grow embryos during this period.   But for those experiments ...   And the problem was at this point the embryo is beginning to attach to the mother's uterus and so it just need certain things from the mother. And if you try and grow it in a dish it just shrivels up and dies.   Yes yes. So at the time we were trying really scratch our heads and come up with the most enriching environment we could imagine.   Like maybe I can like recreate that really warm cozy home but in a dish without the mom.   Interesting. So it is like experimenting. Like what is the right bath that the growing embryo needs?   Yeah.   To sort of get what it needs.   Yeah. And they decided that while they were still trying to figure it out they would just do it on mice embryos first.   Uh-huh.   And so she started essentially just coming up with like chemistry concoctions. They started with the gel ...   Which was of particular elasticity.   Sort of gloppy and gooey. And then they toss in a serum made from ...   Human placentas.   Added some hormones.   Like progesterone.   Along with ...   Fibroblast growth factors.   And of course a dash of ...   Laminin fibronectin.   This sounds like it -- like someone would sell this as like a face cream or something.   They even tried serum from ...   Bat's placentas.   That actually really did not work.   That was not so good as the serum from the human placenta.   Oh really?   Yes.   For five years they put stuff in they pulled stuff out they tried everything until they ended up with something that at least on mice seemed to work really well. And so they thought Okay maybe it is time we try this with human embryos.   We took two embryos just two human blastocysts ...   Put them in a dish with their chemical concoction and ...   Amazingly ...   It worked.   One of them did make it ...   To 13 days. The other one did not.   But one made it right?   Suddenly they had an embryo that was growing happily into day eight. Day nine. Day 10. Day 11. And they were able to see all of these moments in human development that no one had ever seen before. And -- and guess what Robert?   Yeah?   I got to see them too.   You did?   I did! Do you want to come?   Of course I want to come.   Okay good.   We should go right now. I mean ...   We are gonna go but we are gonna actually have to take a break first.   Oh God.   So we will be back in a bit.   Okay.     Okay we are back. I am Robert Krulwich.   I am Molly Webster.   This is Radiolab. And today the 14-day rule.   Last we left you we had just met a woman who managed to grow a human embryo in a lab right up to the 14-day line.   And now we get to see it right? That is what you promised.   Yes. Yes.   One earphone on one earphone off. Good luck. Good luck.   Lucky enough for me there is in embryology lab right here in New York. Rockefeller University.   Hi how are you? It is nice to meet you.   Run by this guy.   So you are a radio scientist.   Ali Brivanlou.   Uh I fake being a scientist but ...   Ali's team building off of Magdalena's work they were also growing human embryos in the lab to the 14-day mark. So he invited me up to see them.   Today is -- you would realize that your eyes are seeing something that no other human beings has ever seen except the group in this lab.   And obviously Magda's lab.   Wait. How many people are in this lab that you think saw it?   I think we are a total of 25.   So then I will be like 26?   So Ali has to step out of the room.   I am excited. Thank you Ali.   And he passes me off to the guy that runs like the human embryology research at the lab.   Gist Croft.   And a lab technician.   Cecilia Pellegrini.   Cecilia Pellegrini?   Yes.   Okay.   We go into the lab.    Walking through a cool lab. It is very big and everyone's looking at me.   Lots of benches and microscopes and people pipetting and ...   So a fridge. There is a little sticky note on the fridge that says 'Experiment 27 embryos here.   So we keep them in ...   And Cecilia pulls out like a plastic box. It has a blue bottom and like a white opaque top.   The lid just came off.   And inside there was kind of like a microscope slide and the embryos were attached to that. But there was condensation on it so we had to wait like 10 minutes.   I feel weirdly nervous.   But eventually we like looked down into this like little square well.   Okay. It is like 10 millimeters by 10 millimeters and it has a little bit of liquid in it.   And then inside that liquid ...     Wow this is a human embryo!   How big is it? How big is an embryo?   Oh my God it is so small!    It is like we talk about 14 days and in my mind I do imagine a tiny little human. Is it even human-like at that point?   Tiny dot right there.   No. It is just a little white dot.   Holy crap that is really small. That is like a grain of sand.   Yeah it is about that size.   And it looks like -- I kept also thinking that it looked like if you took a sheet of typing paper and you took a pin and you poked a hole in the paper and a little pinpoint of light came through.   That is what it looks like?   It looks like that.   Huh.   I cannot believe that goes into a 5' 9 tall human being.   Mm-hmm.   So that was a day-12 embryo we were looking at with our naked eye but Gist and Cecilia also took me over to this badass microscope.   What do I -- I do not want to break anything.   Yeah you are not gonna break it. I will show you how to do it.   So we could look at a bunch of images and see the development of an embryo day by day starting with ...   Day 8.   You see right here like you have the embryo mass.   What are you -- what does it look like?   It is ...   It looks very lunar to me.   Blown-out gray sphere that has like modeled surfaces. But inside of it are hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of cells.   There is trophectoderm primitive endoderm and there is epiblast.   There were like three different types of cells but to me it like looked like a simple structure. And then ...   This is the same embryo the next day.   Wait. Is this Day Nine? Oh whoa! It looks totally different. So ...   It starts to get a little more complex.   Now we can see nuclei.   Is that what all those bright spots are?   Yeah. There is a nucleus. There is a nucleus.   Huh. Can we switch from nine to 10?   Mm-hmm.   So what are those oil droplet looking things?   Those look like oil droplets do not they?   Now there are these like spherical balls around the edges and it could be any number of things but Gist thinks they might be fat like lipid. And the embryo it starts forming like the asymmetry like you see things move to different areas of the cell.   It makes a hollow shell inside.   And then your inner got cavity that starts to form and ...   There is all of a sudden a new cell type we have never seen the yolk sac trophectoderm cells.   So a totally new type of cell no one's ever seen before.   So we do not know where it comes from and neither does anyone else.   And then ...   Day 11.   I get excited every time you open one of them. Okay day 11 ...   Day 11 did not really like look that different to me.   Day 12.   Day 12 has a lot more going on.   That is the origin of the placenta.   Cool.   Day 13 there is all this brightness at the bottom in the upper left hand corner.   These could be epiblast cells.   Wait remind me again. The epiblast is ...   That is the -- the cell type from which the entire body eventually emerges.   Gist says those are the cells that all of the body comes from. Like all the other stuff is mostly just support.   Oh wow. So it is like the -- it is like the primal like primordial cells.   It is the foundational cells.   Foundational cells.   Yeah.   Yeah.   So ...   So I actually got there on day 13 of the experiment. So all of the embryos were just sort of waiting to get to day 14. And so that was it.   So let us shut this down and get this guy back in the incubator.   And then I was just sort of spit back out into the real world.   Are they learning fantastically new amazing things based on this? Are they ...   Well like the -- the big takeaway that both of the groups had was that this embryo grew for another week without any maternal input. And it grew basically as it should have grown.   Which was mind-blowing to me and to all of my colleagues that the human embryo will behave in a self-organizing manner in a complete absence of maternal inputs at least for 14 days.   Like I think they always thought even if they got the chemistry right there would be some sort of system breakdown because it was not getting input from the mom.   Interesting.   I always like keep thinking of it as like the anti-Mother's Day message. The embryo does not need you. Happy Mother's Day! But the -- the one pro -- pro-mom thing is by the -- by the end in between day like 12 to 14 it became clear that it started needing maternal input.   I see. Like what? Do they know?   Well so they -- this is a part I thought was cool was like they saw that the embryo started forming tunnels and pathways for the mom to like infiltrate.   Oh!   So there were little tubes and pathways that formed where like nerve attachment could happen and like circulation. So it prepares itself in this week for the mom and the connection.   That is really cool. It is like -- it is like hooking itself up to the network in a way.   I know. It is funny. It is like coming online as like a human being.   Coming online. Yeah that is a good way to put it.   Yeah.   That is cool.   The other cool thing was Gist told me that right around day 10 along the edges of the embryo this hormone shows up that your body does not have before it is called like a gonadotropin. So you know when you take a pregnancy test the thing it is reading is that hormone.   Oh is that -- he thinks like the embryo broadcasting?   Yes it is like boom.   Boom. Boom.   Boom Boom. Like out to the rest of the body. Like I am here. I am here. Look at this hormone!   Wow that is super cool.   What is it like to look through a microscope and see Day Eight when we have been stopped at Day Seven since the 1970s or Day Nine or Day 10?   It is hard to describe it. When people receive the digital image of the Hubble telescope those first few eyes who are getting it in their screens I guess it has to be something very similar to that. When I look inside of our own anatomy at the time where nobody knows that we even exist is the same as looking at dimensions that we have never imagined we will ever see because we did not even know they exist.     But then at day 14 you have to essentially embalm it. You like can make it stop growing and freeze in the place that it is at. They call it fixing.   But if they wanted to could they go past 14 days?   Maybe. But Ali he said that as they got closer to Day 14 they noticed changes in the embryo that made it clear that it started needing more than just the current bath that it was in.   Okay.   But like and Brivanlou says this too and Magdalena says this it is like every day feels like an accomplishment. You will be like Oh my gosh you grew another day! And then you start like cheering it on. You are like Grow another day! Grow another day! Oh my gosh you are at Day 12! And it becomes like you are like championing it and then you are like Okay stop. You are done.   Right.   And I felt like when I was standing there I was like Oh that is abrupt because I wanted it to grow grow grow grow grow. But obviously I do not want it to grow grow grow too far. So I was like Go to Day 15. Then I am like Go to Day 16. And then I am like When does the joy in my voice stop? Like this -- eventually I am gonna -- I am gonna hit a point where I am like That is uncomfortable.   Right.   This is something that touches us in the root of our own definition of our being and existence and individuality. It becomes a little bit like a Pandora box. So yes you want to open it but you have to be ready to see what is in it.   If technology has now moved it a whole nother week so we can go for 14 days maybe it is pretty soon you can go a whole nother week and then a whole nother week. Like what -- does that mean the rule's going to have to change?   That is the conversation that is happening right now. Basically once this research was published there were commentaries and articles and columns about what do we do about the 14-day rule. And there is conferences there is a conference in Boston that is happening in the fall.   But what are your choices though? Like you could choose ...   You could -- could do any number of things. It depends on where you sort of throw down a biological or moral marker that you feel comfortable with. Like you could keep it at 14 days and sort of keep it around like this idea of twinning and the primitive streak. You could move it a week out to say to day 21 when there is interesting sort of neural folds and divisions that are starting to happen in the brain. You could go to eight weeks. But it could also go back to zero.   Oh so there is no consensus on ...   No. No there is no consensus. And the scientists are the first to say like they do not want to make this decision. They just think like maybe we should have this conversation as a group so the society decides not us.   So yeah ...   But it is just like if you say that like it is as amazing as like the Hubble telescope how does it feel when you are like I have gotten this far and now I have to end it?   So that is the toughest question you are going to ask me today. For me for sure it was important to stop the experiment where there was still a message that we could convey that would not offend people. This is more than just science. One of the greatest challenge in reproductive biology especially in human reproductive biology is to make sure that you do not offend people's sense of identity dignity religion.   And so Ali he finds himself trying to keep all of these different perspectives in his head all at once.   So for example if the Catholic point of view is human origin is conception then I have to respect also the Jewish point of view that says You know what? It is at heartbeat. I also have to respect the Muslim point of view about the origin of human life which surprisingly for once seems to be similar to the Jewish point of view. It is also heartbeat. I also have to respect the Buddhist point of view. And what about the Hindus? The Buddhist says if you do not cut the umbilical cord then you are not independent you are not a human being. You do not call an organ a human being because it is attached to you. A Hindu says I do not know what you guys are talking about. There is no origin or end. We are circles within circles within circles. I am a butterfly today. I am going to die and come back as a tiger. I am going to die and come back as a human then come back as an elephant. What origin? A circle does not have an origin. So I am for the progress of science. I am for gaining knowledge. It is my job. It is the way I am wired. As a human being I satisfy our sense of curiosity. And there is nothing more curious to me than our own origin.   So then that would be like you would love to know like what happens on day 21?   Absolutely. And I like to think that before I die we will know what happens on day 21.     This episode was produced by Annie McEwen with help from Matt Kielty and Brenna Farrell and Simon Adler and I actually think the entire Radiolab staff had something to do with this episode. So thanks guys. And I want to thank the research library at Georgetown University.   Thank you for listening.   See you later.   To play the message press 2.   This is LeRoy Walters. I am a retired faculty member from Georgetown University where I was part of the Kennedy Institute of Ethics and the philosophy department. Radiolab is produced by Jad Abumrad. Dylan Keefe is our Director of Sound Design. Soren Wheeler is Senior Editor. Jamie York is our Senior Producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Brenna Farrell David Gebel Matt Kielty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Melissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack and Molly Webster with help from Nigar Fatali Alexandra B. Young Charu Sinha Percia Verlin and W. Harry Fortuna. Our fact-checkers are Eva Dasher and Michelle Harris. That is it. Thanks. Bye.   End of message.  