From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. There is this kind of therapy for trauma victims of sexual assault soldiers with PTSD where instead of taking years and talking and talking and talking on some couch to a therapist with no end in sight you basically knock it out all the treatment in just 10 or 12 sessions. Two weeks-- you can do it in two weeks. And it is effective. Studies have shown that. This therapy's been around since the '80s but I think lots of people who might find it useful do not even know it is an option for them. Like for instance Jaime Lowe who is a writer and reporter and a good candidate for this treatment. I was sexually assaulted when I was 13 almost 30 years ago. And for most of those 30 years I did not really talk about it. Not because I did not want to or need to but because I did not know how. And no one asked. Jaime Lowe decided to do a story where she would go through this therapy herself and record all of the sessions which never happens. Like most therapy usually this treatment is in private not on the radio. And hearing how it works it really is kind of remarkable. My mom was a therapist. I have been in therapy. This is so different from what I have ever heard. And that is going to be our show today. We are going to hear it step by step this sometimes life-changing process and how that can happen so quickly. A quick warning to listeners before we start about content. This story does mention the sexual assault of a teenager. Here's Jaime Lowe. I thought because I did not talk about the assault or even think about it much everything was as resolved as it could be. But then after Donald Trump and grab them by the pussy and Harvey Weinstein and all of them it is not that specific memories of the assault would pop up I just felt immobilized anxious protective of my body. And I realized my sexual assault was not resolved at all. Around this time I heard about a therapy for sexual assault survivors called Cognitive Processing Therapy or CPT. A researcher described it to me as short-term inexpensive practical like learning a skill. The typical way to deal with trauma in therapy is to talk about the incident over and over until it is less radioactive. CPT does the same thing but in a systematized way. It is all laid out in advance and the same for everyone-- what you will do in the first session and the second and the third and so on. Each session is based on learning a skill and practicing that skill on a worksheet. You go over each element of the trauma piece by piece and try to see it differently. The goal is to change the story you have been telling yourself about what happened. I got in touch with Dr. Debra Kaysen a psychologist with a specialty in trauma therapy at the University of Washington School of Medicine. She and I started talking and e-mailing about CPT. It all seemed so different than the therapy I was used to-- my weekly talk sessions-- and I realized I wanted to try it. I have done a lot of therapy. After the assault I had two manic episodes and was diagnosed bipolar. I have always been very open about mental illness. I wrote a book about being bipolar a couple of years ago. But even though that book is partly about my adolescence I barely mention the assault. I have never dealt with it I never wanted to-- in the book in treatment. But now I was feeling the trauma more. I thought CPT might help me. I also thought what if this could help lots of people? I asked Dr. Kaysen if I could record the sessions and play them on the radio. She checked in with colleagues-- a psychologist with an expertise in journalism a journalism ethics professor-- to make sure we would be able to have a therapeutic relationship while I was simultaneously doing a story about the therapy. After a lot of back and forth and establishing some basic ground rules we set up our CPT boot camp-- 10 hour-long sessions over two weeks in Seattle. Usually CPT is one session a week for 12 weeks but we decided to condense it. And early studies show this approach is effective. Last October I flew out to Seattle. Session one October 22nd. Excellent. Yeah. OK. Yeah. I am sitting with Dr. Kaysen in a generic room at the university clinic. I fail at setting up the recording equipment a few times before getting it semi-right. I am not a radio person. So let me tell you a little bit about what we are going to do today. OK? OK. So usually today is a little more heavy on the psycho ed. It is going to be a little different than a lot of our other sessions. I am going to be talking a lot. OK. OK? Which takes a little bit of the pressure off of you maybe. OK. Dr. Kaysen has a kindergarten teacher presence that makes me feel ready and OK. She starts the first session with me the way she would with anyone by talking about sexual assault and PTSD. 50 of women who are sexually assaulted develop PTSD. That could mean symptoms like depression anxiety flashbacks-- some of the things I have actually been feeling when I hear the news. Dr. Kaysen hands me a photocopied worksheet. Everything we are going to do this entire therapy is structured around these worksheets. I will do them at my Airbnb. And when Dr. Kaysen and I meet we will go over them. Each set of worksheets will cover a new skill and I will master that before moving on to the next skill which Dr. Kaysen will introduce at the end of each session. The idea is by the time we are done I will be able to do this on my own with any issue in my life. Dr. Kaysen explains my first assignment. Most of the worksheets have all sorts of boxes to fill in with answers. They look like badly designed forms you would get at the DMV but this first one is just a sheet of paper. What I want you to do is write at least one page on why you think that the sexual assault occurred. I do not want you to use this as an opportunity to write specific details about the event OK? This is more writing about what you think caused the event. The phrase caused the event makes me uneasy because as much as I intellectually believe that nothing specific really caused the event there are things I still question. It is embarrassing that after 30 years I still might think it is my fault but I do. I can tell you that the cause is going to be very hard for me. Yeah. Yeah we talked earlier about what are the stories we tell ourselves. Yeah. It was this. Mm-hmm. Right? The event happened because I took a shortcut. Right? The event happened because I had a drink. The event happened because I was wearing a short skirt. And sometimes people know that that is not why it happened but sometimes those thoughts still haunt them. OK. There are not any right or wrong answers. I want you to just vomit the ideas on the page. That is my specialty. Awesome. Then you will do well. I love vomiting out words. That is awesome. That is what I want. All right. OK so. OK any worries that you have about doing this? Nope. OK. But of course I am worried. The thought of reliving the assault is terrifying. Even reading the one-sentence description of the assault during the audio recording of my book left me in tears. I rarely articulated the details out loud. I just do not know what will come up. I do not know what it is going to be like to dig in for the next two weeks. Session two. So what are you actually doing? Right now? Yeah. I am totaling it. Can you describe the worksheet actually? Yeah absolutely. Happy to. So this is called the PTSD checklist. OK. OK. And all it is a measure of how intense the symptoms of PTSD are. Dr. Kaysen says we will start all the sessions like this-- going over my PTSD symptoms and rating their intensity. How frequently have I been thinking of the trauma? Have I been dreaming about it? Reliving it? In the past 24 hours how much have I been distressed by repeated disturbing and unwanted memories of the traumatic event? Each question gets a numerical value on a scale of 0 to 4 and Dr. Kaysen adds them up. And so what I will do is I will actually start graphing these and keeping track-- Cool. --of them. I am not sure how to answer these questions with a number but I have the same problem when physicians ask me to rate pain on a scale of 1 to 10. After we go over my PTSD symptoms Dr. Kaysen will ask me about my mood. Then we will move on to the homework what she calls the practice. Most of each session we are going to spend actually reviewing the practice that you did over the day. OK? Mm-hmm. So for today what we are going to do is we are going to actually start by going through the impact statement that you wrote. The impact statement-- the one-page worksheet on why I think the assault happened. I wrote it before sunrise this morning and it was not surprisingly really hard to write. So I am going to have you read to me what you wrote. OK. OK? Uh I was young 13. And I do not think I knew much about actual human nature friendliness strangers. It is funny to think that I was not cautious about the very thing kids are always warned of-- strangers. I walked to my bus stop alone every morning.  It was always early.  You are doing great Jaime. Just stay with it.  There were not many people because it was Los Angeles and no one walks. I used to pass an alley and wave at a man. He was young maybe late teens early 20s. Every morning I would wave at him. He would walk up the alley. I would cross the alley. Or some mornings I would walk down the alley against my mom's instructions. But we would pass and I would always wave or smile which is how I greeted everyone in the neighborhood. It did not seem like he should be any different. And in some ways in retrospect I feel like I overcompensated and was extra friendly and maybe invited him in that my wave somehow signaled to him that this was something I wanted that my friendliness was misinterpreted as desire. That I should have avoided him  rather than interact. I break down but I keep reading. Even though I would followed Dr. Kaysen's instructions not to write down specific details of the event just yet they were all coming back to me anyway. You did an incredible job with that. You did an incredible job. Dr. Kaysen hands me a Kleenex box. That is OK I do not need Kleenex. Are you sure? Yeah I am really into the snot. I was going to say I find sleeves work fine for me. OK. Is it OK with you if I take a look at it? Of course. All right. So one of the things was a piece around your mom's instructions. Is that-- and I noticed that those emotions got a little more intense when you got to that. That was something that I did not actually remember until I was writing it this morning. We were never really supposed to walk down the alley even though it was closer to get to the bus stop. I tell Dr. Kaysen more about my mom's rule and how I broke it. She wonders if this might be a stuck point. Stuck points are the first skill introduced in CPT and they might be the most important skill of all. In a sense the entire project of CPT is finding stuck points and then learning how to unstick them. A stuck point is basically something you hold to be true but might in fact not be true. A stuck point is a belief or a thought that is keeping you stuck in the PTSD stuck in thinking that it is your fault or that there is something you could have done to avoid it or stuck in any number of upsetting or inaccurate or harmful ways of remembering what happened. They are so central to this process that Dr. Kaysen hands me a worksheet titled Stuck Point Log. OK. This is going to be a living document that you and I are going to share. We will keep track of all my stuck points here adding to the list as we identify new ones each session and crossing them off as I work through them. So I may be hearing a little bit of a stuck point maybe around like I should have listened to my mom or if I had not gone that way it would not have happened. I think it is more like if I had not waved it would not have happened. Perfect. That actually feels more like-- Yeah. --what um. So write that down. We are going to start keeping track of these as we find them. OK. So if I had not waved it would not have happened. OK. All right. Dr. Kaysen asked me what feelings are coming up. I mean I hear the word shame associated a lot with things like this. And I feel like that would apply but it does not feel like the right word. Like it feels more just like I want to just shelter myself and I want to just cocoon. OK. I think that I also just do not like that word. Like I think that there is something shameful about shame. It is like-- I do not know. So I think that is going to be an important one for us to sort out actually because feelings are not good or bad. Right. Right? Is not there another word though? I bristle at the word shame. I always have. There is no room for shame. It sounds weak to me. Like if you have shame you have something to feel shameful about. With shame comes softness and vulnerability and fragility. So you will see these lovely worksheets. These are called ABC sheets. OK? It is the end of the session and ABC is the new skill. I am supposed to fill in the A column with the activating event-- in my case the sexual assault-- B with my belief or stuck point about the event C with the consequence of that belief or stuck point. It is kind of clunky but the idea seems to be to get you to see that your stuck points are not rational and that hanging on to these irrational stuck points has real emotional consequences that continuing to tell yourself this stuff as fact makes you feel bad. Last thoughts questions? How did this work for you today? Um good. It was intense. I mean I was like-- it was definitely-- I feel weirdly better because I feel like we have started. We have started. All right I am going to make a copy of the impact statement. So I have got that all right? I think session two's done. I think we are done. Session three-- so this is hard for me to answer. Is the unwanted memory  I am sitting with Dr. Kaysen going over the checklist of my PTSD symptoms. Did I have memories about the assault? Was I dreaming about it? Reliving it? I do feel like I was reliving a little. We finish the checklist and take out the worksheets. I would done seven the night before. Because I am doing a crash course in CPT each session each day covers a week's worth of treatment. It feels like I am cramming but Dr. Kaysen tells me she has patients who are still doing worksheets in the waiting room before sessions. That makes me feel a little better. We pick up with the stuck point we started on yesterday. If I had not said hi he would not have assaulted me. Had you interacted with this guy beforehand? It had been several weeks probably of saying hi. OK. And did anything happen on those other days where you said hi? No. Dr. Kaysen has clearly heard similar stuck points. She pokes holes in my logic until it is obvious that there is another way to see it. Could he have assaulted you if you had never said hi? Yes. The likelihood that that was the cause is very small to none. You were a little girl. Right. Right? You were a little girl going to school. Right. But still I would not have said I was a little girl. Like I felt like I was someone who was able to operate in the world and have conversations and interactions with adults and have responsibility. I associate the words little girl with a kind of unformed helpless pink thing covered in ruffles. I did not relate. At 13 I was babysitting. I had crushes and fantasies. I happily went to the movies or thrifting by myself. We move on to another one of the stuck points which was covering something I had not thought about for a long time-- what I was wearing on the day of the assault. I wore floral boxers from The Gap and a matching solid colored T-shirt. While doing the worksheets this morning I realized that some part of me still thought the assault was my fault for wearing men's boxers as shorts. And I tell Dr. Kaysen about this. I mean I liked thinking about what I was wearing and trying to wear cute things. She assumes that there was some kind of sexiness attached to the outfit for me but that was not it. Or I did not wear a sexy outfit. OK. OK. Like I have never really worn makeup or been good at that kind of thing. It is just like not my-- like I do not-- Not your thing. Yeah. OK. The outfit was not sexy. These were baggy clothes that masked my body. But even as the assault was happening I remember standing there and thinking it was somehow because of the boxers. I remember being very like associating the exact outfit exactly with what was happening. I remember that it was because it was an elastic waistband. That seemed like it was like there was more access to me or that like there was something about the article of clothing and the choice of it that felt-- Like that maybe in some way caused it even if it was not the sexy factor. Right. OK. So it might not be the sexy factor but it might be an access factor. Or like inappropriate. Like maybe inappropriate clothing. Interesting. OK. All right. I remember picking out the outfit at The Gap. And I remember putting it in the giveaway pile months later and being asked why I was giving it away since it looked brand new. By the end of the worksheet my thinking shifts. I articulate my new thought about the boxers-- a more balanced thought Dr. Kaysen calls it. You know you came up with this really lovely balanced thought which is it does not matter what you wear. How much do you believe that? I believe that. I think it can happen to anyone. I mean I think it is not-- it has nothing to do with what you are wearing. Yeah. I am starting to understand Dr. Kaysen's technique with these stuck points. She asks questions so I can arrive at answers myself. My previous belief shifts because I have concluded that it is inaccurate. She is my guide but I have to come to the conclusion myself. So when you have that thought-- it does not matter what I wear-- what happens to that feeling of shame? I think it shifts to helplessness in some ways. Mm interesting. So if it is what I wear if I change what I wear I can be safe. Right. And if it does not matter then there is nothing I can do. If someone wants to sexually assault you I think that there is very little you can do. At the end of the session Dr. Kaysen introduces a skill. All right. So I am going to teach you something new. OK. Finding evidence for whether your stuck point is true. She hands me something called the Challenging Questions Worksheet. The questions are like the ones she asked me during the session like am I looking at this in an exaggerated way? Am I looking at the whole picture? Am I basing things on facts or feelings? My homework tonight is to do seven more worksheets. All right I am going to go make you a bunch of copies of that. OK. And I am going to push Stop. Excellent. Session four. So first of all how is your mood? You know I do not know how people live in Seattle.  It is very gray and rainy. Yes. Like all morning I really wanted to take a walk. I am not used to the gray damp fog of Seattle. I understand the moodiness of Twin Peaks better and why cardigans were so essential for Kurt Cobain. It does not help that the majority of my time is spent alone holed up making spaghetti and doing homework piles and piles of homework. How was the practice? It was harder than the other practice. I think it is also I am just so used to knowing what therapy is. Is it really different? It is like it is super different. It is super different. And so I guess I feel like a straight A student in English who is taking a chemistry class. Like I am in someone else's clothes. Yeah. Yeah. And they are not quite fitting. You are in a different major right now. Yeah. I take out the worksheets and we loop back to my stuck point about the boxers. I wondered if it would have been harder for him to assault me if I was wearing jeans. And from what you know about perpetration more difficult does that mean not possible? No it is still possible. Yeah. And he had a knife right? Yeah. Yeah. OK. And we are going to be working on a skill tomorrow. It looks like you are having some strong feelings as we are working on this one. What is coming up for you right now?   Stay with it. I think just thinking about the knife always makes me really emotional. Yeah. So I want you to not try and shut the emotions down OK? Walk me through how it unfolded.  I was walking to school. Yeah. I walked past the alley. I am not used to speaking out loud about what happened but I knew that at some point it would come up. It would all come up-- the details how I felt what exactly happened in that moment and what exactly changed. We are nearing the end of our first week together and I feel like Dr. Kaysen on purpose or not has waited until we both felt comfortable. There was trust the skills of CPT had been discussed and then this this story-- the main reason I was here in this room in this city. It was time for it to come out. And he was kind of in this like kind of cove I guess behind a bush. We lived in a very middle class area in West Los Angeles. Our apartment was near two big streets Santa Monica Boulevard and Beverly Glen. There were office buildings nearby and a big mall with a massive food court. My mom's greatest fear in life was that our landlord would sell the duplex forcing us to leave. It was a place where I knew most of our neighbors. There were always people hanging out in front of their houses. Our across-the-street-neighbors were mechanics with a pitbull named Bumper. It was a tree-lined sun-kissed America dream neighborhood. That morning I walked past an alley between an office building and an apartment building and the guy was there. And he like-- like I smiled or waved and then he beckoned me over. I did not know why. And then I walked over. And he held a knife to my side and then he put his hands down my boxers and felt my vagina. And then I think I said something about like protesting. And he said that my father owed him money. And I was like there is no way that is true. And then he kept saying let me just kiss it and put his mouth on my vagina. And then I scream but it was not a scream. It was just kind of a vocal articulation. It was not particularly loud. And then he ran up the alley the other way. I wish the word vagina did not feel so clinical. It was more than that. It was like he found a way into my personal sexuality like a portal into parts of me I had not explored or known because I was so young. Eighth grade-- before it happened I would daydream about having a first kiss. And then after it happened I thought I would never be able to. Like I would never be able to experience romantic interactions or understand them. Sex sexual bodies that shit is hard enough for a 13-year-old. And so in that moment where he had a knife up to you what did you think was going to happen? Do you remember? I have no idea. I did not know. Yeah. You were just super scared. Yep. Yeah. I mean I think part of the reason that I have not dealt with a lot of it is like the outcome was not-- and I know I have heard this before from other people who have been assaulted is that the outcome was not like that bad. I was not raped. I was not like even cut. Like nothing was physically wrong. Nothing was particularly like damaged I guess except for psychologically everything was. Right. And so it is in some ways I think even harder because I felt like it was not so bad. Or I was supposed to think it was not so bad. So I am hearing a stuck point around I should not be distressed or this was not-- there is almost a little bit of a minimizing kind of stuck point. Yeah. But how would you put it-- what would the belief be around that? The because I was not raped or because I was not cut I should not have these reactions? I am not sure exactly what the stuck point is. I think because it was not worse. Because it was not worse I should be functioning better. I add this to the stuck point log. My experience by the way was an outlier in that I was assaulted by a stranger. Sexual assault is usually perpetrated by an acquaintance or family member. Only 7 of juvenile victims who report sexual assault are assaulted by strangers. At the end of the session Dr. Kaysen introduces the new skill-- patterns of problematic thinking which include things like mind reading and emotional reasoning and exaggerating or minimizing. I am put off by the language. It is oddly formal. I came in thinking CPT was supposed to be accessible but it is hard to get a handle on. They use real English words but not in the dictionary definition way. The phrases have a separate CPT meaning. Do these make sense for the most part for you? Kind of. OK. Where do you have questions? I guess what are we doing this for? Mm-hmm. Dr. Kaysen explains that this is part of a process we are in the process of learning that it will make sense. But I do not see how it is adding up yet. It is just painful and hard. All right but I am going to make you another copy of the actual patterns form. OK cool. It is Session five. I have made it to Friday of my first week. It feels like a small victory. I am thinking of the assault constantly. I am staying in the gentrified industrial neighborhood of Ballard. It is quiet. There are lots of car repair and tire shops and warehouses and expensive microbreweries. Crossing the street I am reminded of the alley. Locking the doors at night to the Airbnb I worry about security. I do not know anyone around me and I feel alone. I do not want to take risks. I do not want to explore Seattle. I will not go for a run. Taking too many risks or doing things that could cause you harm. Zero. OK. Being super alert or watchful or on guard. Two. OK. Today after the PTSD checklist Dr. Kaysen reveals the worksheet that all the worksheets were leading up to this whole time. It has many boxes and tables and questions 26 in all. It is the mother of all worksheets. It includes all the things I have learned on the worksheets til now. It is intimidating and complicated but Dr. Kaysen reminds me that I know how to do each step. She says now that I have all the skills I need to do CPT the therapy will shift. But what we are going to be doing from this session on out is we are going to start working with different themes. The first one we are going to focus in on is around safety. OK. OK? So how this event may have affected your ideas about safety. Mm-hmm. We practice a couple stuck points on the big mama worksheet. One of them is about how I am feeling uncomfortable in Seattle. I mention that the Dodgers are playing in the World Series and I am hesitant to walk the few blocks to the bar at the end of my street. But I really want to watch the game. Dr. Kaysen says that I should consider trying to go to the bar to watch the game that it is actually not risky behavior. She is not a big baseball fan so I almost feel like the assignment is for both of us. You know I am going to ask you on Monday whether you saw the game. Went to it.  Yes. Yes. OK. All right. So in terms of-- And I will ask you if you know what the score was. Oh. Oh.  Hmm. There are several games actually. But I will have to actually-- I hate to tell you this but I am really treatment resistant.  This sounds like a stuck point. It could be a stuck point. We could get through the baseball stuck point.  We can work together on this. Absolutely. We will set it as a long-term treatment goal. Yeah. All right. So in terms of resolutions-- As hard as this week has been it helps that I trust Dr. Kaysen. She is a good guide. Jaime Lowe. Coming up if you learn something important about yourself from a worksheet is it OK to feel resentful that you learned it from a worksheet? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues.  It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today's program Ten Sessions. What can you do with trauma from long ago that is never healed? If you are just tuning in writer Jaime Lowe heard about a kind of therapy called CPT Cognitive Processing Therapy that helps people deal with unhealed trauma from sexual assault or combat PTSD incredibly in just 10 or 12 sessions. And she decided to try it herself. We pick up halfway through the therapy. Session six. All right so in general since I last saw you on Friday how has your mood been? It is Monday and I have self-cared my way through the weekend which is another way to say that I went to a handful of vintage clothing stores. I bought a poncho the colors of Mardi Gras. I did not buy the T-shirt that said Rain and Coffee and Salmon and Weed. The Dodgers lost the series but I went to the bar to watch the game and it was fine. It was actually nice. All right. So do you want to check levels? And then we will delve in. Yeah. Why do not you speak a tiny bit? We check the audio levels. I still have no idea if I am doing it right. I tell myself worst case scenario I will not be able to share the most traumatic moments of my life with millions of people. And that seems like an OK outcome. I take out the big mama worksheets I did over the weekend. Each sheet took a lot longer than I expected. Dr. Kaysen picks out a worksheet with the stuck point I cannot protect myself. OK I cannot protect myself. Oh good. This is a great one to do also with you going out to the bar too. Yeah. Like really relevant. Dr. Kaysen pauses. It seems like she is seeing a stuck point in the stuck point which happens a lot-- Russian dolls of stuck points. Let me ask you a question also. There is another piece here. Are you different now than you were then? Yeah. How so? I am older. I know more. I have learned from that experience. Mm-hmm. This reminds me of that song Into the Woods the musical. Ah. The Little Red Riding Hood song which is basically all about sexual trauma. There is a song from Stephen Sondheim's musical Into the Woods that I used to listen to over and over after the attack. The wolf beckons Little Red Riding Hood. She strays from the path and then she sings He drew me close and he swallowed me down down a dark slimy path where life's secrets that I never want to know and when everything familiar seemed to disappear forever. I mean those lyrics described how I felt in the aftermath of the assault to a tee that everything familiar seemed to disappear forever. Dr. Kaysen and I walk through the worksheet step by step through all the prompts and questions CPT relies on-- whether there is evidence for my stuck point whether I am making an all or nothing statement whether I am jumping to conclusions what I am leaving out. I realize that I still feel angry with myself for freezing that I did not scream sooner hit him run or defend myself. Dr. Kaysen reminds me that he had a knife. If somebody's got a weapon sometimes freezing is the best response in that moment. Or the only response. We continue going through it. And eventually I reach a more balanced thought. Good. I did what I could to protect myself from physical harm. Absolutely. That is beautiful that you came up with that. The big mama worksheets ask for percentages related to how much you feel things and to how much you believe certain thoughts. At the beginning of this worksheet I believed I cannot protect myself 70. By the end I am in a different place. And so you have managed to get that from 70 to 20. That is some really nice movement around that. Yeah. I do not fully understand the percentages but I did feel better after working through it. Nice. And fear came down anger came down and frustration came down. Nice. That is lovely. And you have also got some other balanced thoughts in here too like I can protect myself most of the time. Yeah. You can think about how does that feel versus I cannot protect myself at all. Right. Beautiful job with that. Suddenly I am getting the worksheets. They are still difficult because thinking is difficult. But that night I find that doing them is calming and clear. The next day in session seven I tell Dr. Kaysen that there is something about the writing that is really key. And so when I am writing it down I am just seeing that even just subtle shifts are really different when you write it. That is right. I can see the beginning point. And then I see the end and I am just like ah. It is like you are forehead-slapping. You are just like oh yeah that starting point was really off like that is not a rational way to think. Right. But I love what I am hearing you say is also you are really seeing some cognitive shifts with doing these. So it is hard work but you are also seeing some payout. Yeah. I think I am also a little resentful that it is just coming from a worksheet.  I am serious. Like ther