It is This American Life from WBEZ Chicago. I am Susan Burton sitting in for Ira Glass today. There are these videos I have been watching-- videos of female politicians telling very personal stories. Here's one of them. It shows Gretchen Whitmer. She is now the governor of Michigan but she is speaking here a few years ago when she was a member of the state legislature. I have said it before and I will say it again. This is by far one of the most misogynistic proposals I have ever seen in the Michigan legislature. Whitmer's explaining why she is voting no on a bill that would forbid women from using insurance to cover abortions unless they bought separate abortion insurance what Whitmer calls rape insurance. And for those of you who want to act aghast that I would use a term like rape insurance to describe the proposal here in front of us you should be even more offended that it is absolutely accurate description of what this proposal requires. This tells women that were raped and became pregnant that they should have thought ahead and bought special insurance for it. She is been talking for several minutes when suddenly she stops sets her papers down. I have a lot more prepared remarks here but I think it is important for me to just mention a couple of things. So I am about to tell you something that I have not shared with many people in my life. But over 20 years ago I was a victim of rape. And thank god it did not result in a pregnancy because I cannot imagine going through what I went through and then having to consider what to do about an unwanted pregnancy from an attacker. The whole time Wittmer talks she grips the sides of the lectern. Her face looks like she is in pain. I am not enjoying talking about it. It is something I have hidden for a long time but I think you need to see the face of the women that you are impacting by this vote today. I ask that my comments be my no vote explanation. My no vote explanation she says. Whitmer's story was not planned. She said later that she decided to tell her secret in that moment standing at the mic. As soon as she left the floor and got into her car Whitmer called her father. She would never told him that she would been raped. She did not want him to hear about it on the news that night. She had not expected to tell the Michigan legislature before she told him. I wondered if the call to her father was harder. I think it is sometimes easier to tell a secret in public than in private-- safer to have that distance. When I first saw Whitmer's video a year ago I was on the verge of revealing a secret in a very public way in a book that was about to be published. I would written a memoir about my eating disorder. And until recently that eating disorder it had been a secret from everyone in my life. Sometimes people say everyone and then follow it with an except like except my mom and my best friend. I really do mean everyone. Not even my husband knew and we would been together for 25 years. I never talked about it and I would also never been in therapy for it. When I finally did seek help I was 45. In the very first session my therapist trying to get the story straight or maybe just trying to get me to hear how absurd this sounded said you wrote a whole book about this but you have never talked about it with anyone? That was right. I would gone to see the therapist partly because it did seem kind of messed up to me what I would done. I knew it was just as urgent to understand my relationship with secrets as my relationship with food. That is where I was when I watched Whitmer's speech thinking a lot about secrets and why we tell them and the form they take when we do. What made Whitmer's speech so powerful was that her secret was not just a confession. It was an argument. It was told to persuade. I was moved by her video and I went looking for others like it. Of course politicians tell personal stories and speeches all the time but disclosing something you have kept private for years and doing it in a legislative session sometimes spontaneously that is pretty new. Almost every example I turned up was about sexual trauma which I mean there are a bunch of reasons for this but a big one is the increasing number of bills that try to restrict access to abortion. I watched videos from all over the country-- Victoria Steele in Arizona Theresa Fedor in Ohio Mandy Wright in Wisconsin Nancy Mace in South Carolina. One of the things I wondered about was what prompted them to speak. Like what exactly made them stand up and say it? A couple said they were infuriated by the conversation in the room comments like women lie about being raped. And I wondered what it felt like to say the secret. When Yuh-Line Niou disclosed to the New York state assembly that at age 13 she would been abused by a teacher she drew attention to what was happening in her body as she spoke. I never speak on this bill for this reason because I literally cannot stop shaking. Thank you so much.   Just a couple of weeks ago there was another similar video that got a lot of attention from New York Congresswoman Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. She was talking about the riot at the Capitol and then she revealed this. I am a survivor of sexual assault and I have not told many people that in my life. Ocasio-Cortez did not say this in a legislative session. Her video was on Instagram Live. But it felt like the others I would watched in that she was using her secret to make an argument-- in this case about the impact of trauma. That different kinds of trauma compound on each other. She and the others spoke out because there was something important at stake. They disclosed their secrets as a public service. Of course for most of us the reasons we tell secrets they are not as straightforward. My own reasons for telling my secret I cannot even call them reasons. That is too rational. What I had was an urge to tell one driven by desperation obsession anger a longing to be known and understood. There are all kinds of secrets and all kinds of reasons for telling and not telling. That is our show this week-- why we tell secrets and what happens after we do. Stay with us. Act One My Own Very Serious Comedy About Women and Food. So let us get into why you might hold on to a secret why it might be so hard to tell. And if you have an eating disorder or are in recovery for one a heads up that there is stuff in here that could be triggering. I want to start by telling you about a movie one that I saw as a teenager one that addressed my secret directly. It was an arthouse movie called Eating subtitle A Very Serious Comedy About Women and Food. The summer I was 17 my mother and I went to see it together. What are you doing? I would been binge eating for a couple of years by then. In fact I am sure I binged before the movie. Sitting next to my mother I was uneasy. My bingeing was a secret. It was like the movie itself might give me away. You binge do not you? No I was just having a-- Oh come on I have been bingeing since I was your age. I know about bingeing. Please do not tell my mother I am eating. Do you know how you are going to stop? I am going to quite eating altogether. It is the only way. Quit eating altogether. This was my only way too. Within a few years after that movie I was anorexic and back to bingeing then anorexia again. More years passed decades. Like some of the women in the movie I never stopped having an eating disorder. I am never going to ever be able to be like normal people with food. I mean I am always going to be at the mercy of it. And it is a very very scary feeling. It is very very powerful and I hate it. The summer I was 45 I watched Eating again. The first thing I felt was nostalgia-- shoulder pads bran muffins Laura Ashley lines like You got a perm. You got a perm. And the second thing I felt was oh my god not only is this movie about eating it is about telling which was the thing I was obsessed with at that point. The movie is fiction but it feels like a documentary because a lot of it is women staring into the camera telling personal stories about food. The setting is a 40th birthday party in Los Angeles and one of the main characters is a filmmaker named Martine. She is making a documentary to help her understand her own eating disorder. I identified with that. At first Martine tells everyone at the party that her film is about women in southern California. Finally she owns up to her real subject. To tell you the truth my whole documentary is about that-- women and food. That is really why I am here for. Really? Yeah. Why then did you say the documentary was about women in California? Well actually it is not a southern California behavior. It is more general. It seem awkward to people when you say women and food. You just start wondering why women and food? It is the most terrible thing. Just like Martine I would hidden my real subject. That eating disorder memoir I was writing I told people my book was a cultural history of the teenage girl. It actually had started out that way but it took me a long time to admit what I really wanted to write about. For years I was ashamed of my own story same as Martine. You can say I am an alcoholic. I feel oh I am a drug addict. That is OK. I mean it is kind of interesting. But just say I have an eating disorder I just want to eat I just want to-- that is so unattractive. It is so disturbing. I just was never able to tell that to anyone. In lots of ways this movie is dated and judgmental but it is unapologetically about eating which still feels radical. One by one the women come and sit before Martine's camera and she asks them tell me do you have any problem about food? At the end of the movie she says that hearing their stories has changed things for her. And I feel so close to them. And it is such a wonderful feeling. It makes me feel I do not want to be alone anymore. I want to be able to share things with other people you know? Maybe this sounds sappy but these lines did something to me. It is what I wanted too. I wanted Martine to invite me to sit in front of her camera and ask do you have any problem about food? I wanted to be Martine asking others that question. I wanted to be at the party with other women talking. I closed my laptop. I went downstairs to the kitchen and from the freezer I took out a lemon bar the size of a checkerboard square. I put the lemon bar on a plate the size of something a child would use at a tea party. I sliced the bar into strips and then into tiny bites. I sat at the table and I ate all the bites. Then I wanted more but I would not let myself have it. By this point I would had enough therapy to understand that what I did with food was what I did with people. Fearful of connection but so hungry for it. Sitting at the table I started to fantasize about making my own version of the film a radio version. I wanted to have a party like in the movie but I did not know who I would invite. A year passed. I got a little better. I told people close to me about my history. I told others. I talked more. Then my memoir was published. I would expected to hear from readers who connected with my experience of an eating disorder. What surprised me was how many also connected with my experience of not talking about it. I realized here were my party guests. I emailed them back with invitations to speak. I have not really had a conversation with another person who has suffered from an eating disorder. And it sounds wild to admit that but it is true. I think this is the most I have ever talked about it. But it is certainly the most I have ever talked about the bingeing side of things and eating other people's food. And to be honest aside from my therapist you are the first person I have ever told about that bingeing because I am so ashamed of it. I am so ashamed of the way I looked then what I did then. I just-- I-- yeah ashamed. Have you talked to anybody else besides the nutritionist about this stuff? Just you. Yeah. How does it feel to be talking about it? I am fine talking about it with you because I know you really get it. Yeah. How does it feel to be talking about this stuff? I asked everyone that question and I paid attention to what it felt like for me. Sometimes I felt self-conscious. I seize up in conversation have more ease when I write. But I also felt the connection I would craved. I would never met these women but I knew them because we would been alone in the same ways. It is such a lonely experience going through daily restriction purge and performing all the behaviors of a normal diet without anyone catching on. I mean I think that sharing stories really does help because that is the scariest piece at least for me of living with an eating disorder is feeling so alone. Yeah I mean-- yeah me too. Some of them said your book made me feel less alone. And when I said back well this conversation made me feel less alone I half worried it sounded insincere and half worried they would be weirded out if they knew just how sincere I was. And in every conversation we talked about the thing I was so curious about-- why it was so hard to tell anyone about this stuff or talk about it. I think the secrecy to be honest is it is that how eating disorders at least for me are deeply tied to sexuality. I think that that is why it is such a hard thing for me to talk about because it is very much tied to that. There is two things. For the anorexia side of it I think that it is because you do not want people to think you are shallow. I do not want people to think oh well she just wants to be skinny. And with the bingeing anyone that is never experienced it you sound out of your mind. It is just it does not make any sense at all. And when you explain it as though it is an addiction and whatever maybe people have some better sense of it. But it is helpful to talk to someone who is been there. I think-- I mean I think for me one of the reasons why I have not been able to talk to my therapist about it and get really meaningful help is because I just do not even know how to talk about it. Like I do not hear other people talk about it. I guess I kind of know what the vocabulary is but basically my only experience is I read other people's books about it. I do not talk to other people about it. Among these women there was one who was really brand new to talking about her eating disorder had only recently even identified it as an eating disorder. And that is the conversation I am going to play next. Because on one level it is exactly what I would hoped for-- just a real and good conversation with a woman who shared the experience of having an eating disorder. But also I think it gets at something important about why we keep any kind of secret. The conversation started the same way as all of them with Audrey-- that is not her real name-- telling me the history of her eating disorder. I thought nobody else had ever done that. I had never heard of bulimia. I thought I was the only person who had ever done that. Audrey is 63 and she started bingeing and purging in college in the 1970s. This was before eating disorders were on after school specials before bulimia had been defined in a psychological journal. I wondered how Audrey had gotten the idea. Do you remember how it occurred to you to do it to purge? I do not remember the initial time but I had been eating-- as my brain still says eating like a pig. And I thought well I have got to get rid of this. I have got to make up for it somehow. And so that is what I started doing. And then I would spend my days in the dining hall eating and then my afternoons finding a bathroom somewhere to get rid of it. Audrey kept bingeing and purging. And then she stopped the purging part. And what finally stopped me was I went to the health service for something I do not remember what. And there was a bottle of ipecac on the counter. And when the nurse was out of the room I stole it. Ipecac syrup is used to cause vomiting. It used to be a common thing that people had in their medicine cabinets. And I went back to my room and this was Halloween night-- I remember. And I drank the entire thing and I got so violently ill. Had you used ipecac syrup before to purge? No just a finger. And how come you drank the whole bottle? I was so angry with myself. I was just so angry with myself I thought I am just going to drink this whole damn thing. Yeah. I knew that anger knew the feeling of standing in a dorm room hating myself. Audrey told this one story about leaving campus to binge that I so related to. I knew the same shame. I was walking up the street to a chicken place that I knew of that I knew no other college students went to. And that is why I went there and on my way to a binge. And there was this guy who started walking behind me and he started whispering at me big ass. Big ass. And I was not scared I was ashamed. I was embarrassed. I mean the fact that this guy could have attacked me or whatever his problem was was not-- and I never turned and looked at him. He followed me all the way to the place and then I went in. And I was embarrassed because-- oh my god I forgot this. I was embarrassed because I thought oh now he knows where I was going. He knows I was going to eat. Like that was the problem. Right. I mean it just becomes so all-consuming that of course that is what everybody else is thinking because it is the central part of your own experience. Yeah. I have spent so many years thinking about this. I cannot believe it. I mean really if you put it all together years of my life this has been sort of the soundtrack going on underneath everything else. Even as Audrey kept bingeing for most of the next 40 years that is not what she called it. And then in your head it sounds like-- the phrase you used eat like a pig-- is that the phrase you used? Yeah. Yeah I mean my phrase was eating bad. Oh my god when I read that in your book I thought I so get it. I so get it. Yeah. Susan I did not know binge eating disorder was a thing until I read your book. Yeah? So how-- I mean how did you make sense of it for yourself without having a name for it? I just thought of it as weakness. I just thought of it as that I was so ridiculously weak that I could not stop eating. Binge-eating disorder is the most common eating disorder but the least talked about. It only became a formal eating disorder diagnosis a few years back. When I was in college in the early '90s I spent hours in the stacks reading about eating disorders and I could not find mine in any of the texts. The best I could determine was that I had bulimia without the throwing up but that seemed like half a problem. I know I had a whole problem-- a real one. I had this kind of fiery righteous thing going on where I felt like I knew more than the scientists. But my certainty that there was something really wrong with me that I alone had diagnosed did not feel triumphant. It was incredibly isolating to have an experience that I could not find named anywhere. A binge-- it is eating a lot all at once past the point of discomfort. Binge-eating disorder-- I can offer a textbook definition of it here but Audrey's experience is the textbook definition. I just kind of disappear. I just kind of eat. And it is a time in which I feel like everything's OK actually. While I am eating while I am putting stuff in my mouth I feel like everything's OK but I am kind of not really there. Yeah. How do you feel right after? Oh god awful. Awful. Another day ruined. I mean and yes I have felt hopeless. I have felt extremely hopeless having done it again and then doing it again the next night. And I felt completely hopeless and out of control of it and hating myself for it. That is pretty much the cycle. The anaesthetized feeling during the binge the self-loathing that follows feeling like this is out of your control but also that you should be able to stop and the secrecy about all of it. So you did not tell your roommate senior year. Did you ever want to tell anyone about it? No. Oh my gosh no I never wanted to tell anybody. No. It was-- Yeah. I have been in therapy most of my life and I have never told any of my therapists about this. It did not occur to me that I would talk about it. Why do you think that is? I think it is just so embarrassing. And it is really shameful and it is something that I should be able to handle by myself. I do not know. I think I just kind of blanked it out when I went to therapy to talk. It was too personal which is bizarre. I mean I told my therapist all sorts of personal stuff but that was too embarrassing. And I never thought of myself as having an eating disorder. Binge-eating I never thought of that as a disorder. I thought of it as a lack of discipline. Mm-hmm. If you had thought of it as a disorder do you think that would have made you any more likely to talk about it in therapy? Yeah if I thought it was a disorder yeah. I mean I am from a doctor's family so anything that can be in a book somewhere I can accept. So yeah if I thought of it as a disorder I probably would have talked about it. Yeah. Yeah. You know in your email you talked about the movie Eating. And I went to see it when it came out with a friend of mine. And we came out of the movie and we talked about it a little bit but not a whole lot. It was way too close to home for me. And I do not know if it was too close to home for her but it was uncomfortable. It is so interesting. I am so glad that you had the experience seeing that movie in the theater when it came out. You are the only person I have ever talked to who is also seen this movie so this is very exciting for me. So what age were you when you saw that movie in the theater? Oh well it was 1990 so-- I do not know. So you are in your 30s. Yeah I was in my 30s. And I remember lines from that. I saw it once but I still remember lines from that movie. I remember there is a woman who is sitting in a jacket and she says I am wearing this jacket because I do not want you to see my arms. I wear clothes to conceal it. I mean I have this jacket on because I do not want you to see my fat arms. And then there is the older woman-- well she is my age now but there is the older woman who says I do not understand these girls. Why do not they just drink? Uh-huh. Food food food-- that is all I hear is food. Now I really enjoy eating I always have. In my time we would get together to have a drink or cocktails and hors d'oeuvres. I mean that was always-- that was a more desirable invitation than going to dinner. And I thought what is wrong with me? Why do not I just drink? I really did. What is wrong with me? Why do not I just drink instead of eating? What else do you remember? Do you remember anything else? I remember it was really an embarrassing experience watching the movie and uncomfortable. And the friend I went with is very lighthearted. And then we came out of that movie and it was pretty dark there for a few minutes. Do you think she connected with it too? My feeling was that she connected with it on the level of women in this culture are told not to eat very much. And she connected with it like a normal person like a normal woman who suffers under the onus of you are not supposed to eat too much but not like somebody like me. But can I ask you something? Yeah. When you saw it with your mom do you think your mom was already worried about you and maybe that is why she did not really say much about the movie? We have talked some now about my eating disorders and she did not know about the bingeing. And my mother probably is somewhere on the spectrum of in between eating having been really a destructive force and the friend with whom you saw the movie who is a woman so she can relate to it on that level. I am so glad you understand what I mean by that about my friend being a normal woman worried about it as opposed to somebody with a problem worried about it. Well I always wanted to be a normal woman worried about it. Yeah. Honestly that film drove me further underground. How so? Because I think because of-- now that I am thinking about it I think because of the judgment. It is just thick with judgment of these women and their problems. And I thought whoa hm I was right. This absolutely must remain a secret forever. Yeah. And I do not even think consciously of-- I mean I recently have started thinking consciously about it but I have never even thought consciously about gee I would better not tell anybody. It is like that would never in a million years have occurred to me to tell somebody. What finally prompted Audrey to tell somebody was learning that this thing she did in secret was something that many other people also did and that it had a name. It does not always work this way. Naming is not always something you want. I talked to one woman who for years did not tell anyone about her bulimia because she did not want the label. She did not want to be saddled with shame she could never shake. As long as she could fix it herself the eating disorder never existed in the first place. Finally she did tell and she did name it which was terrifying because it made it real. But it also made it more manageable. Another woman I talked to was also reluctant to name her eating disorder not because she did not want the label but because she did not feel she lived up to it. I just did not think I qualified. I did not feel like I was thin enough or sick enough. The images I had in my head of eating disordered people were a very very rail thin person wearing a hospital gown who is being force fed. That is what I thought. This ambivalence about naming was totally familiar to me. When I first went to therapy it took me a few months to look up my diagnosis code. I was scared to know what was now in my permanent record. And when I looked it up and saw it was anorexia I got nervous in a new way. Like my therapist did not understand. I wanted to take off all my clothes and show her that I was not thin enough to be anorexic. What I did not get yet was that one you can be anorexic at any size and two that my feelings were the essence of the illness. I am not good enough to be anorexic. I am not good enough. A name gave Audrey the words to say the unspeakable. And it gave her the permission she needed to ask for help. After Audrey realized she might have binge-eating disorder she contacted a nutritionist. So I contacted her. And when I emailed it that I thought I might have this problem I felt OK. But when I called her and we spoke I could not commit. I was like I do not know if I really have it or not. Maybe I do I do not know. I do not do it all the time you know? And she said well we do not necessarily have to name it. You may have features of it. And what I thought was no no no I have it.  Sorry I am laughing only because I totally relate yeah. I know you do. So what feels helpful about talking about it? Or what has felt helpful so far? What is made a difference for me is that it is a named problem. And it is not a failure of character but a disorder that can be treated. Treatment for an eating disorder involves both changing behaviors and addressing the underlying emotional reasons for them. That is exactly what Audrey's doing. In the months since she and I spoke she is continued with the nutritionist. And now she is also seeing a therapist. She is not over this yet but she is working on it. That is where I am too but I struggle with a lot of why cannot I just  get over it? Recently my therapist suggested that I thought that telling my story would release me from shame. I got a little defensive. No no I had not thought that. But she was right. Telling my story has opened up a lot for me especially with the people I am closest to. But telling is a beginning not an end. It is not a solution. It does not fix your eating. It does not release you from shame. To release yourself from shame you need to understand where the shame comes from. Telling alone does not get you there but it puts you in conversation with people who can help. It gets you to the party with other women talking. Coming up keeping your job secret from your children and your children secret from your job. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Susan Burton. Today's program Secrets-- stories about why we tell them and why we do not. We have arrived at act two of our show. Act Two Bad Cell Service. We are told that sharing our secrets will liberate us. We will feel unburdened relieved. But sometimes keeping the secret is what sets us free. Writer Pavan Bivigou has an illness that she is kept secret. My body has a secret. There are days when my body feels as though it is the secret. If one day you were to pay considerable attention you might figure it out. My body's quick to breathlessness and slow to recover from exertion. But perhaps this is too subtle a clue. If I go out drinking and neglect to take my folic acid the morning after notice how the whites of my eyes have yellowed slightly. This is my body leaking its secret. The yellowed eyes-- this is jaundice a common symptom of sickle cell disease which is the secret my body has and tries so hard to keep. Sickle cell is a blood disorder where red blood cells take on an irregular sickle shape. This diminishes the level of oxygen in the body. It can be painful. The most pronounced pain comes from the unstreamlined cells bumping and scraping along my vessel walls producing an unbearable rusty ache in my bones especially at the joints which sickle cells have trouble squeezing through. And so often they logjam and cause swelling. All childhood long I was the sick girl notable for my string of absences. I was out for days and weeks at a time due to illness but also for maintenance purposes-- checkups tests transfusions. The burden of being my best friend at school was threefold. One you had to have a back-up best friend for the times I was not there. Two if we started an art project I had to explain to you how I wanted it done in the very likely event that I would not be there to do it myself. And three you had to keep up with all the school gossip and catch me up on it in meticulous detail when I returned. In year nine I auditioned for the role of a dancing girl in my secondary school's production of West Side Story. My dance teacher who was directing complimented my strong audition and followed up her praise with if I give you a part in the show dear you better promise me that you will not get sick. I will not get sick I told her hurriedly without properly considering what she was asking of me. I will not get sick. I repeated it I am sure to reassure myself. I will not I will not. The following week the cast list went up. And I was the only year nine dancing girl to get a speaking part. It was one line but it was everything to me. I prayed stepped over cracks wished on stars did my homework early my chores diligently was nice to my brothers-- everything I could possibly think of to be good and stay well. I begged my body to keep the promise I would made. And of course two weeks before the show I got sick the sickest I had ever been the sickest I have ever been. I caught pneumonia. I was hospitalized for three months missed five months of school that year. I believe my body did it to spite me. I was so angry I writhed in my hospital bed in pain and frustration thinking I am a girl who wants to dance and say her line. I am stuck in this body a place that gets sick. I never auditioned for anything at school ever again. As I grew older I grew a bit healthier. My body calmed down. I went two years without hospital admission then five then eight. Then I mostly stopped speaking about sickle cell and the bad blood that moves inside me. I convinced myself that discussing it would somehow jinx me into more suffering. If I kept quiet about my body my body in turn would keep quiet about its disease. I moved through the world less a sick person and more as a person with a sickness. That distinction became very important-- a loophole. I never lied I neglected to tell the truth. That is how secrets are made. My secret allows me to control how people see me. I remember revealing the truth to a co-worker at a bookstore. And after that he attributed every stumble every dropped pencil to my sickle cell. I hate to be pitied. Pity says I am glad I am not you. Pity says I am glad I do not have to struggle with what you do. Pity feels bad for me without giving me a chance to feel anything for myself. Keeping my secret is the one thing about my body I can control. People would sometimes find out but it was rare for me to actively tell. My husband is the only per