 Welcome back to SNAP JUDGEMENT from PRX and NPR. The Picking Up the Pieces episode. My name is Glynn Washington and you know that sometimes the hardest challenges are those we do not see coming. Our next story from writer Manuel Gonzalez comes to us from the not-too-distant future where people are people - until they are not.  Everything looks great - your vitals everything. But there is something we need tell you and well there is no easy way to put this.  Am I sick?  No in fact you cannot get sick because well - you are a robot.  Huh? A robot?  It is exciting right? This is very exciting for us. We hope it is exciting for you too.  He is been my doctor since I was a kid. Except I guess I never was a kid. The doctor and the assistant open up my head and they hold up a mirror so I can see it for myself. None of this seems entirely necessary. The assistant takes a slender metal poker and pokes inside and pokes inside and pokes inside.  See?  And this makes my arm move.  Watch this.  And this makes my stomp - makes my eyes blink and blink and blink.  Pretty cool right?  He motions to the assistant for her to stop - but what about my parents?  Actors. And boy good ones when you say?  But that is not what I mean. What I mean is - what am I going to tell my parents? How my going to explain this to my parents? They seemed so earnest.  Of course they seem to earnest. They were very well-paid actors.  I look out. I know I did not say that out loud. He smiles.  Sorry. We are getting a readout. Right here see.  His assistant shows me the computer screen - which is full of my thoughts. I think about thinking about thoughts and a new line appears at the top of the screen. I think oh my God. And the line oh my God appears on the screen. And then I think without wanting to think it I am not even plugged into anything. And that appears to. And they read that line and the assistant points of the screen.  Wireless.  Can you shut that off?  Sure sure no problem.  But they do not. They run tests - they set me in a harness for the first tests which are invasive centered around probes removal of limbs drawing of blood. Why is there blood? To test reactions to test for humanness to test my pain sensors or so the doctor's assistant explains -  not to me but to the doctor. She looks like a student or something - maybe she is a grad student part of the class?  Now is this actual pain?  I scream.  Or is this - this right here - programming?  I writhe.  You tell me.  But these tests - which are bad - are not the worst. They set me on a treadmill.  Just run as fast as you can as long as you can.  But I am not very fast and I cannot run very long. Next they set me on a desk.  You will have two hours to finish this written exam. There are math problems and logic problems mainly.  And when the two hours are up she takes a booklet away unfinished - not nearly finished - and flips through my answers and nods her head and shows them to the doctor - who nods his head. Then they give me wires and circuits and boards and asked me to build something out of these.  Maybe a computer of some kind? But really whatever you want to build.  Go on.  Having no idea what to do with any of it and running out of time I just start to connect things at random. The thing that I build - which is really a thing at all - it does not work. At the end of it all I ask them - how did I do? They look at each other.  Fine. You are doing just fine do not worry.  I feel winded and I want to leave - to go back to my job. It is a temp job and I am not very important at it. But it is the only job I have and I ask for the morning off and now it is almost the end of the day and I am worried that they are going to fire me. The doctor smiles - he is been reading the screen.  Do not worry we will let them know. You will be fine.  Then the assistant - she will the television set into the room - more testing? She smiles.  Just a TV.  She plugged it in and hands me a remote.  You can get just about any channel. Not Showtime - but all the others. And there are movies - movies and video games. Just press this button here.  She points to the large yellow button on the remote control labeled movies games.  Do whatever you would like while we are gone.  Gone?  We have a meeting about you about the tests. It will not take more than an hour or so. And then will be back and we can talk about it OK?  The assistant opens up the door for the doctor. And then the doctor he turns to me...  Now do not you go on any kind of murderous death-to-humans rampage while were gone.   This is a really funny joke I guess. So I laugh too - because what else can I do? And then they are gone.  Thank you very much robot for sharing it your story with SNAP. In a real universal health care system though you would be entitled to a second opinion - get a second opinion. This story was written by Manuel Gonzlez - I a link to all that is Manuel and  his work at snapjudgment.org. The snap players were the robot Pat Mestili-Miller the doctor Doug Cordell the assistant Eliza Smith. This was produced by Eliza Smith the sound design by Leon Morimoto. You have gotten this far so congratulate yourself with a SNAP JUDGMENT T-shirt SNAP VIP tickets other SNAP swag available right now at snapjudgment.org. Look good if you have not the subscribed to the amazing SNAP podcast what is wrong with you - seriously? Facebook Twitter communications SNAP nation is the key.  Big thanks to the Corporations of Public Broadcasting. PRX the Public radio exchange WBEZ in Chicago. And this is not the news. It is like you could push Humpty Dumpty off the wall and all the kings horses and all the kings men show up you could push them off the wall as well and you would still not be far away from the news as this is but this is NPR. 