Hello listeners. I am Nancy Updike. If you heard last week's show you know I am filling in for Ira Glass. He is out reporting a great story for you. He will be back next week. But while he is gone I thought maybe we could have movie night.  Clearly this is not a movie that was made in the recent past. But it was a blockbuster and an Oscar winner. It was huge. It is called The Best Years of Our Lives and it is a war movie really a post-war movie. Three men are coming back from a war World War II to the same town they all lived in before the war. And the movie is about their hard transition back into civilian life. It is black and white full of words like swell but while I was watching it I kept thinking This could be about today. In the beginning of the movie the three men are on a military plane on their way home. And as they get closer instead of getting excited they get quiet and edgy. Fred the young airman who is got some swagger asks the older guy Al-- Remember what it felt like when you went overseas? As well as I remember my own name. I feel the same way now only more so. I know what you mean. Just nervous out of the service I guess. The thing that scares me most is that everybody's going to try to rehabilitate me. That is Al the older one worrying about people rehabilitating him. It is surprising when says it. He is the one who seems least visibly affected by the war not a candidate for any kind of rehabilitation or even help. Al just seems like a gentle somewhat stiff family man who is been married for 20 years and will be married for another 20 years. But on the first night back it is obvious he is not OK. He is tense. He can barely sit still. He insists on taking his wife and daughter out on the town and proceeds to get more drunk than I have seen someone his age get in a movie in a long time. He sloshes around the dance floor with his wife Milly played by Myrna Loy. And at one point he starts into a little joke that his wife gamely plays along with. You are a bewitching little creature. In a way you remind me of my wife. But you never told me you are married. Oh yeah. I have got a little woman two kiddies back there in the States. But let us not think of them now. Oh you are so right. This night belongs only to us. I found this one of the most poignant moments in the film even with Al's drunkenness. These are two people trying to make light of something huge the fear of being strangers after so long apart. Do you still know me? Am I still me? From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. Today on the show a question. Will they know me back home? Stay with us. We are going to have just two stories on the show today. Both are about men and women living through war and trying to figure out how to live their lives outside of war. These are stories from the most recent officially combat ended war the US has fought the Iraq War. And a word about how we chose these stories. We have been reading about the wars-- Afghanistan Iraq-- from the beginning just like you probably have. And we have forgotten a lot of what we have read like you probably have. These are stories we could not forget. The first one is from a stupendously well-reported book by journalist David Finkel called The Good Soldiers. He followed one group of soldiers for 15 months at war and at home. Lots of reporters have done something like this. But he observes and describes these soldiers' corner of the war as he puts it with such precision and without comment. Reading it you do not analyze the war you do not ponder it. You feel it. One chapter stood out the one where the soldiers go home on leave for 18 days and their wives and families talk about waiting for them. And with David's permission we are doing something unusual with this chapter to put it on the air. In the book the individual voices of the soldiers and their wives come through so clearly you hear them in your head. We wanted to recreate that so we worked with David to turn the chapter into a series of monologues that each could be read by separate person the same way you hear them in your head while you are reading. So these are actors reading not the soldiers. But what they are reading is what the soldiers and their wives told David and what he saw. Briefly here's what the soldiers were living through before they went on leave. David embedded with an army battalion known as the 216 from Fort Riley Kansas during one of the most difficult periods of the Iraq War. The surge when the US sent small groups of soldiers and Marines out from the big well-protected bases they would been living in into dangerous neighborhoods all over Baghdad where they would live for weeks at a time. Before the surge worked it was terrifying. Every day sniper attacks and IEDs that got more sophisticated and more lethal over time. IEDs were on every road the 216 drove for a year. They were triggered by remote control-- in other words people watching them. And there was no consistent pattern to where and when they exploded. It could and did happen any time. The soldiers started going home on leave in the middle of that year the fall of 2007. The average age in the unit was 19. Heads up these are young soldiers on leave. There is some swearing. We beep it. There is also a description of going to a strip club. Here's the chapter. The first thing I did was take 1500 and take my two brothers to the mall. No. The first thing I did was take off my uniform in the airport parking lot put on shorts and a T-shirt that my brothers had brought me and then go to the mall. For three hours we bought whatever we wanted sale or no sale as if money did not matter. And what I bought was new pants a new shirt and new athletic shoes. All in white. Pure white because I wanted to feel clean. From there I went home to see the rest of my family. And that is where the questions began. What do you do they asked. Well we go out I said. I was not sure how to describe it so I showed them pictures instead. That is Harrelson's Humvee on fire. That is Craig's Humvee right after he died. Those are some kids in Kamalaya. My grandma started crying. She knew about the deaths. But this was seeing how people lived the  trenches and stuff. I showed her a picture of a Humvee stuck in a  trench and she asked if that was mud and I tried to explain it was  and that those lakes on the side were   and she did not want to see any more. She got up and went in the other room and she got busy ordering me my favorite dinner which is chicken parmesan. My first day went from there. I ate some marvelous chicken parmesan bought my first legal six-pack of beer. Then I went with my brothers and some friends to the Yankee Bar and Grill for the Friday night wet T-shirt contest. I drank beer. I drank tequila. I drank Crown Royal. I drank another beer. I drank a flaming Dr Pepper. I drank something else. I do not even know what the  it was but they put something on fire and dropped it in a beer. I danced with a girl told her I was home from Iraq. Danced with another girl told her I was home from Iraq. I was wearing my new white shirt and white pants and white shoes and I was feeling pretty good about things. And yes I was drunk. Totally drunk. But not so drunk I did not hear people calling out my name and telling me to get on stage. So my brother and I went up there and I sat in one chair and my brother sat in another chair back to back. And there was a stripper pole in between us. And six girls in T-shirts came on stage and started dancing around us in a circle. And I yell over to my brother Dude there is no  way. And then there is water hoses and the girls are soaked from head to toe and dancing through puddles and taking off their T-shirts. And then one of the girls is stepping onto my new white shoes and leaning toward me and pushing her chest toward my face. And then she is climbing onto my lap and standing on my thighs with her wet dirty feet to get onto the strippers' pole And she is trying to step onto my shoulders. And me all I can think about was my new white shoes my new white pants my new white shirt. But then I remembered it did not really matter. I had more money. I could buy more clothes tomorrow. So I started laughing and cheering and then someone yelled in the microphone Welcome back from Iraq! And then a woman was saying I will give you a ride home tonight. And then we were parked in front of my house kissing. And then I passed out on her chest drunk. Done. She woke me up Maybe we should do this another night? Yeah. I went inside passed out again and dreamed of an explosion. Dude what is wrong? my brother said as he sat up wide-eyed. I passed out again and then the phone began ringing. They are trying to call me. They are trying to call me I began screaming. I had a cigarette and passed out again. Then it was morning and my grandmother was the one leaning towards me saying Here's some orange juice. 17 days to go. Nine months along. Where is home now? Is it back there where my wife Stephanie recorded this video of my three kids on my birthday? Or is it here where I watch it?  Is home the place where the kids grow so steadily that it is invisible? Or here where I notice it in increments like a distant relative? Dear son the weather this weekend has been glorious. The leaves are all turning color no wind the temperature's in the upper 60s low 70s. Are there any other signs of fall in Iraq except the more reasonable temperatures? Your loving mom and dad. Dear mom and dad it is still 100 degrees here. The leaves are not turning color. Love Ralph. Hi love I love you. Well today I have spent in vacation research craziness. I found flights to Florida and hotel and resort packages for January. Would you rather a hotel or a condo? Meals included or not? Disney or Universal? Thoughts? Stephanie Corey As long as I get to spend all the time with you and the kids we can do it in a bungalow upside-down for all I care. Do need a heated pool. Your choice on all. Hugs Ralph Wester. OK. I stayed up two extra hours to get all the details straight for you so you could be part of making a decision on our trip. I know you are making lots of decisions over there and I should not bother you with this. It is just I have been making all the decisions here for 10 months by myself. When I called home the last time Laura told me she would just come back from taking our two daughters to the sports bar we would go to every Friday afternoon when I was there. It was a tradition of ours. And it moved me that she would done this. But then Laura was saying that our four-year-old daughter who has Down's Syndrome began vomiting all over herself at the table. And our eight-year-old daughter kept saying Gross gross gross. And the waitress was horrified. And she could not find enough napkins. People all over the restaurant were looking away and covering their mouths. When I got home I ended up in Las Vegas at the Sweethearts' Wedding Chapel with my girlfriend of two years getting married as her mother listened in on a cell phone. I spent like 5000 ring not included much of it at the Bellagio. The penthouse suite. It is like 500 or something dollars a night. We stayed for two. And then it was time to go. It was worse than leaving the first time. I went home and as glad as I was to be there my heart sank when I saw my 17-year-old son Joey was driving around in a truck that had 160000 miles on it. It was leaking oil and transmission fluid had a plastic bag taped over a broken-out window. So we go looking for a truck. And golly these cars are so expensive. The one we liked the most was at a Toyota place. It was a used grey Dodge 25000 miles on it. But the price was 17000. Only 17000 the salesman a little ball of energy had said. But there is no only about it. One night I was sitting out on the porch by myself and thinking about it. And I was thinking You know Randy if you do not make it back for whatever reason if you do not come back what will Joey have to drive if you do not get him something before you leave? I was alone on the porch and I went back and forth on it. Fix the old truck that I could afford. Or I could buy him something and be done with it. And at least when I go back to Iraq I will have a clear conscience that I did the right thing when I was home. So I bought him a 17000 truck. And let me tell you how I did this. This is great. This is how I surprised him. We find this truck and drive it and go away for a couple of days. I do all the paperwork while he is at school. Because I did it over the phone. I said Joey let us drive back up to the Toyota place and see if that truck's still there. He said There as not no need in going up there Dad. We cannot afford it. We already talked about it. It costs too much. I said Well let us go talk to him and let us go see if we can get him down to 15000 instead of 17000. So we pull up there and the truck's moved because they are getting it ready for me to pick it up. And we walk up to one of salesman. And that guy did not know me and I asked him about the truck. And he said Oh somebody came by this morning and bought it. Aw you should have Joey's face. I told you dad. I told you somebody bought it. And I said Well let us go inside and see. So we go inside and the little guy comes running up to me. He says Mr. Wadell how you doing? Blah blah blah. And I said So I hear you sold that truck today. And he said Yeah. We sold it to you. Joey looked at me and I said Oh yeah. You own that truck outside. It turned out well. In the first hours of my leave I walked through the Atlanta airport and could not look anyone in the eye. The businessmen on cell phones the families on vacation all of it was too strange. The normal abnormal Major Cummings called Iraq. But this was exactly the opposite. The abnormal normal. I kept my eyes down. I made my way to a connecting flight home and the girlfriend that I was not sure I knew how to talk to anymore. I am going home too. But unlike the others I am not coming back. Five months after carrying Sergeant Emory down the stairs in Kamalaya I could not do it anymore. This is my third deployment to Iraq. I have been here 34 months by my own count just over 1000 days. It does not matter to me anymore that I was one of 216's best soldiers. I need to go home. That is what combat stress said after I finally gave in and admitted that my thoughts had turned suicidal. So I am finished. Down to my final hours. Packed weaponless under escort. Waiting for the helicopter that'ill take me away to a wife who just told me on the phone I am scared of what you might do. You know I would never hurt you I said. Hung up and wandered around the base. Got a hair cut came back to my room where I am thinking But what if she is right? What if I snap someday? It is a thought that makes me feel sick. You spend 1000 days it gets to the point where it is Groundhog Day. Every day is over and over. The heat the smell the language. And I remember when it was not that way. I remember the initial invasion when it was not that way. I was in the front seat of the greatest movie I would ever seen in my life. I remember the firefights in my second deployment. I loved it. Any time I got shot at in a firefight it is the sexiest feeling there is. But this deployment I began to feel bad early on. I would get in the Humvee and be driving down the road and I would feel my heart pulsing up in my throat. And that was the start of it. And then Emory happened. Then Crow. And then I was in a succession of explosions. Then a bullet skimmed across my thighs. Then Doster happened. And then I was waking up thinking Holy  I am still here and it is misery. It is hell. I did not give a . I wanted it over as soon as possible whether they did it or I did it. The amazing thing is that no one knew. There was all this stuff going on pounding heart panicked breathing sweating palms electric eyes. And no one regarded me as anything other than the soldier I would always been. The one who never complained. Who hoisted bleeding soldiers onto my back. Who'd suddenly begun insisting on being in the right front seat of the lead Humvee on every mission. Not because I wanted to be dead but because that is what selfless leaders would do. And I was the great Sergeant Schumann who one day walked into the aid station went through the door marked Combat Stress and asked for help from James Tczap. And then I was on my way home. I remember what Tczap had told me. With your stature maybe you have opened the door for a lot of guys to come in. It made me feel really good. But I still felt awful yesterday when I told one of my team leaders to round up everyone in my squad. What did we do now? he asked. You did not do anything. Just get them together. They came into my room and I shut the door and told them I was leaving the following day. I said I do not even know what I am going through. I just know that I do not feel right. That is what I told them. That is why I am leaving. How long? one of them asked. I told them I did not know. I might not be coming back. And they rallied around me then. Shook my hand grabbed me by the arm patted me on the back saying whatever 19 and 20-year-olds could think of to say. Take care of yourself Drink a beer for me. I never felt so guilt-ridden in my life. Early this morning the rest of the squad drove off on a mission leaving me behind. After they disappeared I did not know what to do with myself. I went to my room turned up the air conditioner full blast. Started watching Apocolypse Now on my computer. I packed my meds. I left some beef jerky and smoked oysters packages of mac and cheese for the guys. Finally it was time to go to the helicopter. My stomach hurt as I made my way across the base. I felt myself becoming nauseated. At the landing area other soldiers from other battalions were lined up. And when the helicopter landed everyone was allowed to board except me. I did not understand. Next one's yours I was told. When it came a few minutes later I realized why I would had to wait. It had a big red cross on the side. It was the helicopter for the injured and the dead. And that was me. I was injured. I was dead. I was done. I was home now too. Sitting on my front porch since waking up in the dark to the sound of explosions. Just thunder I realized. So I went outside to see my first rainstorm in months. My wife said We are going to have to get the umbrellas out for the girls. And I wondered whether the umbrellas were still in the same place as when I left. At Rudina's the coffee shop where I like to go one of the regulars clapped me on the back and motioned to a friend Come on over me and meet Brent Cummings he said. He is just back from Iraq. He is a hero. I would sit on the porch and listen to the automatic lawn sprinklers that Laura had mentioned in an email that she was having installed. I would sit in the living room and listen to my daughters play the piano that Laura had mentioned she was thinking of buying. One day I said to Laura How much do you want to know? He hung up his uniform and I was just sitting on the bed watching him. And suddenly he started to cry. It is so stupid Laura. It is so stupid. That is all he kept saying over and over. I felt better after that. It was not the 18 days that Ralph would be here but the 400 days that he would not. It is boxes of Christmas decorations that I would hauled down from the attic and needed to put up. It is thickening ice on the sidewalk and steps and where in the world was the big bag of ice melter we bought last year? It is the lights flickering in the storm and where were the AA batteries for the flashlight in case the electricity went out? Here were the C batteries here were the AAAs but where were the AAs? The framed photograph of Ralph on top of the refrigerator also needed batteries to power the motion sensor that triggered the memory chip on which he would recorded a message so the kids would not forget his voice. Hey! What are you doing over there? I see you! I see you! He would recorded it trying to be funny after I said that his original message about how much he missed them might be too sad. And it worked. He got on a plane to go to Iraq and the kids came home and walked into the kitchen and heard him saying I see you. They went out and came back in. I see you. They woke up the next morning and came into the kitchen for breakfast. I see you. Every morning there he was. Even before I had coffee. I see you. I began ducking when I came into the kitchen. What could I do though? I could not turn the photo upside-down. I could not take the batteries out or cover the sensor or do anything that would seem disrespectful of the circumstances that had led to the buying of the frame and the recording of the message. I see you. I see you. I see you. I see you. And then one day the batteries ran out. And I meant to replace them but now it is months later and anyway they were probably AAs. And if I could find any AAs I would better put them in the flashlight because the storm is getting worse. In April when Ralph wrote to tell me that Jake Hadgemat died he did not go into detail about how. And when I wrote back I did not go into detail about painting Easter eggs with the kids. In July when the 216 was being attacked several times a day I did not dwell on my own drama that the kids and I were driving home from out of state and the car died. And in September I did not tell him much about the Colonel's wife who'd approached me and asked. How are you doing? I am doing OK. Are you sure? Yes. Are you sure? Yes. I am doing OK. No you are not. You are not doing OK. It would have been an uncomfortable conversation any time. But making it worse was the setting the memorial service for the three soldiers. And what am I supposed to say? I am sick of being a single parent? I am sick of not having sex? Is that when I say? That life sucks? Instead I keep anything like that to myself. I was not going to tell a colonel's wife that. And I am not going to tell Ralph who I am sure needs me to be nothing other than upbeat. Just like there is no way I am going to tell him how much work these videos are.  That the boys prefer to be watching TV or playing with friends. That no one would say anything and I had to prompt them with whispered commands. I will not tell him about the branch that just missed the car or the way I attack the ice on the sidewalk with a hammer and a knife because I could not find the melter. I will not tell him that before I could find a moment to write him the night had been a parade of footsteps and flushing toilets and coughs. And me trying to soothe our little anxious boys by saying Good night my handsome men. I hate this war and what it has done to my life. I will not tell him that either. Instead at 1244 AM exhausted I write Hi love. Well guess who loves you? Me and A J and G. I hope you enjoyed the pictures I sent earlier. Quite a remarkable storm. He will be home in January. He is due to leave Baghdad in 16 days. I am worried about January. Who will he be? I am proud of you I write him. Your wife Stephanie. Excerpts from David Finkel's great non-fiction book about the Iraq War The Good Soldiers. The excerpts were read by actors Michael Chernus Fran Tarr Patch Dara Danny Barbone John Ellison Conley Eric Menel Alec Beard Wendy Door and Connie Britain.  Coming up when the question in the war becomes What would Carol Brady do? That is one short minute away from WBEZ Chicago and Public Radio International when our program continues. Welcome back. I am Nancy Updike sitting in for Ira Glass. He is out reporting a story a great story. He will be back next week. It is This American Life. And we have a theme this week like we do every week. Today's is Will They Know Me Back Home? Two stories about war and after war. This second story has stuck in my head for six months. Last summer I was in Iraq with another reporter Larry Kaplow and our interpreter was a woman named Sarah. Usually the interpreter in a radio story is just a voice when they are on the air not a full-fledged person. But after the Iraq show we put together aired we got more mail about Sarah than about almost anyone else in the show even though her own personal story was on the air for less than a minute. Sarah makes an impression. And it is partly because who she was before the war still comes through. This warm chatty housewife raising her two boys getting up every morning and putting on clothes that will be familiar to anyone who is ever spent the whole day at home. Track suit. And pajamas. And then a uniform. The uniform was an American military uniform. And Sarah's laughing because she can still barely believe the arc of her life over the last seven years. She was part of the same grueling period of the war that the soldiers in David Finkel's book faced. In fact her story overlaps with their time in Iraq almost exactly. But unlike them she not only was not a soldier she would never worked outside her home in her life. And she went from that into the middle of one of the most violent stretches of the war. So Sarah's story the story you are about to hear is about an ordinary woman with no heroic ambitions who took on a role for which she was the unlikeliest of candidates and thrived in it. Before the war Sarah's marriage was unhappy. She is blunt about it. And the war made it worse. By the end of 2006 Sarah and her family had been bombed out of their house-- they were Sunnis driven out by Shiite militias-- and militia members had taken over her husband's car repair business. The family had to rebuild from nothing. They were broke and sometimes hungry including the kids Mustafa 16 years old and Becker who just turned 10. The streets were dangerous but someone needed to get a job. And Sarah and her husband were arguing all the time. Sometimes I was really you know try to clear his scary vision. He was so scared from the-- I do not blame him. It was a hard time for everyone. But many of the fathers go every morning outside and they work and they come back to their houses safe. So I was talking with him like Hey I am here to support you. You have to work. You have to go bring money or food for your boys. We are all in very hard time. Not only us all Iraq. So you have to go outside. He said You want them to kill me? Really I had many arguments with my husband. I really-- when I get upset I raise my voice. And he was raising his voice more than I raise my voice. Sarah had gotten married at 19. And like I said she would never worked outside the home at her husband's insistence. For her this was part of the bitterness at the core of their marriage. He would pressured her to drop out of college with only one year to go after promising before they would married that he would let her finish. Work was always out of the question. Until now. A new opportunity suddenly came up. American soldiers happened to hear Sarah's younger son Becker speaking English and they asked where he would learned it which was from his mother. Sarah has an ear for languages. She studied German in college. But she would learned some English in school too. And she built it up watching movies listening to American music. The Americans asked Sarah's husband to send her in. They needed interpreters. This was 2007 four years into the war and interpreters were targets for Al Qaeda and other Sunni militants and for Shiite militias. Sarah was terrified. But the family needed money. So she took the test and was offered a contract. Starting salary 1150 a month. Enough for the family to live on and build up savings again. That was the good part of the contract. The contract said 27 days in the camp and then four days vacation. So it is a very long time for me to leave my kids alone in the house. So you would be living on the base with the Americans for 27 days and then get 4 days at home? You could not commute back and forth and see them at night even? No no no. I really worried about this item in the contract. But I start work with them and I found myself in a room smaller than this one alone and I spend only one night and then I want to quit the next morning. I wanted to take my bag and run away to my house. Because each time I hear the American soldiers in the bath laughing and talking I said What am I doing here? This is not my place. My place with my boys in the house. How can I just bear 27 days without seeing my kids? And then one of the Iraqi interpreters he saw me so confused. And I told them this is the first day for me. I want to quit. I want to leave. So he says this is normal thing. We all felt the same way you feel now. So just relax and give yourself time. Picture a woman in her late 30s with a wide face. Five foot three but solid not fragile. Huge smile. Now wearing fatigues bulletproof vest medic bag wrap-around shrapnel-resistant glasses and a helmet 40 pounds of gear. Sarah is her nickname. All Iraqi interpreters pick nicknames. The fewer people who know their real names the better. She picked Sarah. It is easy to pronounce in English and in Arabic. Sarah was an interpreter for Alpha Company 177 but she did more than just interpret. She gathered key information that became intel for the unit. Remember this was the surge. Baghdad was on the edge of all-out civil war and the surge plan was to send US military outfits like Alpha Company out into the middle of dangerous areas with constant IED and sniper attacks to try and stabilize them. Alpha Company landed in southwest Rashid. At the time it was a confusing churn of different militias including the powerful Mahdi Army the Jaish al-Mahdi who were trying to control the area. Kidnapping and killing were common. And the only way for the Americans to fight was to get tips from informants ordinary local people who were frightened all the time. Of the militias of the Americans. Sarah's job was to try to convince these frightened people to talk. Her new boss Captain Bill Higgins-- he is actually now a major-- gave her an assignment. Call up this guy. He does not want to talk but just try. Try to talk with him. Try to ask him about the neighborhood. And I called him and I talked with him. I am Sarah. I am working with the Americans. You know these things. And I ask him about the neighborhood his neighborhood. And he starts to give me his real name his job all the information about the bad guys in his neighborhood. So when I told the captain after I finished my call he was really surprised. He said Sarah we tried with him since six months. Tried to get even his name. And he refused to give it to us. This is something unbelievable. It was the first time for me to recognize and realize that there is other things I can do in addition to be a housewife a good housewife. I start to feel all this energy inside me all these good things inside me. So yes there is something else. I can do it. And within the right way. Major Higgins told me it really was unbelievable how good Sarah was at getting people to open up to her. They trusted her. They liked talking to her. Major Higgins felt that way. Sarah was approachable sympathetic funny and unexpected. Like running into your favorite sister or aunt in a war zone. Even though she was dressed in fatigues as soon as she started talking it was clear to people that she knew their world and she knew them. She used to be them. Let us see I spent 17 years in the kitchen making food for the family and guests all the time. So this is you know a big step for me to get out from all these things to a new world. It was really a hard seven months in my life and the most wonderful seven months in my life. Sometimes we cannot sleep for days working all the day and night. Talking with the sources get information make plans raid houses. Sarah's world flipped. Everything that had seemed overwhelming in the beginning became normal. Militias informants raids IEDs gunfire dead bodies and working around the clock. 27 days in a row of this. And then four days off. And not even fully off. She gave trusted informants or sources her personal cell phone number. She found herself struggling to get back into the quiet rhythm that used to be her whole life. Making meals cleaning the house being a wife a sister a mom. Many times-- believe me and I am really sorry to say that I do not want to hurt anyone-- many of the times they are talking and my mind thinking of this source. I have to call him and talk with him. Try to take more information. I forgot to ask this informer about this thing. And I have to ask him. So you were thinking about work while your relatives are talking about their lives and-- Yes. Yes. Man