I have known Kristy a few years. And she is been going through a rough time. When her boyfriend dumped her she wanted to do something. She was not over him. And she had all these feelings. And it is hard to just sit there. And she thought about standing outside of his window and serenading him. She is a singer. That is her job. She sings. But she actually had tried serenading a guy once. That really did not work out. I would like to say as a woman I believe there is a serenade double standard. Where it is kind of OK for a man to go throw a rock at a window but when a woman does it it is sort of like call the police. There is a singersongwriter on my lawn. Kind of like you are a crazy person. Yeah. And she did not want to be a crazy person right? She did not want to stalk him. She did not want to bother him. But like I say she had all these feelings. So she wrote him a letter every day that she did not send. And she started collecting stuff that she knew that he would like. And she kept it. She just kept it in a box underneath her bed. She is also got food for him in her freezer these pastries that he likes that she saw and could not help buying for him. And she knows that he does not want to get any of this stuff from her. So what is she collecting this stuff for? She has no idea. Finally she figured out a way to reach out to him that she thought might be appropriate. He was a prankster. He loved pranks. Including phone pranks. And so Kristy explained to me that as she would drive around the country from one music gig to the next she tried to do something that she thought would talk to that part of his personality. I started writing his number on bathroom walls across the United States. What? Yeah I started writing on bathroom walls Ladies please help me out. I really want my man back. Please call-- and then I put his number. And tell him his chalupa really misses him. And then I wrote Say your city and state please. I see. Because you knew that he does not want to see you so you do not want to be calling him. That would be clearly out of bounds. Right. That is how I cleared myself of that by having other women call and text him. Is it possible though if he does not want to hear from you that this is even worse? Well and that is eventually what happened. Two months later I received a very cold dry text. I hope you are doing OK. But please knock it off with the bathroom walls. Desist with this. Yeah. So Kristy tried a more constructive route. She started to learn these sad old country songs Floyd Tillman and Hank Williams. And she formed a cover band to play them that she calls The Town Criers-- get it? Town Criers-- in Denton Texas where she lives. I asked her to send me one of those songs and they are really really sad.  All of the stuff that Kristy has done since the breakup-- recording this music playing the prank buying all that stuff for her boyfriend-- she says she just cannot help herself. She still has feelings and she just has to act. I was raised that you can always get what you want out of life you just have to work hard. And my dad never really explained to me that that did not apply to love. Well today on our radio program we hear people try all kinds of things work hard in all kinds of ways for love. Including I have to say a few ways that I bet you have never heard of. And they do it because they just can not stop themselves. Like every country song ever written would tell you they have got no choice. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. It is a special Valentine's Day edition of our show What I Did For Love. I am Ira Glass. Stay with us. Kristy Kruger. Act One The Best Laid Plans. When you hear what this first couple did for love I think one of the things that is most incredible about it is the kind of couple they were when they did it which is a really great couple. We were always like the most solid of all the relationships of our friends and everything like that. Kurt Braunohler met his girlfriend on the third day of college. And in all of the ways that we think of what makes for a good relationship I think that they were doing better than you or me or most people. They had a lot of fun together. They could talk about anything. They did not really fight. Happy sex life. We really just got along very well together. We traveled well together. We were the place that friends would come when they are having hard times and they would stay with us. It felt like very adult. Even when I was 23 it felt like I am kind of married even though neither of us had ever ever discussed getting married. So what happened? Well after we had both turned 30 one day I just kind of was thinking about why we had never talked about getting married. We had never ever talked about it seriously or otherwise. And whenever anyone would ask us we would always just kind of brush it off and say oh we will get married when we have kids. That is what we would always say. And I remember we were sitting in the living room and it was October. And I just said hey I want to talk. And I said why do you think we have not gotten married yet or even talked about it? And she just kind of like looked at me and thought for a second. And then she said well I think that before we get married we should probably sleep with other people. And you would imagine that that would come as a huge shock to me like hit me hard. But for some reason it made sense to me. I was like OK very calmly. And I guess the reason-- Wait wait. How did that make sense? I have thought a lot about this. And I think that there is a few reasons. We both had this kind of arrogant notion of our relationship that it could survive literally anything. We had known each other our whole adult lives. We were each other's world. So really I do not think we thought that we could destroy this thing. I talked to the girlfriend who did not want to come on the radio. And she said basically that she had only had two boyfriends in her life her high school boyfriend who was not a good boyfriend at all and Kurt who was great. But she met Kurt she said when she was 17. She was 30 when this happened. And she said that she felt like maybe she missed out on something in her twenties experiences that other people had. And she did not want to regret that. A warning I should say before we go any further in this story. We are going to acknowledge the existence of sex between adults. Nothing explicit. So they sat on the couch and they talked this through. The next part of that conversation was the logistics. Do we break up? Do I move out? Do we just do this while we are living in the same house together? And we kind of came up with this idea of borrowing this Amish concept called rumspringa. And rumspringa in the Amish world is when you are 16 you are allowed to be not Amish for two years. And then when you turn 18 you decide whether or not you come back to the fold. And during those two years kids get drunk. They sleep around. They try drugs. They do lots of meth. They do lots of stuff. So we decided to have a rumspringa from our relationship. And that is the other crazy thing is that we decided that 30 days was enough. Because probably within 30 days sleeping with other people we will get that all out of our system in 30 days. It turns out it is really difficult to all of a sudden become single at 31 when you have never been single for your entire life. Because all of a sudden I am in New York City and I am single. And I essentially have the emotional tools of a 17-year-old boy. Because the last time you had dated you were 17. The last time I dated I was in a dorm room. Also it was not like I was single in New York City. Because being single in New York City is I think the majority of it is being just very lonely and being on your own. Whereas this was very different. I was in a race. I was in a 30-day race to sleep with as many people as I possibly could. Because after 30 days I was going to go back and then get married. So there is a time clock ticking. Every single-- it was almost to the minute where I would just be like if I was not out somewhere trying to meet someone I was like this is wasted time. I am wasting my time right now. And also because of the fact that we were both-- my girlfriend and I were both very competitive with each other that we did not speak during that 30 days. But I think in both of our minds we had a competitive nature of being like I need to sleep with more people than she does. And I think she felt the same way. That is true. She did feel that way. I asked her. So before they started the rumspringa they took a last romantic trip together to New Orleans over New Years. And they had a great time. And then on January 3 after they both cried a bit Kurt moved out for a month. So suddenly single at 31 time clock ticking where do you start? Well Kurt called this woman that he knew just a little bit and had a date on the very first or second night. He cannot remember which it was. And at dinner he told her the entire situation. He laid the whole thing out that he was seeing somebody they were taking this break to sleep around. And this was a rule that he made for himself that he was always going to be honest with any woman that he met during this month. He was going to be honest up front. And that is the weird thing. That is the thing that I still kind of when I think back on this time that I do not understand. Like I do not understand how these women that I met during that time heard this story and were like OK let us continue with this date. What would they say? I think most of them the overwhelming response was like wow and I cannot believe you are telling me this. Kurt was staying on a futon on a friend's living room floor for the month in this apartment where there was no door between the living room and the bedroom where his friend was sleeping. And he brought this woman back on the first date. And they made out a little bit. And then they set another date. I think it was probably for the next night or the nine after something like that. And what happens? What do you mean? What happens on the date? I guess I mean do you sleep with her? Since the whole point of this story is you are trying to sleep with-- Yes. I mean suddenly I felt very modest about asking. But yeah no. Yes we ended up sleeping together. Yeah. Yeah. It was amazing. It was yeah totally turned my head around. It really did feel like having experiences like I would imagine I would have had as a teenager. Where sex was this very powerful thing and it kind of overwhelmed you. A day or two after that he picks up a woman at a bar something he had never done before in his life. And he goes home with her. And from there he is off and running. But remember he has the emotional tools of a 17-year-old. I was emotionally getting involved with these women. And that was against one of our rules that we had come up-- my girlfriend and I had had a rule saying no relationships. We do not get into relationships with people. We are just going to go out and sleep with people to see what it is like. Oh I see. But you did not actually know how to just go out and sleep with somebody without getting emotionally involved. Not at all. I mean the first date I went on I immediately was like head over heels for her. And I knew her for six hours. And I did not know how to date. I did not know how to date casually. So what I really was doing was just acting like a person who had been in a 13 year relationship with these women that I had just met. Like how does that mean? What do you mean? Immediately holding hands. I remember that I would-- my impulse would be to say I love you during sex. That would be my impulse because that is the only way I was used to having sex. And I remember the first time that I did end up having sex I started to say I love you and then just kind of swallowed it and made it seem like I was coughing. And that did not happen just once. Kurt says it was just a month of incredibly intense feelings. He would feel this crazy elation or he would find himself walking down the street weeping. The girlfriend told me that she meanwhile is having escapades of her own. She would be out all night drinking and dancing going to exclusive clubs with Mexican high rollers doing crazy things with European tourists. It was just what she wanted actually. And both of them told me that the weirdest thing about that time was that the person that they wanted to talk to most about what was going on and share it with was each other. But of course they were not speaking. Kurt says that one of the most amazing thing to him that was kind of a revelation during that time was something-- I have never actually heard anybody talk about it aloud but I totally related to this-- was how quickly he would find himself in the home of a complete stranger. Yeah I had never gotten to see other people's apartments so much. That is what I kind of was fascinated by getting to see all these different people's apartments and seeing how everyone lives. And I loved that. I loved that part of it so much. I was like look at this. Like I am seeing this is all your stuff. This is the stuff you keep on your bedside table. And also having like really weird experiences I would never had before. Of like women picking me up I had never experienced that before. I was so confused because it was a bartender. She was a bartender. So she just kept giving me drinks free drinks. And I was like why is she giving me all these free drinks? But it is fascinating to see if you stay at the bar until 400 in the morning then all a sudden-- I had never been aware of it before. But then all of a sudden looking around me like oh all these people are pairing off. Look at how this happens. I would been at bars until 400 in the morning but I was always-- it is all of a sudden uncovering this whole level of single life in New York City that I just had not been aware of before. Anyone in New York City I feel like can have sex any night of the week if they just follow two rules which is stay at the bar until 400 in the morning and dramatically lower your standards. So after a month Kurt and his girlfriend get together and talk. And they agreed that a month was not enough for this. They both said it was just obvious the experiment had not run its course. They both wanted more time. So they decide on a second month which then becomes a third month. And for Kurt as time went on it got harder and harder to stick with the rule that they had made of not getting into any relationships. He was just muddling about how to figure out how to do that. In his head he would think when is something actually a relationship? And I think in my head I was like three dates. Three dates makes a relationship. That is what I defined. And so then I would try to not see people more than three times. That was increasingly difficult. It was difficult because he was giving women two opposite messages at the same time. He would tell them that he just taking a month's break from his real relationship and this is not serious. But then he did not hold back any of his feelings. What I felt like kept happening was that I would act like I wanted to be their boyfriend. And then after three dates would just abruptly end it with no explanation whatsoever. And definitely people would yell at me and call me names. And I feel-- to this day I feel-- I feel horrible about that. Because I was just I was acting like a crazy person. I was acting like a person with absolutely no boundaries. Still it was hard to stop himself while it was going on. And when we talked about it Kurt's best explanation for that was-- When I was a kid I had a dog. And one day the cat knocked a five-pound bag of sugar off onto the floor. And my dog was about nine pounds. He was a toy poodle. And he ate all five pounds of sugar in one day. And then he was sick for three days afterwards. But I always think about that day for him how amazing that day must have been where like eating all of that sugar and eating it. And then going away from it for a little while and being like I cannot stop when is this going to happen again? And then he just started vomiting and vomited for three straight days. And that is how I felt. I knew this was bad. But I was like when is this ever going to happen again? I asked Kurt's girlfriend if all this happened to her during the rumspringa too. If it was hard just to have sex without emotion entering into it at all. And she said absolutely not. Quote You mean dudes that I meet at bars or parties or whatever those people? She said I did not tell anyone anything about my background or the situation. And I asked her wait. So you would not explain I am on a break from a relationship. She said no because it sounds crazy. I told her that Kurt would reveal all of that which she knew. And she said yeah yeah Kurt's way too open. But quote That openness probably just made him more appealing to the ladies. By the end of three months Kurt started to fall for this woman that he met in Australia. And this time really actually fall for her in a real way. And this made him of course feel differently about his relationship with his girlfriend. So he flew back to the States stayed at their old apartment. And because this is the most comfortable relationship that has ever existed between two people of course they dealt with it all right away very straightforward. And we woke up in the morning and we went and got brunch. And we brought it to the park the way we had always used to do on Saturdays. And we just sat in the park and talked and we broke up. And that is the thing. I cannot point to something that was bad about our relationship. Except for knowing that I feel like it had run its course. We organically got to the point where we both thought this was a good idea. This the rumspringa? It is almost like the relationship had an expiration date but we did not know about it. And then all of a sudden we came up with this really complicated crazy plan to put the test on it at the right place where it would break. And it broke. His old girlfriend said something similar. She said she had probably wanted out of the relationship before the rumspringa but she was just too scared to admit it to herself. The rumspringa gave them a way to break up. They still are very very close. They talk a few times a week. Kurt says he would not want to do a rumspringa again. But he came out of this experience believing that it is important to force things to a decision with someone. And that it is healthy for any relationship to be evaluated now and then. I do have a theory now. I do have a theory about if I do get married in the future. What I think I would want to do is have an agreement that at the end of seven years we have to get remarried in order for the marriage to continue. But at the end of seven years it ends. And we can agree to get remarried or not get remarried. Why? Because I think you get to choose and I think it would make the relationship stronger. I do not know what I think of that. Because I think actually one of the things that is a comfort in marriage is that there is not a door at seven years. And so if something is messed up in the short-term there is a comfort of knowing well we made this commitment. And so we are just going to work this out. And even if tonight we are not getting along or there is something between us that does not feel right you have the comfort of knowing we have got time. We are going to figure this out. And that makes it so much easier. Because you do go through times when you hate each other's guts. You know what I mean? Of course you do. Yeah. And the no escape clause weirdly is a bigger comfort to being married than I ever would have thought before I got married. Really? Yeah. I had never thought of it that way. I like thinking about it that way you just see so many examples of where people do not think that way. Both Kurt and his girlfriend feel like the rumspringa got them where they needed to go as a couple. Even if that place was different than they intended when they began the whole thing. Sometimes what you need to do next as a couple you cannot even tell what it should be. The best you can do is hold your breath make a guess and jump.  Coming up love stories between a kid and someone who is not a kid and a duck and someone who is not a duck. And Jeanne Darst and someone who is not Jeanne Darst. That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. Today on our program for Valentine's Day What I Did For Love. Stories about people who believe in love and do all kinds of things for love. We have arrived at Act Two of our program. Act Two 21 Chump Street. Last year at three high schools in Palm Beach County Florida a bunch of young police officers were sent undercover to pose as students. These were recent graduates of the police cadet program. And they blended right in. They went to classes. They ate in the cafeteria. The hung out on the basketball court during recess. They had fake Facebook accounts of course. They even took the state's standardized test the FCAT. Police officers were there undercover because parents and principals had complained about drugs being sold at the schools. Only the principals at the schools knew of their presence. No teachers knew it no parents knew it. Now maybe it is hard to imagine a love story coming out of this situation but one did. A love story where somebody went out of his way and took action at a key moment for love. Robbie Brown tells what happened. The plan was called Operation D Minus. And one of the schools included in the plan was Park Vista Community High School where a kid named Justin Laboy an 18-year-old honor roll student was in the last semester of his senior year. And Justin could hardly believe his luck when a very pretty new girl-- everyone had noticed her-- showed up in not just one but two of his classes. The name that she used was Naomi. I think it was Naomi Rodriguez. And she sat in front of me but then I sat next to her. So I started talking to her. Oh hey my name is Justin you know. Oh I am Naomi. I am from New York this and that. Oh really? Me too. And I had a hat that said New York on it too because I was trying to show her that I was not lying or faking it. She said she was from Queens. I am from the Bronx. And she was Puerto Rican and Dominican. And that is what caught me even more. I was like oh man. OK. And I was Puerto Rican. And I was talking to her a little Spanish. She talked to me in a little Spanish. And then I just got really close to her. I got attached real quick. I was like wow look at this. What did she look like? She was about 5' 4 black straight hair light-skinned. She was mature body-wise so that caught a lot of people's attention. But the things that she did that I thought made her a real student was that she would sleep in class. She would not do her homework. I would have to wake her up all the time be like hey listen wake up. You are going to get in trouble. Hey oh you did not do your homework? OK I will let you copy my homework. Because I mean I take my classes seriously. But with her it was different. I was just like oh man you know? Wow you know she is cute. I could talk to her. I would get in trouble once in a while. It would be like Justin stop talking. OK. Justin's a good-looking guy popular and well-liked. He would had girlfriends before but nothing that lasted. Nothing that seemed worth holding on to. But Naomi seemed different. She was a good listener. She did not seem to gossip or play games. She seemed very adult. It is the maturity level that I really cared for. I told her a lot of my feelings. I told her how I felt for her. I mean I am not the type of person to open up to you unless we have a really good relationship. And I was just opened up so much. I told her about my whole life story about my parents. I told her problems I had. What was it about her that made you trust her? That made you feel like you could open up to her? She had told me that she came up here with her mother. That they was having problems in New York so they came over here to Florida to settle down to have a better life. And little stuff like that telling people I believed that oh wow. OK since you are telling me stuff like this then I can tell you about my life. Yeah I am having hard troubles with this person right here. Or I am having trouble with my parents. Little stuff like that makes people bond together. Justin believed he was seeing the signs that Naomi was starting to like him. Like him like him. They walked together in the halls. They would text during class. He says she even let him kiss her on the cheek. And he serenaded her in front of their entire class. I would be like oh I am going to sing you a song. She would be like oh OK. And then I would just start singing. And then I will get all blushed up. And be like oh man what am I doing? OK let me continue. I will start rapping to her and then I started singing. And I mean I even danced too. So I danced for her and I-- You really liked this girl. Man it tore me apart. I was like oh my god. So you felt like all the signs were good? Oh of course. I felt all the signs were good because I never got a non-sign. So therefore I was just like OK everything's good. I know I am taking it slow. I know I am taking it good. Usually it does not take me that long to get a girlfriend when I start talking to them. So when it took me-- I found it kind of odd. I was like wow I am such a great dude. And we are hanging out. What is the next step? I do not care about sex and everything. I just want to know if you are going to be mine. So she was playing kind of hard to get? Yes. I mean me I love that. So it attracted me even more. I love girls that guys cannot have. So I am like this is awesome. And in hindsight she was probably playing hard to get for a different reason. Yes for a different reason. All of this built up inevitably to Justin asking Naomi to prom. She is a senior I am a senior. Our last year I do not know where we are going to be after this. So let me just step up and be a man and do what I got to do. So I went up to her in class. And I was like listen I know you do not know anybody in this school that much. And I do not want to go to anybody in this school. And I feel really attracted to you. Would you like to come with me to prom? Oh that sounds nice. OK. Excuse me let me think about it. I was blushing red. I was like oh my god what if she says no? What if she says yes? And after she gave me the OK yeah around the more of a yes side I was OK. I was good. Good. You know prom was coming up. And I guess he needed a date. I interviewed the undercover officer who played Naomi. She is a 25-year-old new recruit with the Palm Beach School's police force. She would not give me her real name and only agreed to a phone interview if her supervising sergeant could listen in. She would not talk to me about any specific cases or kids at the school including Justin. But she did confirm that she was asked to prom. She does not remember it quite the way Justin does though. Mainly she says she did not say yes. I told him I was not going just because since this is not where I spent the last three years of high school I did not really want to go to the prom. And I had to pay for the ticket and everything else. I was like no it is too much money for me. And he bought it. Justin and Naomi did not end up going to prom of course. Partly because of what happened next. One day at the beginning of April after Naomi had been at school for about three months she and Justin had a conversation about drugs. She asked me if I smoked. And I told her no I do not smoke. But if you need anything I will be more than happy to help you out. So like I said I am not a drug dealer. It is hard for me to get drugs at all. So it is not like she told me this day and then I got it for her the very next day. It took me a while you know? She would text me and I would text her. She would be like do you have it yet? No I do not have it at the moment right now. And she would be at school hey do you have that yet? No I do not have it right now. I am sorry. I am sorry I am sorry. I am really trying. My heart is to get it and I cannot get it. Because I liked the girl. What are you thinking as you are trying to get this pot to sell to her? I am thinking what the heck am I doing? Like I had never done this in the school before. So I am really scared and skeptical about it too at the same point. And I am like oh man. OK. So I am asking my home boy. And my friend is like no-- I do not know. Because I do not hang out with guys like that. Maybe Justin did not know guys like that and maybe he did. The police say he told Naomi he smoked pot. Justin says he was just trying to seem cool to impress her. But what is certain is he did find somebody who would sell to him a person his cousin knew he says. So a couple days after they first talked about it Justin brought a rolled up baggie of marijuana to school for Naomi. And I was petrified. I was like oh my god. I am actually going to do this. So we were in class. And I sat right next to her. And she was like hey do you have that? And I was like you know what? Yeah I do. And I was like OK we are going to wait a few. Because I am not going to be like oh hey give it to her in her hand slide it. But she was like OK put it in my purse. OK. She put her purse on top of my desk. And then I slid it right in there. She goes OK now take the money. I was like no I do not need the money. It is OK. Just have it. You can take it. She goes no please take the money. You make me feel bad. So 10 minutes passed. And then we are still arguing about it. I am like please. No I do not want the money. And she goes no just take the money. Take the money. Please take the money. It will make me feel better. I am just like OK you know what? Just so you could just shut up I will take the money. Do not worry. You are making me feel bad now that I am taking the money from you. How much money? 25. And this was at school? Yes. Justin would later find out it is a felony in Florida to sell marijuana. And the penalty is even harsher for selling it on school property. In other words Justin had made an irreversibly bad decision. The worst decision of his life he says. And since he was over 18 he was legally an adult when he made it. Finally in May the police did a big sweep. They arrested 31 people at several schools almost all of them students who had sold small amounts of marijuana. Justin was one of them. And they said that I had sold to the undercover cop. And I am weirded out. I am like whoa. Who did I ever sell to? And then it just popped into my head that the only person that I ever did give anything to was this female. And I was shocked. My emotions were running. I was just like oh my god. This is so mean. This is so messed up. How can she do this? I mean if it was a guy doing this if a guy ever tried to come up to me like this I would have put my hand in his face straight up and said no get out of my face. Please get out of my face. I do not associate with that. But it is just a female. It is a different feeling that you get for a female than you would when you have your home boy or a guy come up to you and ask you a question like that. Oh hey do you smoke? No no I do not. Get out of here. It was a different feeling that when you get from a girl you like. You are not going to turn down the person that you want to be with. When I talked to the officer who plays Naomi she said she had no regrets about her undercover work. She is a cop. And she sees it the way a cop does. These kids need to wake up. They need to realize they cannot be doing this. And using undercover officers has gotten results. The police in Palm Beach County tried the same tactics again at another group of schools last semester. So far they have arrested more than 80 people. All have pled guilty to charges ranging from selling cocaine and pills to bringing weapons on school property. Justin took a plea deal three years probation in exchange for pleading guilty to the felony charge. His lawyer told him that if he went to trial it would be his word against Naomi's. And they disagreed about the drug deal. He says she kept asking him to sell her marijuana. She says he brought it up first. He says she insisted he take money for it. She says he just took the money without prompting. Either way the police had Justin's text messages telling Naomi he would get marijuana f