Oscar was 31 working two jobs with three little kids and a fourth on the way. His living room in Framingham Massachusetts a Boston suburb was covered with toys and in the kitchen in a corner were some trophies that he won as a bull fighter as a teenager back in Guatemala where he grew up. He would been in the United States since he was 19 a dozen years. And then he had a strange phone call. A woman from the public prosecutor's office back in Guatemala was looking for him. Now he was in the United States illegally. And he worried could it be about that somehow? And then he spoke with this woman. Her name was Sara Romero and it had nothing to do with that. It was way stranger. She had been looking into a massacre that had happened back in the early 1980s out in the countryside in a tiny town during Guatemala's civil war. And she believed Oscar was one of the survivors. I was like confused. I did not know what she was talking about. She said I know you do not know much about it or you probably do not know anything about it because I was quiet. I was just listening to what she was saying. Clearly they have the wrong person Oscar thought. He had never been to the little town where this massacre happened. He grew up far away from there. He did not have any questions about his past. In fact he had a pretty idyllic childhood. Yes his mom had died when he was a baby. Yes his dad was killed in a truck accident when he was four. But his dad's mom his grandmother raised him comfortably. He felt loved. What Sara told Oscar was this. The massacre that she was investigating happen in 1982 when Oscar was three at a village called Dos Erres. More than 200 people were killed there Sara had spoken to several soldiers who were at the massacre and they told her that two boys had been spared. One of the boys the soldier said was taken by a lieutenant named Oscar Ramirez Ramos. That was Oscar's dad. If Sara's suspicions were right the man that Oscar thought was his father the man he had looked up to his entire life had stolen him from his biological family. His unit killed them and their entire village Dos Erres. Though Sara says when she first contacted Oscar-- I told him about the two boys. We felt getting into any specifics about the participation of his dad so as not to hurt his feelings. But I let him know that he could be one of the surviving boys. Well today on our radio show we have investigators trying to solve an unsolved murder of more than 200 people from the 1980s in a case that could potentially nudge the political climate of their entire country and finally hold military officials responsible for massacres that happened there. Just this week the former president of the country was indicted for genocide in this case. And at the center of the whole thing is a guy Oscar Ramirez who discovers that everything he thought about his past-- his dad who he really is-- is all a lie. Oscar's DNA the DNA of this guy in some Boston suburb becomes the final piece of evidence in this case. The idea is that if they could just prove with his DNA that he was stolen from Dos Erres they could link the lieutenant who raised him and his unit to this massacre. For the very first time they might bring high level soldiers and officers to justice for one of these massacres which had never been done in Guatemala. From WBEZ Chicago it is This American Life distributed by Public Radio International. I am Ira Glass. Our program today is a co-production with ProPublica and the Fundacion MEPI in Mexico City. It has taken months to report and research. It is truly an amazing heartbreaking tale that takes us deep inside some experiences that I think we all see headlines about that can often seem very far away and hard to imagine the reality of that as you will hear are not far away at all. We are devoting our entire program to it. Stay with us. OK before we dive into this story just a quick history review. Now I myself was the kind of insufferable politically correct person who was obsessed with Latin America back in the 1980s. I called Nicaragua Neek-ar-ah-wah and actually went to Nicaragua for a month during the fifth anniversary of the Sandinista revolution. I traveled in Guatemala during the civil war. You however might be what we call a normal person and did not do any of that. So to provide some context I turned to Kate Doyle who is testified as an expert witness in the trials of human rights abuses by senior military officials in Guatemala. She is a senior analyst at a watchdog group in Washington D.C. called the National Security Archive. The violence in Guatemala made the country an outlier because you do not have anything on the scale of what happened in that country in places like Peru or Argentina or Chile. And so when you talk about this I picture OK somewhere in the back of your mind there is a list of the ranking of most f'ed up countries in the region. Right. And is Guatemala number one? Guatemala is way up there. Give me the rankings. OK so number one f'ed up is? Honduras probably right now. Honduras? Honduras is bad. OK and then number two? Guatemala is pretty bad. Pretty bad going back decades. Starting in the 1960s small guerrilla groups challenged what was a corrupt and repressive government. There was also a broader movement calling for political rights land reform workers' rights. This always met with brutal violence. Reformers were assassinated. Civilian populations in the countryside were accused of harboring guerrillas and exterminated in the name of anti-communism. This violence peaked in the 1980s. These were essentially scorched earth operations. Soldiers would sweep through targeted areas. They were using plans drafted by the Army High Command. And they would essentially kill everything in sight. She says that what is amazing is the pattern. You see the same techniques again and again. A warning-- this description gets violent. A patrol would enter the community usually on market day when everybody was gathered. And they would immediately separate out the men from the women and children. And they would put them into some of the village's biggest buildings like the school or the church. And then the soldiers would proceed to destroy everything. They would burn the fields where the villagers grew their food. They would slaughter the animals. They would destroy the houses. They would burn them to the ground. They would bring the men then out and execute them. They would then take the women and the children. They would rape most of the girl children and the women. And then they would kill them. This happened in over 600 villages tens of thousands of people. A truth commission found that the number of Guatemalans killed or disappeared by their own government was over 180000. And unlike many other Latin American countries none of the soldiers and leaders who did all this were held accountable. Many of them transitioned into civilian government. Most of them continued to be very notable very prominent figures in Guatemalan society. For years the government denied the massacres happened at all. Even after a peace treaty with the rebels in 1996 a truth commission was set up but told specifically not to name names not to gather evidence for trials. No soldier or military leader was brought to justice for the massacres-- until Dos Erres and the investigation into what happened there. Several people were involved in reporting the story that you are about to hear. There is Sebastian Rotella and Ana Arana. There is our producer Brian Reed and Habiba Nosheen. Sometimes you are going to hear Brian in the tape. Habiba narrates this story. Here she is. When investigators started looking into the Dos Erres massacre in the '90s people trying to uncover the truth about that sort of thing were being killed like an anthropologist Myrna Mack who was trying to expose the details of the military's scorched earth campaign and then was stabbed 27 times by a member of the president's intelligence team. Or like in 1998 when a Catholic bishop headed a truth commission that concluded that the military was behind the vast majority of the atrocities during the civil war. Just two days after the report came out he was found bludgeoned to death with a concrete block in his garage. But none of this stopped a woman named Aura Elena Farfan when she first started looking into rumors of a secret grave at a place called Dos Erres. Aura looks like someone's grandmother. She is 72 years old with short graying hair. In 1984 a member of her family was disappeared. Aura suspected the military was behind it so she and her brother started looking into what happened. Two months later her brother vanished too. So Aura started an organization to investigate and bring these kinds of cases to justice. And that is how she came across the massacre of Dos Erres.  At the beginning of 1994 we received reports of bones being found just on the surface of the Earth. And in addition there were reports of a well. The well Aura heard had bodies inside of it. It was in the jungle located in what used to be the village of Dos Erres. In 1982 Dos Erres disappeared. One day the residents were there. The next day they were nowhere to be found. When Aura heard about the bones she put together a team of forensic anthropologists. She told my producer Brian Reed and me they trekked 7 and 12 miles into the jungle.  It was desolation. Overgrown weeds trees and bushes would cover us. We could not see each other. And because we could not see each other just by whistling or yelling we would call on each other. Do you remember the moment that you saw the well?  I remember it. It was sunk. It sank one meter or maybe more. It was three meters below. And then this tree was growing in the well. They began digging-- one meter two meters three meters. Nothing. Day after day they went back to the well. They invited the local public prosecutor. He came by looked into the well told them they would not find anything there but dog bones. Finally they hit four meters. A warning that the next minute or so gets very graphic and probably is not suitable if you are listening with small children. We were able to see the shirt of a small boy the bones inside. And that made us think that all the inhabitants of Dos Erres were there. So they kept digging. And they found more and more bones more and more bodies more and more clothing. They dug up shirts shoes hair pins heart-shaped earrings boots with silver spurs. In a video they shot at the time one of the anthropologists stands at the bottom of the well. It is about 40 feet deep. She looks exhausted. There is a tiny skeleton at her feet. . Just to think that they were thrown from that height into the well she says it is hard to even imagine it. It is hard to convince herself of these things. At the end of it all they found at least 162 bodies plus lots of incomplete remains. 67 of the bodies were victims under 12 years old. Their average age was seven. Aura and her team wanted to identify these bodies. So they took the remains to the center of the nearest town. They put them together as best they could into skeletons and laid them out. Alongside they placed the clothing they found in the well next to the body they thought each piece belonged to. Then they put out an invitation for the community to come and look. There is video of this all the bones and clothing spread out on a concrete floor. People filed by taking it all in. Some of them recognized clothing worn by their relatives and friends from Dos Erres.  But only 10 people came forward to specifically identify relatives. Most were still afraid to admit they knew anyone who had disappeared from Dos Erres. People still remembered how in 1982 right after the village vanished family members went to the army commander in the nearest town and asked what happened. This commander Lieutenant Carlos Antonio Carias said the guerrillas were responsible. The guerrillas had killed or taken everyone. But he also told family members that if they talked about the incident even asked about it they would die-- which just reinforced people's suspicions that the Army was probably behind it. So Aura put herself out there even more to try to get people to talk. She appeared on local media in the province they were in Peten.  Each time that we visited in Peten we took advantage of that moment to speak on the radio to speak on the TV to ask people that whoever knew something about Dos Erres to come forward. Why were you chuckling just then?  Because sometimes I think that I was too daring.  The life of Guatemalans does not cost a thing. It is not worth a thing. And just anything could have happened to us. Aura was worried about how members of the military might react when they heard her announcements. But she never expected the reaction she got from this guy.  I heard this. And I looked at my little children playing. And I decided I would do this so the same thing would not happen to them as happened to the children in the massacre at Dos Erres. Favio Pinzon Jerez is a former sergeant in the military. And after hearing Aura on the radio he got on a bus and took the 12-hour ride to Guatemala City. He walked into the UN office and told them he knew what had happened at Dos Erres because he had taken part in it. He did something no one soldier had ever done in Guatemala-- he confessed. Aura went to see Favio in Peten. A UN official trailed her to make sure she was safe.  We went to his house. We knocked on the door. His children were playing nearby around a table. He says Come in sit down. And so I told him I just come from the UN office. And they told me that you wanted to speak to me. He told me That is right. I wanted to talk to you because what I have right here in my heart I cannot stand it anymore. It is hurting me so much. That is how we talked for four hours. He told me everything that had happened. The story Favio told Aura was deeply upsetting. For nearly 15 years he would kept it a secret even from his wife. He told Aura what he and other soldiers had done at Dos Erres. Were you mad at him?  Of course I was. I did not want to shake his hand. Why did you not want to shake his hand?  Because I did not. It was not in me to shake his hand. After Favio confessed he convinced another soldier to do the same-- to confess in exchange for immunity. This soldier's name is Cesar Franco Ibanez. They are both in hiding now. We met them secretly at a hotel. The story they told us is disturbing. So again if you have children with you it is probably not appropriate for them. Also if you are sensitive to violence you may want to tune back in in about 15 minutes. Favio joined the military when he was 18. His dad worked for the Air Force and got him a job he says because he had nothing else to do. He eventually became an Army cook. And in 1979 the Army assigned him to a place called The Schools of the Kaibiles. The Kaibiles are an elite special forces unit. They refer to themselves as killing machines. The school is where they trained in jungle warfare like how to jump out of planes and moving vehicles. As part of survival training Favio says they ate raw snake and dog. He saw people being tortured. Favio says he tried to make it as a full-fledged Kaibil.  I just really only lasted about two weeks. My knees just could not take it. So that is when you went back to cooking?  Well actually I spent a week sleeping. And then I went back to cooking. In 1982 the president of Guatemala Efrain Rios Montt formed a secret ops unit of all the instructors at the school. These soldiers were the elite of the elite. Favio was their cook. And their job was to deploy on urgent missions all over the country. One of those was to Dos Erres. It was fall of that year and the Army had just suffered a humiliating attack from the rebels. Several soldiers had been killed. So commanders called up the special unit. Cesar the other solder we talked to told us the story. Unlike Favio Cesar has the bearing of a soldier. He is serious rarely smiles. They have the same interpreter.  They said that a unit from our brigade had been ambushed by the guerrillas and they had taken 21 rifles. At the time the military was waging its scorched earth campaign where they destroy any village they suspected of helping guerrillas even something as small as giving them some food. In this case officers told the unit that guerrillas were keeping the rifles in Dos Erres.  And they told us that our mission was to recover the 21 rifles that had been taken. And so the plan was we would go in in the dead of night for a surprise. Their strategy was to pretend that they were guerrillas. That would make it easier to sneak in. It would also make it easier to later blame guerrillas for this attack. So they disguised themselves. They wore green t-shirts camouflage pants and red arm bands. They rode in vegetable trucks that they car jacked off the highway. When they reached Dos Erres at 200 in the morning they found a quiet peaceful village. Too small in fact to even be a full village. Residents were still asleep. They were mostly small time farmers who grew beans corn and pineapples. Though when the Kaibiles arrived Cesar says they expected something different.  Well we were expecting that they were going to shoot at us because we thought that the people in Dos Erres were all communists. And so were expecting them to attack us. We were waiting for them to attack us with heavy armament. And it did not happen. Nobody shot at us. They split off into smaller groups including an assault group of the fiercest soldiers. Cesar says these were the soldiers who were normally in charge of capturing prisoners interrogating them and killing them. Psychopaths he called them.  This assault group was given the task of getting everybody out of their houses. They put the women and children in the church and the men in the school. And so when they had everyone together some of the women at the church began to scream for help. And they were raping them. They did not respect anyone. Both soldiers Cesar and Favio say this was the moment when the mission turned from recovering rifles to something darker. It started with a lieutenant who grabbed a girl and raped her in front of her family. And because he was one of the highest ranking officers other soldiers started doing it too throughout the day. Here's what Favio saw.  There was a girl about 12 years old. And a guy grabbed her by her hair and dragged her along. And there in the little field to the side that is where he raped her. One group of soldiers including Cesar was ordered to guard the perimeter of the village. People could enter but no one could go out. Others including Favio were ordered to start bringing people from the church and the school to a nearby well.  The first massacre was of a baby. I heard crying. And I looked. And I saw Gilberto Jordan and Manuel Pop Sun carrying the baby. They threw the baby alive into the well. And that is the way the massacre began. The first were the children. It was like an assembly line. One by one soldiers grabbed villagers blindfolded them and dragged them to the edge of the well. Along the way many of the women were raped. This is Cesar. He brought people to the well too.  And as they were brought to the well they were asked Where are the rifles? They said nothing about rifles. And they were hit on the back of the head with a sledgehammer and thrown in the well. Did they ensure that they were killed before they were thrown in the well?  No. People fell into the well. Then all of a sudden they reacted. They screamed. How many people did you bring to the well? Did you bring to their death?  About 15 around 15. Were you ever asked to kill anyone?  Yes when I took the first person to the well Lieutenant Rivera told me to throw the person in the well. He did it so that we would all be implicated in what happened. What would have happened if you said no?  They would have killed us. Incredibly one person managed to escape from all this. He was 11 years old. His name is Salome Armando Hernandez. And he did not live in Dos Erres. He and his brother showed up later in the morning to visit their uncle. By sundown the well was filled with bodies. And soldiers forced a group of women and children including Salome out of the church where they had been held put them in a line and led them to the forest. Some women carried their children. Some were pregnant. We talked to Salome in Guatemala City. He is 42 now.  All the women were resisting. They did not want to go. So the soldiers started pushing and beating them. I remember one of the women saying We are not dogs for you to kill us in the field. We know that you are going to kill us. Why do not you kill us right here? That is when I decided to run. Salome waited for a soldier to turn away. And then he sprinted into the woods. He ducked behind a tree trunk and hid. The soldier fired a shot in his direction. He fired again. Salome did not move.  I was very scared. I was trembling. And then I saw them gathering the women. And they took several steps back. And they started firing shooting the women. And you could hear all the women in mourning. They were screaming. And then you could still hear some of them wounded. But they were still alive. And after that you could hear some solid shots like they were killing them one by one the ones that were still alive. At the end of it all the entire village was wiped out. No rifles were ever found. Salome escaped. And according to Favio and Cesar this patrol of killers spared just two other people both young boys with light skin and green eyes. Three months later the second in command of the squad that wiped out Dos Erres Lieutenant Oscar Ramirez Ramos showed up at his mother's house with a three-year-old boy and a fake birth certificate. He introduced him to his family as his son. In 1996 the Dos Erres case landed on the desk of Sara Romero the assistant prosecutor who contacted Oscar. She was a rookie just a year out of law school. And she had almost no support from her own ministry. This is the same ministry that at one point had dismissed the remains at Dos Erres as dog bones. So the case was not exactly a priority for them. It was just Sara and one other colleague working it on their own. They had almost nothing to go on. They could not even prove the military was behind the massacre never mind which unit of the military or which members in the unit. So when Favio and Cesar came forward it was an unprecedented break. Sara's office had to create a witness protection program specifically for the two of them because before that they had not had any witnesses to protect.  The next step was to confirm all the pieces of information that the Kaibil witnesses had given. Remember Sara was trying to do something that had never been done before in Guatemala. There had not been a single trial against members of the military for crimes they had committed during the war. So she knew if she was going to build a case that would win she needed more evidence. She did not have names for most of the victims. So she poked around until she found a teacher who lived near Dos Erres who had taught some of the children from the village back in the '80s. Sara asked her to remember as best she could the names of her former students. Sara used those names to track down relatives. Because of Favio and Cesar Sara did have the names of the other Kaibiles who had been at the massacre. So she started tracking them down too which meant walking up to their doorsteps and confronting them face to face including a Kaibil who took one of the green-eyed boys who was spared that day. The Kaibil's name was Santos Lopez Alonzo.  I had never faced a Kaibil before. And because of the description that I had of the Kaibiles I thought that he was going to be armed and that if he knew that I knew something about Dos Erres he was going to shoot at me. Or perhaps he was going to capture us and torture us. Were you armed? No. Your colleague?  No he was not either. None of us was armed. Sara and her partner had to leave their car on the road and walk through the woods to Lopez Alonzo's house. They told their driver to call the police if they did not come back. They approached the house. And there was Lopez Alonzo lying in a hammock.  When I saw him I was not fearful at all. Why not?  Because he looked like a campesino like a peasant. He was just a simple person a person without education and not as ferocious as I imagined him to be. Lopez Alonzo was polite and invited them in. At first he would not talk about Dos Erres. Then Sara told him that two soldiers from his squad had already come forward. And he started telling the truth. My oldest son Ramiro has a sad story he told them. And he confessed to taking him from Dos Erres. When Sara tracked Ramiro down he was serving in the military that had killed his family. The fact that he existed and that he was saved by one of the Kaibiles and raised by one of the Kaibiles made it nearly impossible for the Kaibiles to deny their involvement in the massacre. At the same time Sara started to look for the other boy who Favio and Cesar told her was spared. But it was not as easy. The soldier who allegedly took him was dead. That soldier's mother who supposedly raised the boy was also dead. The soldier's brother refused to talk. His sister was also reluctant but told Sara that in 1983 he did indeed come home with a three-year-old boy. The boy was chubby with broken teeth. His name was Oscar. After his grandma died he would moved to the US illegally. She told Sara she had no way to reach him. So Sara stopped looking for 10 years. Coming up and the Oscar goes to-- where did he go to? That is in a minute from Chicago Public Radio and Public Radio International when our program continues. It is This American Life. I am Ira Glass. If you are just tuning in we are devoting our entire program today to a massacre of a village in Guatemala called Dos Erres in 1982 and the attempt to bring the killers to justice which took years. One of the ways that we know about what happened at Dos Erres is from secret cables that have been declassified that were sent back and forth between the United States embassy in Guatemala and Washington D.C. These cables show that back in 1981 and '82 embassy officials heard lots of reports about the Army massacring whole villages throughout Guatemala which they dismissed until finally in 1982 at the urging of the State Department back in Washington they got in a helicopter to see for themselves if the stories were true. And this is just a coincidence-- the site that they happened to investigate was Dos Erres. They flew their helicopter low over the village. They saw the burned-out houses. They looked for but found no survivors. They landed in a nearby town where the mayor told them that the disappearance of every man woman and child from Dos Erres was simply a mystery. The United States concluded that the Guatemalan Army was responsible. But they kept this a secret did not discuss it publicly. And for years afterwards the killings continued. And the US knew about it but stood by. Before the break you heard about how Sara Romero started her investigation how she found one of the two boys who'd been taken from the village but could not find Oscar. She had enough evidence to start trying the case though and got arrest warrants for 17 members of the Army squad that was at Dos Erres. And then nothing happened for nearly 10 years. The soldiers filed motions and appeals and stalled the case before it ever got started in the Guatemalan court system. Finally the Interamerican Court of Human Rights looked at what was going on and declared that these appeals were paralyzing justice and ordered Guatemala to bring the soldiers to trial. And that is where our story picks up with Sara Romero still working on the case 13 years after she started it. Habiba Nosheen takes it from here. Finally the case was moving forward and the judge ordered the investigators to do a bunch of things including find Oscar the green-eyed boy who had been abducted from Dos Erres who they still had not located. So Sara got back to work. She traveled back up to Oscar's hometown where she would gone looking for him 10 years before. Back then Oscar's uncle had stonewalled her. He refused to tell her anything about his nephew. This time Sara squeezed a bit more out of him. He gave her two pieces of information-- that Oscar's girlfriend was from a nearby town and that her nickname was La Flaca the skinny one. Sara went to the town asked around about La Flaca located her parents. And that is how she tracked down La Flaca and Oscar in Massachusetts and convinced Oscar to take a DNA test to see if he was actually a survivor from Dos Erres. Fredy Peccerelli the forensic scientist who was working the case was excited at the prospect. Usually he is dealing with dead bodies people who have been assassinated or massacred. To actually be able to talk to one of the people that we are looking for is a privilege that I have never felt before. In June 2011 Fredy took a swab of Oscar's saliva his DNA back to Guatemala and ran a series of tests. One was against Ramiro the other green-eyed boy who was taken from the massacre to see if Ramiro was Oscar's brother. They also tested Oscar's DNA against the DNA of other people who were related to the victims of Dos Erres. On a Sunday night in August Fredy called Oscar with the results. I said you know remember that test we did? So at that point I was a little bit nervous. You never know. And I told him that I had the news. The news is that Ramiro is not your brother. He told me that we were not brothers. I said I knew it! I knew that was not true! He says Yes but I have not finished yet. You guys are not brothers. But we compared with other people's. And we found that you have a father. I said What are you talking about? It is your father. We found your father he said. And you are one of the survivors. I just told him. Your father's not who you think he is. The guy who you think is your father is not your father. Your father is alive. His name is Tranquilino. And he is old but he is alive. Yes that is right. Fredy's team matched Oscar to his biological father. And that biological father is alive. He survived. Aura found him as part of her ongoing search for anyone related to the victims of Dos Erres.  My name is Tranquilino Castaneda Valenzuela. You hardly need a DNA test to know that Tranquilino is Oscar's dad. The resemblance is striking. Both have green eyes and curly hair. They are both thin. Tranquilino is 70 and he limps when he walks. When we met him he wore a white cowboy hat and carried two machetes. Tranquilino's pregnant wife was killed at Dos Erres along with all of his children-- nine of them. Or so he thought. For 30 years he is lived alone in the jungle. He never remarried after the massacre never had another child. And in the middle of our interview Tranquilino interrupted with a request.  Can I give the name of my children? Of course.  My first born was Esther Castaneda. Second one was Etelvina. Enma was the third. After that was Maribel. She was around 13 when she died. Then it was Luz Antonio part of my sons. Then it was Cesar. Cesar was seven years old. Then two other girls Odilia and Rosalba. Anyone else? Si Alfredo. Alfredo was Oscar's given name. Tranquilino was out of town when Dos Erres happened visiting relatives. When he learned about the massacre that everyone including his wife and kids had been killed-- Ha ha ha.  I got all crazy. I really cannot put into words. But I felt like I was stupid dumb. I really thought I was becoming mad. Tranquilino told us that after that he just could not sleep. He would stay up night after night patrolling his house. He says he started to lose his mind. He would forget simple things like which turn to take to get to work. His head dropped constantly.  Listen I started to drink. I was really really deep into drinking. It was just really really deep because I was sad. I thought I could drown all my sorrows. But then I figure out that my sorrows could swim. When I met Tranquilino as soon as he leaned in to say hello I could tell he would been drinking. He told me it is still hard for him to talk about Dos Erres without a drink. After 20 minutes he broke down and said he could not continue. Fredy and Aura told us what it was like when they revealed the news to him that one of his children his son Oscar was still alive. They asked Tranquilino to come to Guatemala City. They needed to see him in person. Well he had not been told because 