Intro Listener-supported WNYC Studios. Robert Krulwich Oh wait. You are listening-  Okay. Jad Abrumad All right.  Okay. Jad Abrumad All right.  You are listening to Radiolab. Robert Krulwich Radiolab.  From- Jad Abrumad WNYC.  C? Robert Krulwich Yup. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. This is Radiolab and I have the host of Note To Self with me. That is another WNYC podcast that comes out of here a brilliant one. And the brilliant test person who does it all Manoush Zomorodi is with me. Manoush Zomorodi Hello Robert. Robert Krulwich And I asked you to come in just because I wanted you to sort of set this up if you could. Manoush Zomorodi Oh happy to. So we did Radiolab and Note to Self did a joint episode last year called Eye In The Sky. It was a disturbing story but- Robert Krulwich It is kind of like a spy thriller actually. Manoush Zomorodi Definitely a spy thriller. And it turns out a lot has happened since that episode was first put out. Robert Krulwich Right. There have been developments which truly surprised me and I do not want to give you any details so just listen to what is about to happen and then do not go away at the end. Stay. Okay. We will begin. Alex Goldmark So how did you guys find out about this? How did you get into it? Manoush Zomorodi I think it was somebody was reading about it. Alex Goldmark This is Manoush Zomorodi. Manoush Zomorodi It was you reading about it. Alex Goldmark Right. Robert Krulwich And that is her producer Alex Goldmark. Manoush Zomorodi And I just said his name is McNutt. I just wanted to do a show where I get to say that name at least 10 times please. But then we actually read it and it was weird and interesting and brought up lots of issues. Barack Obama Technology is remaking what is possible for individuals and for institutions and for the international order. Jad Abrumad I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abrumad This is Radiolab. So here we are at this moment in time where we were faced with these decisions... Robert Krulwich ... about what we want our future to look like be like. Barack Obama There are fewer and fewer technical constraints on what we can do that places a special obligation on us to ask tough questions about what we should do. Jad Abrumad Today we are going to look at the can and the should with our friends down the hall Manoush Zamorodi and Alex Goldmark. They run a great podcast called Note to Self. They will be our guides into the world of... Manoush Zomorodi McNutt. Ross McNutt Yes my name's Ross McNutt. Manoush Zomorodi So McNutt as I refer to him he is an ex-military guy. Ross McNutt Did 20 years in the Air Force. I enjoyed it. I did a lot of good. Jad Abrumad Like combat military? Manoush Zomorodi He was an engineer in the military. Jad Abrumad I mean I think he is actually special military. Ross McNutt My background. I have got a PhD in rapid product development out of MIT. And what I do is I teach young people how to build new systems. Manoush Zomorodi And the new system that is the system that we want to talk about that kind of began in 2004. Ross was teaching a course at a military college. Ross McNutt I was at the Air Force Institute of Technology here at Wright-Patterson in Dayton. Manoush Zomorodi It says one day in 2004 the whole school gathered together for a rally. Ross McNutt And our commander got up in front of the whole school and said We need to do something to help the war effort. News clip Terrible violence today in the Iraqi city of Basra. Manoush Zomorodi So at that time in the Iraq war ... Ross McNutt Before the surge ... Manoush Zomorodi Things were not going well. News clip Suicide bombs ripped through police buildings and city streets. Ross McNutt IEDs going off all over the place. Manoush Zomorodi Constant news about IEDs going off everywhere soldiers being blown up. Angie Horn In one week I got blown up three times. Ross McNutt And to be honest with you in 2004 it looked like we were going to lose. Manoush Zomorodi So Ross he gets together some of his students some of his colleagues and they decide Let us sit down and see if we can find a solution quickly find a solution to figuring out who is planting all these roadside bombs. Ross McNutt Yeah. Bombs going off are pretty easy to detect in images. The problem is how do you go from a bomb going off backwards in time to be able to figure out who planted it? So somehow it just came out and it ... Jad Abrumad Was it like you guys sitting around? Manoush Zomorodi It was at a bar. Ross McNutt It was at a bar. We were working on a back of the napkin and we are drawing out different ideas and throwing them around and seeing what happens. Jad Abrumad They were just like Hey let us use planes let us try this. Let us try that. And then they hit on it. Ross McNutt This one stuck. And we sort of drew this out on a back of an envelope. Manoush Zomorodi Making it took a little while. Ross McNutt 38 students working for me for two years. Manoush Zomorodi But eventually they developed what became known as project angel fire. And here's how it worked. They take a small plane and on the belly of the plane they hook up this array of cameras that sort of swivel around. Ross McNutt The camera system we designed and built ... Manoush Zomorodi Super high end and then ... Angie Horn you are ready to go. Manoush Zomorodi And then the pilot takes off flies the plane high over Fallujah. Ross McNutt In the military. We were up at about 15 to 16000 feet to stay out of the missile range. Manoush Zomorodi Let us say I am an Iraqi on the ground in Fallujahand I look up what would I see? Robert Krulwich You would not see us. You would not hear us or you would not see us. Jad Abrumad So you have got this plane flying just below the clouds doing an orbit over Fallujah circle circle circle ... Manoush Zomorodi For six hours at a time .. Jad Abrumad And every second ... Manoush Zomorodi Click click click click. Jad Abrumad Every second it takes a still image of the entire city of Fallujah 25 square miles and then beams it down to an operator. Ross McNutt We take a picture process it downlink it process it downlink it every single second. Manoush Zomorodi So the plane is snapping picture after picture after picture but here's what makes the system so powerful. The operator on the ground has let us say an entire day's worth of these high res pictures of the entire city of Fallujah and then let us say there is an explosion. News clip Officials say at least 20 people were killed in explosions at a market ... Female News Anchor People and wound 11 others. Manoush Zomorodi First the operator would pull up the most current image of the city zoom into the place within Fallujah where it happened and then click click click in one second increments go back in time and see who was there what happened. Jad Abrumad When was the last time somebody fiddled around in that room? That yeah and you are like okay I have gone back two hours. And it is that car. Manoush Zomorodi Fast forward click click click. They can now follow that car forward in time to see where it goes. Jad Abrumad And you see that it went to a house in another neighborhood two miles away. Well that is where you dispatch your troops to right then. Ross McNutt Basically we would be able to send either the special forces then or the Marines in and sort of take appropriate action. Manoush Zomorodi Now look the military does not release statistics on how well some of its military technology works but there are officers who will be quoted saying that yes project angel fire saved lives but the reason why we decided to do this story is because it is not just a military thing right? Like with a lot of these technologies they maybe start in the military but then they trickle down all the way down to all of us. And actually in this case trickled down to Dayton Ohio. Jad Abrumad Ross Group Incorporated do think that is it? Manoush Zomorodi By his first name? Jad Abrumad Yeah it would be weird. Manoush Zomorodi Oh you got to go with McNutt. Producer Andy mills and I actually went to Dayton Ohio to visit Ross at his business. Persistent surveillance system . Jad Abrumad Persistent surveillance systems. Right? That feels Orwellian. Yep. Ross McNutt These are the lenses and the motors here basically control it. Manoush Zomorodi So first we went over to his workshop where he actually works and makes the cameras. Ross McNutt These are more powerful than some of the best military systems. Manoush Zomorodi Like we could see him actually making them and how they get attached to the bottoms of the airplanes. Jad Abrumad Oh. So many airplanes. Manoush Zomorodi Then we went over to the hangar where he has all the airplanes. Beautiful. Ross McNutt Overall we have got 27 airplanes we operate. Manoush Zomorodi He owns his own airport. Yeah. Yeah. Ross McNutt After you guys. Manoush Zomorodi Oh my God. It is big. And then he showed us their command center and this is where you have a bunch of people sitting in front of these enormous screens. This is like your viewing room? Ross McNutt Yeah. Manoush Zomorodi And this is where all the plane pictures end up because Ross's basic idea in taking this technology from Fallujah to a city like Dayton Ohio is basically this Barack Obama US cities have just as large a problem as we do in Afghanistan and Iraq only it is not IEDs it is crime. Richard Biehl We have had a lot of major events this year. We have had four officer-involved shootings so far this year. Our homicides are up this year. Manoush Zomorodi So this is Dayton police chief Richard Biehl. Richard Biehl B-I-E-H-L. Manoush Zomorodi I talked to him last summer. A couple of years ago Ross called them up and was like look Ross McNutt A city like Dayton Ohio we have got 28000 crimes a year about 10000 part one crimes. Manoush Zomorodi Murder rape assault ... Ross McNutt 10000 part one crimes comes out to be 480 million a year. Manoush Zomorodi But McNutt is like for about the price of a police helicopter ... Ross McNutt We believe that we would be able to decrease crime by 30 to 40. 30 decrease in that is 155 million a year. Manoush Zomorodi The Dayton police were like Richard Biehl Alrighty! Manoush Zomorodi Let us give it a shot. Richard Biehl We basically set up a test in June of 2012 for a five day flight.  just to see for ourselves what it was capable of doing. Manoush Zomorodi They sent the plane up in the air it started doing its thing just like in Fallujah and within just a few hours ... Richard Biehl There was a call of this breakingentering in progress with a description of a van. Angie Horn It was an older white box truck just a regular random moving truck. Jad Abrumad This is Angie Horn. She is the one who called 911. She was just home on her lunch break and she sees a moving van pull up in front of her neighbor's house. The guy gets out breaks in and starts moving furniture out. Angie Horn So we immediately called the police. They got there relatively quickly from what I remember but he had already taken off. Jad Abrumad Now normally in a case like this the police would be like well how do we follow him? We do not know where he went. But in this case the police contact persistent surveillance systems and ultimately they get connected to this guy. Alex  My name is Alex Blasengame. I am the senior analyst for the company. Jad Abrumad Alex pulls up the image of Dean zooms in clicks backwards about five minutes until he sees this little grainy white dot appear in front of her neighbor's house. Alex  This is the vehicle here that we are wanting to track. Manoush Zomorodi I am sorry what vehicle? I barely see anything. Alex  Right? So the image looks real blurry but the human brain and the human eyes are very very evolved to pick out movement. Manoush Zomorodi You have got to understand that from two miles up a car looks just like a random shape people they look like pixels. Alex has trained himself to pick out movement. Alex  I am going to put a tag down on where he is at. Manoush Zomorodi He places an orange circle over that random little shape and then click click click he moves forward forward forward. Alex  Follow him to his real time location. Jad Abrumad Alex follows it up some roads finds out that it is parked in a parking lot. Alex  Six blocks away. Jad Abrumad He calls up the people in the field goes Go over there. They get there. They see the guy. They see a truck full of stuff. They send one different cop over to pick up the witness. Witness goes Yep that is the guy. Alex Goldmark Oh so at this point who called? Jad Abrumad Yeah this is minutes later. Alex Goldmark No kidding. Jad Abrumad That could have been a murderer right? That could have been an armed robber. It could have been a lot of things. Alex Goldmark This is so weird. This is like having a super power. This is actually better than Batman. You cannot go back and forth time. Mr. Superhero. Manoush Zomorodi I just feel sad. It is like we are all just these little dots. It just seems like the antithesis of what a lot of police departments seem to be trying to do in the aftermath of Ferguson and Staten Island and other horrific things that have happened which is getting the police on the streets making personal connections creating relationships. Ross McNutt There is nothing in this system that prevents you from having effective community policing at the same time. And oh by the way this may dramatically help that community relations. The reason they are putting body cams on police officers is to try to get the police officers to be more respectful because they can be seen. Well this lets us watch all the officers in a 25 square mile area all at once. Robert Krulwich But then you can watch so many other people all at once. Alex Goldmark Here's other things that people in Dayton do like Romeo and Juliet they sometimes meet without their parents' permission in the playground and smooch. There are going to be divorced lawyers who are going to be tracking errant spouses. There are going to be traffic police who are watching who goes through the red light. There are going to be realtors who are wondering how many tenants do you really have in that building? And I guess the thought might be that if the information exists that will show what my pixel was actually doing then I am a little less free. Ross McNutt There is a clear trade off between security and privacy. And you know in our major cities where we have tens of thousands of major crimes you are a lot less free when you cannot leave your house at night. Alex Goldmark There is obviously a huge advantage to knowing what you know but then there is a huge thing to knowing what you know like knowledge all by itself is sort of a is pregnant with funny ... Jad Abrumad You know here's my problem with this with all of these privacy stories it is like when you are talking about these technologies the advantages are always so concrete and the tradeoffs always feel so abstract. I feel like there is something being lost here but I can never quite put my finger on it. It is weird. Manoush Zomorodi Oh Jad that weirdness that you are feeling ... Jad Abrumad Yes. Manoush Zomorodi It is going to get a lot weirder. Alex Goldmark We will be right back. Jenny Hey this is Jenny Lynnhand from Round Lake New York. Radiolab is supported in part by the Alfred P Sloan Foundation enhancing public understanding of science and technology in the modern world. More information about Sloan www.sloan.org. Jad Abrumad Hey I am Jad Abumrad. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Jad Abrumad This is Radiolab and we will continue our collaboration with Manoush Zomorodi and Alex Goldmark from Note to Self. Robert Krulwich And the subject is and remains Eyes in the Sky. Jad Abrumad And the situation when we left it one of our producers Andy Mills had gone down to Dayton Ohio to talk with Ross McNutt check out his technology and after the Dayton demo what were you how were you feeling about things? Manoush Zomorodi Well I was feeling like you have not convinced me. I am not going for this and then I saw Jurez Mexico and that well I mean that is what made me start to think otherwise. Jad Abrumad Jurez especially at the time we did this they averaged 300 murders a month and 52 kidnappings a week. Ross McNutt 300 murders a month. Jad Abrumad Yeah. Manoush Zomorodi McNutt and the gang they got a contract we have been asked not to say for whom and they went down South set themselves up in a hotel room got the plane up in the sky and then whoever the client was started bringing them crime reports. Alex  So this is kind of what you never want to see happen but this is kind of why the system was up. Manoush Zomorodi Alex pulls up on the screen this very grainy aerial shot of Jurez. Alex  This is Jurez Mexico. Manoush Zomorodi It looks like any city right? You have got grids of streets and cars and houses and then over on the left of the screen he points to this dark little square. It is a vehicle that is going down the street. Alex  This is a female police officer. She was actually headed to work on this morning. So we will kind of go through it here. Manoush Zomorodi He starts at the beginning and you see there is her house and her car is parked outside. You see that like teeny little pixel gets in her car. Alex  She pulls out of her driveway. That was her home. Manoush Zomorodi Starts to drive to work. And then ... Alex  Right when she leaves if you look up here ... Manoush Zomorodi He points to the upper left of the screen. Alex  Several cars were parked up on the corner. As soon as she left her driveway those cars become active. Jad Abrumad So this is a stakeout for ... Alex  Yeah. They were waiting for her to leave. Manoush Zomorodi He is so zoomed in that you can see it is like a tictac moving down the street and then two more tic-tacs come alongside. Alex  Until they get right about here. Manoush Zomorodi He is clicking forward on the photo and you see ... Alex  That right there is a speed bump. Manoush Zomorodi These cars just inch closer. Alex  So she will kind of hesitate there which is unfortunate. Manoush Zomorodi So she is driving down the street and there is these cars following behind her. And then there is this car up ahead of her. Alex  A vehicle that had been parked here for 15 20 30 minutes all of the sudden backs out into traffic and seemingly slows them down almost gets in an accident right here which gives these guys enough time to catch up. This is where they are going to pull up beside her. Manoush Zomorodi And then suddenly Alex says ... Alex  Right there. Manoush Zomorodi This is the point where ... Alex  Here the first car pulls up and shoots her multiple times. Manoush Zomorodi She was shot in the head. Alex  Multiple times in the head right here. She is actually going to roll through the intersection. Manoush Zomorodi Her car continues to go. Even though she is been shot in the head. Alex  There was a parked car behind this tree and you will actually see this parked car move when she runs into it. And then these guys take off. Manoush Zomorodi Yeah it was not fun to watch. It was upsetting. But what happens next made me really start to understand what this technology is capable of. Ross McNutt I just wanted to real quickly just show you some of the others. Manoush Zomorodi Ross walks in. He takes that moment horrible moment. And then he starts to like shoot back and forth in time. Ross McNutt Suspect car one here's his path before the murder here's his path after the murder. Manoush Zomorodi He actually takes the two cars from that murder and you see he draws on the map. You see that they meet up with two other cars ... Ross McNutt See that guy there? Manoush Zomorodi ... that were involved in a different murder. Now one murder becomes two two cars become four. Ross McNutt Car stops. Manoush Zomorodi And if you follow all four of these cars drawing lines as they move through the city you find out who they meet up with and four becomes eight eight becomes 16. So on and so on. And you have all these lines crisscrossing the city. And then you see that a whole bunch of those cars are headed to one place. Ross McNutt This house this house appears to be their cartel headquarters. Manoush Zomorodi And that is when you start to think well that is how you have to take something like this down. It is not a one shot thing like solving the crime. It is about cracking an entire system. andy producer In fact this is Andy here. When I was doing some research into this I made a bunch of calls and I spoke with this one governmental source who told me that this information that Ross had just showed us like it was one of the primary tools used to dismantle an entire cartel in Jurez. And that apparently the leader of that cartel was responsible for something like 1500 murders. Robert Krulwich Whoa. Jad Abrumad So you have got to ask again so how are you feeling at this point? Are you happy or scared or? I do not know. Manoush Zomorodi I felt ashamed of myself because I thought oh the reason why I am so excited about it is it because it is in a country where I do not live and I am an outsider and I think of it as being messed up. So it is okay for them but it is still not okay for us. What did you think Andy? andy producer I mean like this is where I stopped being a good journalist because I picked a side. It feels wrong to not solve these crimes that we can solve. Robert Krulwich And what if this plane was on top of New York? Good. Manoush Zomorodi God really? Jad Abrumad For me it became ... Manoush Zomorodi But do you remember like after 911 when you would walk down the street and you would hear the F16s circling over the city and I just remember the feeling in my stomach was like nausea. I felt sick. It felt gross. It felt like we had no autonomy over ourselves. And at that point I was scared enough that I could live with it. But right now I do not feel that way. And look it is a very privileged position to be able to say that we should not have it. I get that. andy producer That is what I am saying. Like I became a convert because somebody got kidnapped today. And if we had an eye in the sky we might be able to get the kid back in a few minutes hours compared to like you see the stats on Amber alerts? They are not good. Manoush Zomorodi But what we are talking about is - and I am not saying that I am anti McNutt at all but what I am saying is it is very easy to paint it as we are going to get bad guys. And I just do not think it is that simple. Manoush Zomorodi The McNutt and co. they seem like decent people. They have set limitations for themselves. They have said they will not use photography that could get any closer. They have made a moral choice with that. How do we know other people will make the same moral choice and ... andy producer Are you saying that even though this thing might solve a ton of crimes might save lives it is still not worth the risk because it just asks a level of trust in government that we should not we should not give. Is that what you are saying? Manoush Zomorodi For now? Yes. Robert Krulwich Go back to Dayton. What happened in Dayton? Manoush Zomorodi Well ... Alex Goldmark I was pretty impressed. I was pretty impressed. Manoush Zomorodi After that five day demo the police chief Richard Biehl ... Richard Biehl I recommended that we enter into a contract with persistent surveillence systems. Manoush Zomorodi And so they took it to the city commission Carrie Greg Hi this is Carrie Greg. Manoush Zomorodi Oh Hey Carrie it is Manoush in New York and according to Carrie Greg Carrie Greg Director of the city commission office for the city of Dayton Ohio ... Manoush Zomorodi Committee saw the presentation and they liked it. Carrie Greg The city commission was interested in the presentation. Manoush Zomorodi But they decided that before they go forward they should have a public forum so they could just sort of hear from the people. Carrie Greg There was about 75 or so people there. Manoush Zomorodi And he says that the people of Dayton much like the people of Radiolab and Note to Self were very divided. Okay. Carrie Greg A quarter of the people were supportive of this technology and they were frustrated with the amount of crime. Their belief was I am not doing anything wrong so I do not care what people see me doing. We want this implemented and we want it implemented very broadly. Manoush Zomorodi So a quarter of them were like bring it on. They were basically in the Andy camp but then there was another group slightly smaller. But not by much ... Carrie Greg maybe 15 ... Manoush Zomorodi That was the Robert and Manoush camp. Carrie Greg who believed that this was a grotesque invasion of privacyand some of the people spoke in very impassioned terms. So andy producer yay. Carrie Greg I think calling it grotesque invasion of privacy would pretty much reflect the way the way this group was feeling. Manoush Zomorodi And this group too. Carrie Greg And that there was no way that you could trust government with this volume of information and this breadth of information. Manoush Zomorodi So you had your pros and your cons and the rest of the people like the majority. Carrie Greg Maybe had some feelings one way or another but just did not have enough information. And so they came and kind of asked questions. Manoush Zomorodi Like how long will persistent surveillance systems keep the images? 90 days. How far can they zoom in? Can they see my face? No. So they had a lot of questions which Carrie seems to think that they could have answered. They could have gotten everybody on board but in the end even though the room was basically divided into three parts the naysayers were so loud and so impassioned that they sort of defined the conversation. Robert Krulwich As we do. Carrie Greg So we took that lesson to understand that there was going to be some significant education that was going to be needed and some significant hurdles that were going to have to be crossed before we were able to do a broad-based implementation. And based on the amount of time that was going to have to be spent we decided there were other more immediate techniques that could be used that could be invested in and we took the money that could have been spent on this and spent it on some other activities. andy producer It seems like what you are saying is that it was just going to be too hard to get people over the hurdle. So like eh it is not worth it. Richard Biehl Yeah. I think that is probably accurate. Manoush Zomorodi So the plane is off the table so to speak. Richard Biehl It is off the table for right now but that does not mean that it is never coming back on the table. Manoush Zomorodi Which I think is fair to say is frustrating to him. Ross McNutt Right now we have got about 150 million with a proposal sitting out there for a large number of cities Baltimore Philadelphia ... We have been to Moscow. We have been to London ... that we are waiting for them to make decisions on. We have done Compton ... We have been to Rome ... Jad Abrumad Compton's like maybe Jurez is like maybe. Dayton is like maybe. Ross McNutt There is a whole lot of maybes out there. Manoush Zomorodi And what McNutt and his team are doing now and this is actually what they were doing when we went to visit them. They are analyzing ... Carrie Greg What we are doing here in Dayton is we are looking at a turnpike or something. Manoush Zomorodi Yeah. Traffic in New Jersey. They are studying traffic problems. Carrie Greg We look at congested areas which are typically especially in that part of the country exits and OnRamps any kind of junction in a highway. Robert Krulwich No sometimes you just want to scream. Robert Krulwich Since we did that story things have happened Manoush. Manoush Zomorodi Indeed they have. Robert Krulwich So I have invited you back here to fill us in on further developments of which there have been gigantic ones. Very recently. Manoush Zomorodi Yes. And McNutt says not just since we aired that episode but because we aired that episode. Robert Krulwich What do you mean? Manoush Zomorodi Well after this episode first went out it turns out that there were a couple very wealthy philanthropists listening to RadioLab and they picked up the phone they called him and they said we would like to be the people that bank roll you giving this a try in an American city somewhere. Robert Krulwich So they just said we will write you a check if you can land the city we will give you the money? Manoush Zomorodi Pretty much. Robert Krulwich Wait a second. Who are these people? Manoush Zomorodi They are Laura and John Arnold. They are young. They are in their early forties. They are in Texas and by the time that they contacted McNutt he had already done as we said he would already done a very extensive look at cities across the nation looking for the one that had the biggest crime issue. And as he puts it the strongest political leadership somebody who would be willing to put up with the firestorm that would inevitably ensue. Baltimore fit the bill. It had a mayor who said she was very tough on crime. Shootings were actually up in Baltimore by 72 last year. So he went back to Baltimore and said if I can get the money for this are you game? And they were like sure. Robert Krulwich So the rich folks were willing to give money to the mayor of Baltimore to put a plane in the sky to take pictures of Baltimore for a discrete period. Manoush Zomorodi No not quite. So it did not go to the government or any elected officials. Nobody needed to sign off on this in the city of Baltimore other than the police commissioner which is why he was able to do it without telling any of the city council members or the mayor or ... Robert Krulwich Wait a second. So Baltimore's police department without telling the mayor or the city council or anybody decides to contract with this fellow supported by two people in Texas to put a plane in the sky to gaze down at Baltimore and everyone in Baltimore. And they just do not mention this to the mayor. Manoush Zomorodi Yeah. Robert Krulwich Did McNutt move to Baltimore and do this? Manoush Zomorodi Oh yeah. He moved to Baltimore and they set up across the street from the police station and had about a dozen analysts sitting there for two months looking at everything that was going on in Baltimore. Robert Krulwich So they did see some stuff during this period? Give me an example of something bad that happened that they ... Manoush Zomorodi So here's one that we know about which is that there was an elderly brother and sister. The woman is 90 years old. The brother is 82. They were near this bus stop and they actually got in the line of fire. They got gunned down by a shooter. And so they ended up tracking a couple cars but then later they think the police say actually we think he got away on foot. I think it was a witness on the ground who said that they thought that had left on foot and so rewind. Manoush Zomorodi And they see a dot scrambling to get away from the scene. It goes down the street. It passes a Subway sandwich shop. It goes between these two houses stops at a car that is parked and then it ends up at they later discovered the home of a woman. And turns out her boyfriend is somebody who has a long criminal record. And so there are over 700 CCTV cameras on the streets in Baltimore. And so the idea is that it is sort of a support mechanism right? Like they get the high level then it goes to the street. Then you have got the officers on the ground. Robert Krulwich Oh I get it. So if the shooter shoots and then gets in the car and goes down Elm Street you have cameras down on Elm Street and you can see maybe the car and then the drivers license and maybe even capture the face. Manoush Zomorodi Exactly. Robert Krulwich And did they eventually arrest this person? Manoush Zomorodi So he crossed state lines and the feds picked him up. Robert Krulwich Okay. So they have made the arrest. They go into court and they say to the judge okay we obtained information about this suspect in part through a spy plane does the stuff that they gathered during this few months is that now going before judges and becoming evidence in arrests and in prosecutions? Manoush Zomorodi Well not yet. We talked to the state's attorney's office. They got a briefing about a month ago from the police about what McNutt had been up to. And they also told us that there are five open and pending cases where this surveillance technology was used. Police are using it and they say this is the state's attorney's office that they are looking forward to learning more about what McNutt actually does and that they are trying to determine whether in fact all those pictures could be used in some way at trial but they are not ready to say yes this absolutely will pass legal muster in a trial. Robert Krulwich God the other objection that I guess I was thinking about was that the defense as a matter of justice as a matter of the Fourth Amendment well you know this is going to come up at some point. Manoush Zomorodi Yeah. Robert Krulwich Then the defense lawyers would say wait a second. This evidence against my client was obtained without not only his or her permission but without anybody's permission. And the entire town is now in effect searchable during on sunny days. And did the founding fathers want that to happen? Manoush Zomorodi To be honest the Supreme Court has not seen a ton of these mass surveillance cases. But actually Robert I mean I happen to have the Fourth Amendment here and I want to read it to you. Robert Krulwich It says you cannot the searches and seizures are prohibited. Manoush Zomorodi Yeah. The right of the people to be secure in their persons houses papers and effects against unreasonable searches and seizures shall not be violated and no warrants shall issue but upon probable cause supported by oath or affirmation and particularly describing the place to be searched and the persons or things to be seized. Robert Krulwich So by that token it would say people to be searched everyone in Baltimore places to be looked at every place in Baltimore oaths to be obtained ahead of time blanket. That is a pretty radical thing. Manoush Zomorodi Yeah. And when you put it like that no wonder there is very likely to be inevitable big legal public debate over whether this is the answer to Baltimore's crime problem. McNutt says he thinks very very soon the police are going to release an evaluation report looking at the effectiveness of his planes. Manoush Zomorodi He thinks that whatever Baltimore decides that is going to set a precedent for midsize cities that are struggling across the United States. Robert Krulwich I am Robert Krulwich. Manoush Zomorodi And I am Manoush Zomorodi from Note to Self. You can go to radiolab.org for more information about the McNutt. And also please I hope you will check out notetoselfradio.org. Special thanks to Alex Goldmark also to Dan Tucker and George Schultz. Robert Krulwich By the way the piece that we just listened to was produced by Andy mills. He has produced any number of RadioLab stories over the years and he has decided to move to the New York Times. He is been a tremendous boon to us. Over and over again he is brought a worldview and a sensibility that we did not have before he came not really. And now he is going to work for that obscure newspaper but nevertheless we wish him all the best. And thank you Andy so much. And thanks of course for listening. inaudible My name is Miss  I live on  in Dayton. I am here to register my concern regarding the airborne surveillance that was discussed earlier.  A great eye lidless breathed flames.  I would also like to register my concern with the so-called surveillance program. This was the stuff of science fiction when Orwell wrote 1984. automated What policies does Dayton have in place to prevent using the data in a racially biased way ? automated To go to the next message press six. Manoush Zomorodi Hey guys it is Manoush the host of Note to Self calling you from the eighth floor at WNYC studios. And I just think you need me to tell everyone that Radiolab is produced by Jad Albumrad. Dylan Keefe is our director of sound design. Soren Wheeler is senior editor. Jamie York is our senior producer. Our staff includes Simon Adler Lana Farrell David Gebel Max Kielty Robert Krulwich Annie McEwen Latif Nasser Malissa O'Donnell Arianne Wack and Molly Webster with help from the Nigar Monteleigh Alexandra Lee Young Charu Sinha W. Harry Fortuna and Perseus Berlin. Wow. They even make my name sound easy. Our fact checkers are Eva Dasher and Michelle Harris. Andy Mills we will miss you. Bye. Answering machine End of message.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 