 That is the thing about OCD is that you are never you never break with reality. So there is a part of you that knows always that this is kind of ridiculous and yet you cannot stop doing it. There is you know the fear part of you that just drives you. This is Death Sex  Money... The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot And need to talk about more Im Anna Sale.  Hi Anna and the Death Sex  Money team. A couple of weeks ago we got a voice memo in our inbox that stuck out to me.  It was from a listener named Diane Davis.  Im calling from my quarantine here in my house. Forgive me if you can hear my small children downstairs screaming. I swear my husband is with them. Dianes kids are 8 5 and 2. They live in New Jersey. Normally Diane and her husband both work in Manhattan. The subject line of Dianes email was OCD and the pandemic.  Im wondering what people who have obsessive compulsive disorder are doing during this time and how theyre coping. I did a lot of  work on that and with medication and Cognitive Behavioral Therapy and Ive done a lot of exposure response therapy and then all of a sudden this pandemic happens and its like every nightmare I had in my head as I was furiously washing my hands is true. Diane is an actor. Just over a month ago she was performing eight shows a week on Broadway playing Ginny in Harry Potter and the Cursed Child. Until March 12th when Broadway shut down.  We were at rehearsal there is no show tonight you know go home. And and then it was...it just all came to kind of an abrupt halt. So now she told me on the phone she is home with her family caring for her kids and trying to manage her OCD in the middle of a pandemic. Shes dealt with fears of contamination and intrusive thoughts for over twenty years. They started when she was in her late teens.  I would get these just overwhelming like walls of doom is the way I can describe it. They would come towards me and hit me and I had no way to make sense of what was going on. I was 17 years old and um I just felt like something bad was going to happen. You know that sort of spiraled into me washing my hands 300 400 times a day keeping track of everything I touch. Um and when I went into therapy for OCD what we did was just um sit with that original feeling.  Hmm.  So it was like you know okay now you are going to touch this door knob with your pinky and we are going to sit here and rate how anxious you are and then just watch it crest and go. You know I would have this scale of between zero and a hundred. So it is like how anxious are you now you know? And then we would gradually bring it up. So I remember touching the bottom of my foot with my pinky. It was like I think I went to like a 95 you know. And I wanted to I was sitting there in this room and I wanted to just like run run out. And it was just you have to sit sit sit sit and then you watch it and it kind of goes down eventually. That is the key to it right? Is that you have to always go towards the thing that you are afraid of. And um and so that is sort of I guess what I am trying to do now. Um yeah.  So what has it been like for you for this real threat to be moving around?  When everybody is like Wash your hands!?  Yeah!  I remember in January some friends who know me very well texted. They were like how are you doing? Because it was sort of coming-- or February I guess when it was sort of coming towards New York. And I was joking about it and I was like You guys I have been preparing for COVID for my entire life. And I think I was sort of like you know what? I am going to be able to handle this because I know what it is to be really afraid of contamination. And I thought I was going to be okay. And then I do not know it is sort of it is sort of came out of nowhere and just knocked me sideways again. Yeah I had like a breakdown with my husband two weeks ago where... cause I also then I get this I get an anxious uh breathing thing where I hyperventilate. And I just one night I just broke down with my husband and just there is something wrong with me and I will never you know... something's broken and I cannot cope. This is like every every fear that I had you know when I was struck really really in the midst of struggling with this is like Oh you were right all along. Um so it is very weird that everything that I was afraid of is coming true.  Yeah.  And then my rational brain knows--you know there is like OCD brain and then there is rational brain--just like No Diane this is a very specific thing that is happening. It is fine. You will be fine. But then I have this other spinning part that is just um yeah that is that is on high high alert.  Does it are there moments where it is confusing about whether it is--you are thinking about something that you need to take action about because it is rational and it will help you take care of your family and keep your family safe  or when you are like this is me spinning out? Like is it always clear what is what?  I feel like this pandemic is sort of blurring those lines a little bit. Um. You know like I do not know if this is a rational thing but I will tell you something. I did my husband took out the recycling and he came in after taking out the recycling and he did not wash his hands. And I completely freaked out at him. And I screamed at him that um I was just like You have to think about that garbage can and that the people who are taking out the garbage have gone around... And this is where my brain goes it is like picturing every single house that they have gone to and they are touching those things. And then they are touching our recycling bin. And then he goes and he touches our recycling bin. He walks in and now it is all in our house. And I just was like and I followed him out and he was... I swear we have a good marriage! It is fine! But he was like he knows me very well and he was like Okay. Okay. It is like then when he comes in my house he feels like a foreign...like a foreign you know body of something that is coming to infect us.  I see. Yeah.  And maybe that is not the rational part. You know? That is where I that yeah it is that it is that inner um engine of fear that is the part that is confusing and the OCD part.  What is it like for you to be um trying to take care of yourself and and have compassion for whatever things come up um while you know you are being watched by your little kids in your house?  Yeah. That um that I am trying to be very um aware of. Because my middle child especially is the most like me and we were just hanging out in the kitchen the other day and out of nowhere she just went into the bathroom to go wash her hands. And I was like Oh what are you doing? And um and she was like I am just washing my hands. And I was like Why? We were just standing here. And she said I do not know. I just felt like I needed to. And I that made me just you know a little alert bell kind of just went off in my head that um I should keep an eye on that with her. And I worry that this...I worry about what this pandemic is instilling in her because she is five. Um in terms of that. I mean there is nothing I can--I try not to be insane about having them wash their hands. Theyre kids. Were all in an isolated house together. But I I will keep my eye out on her and just make sure you know over the next years few years that she is um yeah that she is okay.  Do your kids know you have OCD?  They do not. No. I have never said that to them. No. No. Uh yeah. I do not know if I should. Maybe I will someday. I try to really be--I really do not want them to grow up with unnecessary fears. Does that make any sense? Am I making any sense?  Of course it makes sense. I mean Im struck by you have been in treatment for years for this and learned language for how to identify what is happening in yourself. Um but I think you are you are probably when you describe that like fear response that gets activated and then that can intensify a lot of worry or um that feeling of trying to manage--I feel like most all of us are going through that right now--  Yeah. --in some way? Have you found that you are needing to lean on sort of um techniques that you have not needed to manage your OCD that you did not feel like you needed anymore?  I did have to--um I do stay on a um an anti-anxiety medication that I have been on um for years now. Um and a few times I have had to take something for an acute panic response. Other than that I do a lot of like meditation now which I think is very helpful. Almost inviting in what feels uncomfortable and sitting with it being with it and letting it have its say and have its moment. Because I think it is when you try to push it away that it just kind of comes back and tries to then it starts screaming at you. So um yeah. I was thinking about you know what I feel like people must be going a little bit through something like what I went through when this first hit me when I was you know 17 years old. You know this fear of contamination is in all of us now. And I was talking to a friend and I was like I know what that is like. I hope that the world does not become me.  What did you mean by that?  Just afraid. Afraid. You know afraid to touch to hold to be near. But I just do not want people to be afraid after this is all done. I know we are all going to have to do some sort of collective exposure response therapy.  I kind of love that everybody Zoom in and Diane's going to help us   I know! It is like touch your friend! Now sit. How afraid are you now on a scale of one to one hundred?  Coming up author John Green. The last time we talked on the show he told me about the tools hes gained over time to manage his OCD. Now like Diane hes finding that a lot of them arent as helpful.  Yeah I do not have a brand that is perfectly designed for global disease pandemic certainly. Like I have a I have many years of of not knowing what size of a response to a perceived disease threat is rational.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. John Green is the bestselling author of young adult books including The Fault In Our Stars. Hes also a podcast host here at WNYC Studios and along with his brother Hank an avid YouTuber. It was on John's YouTube page a couple weeks ago that I saw something that actually gave me a lot of comfort right now. John filmed himself taking a walk in the woods near his home in Indianapolis looking at some trees and talking about the things that are helping him stay grounded right now. It reminded me of my first conversation with John back in 2018 when we talked about how hes had to learn to manage his mental health both on his own and by asking for help from other people. So I called John up to hear more about how hes doing right now.  Hi John.  Hi. How are you?  I am okay. How are you?  Also doing okay. I think that is the best case scenario for the moment. The first thing John Green wanted to talk about was John Prine.  I have to say um how much I loved your interview with John prine that you just re-uploaded.  Thanks. Sad right?  It is very sad but it was just it was such a it was such a wonderful interview. IT took me back to high school actually. Uh there was a John Prine song that famous John Prine song Angel From Montgomery was like the only thing that brought me any comfort or consolation on the worst day of my life. And I was just thinking that it is a it is a hell of a gift you know to give a stranger to give somebody some consolation on their worst day of their life. And John Prine gave that to me.  That is nice. Um am I calling you at home?  Yeah Im actually in my bedroom.  And how is your how is your household working right now?  Oh I I would say it is working poorly. I mean my wife Sarah has a book coming out in five days. A book that she has worked on for two and a half years and it is a wonderful book. And of course this is a difficult time in which to publish it. And so that is challenging for us because Sarah has a lot of a lot of work obligations and like millions of parents around the country we are also kind of home schooling our kids which is not a job that I am qualified for or good at.  What what grades are your kids in?  Uh my daughter is in kindergarten and my son is in fourth grade.  Uh huh. Have you picked up on how much of this they are capturing? Like are they are they feeling stressed about the state of the world?  Yeah. This is hard for them and they are extremely resilient kids. They are also kids who who are very fortunate to be in a safe place. And I think they know that they are fortunate but it is hard for them. And I cannot pretend like life is normal. I actually have found the thing that is most helpful is is not to say much but just to try to listen.  Hm.  Like that thing that that you that you just did I have just learned to do this. I do not know if you do it on purpose but um a lot of times if I just make that noise to my kids they keep talking.  Yeah. I probably do that more in interviews than I do with my children though.   I think with her I am like wait are you sad? Are you scared? Tell me more! You know? And she is like Aah!  Yeah I think it is one thing to name the feeling. Um but it is another thing to like over-name the feeling you know? Like sometimes I feel like I over-name the feeling to my kids where I will be like Are you sad? Are you sad because of the Coronavirus? Are you really really sad because you cannot see any of your friends? And they are like Thanks. Okay. Got it.   And how are you how are you coping? What have you noticed about your mental health while you have been at home with your family during this time?  Yeah I think a lot of people with anxiety disorders or who have Obsessive Compulsive Disorder like I do are having a difficult time and I certainly am. I also however have work and I have a house and there is there is some outside space. That is incredibly helpful to me because when I am outside the world is mostly normal. It is spring here in Indianapolis very early spring. And so uh that is kinda where every day I get the dose that I need of um something being approximately normal.  I also saw you posted a video um where you mentioned that you are taking a daily bath?  Yeah.  Tell me about your baths.  Ah! If you can take a bath I really recommend it. I am a I am a I am a profound bath enthusiast. Like I have always loved baths and the unhappiest periods of my life coincide with when I have only had showers. And our house has a bathtub. It is not huge but it is an acceptable size for a grown man to take a bath in. And every day I take a bath toward the end of the day and I light candles. I go all out Anna.  Yeah!  If there is a thing in my house that I can use to make the bath feel more like an otherworldly experience I do it. Aroma therapy? Absolutely. Bath salts if they are available? Yes. Have I used my kids' weird glitter bath bombs? I have.  And do you listen to anything or read anything in the bath?  Is it weird if I tell you that I that is where I listened to the John Prine interview?   I actually love knowing that! I am honored!  That is where I listened to the John Prine interview and I had a nice cry.  Aw!  Yeah. Mostly I look so I listen to podcast or I listene to like soft music.  That is nice. Um I am curious for someone who has developed tools over time to deal with intrusive thoughts um including about illness- What what has this time been like for how you manage your inner monologue?  Well in some ways I have a lot of experience managing those thoughts and not knowing whether they are rational. It is just that the balance has shifted so dramatically. Like I am used to being able to look at people in my life. And I have this intense fear that is the only thing I can think about. And I look at them and I see that they do not have that fear. They do not have any--for them this is a normal day. And that is that has been in the past like one of the ways I have reassured myself and now I look into the eyes of the people I love and I see that they have some version of the same fear that I have. And that is scary and a little destabilizing.  Mmhmm. Have you has there been a moment that you can think of where you had to sort of stop and say Oh I have got to ask somebody for help right now I need help?  Yeah. Yeah. A few times. I get I mean I get stuck in my head and if I get stuck in my head bad enough for long enough that becomes pretty much debilitating. For me at least like being pulled out of my routine and then um having some of that stuff that I took for granted as as normal or natural or inevitable...uh losing some of that has been really hard. And um and so there have been periods where it really it is like literally hard for me to get out of bed because even though I know there is a lot to do and I know there is a lot of people counting on me I just feel so overwhelmed and I feel like scared beyond all reason or reassurance. And so then I do have to reach out for help and I do have to I have to you know call my therapist or call one of my best friends and just have them talk me through it. There is that great Emily Dickinson poem where she is talking about losing touch with reality and she says And then a plank in reason broke and I dropped down and down. And that that feeling of dropping down and down and not knowing where the bottom is or where the floor is is is really scary. Um and so when I feel that happening you know I know that I need to call somebody I trust and somebody who loves me. And that I will be okay. Yeah. But it took me a long time to know that.  Yeah. Well you are making me think about this in such a-- just like how our routines provides just this scaffolding that helps us you know hold on to that plank of reason. And I when you describe that that plank breaking not having a bottom um yeah. That really...I had an argument with my husband this week and I feel like--just like when you all of a sudden do not know what facts are real or what feelings you want to defend and what feelings are um ones that you need to let go of?  Right!  You know it is just so disorienting but you know you feel panicked.  Yeah. Yeah. I mean it is just a lot. You know this has no precedent for most of us in most of our lifetimes. There has not been anything like this. And I think maybe there maybe there is some help in acknowledging that or some hope in acknowledging that like part of the reason that this is hard is that we do not have a like we do not have experience doing it. Like we do not have experience with this. This is new and it is super weird and really really difficult. For some people you know unbearably difficult. That is really hard. It is really hard to go to your job every day and not know if you are safe. And I think acknowledging that it is hard is okay. And that is the other thing is that it is okay it is inevitable in fact to go slower. And I am going to try to keep myself safe and keep my kids safe and support my spouse and I am going to really look forward to this bath that I am taking. Thats John Green. Theres a link to my first conversation with him in the show notes of this episode. Theres also a link to that Youtube video of his walk in the woods. Johns wife is Sarah Urist Green and her new book that John mentioned? Its actually a really great thing to have if youre staying at home right now. Its called You Are An Artist and its full of prompts from famous artists to help you get your creative juices flowing. I have already bought my copy. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im  based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Ayo Osobamiro. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Our email is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Thanks to Alexander Dugger who--like John!--lives in Indiana. Hes a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. And if youve been looking for some motivation to join him and all the other listeners who are supporting us right now John Green made a pretty compelling case at the end of our conversation.  I am one of many many people who I I in fact everybody I know who listens to your podcast like we do not just like it we love it. And that is something that like listener metrics are so terrible at judging. Like it is so it is so hard to make the case to sponsors like Oh but our podcast people do not just listen to it like it changes their lives. But it really does! And I know that everybody who loves this podcast as much as I do feels the same way. So thank you for continuing to make it even in really difficult circumstances. Thank you John. And thanks to all of you who are supporting us right now. To join them go to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. We really appreciate it and it really matters. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.