Rachel Swidenbank The amount of times I have told him to be careful on that bloody bike. Like honestly I used to say it all the time. And it makes me mad to be like your carelessness has cost you so much and our relationship so much. Hiroki Takeuchi And you know it is one thing to blindside yourself but I have blindsided Rachel as well. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot. .and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. When I talked to Rachel Swidenbank and Hiroki Takeuchi they were sitting in their apartment in London. I was in California.  Okay can you hear me now? Anna Sale I can hear you now.   This is working fine. Yeah.   Yeah this is great. Rachel and Hiroki moved into this place last summer just before they got married in August.  Do you have wedding pictures in your apartment?  Yeah we have one up on the -  Just that one.  Yeah one up on the wall. The two of us stood together outside the reception. It is weird - Im looking at it now and it does feel weird.  I actually found more difficult was the video. We got a video made that I found even now watching it I find really difficult. Before their wedding Rachel and Hiroki had been together for eleven years. They met as college students at Oxford  Literally like just flown out of my parents' nest and then straight into Hiroki's arms basically is what happened. They dated for 10 years before they got married. Rachel was 29 and Hiroki was 30.  Rachels best friend sort of pulled me aside and was just like yeah you need to sort yourself out.  Put a ring on it.  Exactly and make it happen.  Um I have never really been one who is obsessed about marriage but I did not realize how important it was before something like what is happened. Three weeks after their wedding Rachel got a phone call from Hirokis younger brother.  And he said you need to get to the hospital. Hirokis been in a cycling accident. And then when I got to the hospital being able to say 'I am Hiroki's wife and you need to tell me what is happening' is very different from saying 'I am Hiroki's girlfriend' even though there is no difference in our feelings towards each other or the history of what we had.  Hiroki to the extent that you are comfortable recounting it can you - can you tell me what you remember of the day of your accident?  Its like I remember the moment of the accident itself and then I remember a lot about what happened afterwards. But then I do not really remember like much about the lead-up to the accident. You know like I could not tell you like - which is a bit different from what Rachel remembers. Like Rachel seems to remember like what she was wearing and what I was wearing.  It is like I remember getting up in the morning. I remember we had this like really long hug in the hallway just before I left. I left to go to an early - an early morning gym class. I remember on the way to the class it was a pink sky and I remember saying - there was like a riddle when I was younger that is 'Red sky at night shepherd's delight. Red sky in the morning shepherd's warning.' I remember thinking I wonder what the warning is?  So I was actually out cycling with my brother. I just remember this sort of moment where I kind of like lost concentration looked up and there was this car right in front of me. And I was - you know I do not actually remember the impact itself. I think I sort of passed out but I remember sort of waking up and looking up and there is these sort of police officers out over the top of me sort of me checking if I was Okay. And clearly I was not okay because I have got this huge gash on my neck. And I am apparently bleeding quite a lot out of it. And my brother was sort of over the top of me as well sort of telling me that it was going to be okay.  And he called me and in that moment I had just got out of the shower I was actually butt naked in the women's changing rooms and literally collapsed on the floor screaming. And all these girls just run around me and some of them run upstairs to get a taxi for me and I was making a bit of a scene to be honest. And then when I got to the hospital and they took me and there were just people running out of the doors and above the doors it said MAJOR TRAUMA. And I was like 'Major Trauma it sounds so serious.' And then eventually -- I think it must have been two hours -- they let me in to see him. And yeah I remember him looking up at me. He had like a big swollen face and like his head was in this red like cushioned thing. And he just looked at me and he was like I am sorry I am sorry I have ruined everything.  That was your first impulse to tell her to apologize?   Yeah well I mean like I think it is sort of - sort of deep down I kind of knew that this was a really really impactful incident right? Like I could not feel my legs. I kind of knew - there was not - you know part of me was not even sure I was gonna survive.  Then a female surgeon came over to us and she was like 'Well I am going to take Hiroki for the operation now. Hiroki's had a really serious like fracture of his back and you are never gonna walk again.'  She said that prior to surgery?  Yeah she said that prior to surgery.  Mm yeah I remember that yeah  And I remember then we were talking about - we just moved into our apartment and we were like - we were a bit crazed actually. We were like 'Oh it is good because there is a ramp at the back entrance and a lift so practically we will still be able to live there. And do not worry I will go and call the kitchen guys and put the kitchen on hold so we do not get it built before we knew what your needs are.'  I dunno. It is kind of our minds went straight to the pra- small mundane practicalities of what it was going to be like to live in a wheelchair.  Yeah.  I think it was our way of coping in a way.  Yeah I think - I think it was.  To sort of try to make sense of the situation.  Yeah.  Yeah so it was very odd reaction.  Yeah. And then you went - and you went into surgery. And so I made a group on WhatsApp and messaged all of our friends to say Oh it is really sad this has happened. Hiroki's in surgery. Like he is never gonna walk again but he is gonna survive so like do not worry too much.' That first surgery to stabilize Hirokis spine was just the start. He damaged his sixth thoracic vertebrae right in the middle of his back. He lost all sensation from there down. Rachel was there for it all documenting each milestone on her phone. For the first five weeks in the hospital she even slept on a mattress on the floor beside Hiroki's bed. She knew how important it was for Hiroki to have her there.  One of the things he said to me a lot in the early days of the accident were like 'Are you going to leave me?' But there is nothing from the accident that would ever make me want to leave. Rachel focused on staying positive for both of them.  So the hardest things were - to deal with were obviously Hiroki not being able to walk and then I would just really quickly be like 'Oh but I have always said I prefer arms and chest being built than legs.'  And it was just really silly silly silly things.  And then I would be like 'Now you are gonna have a massive chest this is great.'   Yea.  And it was like - just everything I came up with like some silly reason that it was okay and it was meant to be like this and I can handle it and it is fine.  What was it like when you would come home from being with him and you are back in your apartment without him? What would you do?   Oh I hated it. So it took me a month before I went back to the apartment.  At all?  Yeah 'ecause you were staying at the hospital right?  Yeah. So I used to ask other people to go and get me my things because I did not wanna come back by myself.  Cause it was too painful to think about life before?  Yeah. It was just like - we had just moved in. We had everything. Like our relationship was good we would just gotten married we would just bought our first house. Like everything just felt good. Like we were just in such a good place. And then suddenly it was like everything was taken away. And it is - now I look at it and it is not everything's been taken away. But in that moment it felt like it. And I did not wanna come back to the flat and look and at that point in time as well bearing in mind he could not even sit up or move from his wheelchair into a different seat. So I would go - the idea of coming home and being like 'Oh we will have to get a new bed and we will have to get a new table we will have to do this.' Like I could not - I did not understand the changes that needed to be made and I did not wanna go sit in the house alone and think about them.  Hiroki when you were in the - in the middle of rehab and you are - you are trying to learn how to do what you can with your body I imagine it was both physically exhausting and mentally exhausting. How much were you able to think about your relationship and and trying to take care of Rachel?  Yeah I mean that is something that was hard. I mean it is hard still now to be honest. So then it was like I did not have the capacity to - to think about anything other than like 'How am I gonna make this transfer work? Or how am I gonna you know - how am I gonna be able to sit upright in this way? Or how am I gonna be able to reach for something?' Like such basic things. But even now you know - even the way that I used to be able to care for Rachel and now how I can care for Rachel is very different right? Like I guess like I feel confused by it.  Yea why confused?  Because - because like so much - it does not make sense anymore right? It is like you know if I - if I wanted to treat Rachel before I would - maybe I would go out and like cook a nice meal or Id you know go and fetch something.  We used to joke he was the fetcher . So like if I was like Oh would you fancy a glass of wine? he would be like I will go and fetch it. So -    Yeah I cannot do that anymore.  Yeah so it is - it is the roles that we played previously have changed.  Yeah.  But they are slowly - they are slowly - like this is so early that they are slowly changing. Like already every morning now Hiroki gets up and makes me a cup of coffee and brings it to me in bed. And so I can already feel like he is doing these things that are the old role.  When did you bring that cup of coffee? When was the first time you were able to do that?  When was that?  I mean you still struggle a bit now.  Yeah yeah I do. But I remember Rachel sort of having a freak out one evening and being like 'Oh you are never going to be able to bring me coffee again.'  And so that was - that was - to the next day I was determined I was going to do that.  It was once he had mastered wheeling with one hand.  Yeah exactly.  I still have not mastered it.   Yeah there are often coffee drips all over the floor.  Hiroki moved back into their apartment just before Christmas three months after the accident. Coming up where Hiroki is in his recovery now and why hes back at work but Rachel isnt.  I help most mornings with the toilet and the shower. So one of the big things at the moment is Hiroki's not able to use the bathroom independently. And so that is the thing that we really need to change because at the moment it just requires - it is probably the only - the only area of your life where you have not gotten your independence back. So once once the bathroom is done then yeah then we will be good to go.  Yeah hopefully yeah. In the last episode we asked you to tell us about your student loan debt and a lot of you have shared your stories. Youve told us about how much you owe  I owe 134000. Thats correct. One three four zero zero zero. And the impact that number has had on you.  It affects absolutely everything in our lives in terms of our finances you know And of course finances are connected with your sense of well-being and security in this world too. We are still collecting your student loan stories for an upcoming episode. We especially want to hear how your student loans have driven other major life decisions like where you live what kind of job you do whether and when youll have kids. Record a voice memo or write an email and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Our email inbox is where many of our stories come from -- including this episode with Rachel and Hiroki. Rachel first emailed us just six weeks after Hirokis accident. I want to understand if this isolated feeling is normal she wrote. I guess we are right in the beginning of our journey -- but I so badly want to hear about other couples who have been through this. So next week weve got another story about living with disabilities. Two parents whove relied on wheelchairs their whole lives who are now raising a 5 year-old daughter.  This society and the State or however you want to say it looks at us like 'They cannot care for themselves. So how could they care for another child?' I mean that is how people on the street even say it to our faces.  We had to change the ideas of some of our family members even. That this was going to be an okay thing. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Before Hirokis accident both he and Rachel had started companies in Londons tech scene. Rachels was just getting going -- it was a site for ordering home-cooked food. Hirokis company was more established. Its a finance startup called GoCardless. Hiroki is the CEO.  I mean one of my common things I always used to stay was 'Hiroki you are having an affair with your company!' Because sometimes that is what it felt like. After his accident Hiroki was on medical leave. Most of his hospital expenses were covered by the National Health Service in the UK and some private insurance so money hasnt been a major stressor. When we talked Hiroki was still going to rehab regularly but working two days a week.  You know I am lucky enough that my job does not involve any kind of physical exertion really and so I am able to go back and when I am in there and in that moment there is no real difference between me now and me before.  And Rachel you are not working now?   Um no. So uh I was going through an investment round with my company that I was kicking off the week the accident happened. So in an already challenging environment we did not raise the money that we needed to in time. And so I shut down the business in December just as Hiroki came out of hospital. So I have not been working since then which i think is the first time in my life I have ever had this. I feel a little bit lost actually. I guess losing a little bit of my sense of identity. I have kind of always liked working hard.  Before the accident was one of you kind of the optimistic one and one of you was the worrier? Like how have your emotional roles in your relationship shifted?  We like refer to each other as I am very fiery and Hiroki's like a rock. And its interesting cause I say to Hiroki one of the things for me that is been positive about this -- I do not know if this sounds right -- but for the first time in our relationship I have felt like he needed me?  Hmm.  And i think I have always been so insecure about being on the sidelines. And suddenly I was actually needed and so realizing that and knowing that like we both are on the same level of the dependence that we have on each other I think has made things feel a little more equal emotionally.   I feel like yeah I mean like yeah I kind of feel like we have become - it is like we have gotten closer in terms of temperament right?  Mm.  Like I used to be like Rachel said like really sort of stoic almost.  Emotionless.   Yeah emotionless. And I definitely feel like I am a bit more emotional now than I used to be. I probably would not say I am fiery but you know . It is sort of like I am a warm rock rather than a stone cold rock now yeah.  And you are probably - you know Rachel's now a bit more - a bit more stable.  Yeah. I mean he is making me sound like I was mentally unstable before . But it is more just like I was extremely emotional and I just contain my emotions a little bit more now.  Yeah exactly.  Have you had a fight since the accident?  Oh loads oh yeah  Oh shut up!   Definitely.  Yeah we have had a few. The one I remember was when I was like throwing a tantrum and throwing myself on the floor and screaming a little bit. And Hiroki was at that moment in the bathroom on the toilet so could not get off it to see what was going on.  And you are doing this great performance and he could not see it.   Yeah he could not see it. But the key thing was he could hear it.   That was incredibly frustrating.   So yeah we have had - we have definitely had those moments although far fewer than I would have expected.  What was that fight about? Do you remember?  Yeah I do remember. It was just after - it was January and I felt quite housebound. I have not been able to get a job since then because Hiroki still needs a lot of help in the mornings. So I was at - I have to be here until he is ready. I was almost felt like I was a little bit being held hostage. Like Hiroki would often get upset if I was going to go out late with my friends -- which I understand because of the vulnerability of what he is gone through. But I felt like I was trapped and I - I wanted to be there because I was choosing to be which I have the whole time. Instead I felt like he was forcing me to be there and then he just was not saying the right thing to make me feel better. And then obviously he always used to come and - in the past if I have been in that - in that moment he would come over and put his arms around me and hold me tight until I like was totally fine. And then it was like - I was like 'You cannot even do that anymore.' And so I just totally lost it. And then I calmed down a bit and I could hear him quite upset and I think I just went back in and was like 'Oh my god I am so sorry.' Like I think we like - I mean it is a bit weird 'ecause you were on the toilet but I think I pretty much got on your knee and we hugged.  Yeah you know for me like I think that is something I have definitely noticed though. When we do have sort of arguments or fights the way that we are able to deal with them it is that we have to resolve them in different ways.  Yeah.  You know I am just thinking back to like - it was not even a fight. It was like one time Rachel came home like really drunk.   All right! Oh my god!    And then - no like which is understandable right? Like I have definitely had my fair share of booze to sort of dull the senses at times. But yeah Rachel came back drunk and then you know in the past I would just be able to pick her up put her to bed and be like right I know she will wake up again in a few hours and go brush her teeth then. But now it was like I would have to wheel over to her when she was sort of on the floor and I cannot do - I cannot go and lift - pick her up anymore. And it is - it is kind of I guess sort of getting used to it all.  Hiroki do you still feel afraid sometimes that she is gonna leave?  Yeah definitely. I mean that - I think that you know it is one of those things where I do not think there is anything Rachel can do to make that fear go away. Not - I think hopefully with time it will change but you know it is sort of - I feel like I do not know how to value myself as a person so how does someone else value me you know? And its not to say that I do not have any value anymore but you are kind of readjusting all of your expectations readjusting to what you can and cannot do. And so as you go through that you are - I think it is sort of it is hard not to - to have that fear at times.  Um how has physical intimacy between you changed since the accident?  Yeah quite a lot.  It is different. Like we need to understand physically what it is. Like Hiroki's still getting back so much strength in his upper body and his mobility is changing all the time. So we do not know what the limits of it are. I feel like we were scared that we would never even be able to have a standing hug again but when Hiroki's on his standing frame like I climb in and kind of climb on top of him and I guess we have developed more - just a different type of physical relationship.  Hm.  I do not know. I think the scariest thing is when we think about kids and whether we will be able to have them or not and we do not know at the moment what the deal is with that. So that is something that we need to kind of go and see the doctors about and figure it out.  Mhmm.  Yeah.  Was that something you had talked about when you got married having children?  Yeah. Hiroki had always said he wanted loads and I would always said I only want two. In fact I have never really been that maternal to be honest as a person and it was only after this accident that I kind of realized that I do have that in me. Like suddenly I wanted to look after Hiroki more than anything else. Like I have learned I think a lot of skills that moms might need like dressing people and cleaning up after people. I mean we do want kids so I mean it is probably the biggest fear we both have right now.  Yeah it definitely is.  Yeah.  Yeah. I think it is also - going back to your point about the question about sort of intimacy though is like - it is definitely one of the - sort of the - I guess it is one of the many things that you - you kind of have to reassess and what it means you know? And that is definitely been one of the things that I have struggled with is figuring out what it all - figuring out - making sense of it all I guess.  Yeah. Well I imagine it is very connected to feeling - masculinity obviously and figuring out -  Yeah exactly.  - how that works with sex. Is there part of it - and I might be off-base here so tell me if I am wrong - but is - I imagine after being together for 11 years and you have certain routines in what intimacy and what sex looks like because you know each other so well. And then having the accident happen was there anything that felt kind of like exciting about the rediscovery or the - or having to be so much more present in terms of what - how to make each other feel good?  I mean I think in all honesty like we have not gotten to that stage yet. I am hoping that we will get to that stage but we are still in this stage of sort of shock when it comes to that regard I think. What do you feel about it Rach?  Um...  That is how I feel anyway.  Yeah no. I think I do not have a - like when the accident happened and they said 'Oh you will never walk again' you do not - it takes a while to register that it is not just that right? It is - I mean I do not even have to - I am talking on Hiroki's behalf again but it is so much more like when stuff does not work from your waist down it is not just not walking. So I do think about it a lot and I remember - I remember researching things and like some of my girlfriends would send me like pictures of these like weird contraptions that you can use if you are parapl- I do not know they were just like 'You will be fine guys.' And I guess - I do not think I was excited by it but I thought 'Oh you know what it was a bit stale.'   Thanks.   Maybe this is like spicing it up a bit. But - and it is probably the hardest thing to deal with in the relationship. And I think that is why we need - like the emotional connection that we have is so much deeper than it ever has been before.  Mm.  Is part of the complication of mourning what you lost like Hiroki survived. He is here.  Hm.  Yeah but I think the thing is like you can only - it is all relative right? So it is like - it is hard to - it is hard to imagine a loss that you have not had. But it is very easy to mourn or miss the legs that you did right? You know half my body is like here. I can see it. I can touch it. But I cannot feel it. And I cannot move it. And if you just cut it off then it would not make much difference. Like that - that is - that is sort of such a weird set of emotions to try and understand and comprehend. And I definitely feel like I have lost something. So it is very bittersweet. Both survival and loss mixed into one. Thats Rachel Swidenbank and Hiroki Takeuchi speaking to me from their London apartment. Since we spoke Hiroki and Rachel took their first big trip together since the accident to Dubai and Oman. You can see all their pictures from that and some from Hirokis rehab on Rachels instagram. The handle is hiromyhero. Thats h-i-r-o underscore my h-e-r-o underscore. They also just completed work on their bathroom this week to make it accessible and Hiroki is now able to use it on his own. Rachel has some interviews lined up for freelance work. Their appointment with a fertility specialist is coming up in May. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Adriana Rush. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And send us your stories about student loans and how they have affected your life. Our email address is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. You can subscribe to our weekly email newsletter at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. I started my interview with Rachel and Hiroki late because Hiroki was not at the appointment when we were scheduled to start. He would be shopping for a new car and a salesman got his wheelchair stuck in the trunk. But Rachel says punctuality has never been one of her husbands strong suits.  Hiroki how many things have you had today and were you on time for any of them?  I was on time for the first -- no actually I was late for that.  Yeah okay.  Yeah and it is like - it is gone up by a magnitude of like -  But I have an excuse now.  Yeah I know this is the problem.   We will work on it.  Yeah. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.