 You know Marilyn...  What is this about?  Death sex and money.  I do not know anything about death.  Do you know anything about money?  Not enough.   Sex?  Uh quite a bit. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im John Cameron Mitchell filling in for Anna Sale.  Ladies and gentlemen please welcome the marvelous Marilyn Maye! Ive known jazz cabaret mistress Marilyn Maye for only about five years. Shes 91 years old so Ive known her for like .01 percent of her life. And while her home base is the suburbs of Kansas City shes in New York a lot. Shes still working. And I met up with her working at 54 Below the iconic cabaret in midtown Manhattan.   You are just too good to be trueCannot take my eyes off of you.You would be like heaven to touchbecause I love you so much.At long last I have arrivedand I thank God I am alive... Marilyn was there to perform a week-long run of shows because even though its been more than 50 years since she was nominated for a Best New Artist Grammyagainst Tom Jones!she is still going strong as a performer. For her birthday last year she celebrated by debuting a show here in the city called 90 At Last.  And you know it really worked. We had we had full houses every night.  Really? You you played the age card and it you monetized it.  I think theyre - well yeah and I just hate to play the yeah. And they do show up and I always wondered are they showing up because they think the old girl is going to kick off any minute or are they showing up because they like the songs?  Well when I always say Im going to work with you youre like Hurry.    I know it. I do say that.  When I discovered you was in Provincetown. I came to see you.  Oh. What a wonderful day that I met you.  My friends said just go see Marilyn Maye. Just -  Oh.  If you are feeling down go see Marilyn Maye and I really do go see you at weird transitions in my life where at the end of something coming back to New York you know that weird feeling of coming home and you are like Oh God my life. You know I I get that feeling a lot traveling around you know you and I both do that.  Do you feel that you have to start again or what - ?  Its - it is just all the the things I have not thought about come back. And I am like - and I come back to my rent stabilized apartment and I go ugh God. You know I wish I could change the the floor in here but because it is rented I cant and you know it is just like you it as a performer theres a temporariness about life.  But but but youre so successful in New York you are so loved here that -  I - I do feel loved but as you know we do not we necc- we did not necessarily chase money.  No.  We did not necessarily chase fame um -  We are now.   Well now we have to right?  Right.  I have got to make money for my mom...  Right.  ...who has Alzheimer's.  Right.  You know?  Right.  You gotta make money to pay the -  I have to make money to live - I - I am um um subleasing an apartment here which is very it is very expensive.  Yeah.  And worth every nickel. Because I want to stay. I am happier here.  I mean you are 90 years old and working hard.  Mmhm like crazy. Yeah.  Working crazy.  Yeah. And um -  You were just working from so young.  Yeah.  It is just part of your life.  Oh yeah. My mother played piano and um she mar - she named me Marilyn after Marilyn Miller who was a you know big Broadway show star in her time. Um and um she decided you know that I would be a singer. So when I was nine years old we entered amateur contests and then when I was 15 I would leave high school and walk down about two blocks to the streetcar in Des Moines Iowa and take the streetcar to my gig  a radio show called Marilyn Entertains on KRNT in Des Moines. And then when I was 16 I started working on Friday and Saturdays in a nightclub but still going to high school.  Your dad and mom separated when you were about nine right?  No I was like I was I was 11 or 12. I think I was 12.  Okay. And what was going through your mind? Did you take it in stride? Were you heartbroken?  My mother shared so much of what my dad was doing which I think is a mistake. Uh at the time I did not realize it was a mistake but but my Dad just loved ladies.   That was his weakness?  Uh huh. She found love letters five from five different women at the same time.  Oh wow.  I mean you know just crazy. And uh so she shared all that with me. And so -  At that age?  At that age yeah.  Which is a lot.  It was it was. She was strong. And and not not easy.  No? Prickly sometimes or -  Not easy at all. Years and years ago when I was a little girl like you know in my teens before I would walk on she would say now do not you let me down?  Ooh. Like Marilyn I grew up in the heartland of the country actually in Kansas for a few years. And as soon as I could I made my way to New York. Not Marilyn though. Shes lived in Kansas City since she was in her 20s when she was building her singing career taking gigs at local nightclubs and radio stations in the Midwest. Then when she was in her late 30s she was discovered in Kansas City by the TV host and composer Steve Allen. She ended up getting a record contract with RCA and later became a frequent guest on The Tonight Show with Johnny Carson.  It is - its wild. I mean you were a friend of Ella Fitzgerald.  Oh I yeah she was a dear dear buddy of mine. Where we had all of our conversationswere in a dressing room nowum it was always in dressing rooms.  Yeah?  We sat you know when uh when we were in the same town we would always get together. And then you know I would go to her show or she would come to mine and after the show we would sit for two or three hours in the dressing room and talk you know she was adorable.  And she called you the greatest white chick singer didnt she?  Well people - it was taken it is taken out of context.  How did she put it?  Because on a television show they would say who are your favorite singers? And she said well I love um uh SassySarah Vaughanand Carmen you know Carmen McRae.  Carmen McRae.  And then the greatest white singer is Marilyn you know she would say it like that.  Ooh. Thats so special.  Yeah it was very special and then we wound up recording on either uh I have got a picture of us on either side of a mic which is I cherish that. And um uh -  Ooo. Do you remember what you sang?  Step to the Rear yeah we were doing Step to the Rear.  Step to the Rear.   I wonder howI mean you decided to stay in Kansas City rather than move to the big cities. Why was that?  Well no I married I married a guy from Kansas City.  Oh.  That was my second husband.  Okay.  Yeah. So that is why I wound up in Kansas City with him.  Was there a moment where you are like honey we we gotta go to New York or LA?  No is not that a shame that there was not. I was just too busy making a living.  Yeah.  I just you know working and and uh we had a daughter and I just I was working. I was singing with bands on the weekend and and teaching. He was a dancer.  Oh. MM And I taught the singing and he taught to kids you know from eight to 18. And um we had dance recitals and and I would I had this darling baby that I was raising and working every day and -  Your life was full. It was impossible.  Oh just totally and plus he was an alcoholic and that was that was all the bad stuff too.  Thatll take the wind out of the sails wont it?  Yeah there was bad stuff going on behind the scenes you know.  Yeah. Were you a were you a saver? Were you a helper?  Didnt I think I could could -  Save.  - did not I think I could make him quit drinking? Couldnt I just uh fix him?  Yeah. You know I had an alcoholic boyfriend who passed away from it.  Oh yeah. Well my my third husband then pianist same thing.  Really?  He passed away from it. Yeah.  Were all three husbands alcoholics?  Uh huh. Uh huh.  Gosh. Was it in your family?  No not at all.  Is not that weird? It wasnt in mine either.  Oh no.  I was like why am I so good at this or bad?  Did did your dad drink?  No!  No my mother or dad did not at all.  Did you - when you had your guys that were charming and and alcoholic did you feel a challenge in in tying them down or did you -  It was just fun to kiss and hug.  You - you were more in the moment and you didnt expect much.  Very very much so in the moment. We worked together. I always found talent you know and um my first marriage was one year and then forget that. It was just fun and games because he was fun and he was older than I much older 20 years older than I.  Oh wow.  And and whippy and sophisticated and I was 19 and you know so that was fun for about a year and then I went off to my career you know and um -  Did you kick him to the curb or was it an amicable parting?  Um I just went away. I just we just both went away we just went away uh.  It reminds me of the Ethel Merman thing her marriage to Ernest Borgnine.  What was it?  In her biography there is a chapter that says My Marriage to Ernest Borgnine. And then you turn the page it is blank and then it is like Chapter 10 the next -   Well I yes I can say that about about the first one. The second one was this dancer you know we were creative together and making a living together. And um so it was a production. Then the third one was there again a - a great pianist. That is what my talent was what draw me to him and you know same thing uh his great talent I loved him for that. And um and we had such great musical rapport.  You know we have both sometimes been attracted to maybe wonderful but wrong guys maybe not wrong as much as you know theres - theres sometimes patterns of behavior. I get bored with people who have not had problems sometimes you know. Um did you find that you learned from those experiences? I mean was there did you have were there men in your life that were like okay this is the kind of person I need and this is actually working. Did you get to a point or did you -  I dont know. I would become obsessed.   Yeah.  I was kind of obsessed and I was more obsessed with with my last one. I always call him my meaningful love affair. See by that time I was in my early fifties I guess. About like you.  What kind of guy was he?  Um he was he was a dog.  And just a doll. I mean he was handsome and wonderful and funny  Roguish?  And just awful. He was just bad.  I love that.  Both sides.  Right.  After I would perform oh he was so in love with me after I would perform. And then I one time I said do you love - do you love me or do you love Marilyn Maye you know? And he said well how can I separate the two? Which kind of smart of him that was smart. He was kind of smart.   What did he do?  He owned clubs. He owned nightclubs and he had a very sexy apartment down underneath the club and it was a hideaway you know and we would go there and that was - but I am sure he took because he too was was like my dad maybe in that respect. And I would leave town and I knew he was with somebody you know. I would just I would find out you know just terrible just terrible.  Was that in Kansas City or New York?  So I think it was about a 10 year on and off in Kansas City about a ten year thing on and off. But um I was just nuts. I do not know that I was so in love with him but I was nuts about him.  Yeah. Did you want a committed thing with him or did were you you knew it wasnt possible?  I dont know. He proposed to me one time. He had done a terrible thing uh one weekend and so now we are having dinner a a week later and he said and he pulls out this beautiful ring and proposed to me. And I said he said Now we will not say anything more about the past. This was his condition right when he is handing me the ring.  He was like paying you off?  Uh well no he was proposing and saying you know we will not talk about that anymore you know. And I said Well okay um that is fine. But but someof course I cannot keep my mouth shut you know sobut sometime I want to know about last weekend. Give me the ring. So now I have put the ring on and I cannot get it off and I am crying you know and it is its a little too little for me and I am going crazy trying to take the ring off and crying in the restaurant right? And its so beautiful.  Why did you want to take it off?  Well because we he said give me the ring you know he said uh if if I have to have if we have to talk about last weekend forget it you know.  Ooh.  So I go to the ladies' room and get -  Some soap.  - water and soap and get the ring off and say Here you know so.  Take back your mink.  Take back. Yeah. Mmhmm. Mmhmm.  So it was something that was fiery but it it was never constant.  Yeah it was very fiery. Um there is a song that I did called I Will Survive and um and -  The disco song?  - and uh yeah yeah. We had broken up and on this particular Carson show I was doing I Will Survive. And I called him and said I am on The Tonight Showand I had not talked to him for a long you know maybe three or four monthsand I said I am going to be on the Tonight Show and I am doing a song especially for you and I want you to be sure and tune in. He said you are? Oh he was Oh well I am flattered oh you know. And I sang right directly into that camera to you son of a B.   I will survive.  I will survive and am. I am surviving.   Hey everyone this is Anabel Bacon and Im one of the producers here at Death Sex  Money. So Marilyn Maye had a pretty epic way of getting over her meaningful love affair when it ended. But most of us dont get the chance to sing Gloria Gaynor songs to our exes on national television. So when thats not an option how do you deal with heartbreak? Thats the question we put to all of you a couple of years ago and your answers turned into one of our all-time favorite episodes about breaking up. How do you cut someone out of your life who is a part of you? I feel like no one talks about this. I called his mom Mom. And then one day he said he was leaving the band. It really hurt. I just never really got the closure that I wanted. Breakups are personal. Ugh. Yep. Weve all been there. To hear how other listeners got through it just text the word BREAKUP to the number 70101 and well send you a link to the show. And as long as youre listening back to other episodes dont miss the one where John Cameron Mitchell was a guest. He told us more about his own experience of loving someone struggling with alcoholism...  I did not have it in my family but I realized I was good at taking care of and wanting to save. The problem with it was also that I never had to face my own problems which were very deep seeded too about intimacy and trust because his problems always seemed bigger. Its a really good conversation. To hear it just text the word JOHN to 70101. On the next episode the maternity leave lineup continues. Writers Damon Young and Kiese Laymon talk together about basketball body image and why earning more can feel like a blessing and a curse.  I definitely think about death more. I think about like just terrible calamities disease. I think about -  Since you since you started making money  Since I started making money since I have a family Im like in a constant state of like perpetual state of just of just hoping bad shit doesnt happen.  Wow. I feel like Im in a perpetual state of just assuming it is gonna.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im John Cameron Mitchell. When I first saw Marilyn Maye perform in Provincetown Massachusetts there were very few people in the audience. It was a converted tiny movie theater but she made it seem like it was the Copacabana. She gave her all. I was overwhelmed. That was about five or six years ago when her career was actually on the upswing in her late 80s. As musical tastes shifted in the '60s and '70s Marilyn found her talents less in demand. You know she always says she was born too late for jazz stardom because rock and roll supplanted it. But she says that through it all her most loyal friends and fans were in the gay community.  You know they are - they are - they are the ones that love the lyric and they I think live it and the sensitivity and and uh maybe because of what they had to endure or not.  Yeah.  Uh but I think they live what I sing.  You can take any style and make it not just your own but make it clear and so when I when I go I feel a kind of a catharsis. I let go. I - I am always crying at your show and always feeling better -  Oh its that bad?  Good crying.  Oh good cry.   I mean weve both seen a lot of people pass from AIDS.  Oh my gosh. The '80s and '90s just awful. Just awful. My my precious uh pianist for 20 years Mark Franklin Mark um was one of the early AIDS cases.  Very early.  And was like um like losing my son you know because he joined me when he was 19 and we traveled extensively together and laughed and his sense of humor uh we laughed on planes you know wed - wed have food fights on planes and the and the attendant would come by and say Are you kids having a good time?  Hed put the whipped cream on my nose and I would just not act like anything happened and then I would crumble up the crackers in his lap and you know that kind of stuff. We played you know so he was my um like my child and and um a terrible thing. For 20 years he was was with me and um um it was you know it was it was terrible to lose him just terrible.  Did he go fast?  He died at 39. Uh well pneumonia and you know  Yeah.  and it was just awful. And so I had so many friends so many close close friends that I lost and um it just seemed to go on and on and on.  Have you had any major health issues?  Um no. I Id never been in a hospital until for some reason I got kidney stones and then I went to the the -  You were not drinking enough water.  - emergency and then they then I got sepsis.  Oh from the hospital.  And I went in the hospital and I yeah. Uh huh from the hospital. But six days in intensive care and then -  Yeah.  - maybe another week or so in the hospital. Then they said well you need rehab you know so I went to this this home and and I was doing rehab and they said well do not you want to have lunch out out in the dining room? And I said Everybody's old out there! And they were younger than I.   Oh my God. I am terrified of like being -  Yeah.  - in a community of declining people.  Yeah. Well my mother was in a be- before that my mother was in a nursing home for for four and a half years. So I spent every day that I could with her in the nursing home. So I would had enough nursing homes. But you know in the nursing homes what what is the wonderful part of it is that the music you can bring and they -  Yes oh my gosh. They respond.  - they they identify with music. It is a wonderful thing to be able to go into the nursing homes and sing and reach them and you do reach those who have not been reached any other way for that week or month or day you know.  My mom uh is a little bit non-responsive sometimes now. She is happy you know she is very smiley but you know it is hard to put some words together. But I would just sing Speed bonnie boat like a bird on the wing onward the sailors cry.  Would she join you singing?  Yes and then she with her little quavering voice Carry the lad thats born to be king over the sea to sky. And then she is right there.  Darling.  Thats the last thing you forget is a song.  Yes. Is not that interesting?  The faces of people you love.  Uh huh uh huh.  And then the songs.  Uh huh.   Dealing with you know in my fifties dealing with parents like who in a way who become your your children at that time -  Right.  - you know in their later years.  Right.  I tell you it is it is as expensive as sending a kid to Harvard with no financial aid to - with her care right now.  Tell me. I know.  But she has great caregivers that she lives with. Because we took her out of the retirement assisted living -  Did you? Yeah.  - thing because it was just a bunch of people staring at a TV.  Yeah yeah.  My mom's health physical health is pretty good but it is you know the mind has changed. Do your do you have plans about you know when you when you later on -  I cannot think about that.  Yeah do you know what environment you want be in?  Do you know what do you know what you want to do?  So for myself I do not know I some of my friends think that we are going to pool our money together and and buy a place um and have you know our young friends take care of us.  But do you think they will show up when you really need that?  Well I I like this idea of kind of getting a few friends of the same age and making plans to be in the same place. As you know -  See I dont know very many people my age. That is the bad thing.  Yeah thats the thing you have to -  Theyve - theyve - theyve gone. The ones that would have done that are are already gone.  Yeah. I mean this is my my dream thing. It is like to be in a kind of like bed and breakfast you know near the end.  And then do you want to be how do you how do you want to -  Oh I do not care. I mean I was I grew up Catholic. I like the idea of memorials but funerals are so stupid and the open casket what the hell is that about?  Oh no no no. We cant do that.  You know. Cremation seems fine.  Oh God no. Nobody knows how to put my lashes on.  We cannot do that.  I know! Those undertakers are not Broadway quality.  Mm mm. One of my dearest friends she was like my soul sister. We kind of looked alike. And uh her name was Betty Holloway and she was a darling darling woman. And so her sister knew how much that I loved her and they wanted me to sing for the funeral and I said of course I would. But but then she always wore lashes and um her sister called me and said Marilyn will you put her lashes on? Because the the um -  The heterosexual undertakers just -  Did not know how did not know how to do it. And I said oh my gosh honey yes of course I will and I did you know.  Was that scary?  Well just you know. Yeah because I loved her so that you know it was difficult yeah.  A lot of tears. Yeah.  So I do not - no not a I dont know that I cried. I do not cry very much. I cried so much during my you know I think I am out of that now.  You cried out?   Yeah I think maybe.  All those men?  I laugh a lot now. Thats singer Marilyn Maye. If youve never seen her perform you are truly missing out. It was a life-changing experience really to discover her. Find her tour schedule at Marilyn Maye  dot com. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. The team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Special thanks to Joanna Solataroff and Stephanie Joyce for their help on this episode. And special thanks to 54 Below. You can find me John Cameron Mitchell in the new Hulu series Shrill and on stage around the country performing songs and stories of Hedwig in my Origin of Love tour. Plus look out for my upcoming musical podcast series called Anthem starring myself Glenn Close Cynthia Erivo Patti LuPone Denis O'Hare and the South African singer Nakhane. And as always you can find Death Sex  Money on Twitter Instagram and Facebook deathsexmoney.  You know I have got seven nights and then I am out of a job this week.  At least we are in the same tribe.  What is that? Gypsies tramps and thieves?  Which one are you?  Yeah.  Good answer. If you were a thief you would be richer.   Right. Im John Cameron Mitchell and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.