For him it was just so new because Ive always been the happy girl thats what he had known all his life so he didnt understand it either. So we were just both clueless. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lotand need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Mark and Giulia Lukach got married on a hot day in Washington D.C. in 2006. Theyd met in college at Georgetown.  I mean we were really young. We were just barely turned 24.  We met when we were 18. So at that point we were together for six years yeah. The day after their wedding Mark and Giulia packed up their things. Theyd decided to start their new life life together across the country.  We didnt even know where we were sending the trucks to we just were like Lets go to San Francisco. Mark was going to teach history at a private school. Giulia found work after they moved...but it was 3 years later when she landed what felt like her dream job doing marketing for a hip manufacturing startup.  I remember applying out of the blue and writing this really cool cover letter and they called me and I was in total shock that they even got to my resume. I did not last there long. Because soon after starting Giulia had paralyzing anxiety -- a kind shed never felt before.  I was only a week or two into this new job and I would look at an email I would receive and Im very efficient I usually write back respond Im doing a million different things and for some reason this time around I would just look at the email and stare at the email and re-read my response ten times and call Mark and read him my response before hitting send. I would just blank stare at the wall and people I remember were looking at me like Whats going on?  And Mark when did you notice that this wasnt just stress of starting a new job?  Within the first week it was clear that the stuff she was complaining about was bigger than oh this is a busy job where I was like maybe this isnt actually what we thought it was gonna be. I recognize looking back I was pretty impatient and could get pretty easily frustrated like Whats going on? Why are you so freaked out? Stop calling me. Im at work I gotta do my job too. Giulia went to a doctor and was prescribed an antidepressant. But she didnt get better.  What made it real was when I was given the pills and I was on Skype with my mom and I told her Mom I think Im gonna take all these pills I think Im gonna commit suicide. And that was just within like a month. It just spiraled so quickly. About one in five American adults has a diagnosable mental illness in a given year. One in 23 lives with a serious condition -- one that can cause major impairments and disruptions to daily life. That includes Giulia.  How did you get to the hospital that first time?  Yelling and screaming and being carried by my husband and by my dad and basically trying to open the door and fly out of the car.  Because you felt...why were you trying not to go to the hospital?   It was just because thats not the person I was you know? Coming to terms and realizing that you yourself are crazy or you yourself are experiencing this coming from my background where I was like the straight A student and just having the most friends and being the first to get married thats who I was you know? I would not accept this as my reality. Giulia was eventually diagnosed with bipolar disorder -- sometimes called manic depression. People with it experience extreme emotional highsand extreme lows. And in Giulias case even the highs are really dark.  Thats one of the big distinctions they made. Usually mania is super fun and youre up late and partying but your mania is just like really scary and psychotic.  Mmhmm.  The only thing she could talk about was the devil and that she basically needed to protect the world because the devil was inside her. And so she didnt specifically say I am going to kill myself but it was basically like her being alive was keeping the devil alive.  And what did they tell you at the ER?  I still was under this impression that a doctor was gonna walk in the door and say Okay heres exactly whats going on and heres this pill and as soon as she takes it its like taking a Tylenol for a headache shell be totally fine within an hour no problem. And that was like such a naive expectation but its what we thought and that is not at all what happened. Instead the doctor came in and said We have no idea whats going on shes clearly dangerous so we cant keep her here in the ER were gonna take her to the psychiatric facility where shes gonna stay for a minimum of 72 hours because thats what the law mandates. And after that they will reevaluate if she needs to stay longer.  At what point did you hear the words psychosis or psychotic break?  I think I remember it most clearly when I was put next to the nurse station because I was completely psychotic and thats what I remember the nurse saying is This girl is completely psychotic and she needs to stay right here next to us. Thats kind of the room where the craziest of crazies stays because they just didnt trust me anywhere else in the ward. I think it was very much early on.  And it wasnt said to you it was said about you.  It was about me I was right there in the room looking over completely lost and confused and they were like That psychotic girl needs to stay right there. She did stay there...for 23 days. Mark was at home frantically making phone calls to doctors to the insurance company to his job trying to manage as best he could...until visiting hours from 7 to 30 each night.  And so it was literally like spend all day on the phone and then gear yourself up to go visit her not knowing what the hells gonna happen when I get there. Any range of Giulia being super affectionate or Giulia screaming at me to not come in her door or Giulia just ignoring me. It was completely unpredictable. Id have to prepare things to talk about because Giulia didnt necessarilyall she wanted to talk about were the angels and demons that were in the world and Id be like Oh well the weather was nice today lets talk about I talked to my brother Just try to keep her in this reality somehow.  Giulia I heard you giggle a little bit when Mark said the visiting hours and not knowing what to expect.  Yeah I just look back at all the stuff I said during those visiting hours and like what I believed and I still remember it all so vividly but Im not in that state of mind anymore. So I could see how for him it was so scary but for me it was reality. Like I believed all the nurses were actors and they all set up this huge scheme against me and this was gonna be like how I would get to heaven is to figure this all out it was all a game. And I would tell Mark like Ha! I get it now this nurse is playing this person. And he was just like the center of the plot because thats what I believed. I believed that he was out to get me and he was one of the bad guys. Coming up their long process of finding a treatment that worked...and how that affected other big decisions.  All the medical advice we were receiving was that this was probably only a one time thing and that was why we did make the decision to go for it with wanting to have a child. Their son Jonas is turning 3 next month. Of course when there is mental illness its not just romantic relationships that can get strained. Weve heard about it in your sibling stories about the particular pain of feeling like you are losing touch with the person youve lived your whole life alongside. Like for Rachel in St. Louis whose younger sister struggled with mental illness and an extreme eating disorder beginning in their teens. And it was something that was very difficult obviously for her but selfishly for me because I wanted to be close to her and I couldnt. And she couldnt talk to me she couldnt talk to anyone she couldnt be honest she couldnt be vulnerable. And I wasnt very understanding. Were still collecting your sibling stories. Email a note or record and send a voicemail to us from your smartphone. The email address is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode. W. Kamau Bell the comedian and former host of the FX series Totally Biased. We talked about how his familys financial situation changed after his TV show was cancelled. And about how being a large black man has shaped how he moves through the world. Theres just all these ways in which I sort of make sure that the world knows Im not intending to pose a threat other than the threat that I am posing because of the body that Im in. Kamau will also be at our first ever live show. Its in Brooklyn on Friday May 8th. Kamaus wife Melissa Hudson Bell will also be there -- along with other guests and our house band for the night Luscious Jackson. Tickets are on sale now. You can go to deathsexmoney.org for more information.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. After Giulia Lukach got out of the hospital she was enrolled in an outpatient rehab program where she had a support group art therapy yoga. Her husband Mark took a three-month leave from work to help with the transition. But it ended up being nine months before she was feeling better. Giulia remembers it as the hardest time of her life.  I was just so suicidal and I was like why would God do this to me why would he abandon me? Why would he get me to go through all of this? Basically I believed I was in hell so why would I have to go through hell in this lifetime? Ive always been a good person he doesnt love me.  And how did you feel about Mark during that nine month period?  He was a lot of times the pill Nazi. Thats what I called him for a little bit. Basically he was like Take your pills take your pills take your pills and there were times when I took myself off the pills because on one specific pill I gained 70 lbs in six weeks. I mean its horrible what some of these pills do to you and some of them are so mind-numbing and I couldnt live that way. Im still a human being you know? So we were not connected at all because he hadnt experienced it and he always sided with the doctors and the medications and I needed him to side with me.  Looking back obviously its so hard what he experienced as well. Its just a hard role to play to play the caregiver to your own wife.  Mark when she was released into your care from the hospital what did they tell you your responsibility was?  Basically to like not let her die you know? They said you gotta keep her safe and she has to take her medication. Because if shes not taking her medication you cant keep her at home shes gonna have to go back in the hospital. It was really tough you know. And its tough to hear Giulia say this stuff now because I really I really You know when she says stuff like Im the devil I cant take her literally anymore. I just couldnt Its not to say that I did not trust her but I guess I kind of didnt trust her. So when shes saying like You dont know how these pills make me feel it was really easy for me to say Youre right I dont but its worth it because youre not thinking youre the devil anymore and you are not actively trying to throw yourself out of a moving car. But thats because I didnt have to take those pills. And the problem is since this was her first time she had no baseline understanding of how medication impacted her. So they didnt know what meds were gonna work and what meds werent gonna work so it was this like long drawn out science experiment of Lets try these pills for 3 weeks oh they didnt work okay lets just switch em out.  So Mark this is a difficult question but during that period did you fantasize about leaving the marriage?  The reality is no. I did not. Because it feltit just felt like it was too intense to leave but after when things got normal and then you just start to bicker about who did the laundry and this little stuff this little crap basically. Thats where I was like whats going on here? Thats where I started to get more frustrated with the marriage where I was like dont you realize what I did to help you? And how much I love you and how much I sacrificed to try to take care of you? And I got really frustrated for a while you know? I just didnt feel like it was reciprocated. Not that I was fantasizing about leaving the marriagebut thats where the impact the negative impact on our marriage really came to life and we had to just navigate the normal things that couples confront with this very unbalanced power dynamic. It was really sloppy and we fought about it a lot.  And Giulia do you...it sounds like you were frustrated with Mark because you felt like you had had this profound experience that he was totally outside of he just couldnt understand.  Yeah . I mean yeah he was not in a psych ward and I will never be the same. This changed me forever and so I see the world differently. Its like yeah Im sure the world is beautiful and everything happens for a reason. When youre on the other side of that spectrum its really tough to come to terms with that. That its you that is gonna be the one suffering and questioning your life and questioning your existence and I thankfully met a lot of friends that experienced similar journeys that I did that I was able to grasp onto during these last five years that have really helped save me.  Can you tell me about the decisionhow did you decide to start a family with Mark?  So that was like Ive always wanted to be a mom. Actually before my first episode I remember going off birth control like literally that summer and then I got sick and everything changed. I remember my mom visiting me in the hospital and me telling her Mom Im never gonna be a mom Im never gonna get to be a mom and shes like What are you talking about? I said No this is my life this is what Im gonna be Im gonna be in psych wards and Im sick and Im not gonna be a mom. And I think afterIt was after two years in talking obviously very closely with my psychiatrist my therapist my gynecologist that they thought it was gonna be okay for me to get off the medications and try to get pregnant safely. And so we were blessed with this beautiful baby boy.  And then you did get sick again?  Two more times yeah. Same triggers I was starting a new job and I was breastfeeding trying to do it all and I stopped sleeping which is my number one trigger and even after 24 hours I called my therapist my psychiatrist and they put me on the meds and its already too late. I just go into my psychosis and my big thoughts of...this time I thought heaven was a place on earth and we were all just angels. That was when Jonas was only five months old.  And how long were you hospitalized at that point?  The second one was my longest hospitalization I was there 33 days.  Mark after the second hospitalization did you feel like you had more tools?  Yeah definitely I had a better sense of my bearings I didnt feel so disoriented but now I had a kid at home. I wanted the two of them to be together so badly because it was so important for both of them but I also felt like I had to be really delicate about protecting him and protecting her. For a long time if Jonas was up in the middle of the night Giulia wasnt able to get up. She needed her sleep first and foremost. And so I did all the middle of the night stuff for much of his first year and a half or so. I felt like there was a lot of the middle of the night stuff where it was just me and him.  Did anyone advise you about whether or not Jonas was at physical risk?  Yeah I mean they were definitely evaluating that. The doctors were really keeping an eye on that and there was never a concern about that at all because of Giulias specific case. I can honestly say I never thought Giulia would hurt Jonas. Ive never had that fear.  Have you decided to have no more children?  Thats a pretty weighted question.   I think it is more of my psychiatrist has told me probably that Jonas will probably be my last child yes because she wants to keep me on meds forever and that would mean not having another child because you dont want to be on those meds during pregnancy especially through the first trimester. So this is their family. Its not the one they envisioned -- Giulia always pictured having lots of kids -- but neither is this life keeping track of Giulias sleep her medicine her grasp on reality. And stability can still be tenuous. Giulia works. Shes a senior online marketing manager for a national housewares chain. But last fall she had one night where she couldnt fall asleep and that turned into twenty consecutive nights. Mark tried to take care of her at home at first. But then realized she needed to go back to the hospital again.  I took Jonas to daycare. I said Giulia you need to tell him youre going on a business trip and I was crying so hard watching them say goodbye. And I took him to school and came home and packed up the bag and went to the hospital.  So this is all very fresh.  Yeah this third one is like October 2014 so were not that far away from it  Yeah and Im catching you both in the midst of figuring out how youre managing this how stable you are Giulia how to parent when there is this question of your health. I just kind of wonder Giulia when you step back from having gone through these very intense experiences of being hospitalized and then the reentry back into regular life and your marriage. What have you learned about your marriage through the course of this?  We learned a lot about through sickness and in health like what you sign on to you say that when youre up there and looking beautiful and you have all your friends watching but you dont realize what that means until youre put through hell basically. You know with me getting sick three times and then the recovery time takes a year after each of these episodes usually. Marriage is not always glamorous but there are glimpses of light that are unexpected and it is the little moments that you need to live for. And I think thats what were doing. At night we have our dance parties with Jonas and we dance around and turn up the music and we just laugh and have so much fun and it is carefree. It is moments like those that no one can take away and for me the illness goes away just for that two minute song. I think thats what we need to live for. Mark and Giulia Lukach. And this is one of the songs they dance to Bright Whites by Kishi Bashi. Mark is working on a memoir about their marriage. Last fall he had an essay called My Lovely Wife in the Psych Ward published by the magazine Pacific Standard. He wrote it before Giulias most recent hospitalization in fact Mark was getting texts about photo captions while he was in the ER. Theres a link to that essay on our website at deathsexmoney.org. We also have links there if you or someone you love is struggling with suicidal thoughts or mental illness. Again the website deathsexmoney.org. Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Katie Bishop  Emily Botein James Ramsay Caitlin Pierce Zachary Mack and Joe Plourde. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. Also -- if are you are not getting the Death Sex  Money newsletter sign up. Every week in your inbox youll get recommendations on other podcasts hear stories from other listeners And -- you get first notice when we have a surprise for our listeners. Sign up now at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. Something is coming soon. And heres one last thing Mark told me -- about a key piece of advice from a friend when Giulia first got sick.  When youre on the airplane they tell you if the mask popped down you have to put on your mask first. So if you cannot take care of yourself first you cannot help anybody. And thats a key piece of advice I really tried to stick with. Because if you cannot youre gonna be too tired and just not up for the fight. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.