 Hey so before we get started I just want to let everyone know that there will be quite a bit of bleep-worthy language including frequent use of a colloquial version of a racial slur that Kiese and I use pretty often. But there will be no bleeps.  You might not even remember this when I first reached out to you it was I think to blurb my proposal.  Yup.  And and asking you was the most difficult.  Word?!  Yeah. I was like like aw this nigga's brilliant.  What?  Like II cantI dont know if he knows who I am  What?  I remember just feeling like almost like almost like youre about to ask a nigga to the prom or something like -   That is so crazy. I didnt know you was feeling that way! This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Damon Young in for Anna Sale. And today its my turn in the host chair. And for that I sat down with Kiese Laymon.  Are we on right now? Are we doing this right now? His book Heavy came out last fall. Its a memoir addressed to his mom. Heres Kiese reading from the book.  I wanted to write a lie. I wanted that lie to be titillating. I wrote that lie. It was titillating. You would have loved it. I discovered nothing. You would have loved it. I started over and I wrote what we hoped Id forget. The book is so honest. When I read it it hit me in all the places that - that when things hit you they hit you. It talks about food and money and sex and weight.  I dipped the same spoon a quarter deep into Grandmomma's pear preserves and put the whole spoon in my mouth. I did it again and again until the jar of peanut butter was gone. The wailing didnt stop. I hated my body. It also tells the story of his mom or at least what it was like for Kiese to live with her. She had a PhD taught political science when Kiese was growing up and had very fierce ideas about what was right for her son. She was also struggling to be the mom that she wanted to be.  I knew you didnt want white folk to judge you if I came to school with visible welts so you beat me on my back my ass my thick thighs instead of my arms my neck my hands and my face. Kiese lives in Oxford Mississippi. I live in Pittsburgh. Im editor-in-chief of Very Smart Brothas and Kiese is Professor of English and Creative Writing at the University of Mississippi. I actually never met Kiese in person before. But we are both on a book tour now. Both with memoirs.  Last night was the first night I was like oh we are walking around like inside out when it comes to like these events. Like you come into a space with you know your insides are outside you because people at least people think that. We sat down together in New York which meant a flight for both of us. Which is something that neither of us really enjoy doing that much.  I have all these anxieties and all these neuroses that are just converging. Its like this lasagna of anxiety that exists right now um.  I take two Xanax as soon as I get to the airport and -  Mm.  - and I like to be kinda woozy before I step on that mag. I still hate it though.   Yeah. I got this routine like once I get in my seat I have to say five Hail Marys -  Wow.  - and they have to be perfect. If the um intercom comes on or someone sits down and starts talking to me I have to start over. But if I mess upyou know because it is a lot of words. Hail Mary full of grace the Lord is with -  Yeah.  like if I if I mis-say a word I got to start over again.  That is amazing bro. What is your free-throw routine? Is it real elaborate? Is it elaborate?   I dont even remember if I had one.  For real? Kiese and I both hooped a lot as kids. And we both were actually recruited to play basketball in college. Kiese grew up in Jackson Mississippi. And Mississippi is not really known nationally as a hoops hotbed. But its bred some pretty serious ball players.  You talk about basketball in your book. You talk about you make some references to people that I havent thought in decades like Hollywood Robinson.  Man Im so glad you felt you felt that.   What made you gravitate towards basketball?  I mean you know being out there with four other people or two other people playing three on three was was like heaven to me you know? I think actually the most joy I found other than winningyou know when you win and you run the court and you know teams keep coming on and you keep winning as not nothing like thatbut I used to like sometimes just losing and just being super close to like all kinda people. Janky bodied motherfuckers big bodied motherfuckers knobby kneed motherfuckers people who could really shoot people who didnt have form but could still somehow shoot. Um. And also like real talk it was just one of the only spaces where we could be outside and touching each other. You know hugging each other. Hitting each other on the butt. Posting each other up. Like feeling pressing each other like the bodily weight on one another.  Yeah I know that feeling. I remember being you know like 11 - 10 11 12 years old -  Mm.  And you would see older guys play and they would have the sweat that would be on their backs. And it would be like this circle that was on their backs. And I remember thinking I wanna be able to sweat like that.  Wow. How did you sweat?  I sweat just you know from the forehead  and you know under my arms maybe a little bit. But you know you see you see the old niggas running up and down the court you know there were so many things I wanted to emulate from them. And you know that goes I guess that connects to that sense of uh - that sense of community that exists among men.  Yeah. I dont know if you remember Ron Mercer.  I do. Yeah I remember Ron Mercer yeah.  Dudes were in love with Mercer. But we just couldnt say we loved Mer - you know like he had that look. We wanted to look like that dude. We wanted to move like that dude.  Yeah.  Um. I mean I had eating issues so Id weigh myself before I played to see if I could lose like 10 15 pounds in sweat. But to do to lose all that weight in sweat you had to bring lots of shirts so you could lose more weight if you put on a dry shirt. So like when I could still ballyou know you know I could ball out of collegeI became like the dude I was the motherfucker who would bring five shirts. And to bring five shirts you got to be able to play a little bit.  Yeah. you cant be changing.  You can just be sweating and not play.  It is like come on nigga. So like what I do right now is um I hoop and I weigh myself right after I hoop.  Wow.  Yeah. I weigh myself - like I wait till I get home. I um shower and I weigh myself when I got out of the shower. And that is how much I weigh.  That is interesting.  That is what is in my head. That is how much I weigh. Not how much I really weigh but how much I weigh after I sweated out five pounds of water after I showered -  Sweat a little bit more from the shower.  Sweat a little bit more from the shower. I am butt-ass naked. This is what I weigh.  I as not gonna try and diagnose you but that was me in a bad way. But I had to weigh myself before so I could know the difference. At my worst too fam I used to love to take pictures only after I balled because then your cheeks get sunken in and shit. Your veins are popping out more. But anyway I just think my point is I just think of basketball as like this space where we were really allowed to interrogate like how good it felt to be around black men and boys in this way that I didnt really think was really fucked up. But also like what I loved about the courts that I played on was that when women came for the most part and started balling with us people just respected them.  Mmhm.  You know what I am saying? And they were not trying to do fucked up things to them or make them feel less than because they were out there on the court.  It is almost like the opposite happens. Where at least from my experience when there would be women and girls who would come out and play niggas were not like trying to like I am gonna go post her up and and go feel on her. No.  No no. I never saw that.  It was like you almost went the exact opposite direction where you gave them this ultra hyper level of respect. The rules of the basketball courtthere were variations depending on you know where you were playing who you were playing with who was watching you play. But the rules were pretty clear. Off the court thats where things were a little messier especially when dealing with relationships with young men and young women.  I was taught by big boys who were taught by big boys who were taught by big boys that black girls would be okay no matter what we did to them. As Kiese explains in his book the lessons he was told werent often the right ones.  Layla wasnt always the most stylist girl in Jackson but she was definitely the funniest person in Beulah Beaufords house. Right now hes describing a scene in Heavy when he was a kid at a friends house. A girl he knows is in a roomwith three boys. The door is closed.  What they up in there doing?  I asked Dougie whose ear was pressed against Daryls door. Fool what you think? Running a train. I smirked like I knew what running a train was.  Really I had no idea how running a train worked physically or verbally.  Who were you then?  Uh. Yeah that is a scary question that I want to evade. Im often trying to think about why did I not take part in like train running gang rapes and shit that a lot of my other friends did. But I know I didnt. And I know one of the reasons I didnt is because I was afraid. But I dont think the fear of doing that kind of stuff necessarily made me not harmful. And that is why I started that book with the way like these dudes ran this train on my friend. And you know I was complicit in that I didnt stop it from happening and when she asked me to help her I said no. So Im just starting to understand now 20 years too late that there is so many different ways to be complicit in the abuse of real fuckin' people right? And this is what black people always are asking white folks to do. Like See how yall are complicit when you are not actually calling us niggers and all of that kind of shit. But I think even from even 15 to 16 people saw me as a good dude meaning that I wasnt going to try to like slap a girl. I wasnt ever going to try to make a move on a woman at all right? And that made people put their guards down with me and Iyou know I can say like I never physically did anything to anybody anything because I was just afraid. But I wasnt afraid to be emotionally manipulative. You know what Im saying? I wasnt afraid to be like tell somebody something I knew wasnt true.  Yeah I mean. You know you hear people refer to themselves as good. As decent. You know. And usually what qualifies as goodness and as decency is well I havent done this thing or I havent done this thing. And you know for a long time I have like - I have used that as like some sorta fuel to like oh yeah I didnt do these things so that makes me a good dude.  Right. Right.  But I didnt do these things because of fear.  Yep.  You know even when adult men think of themselves as being good or being decent it is just veryit is hard it is difficult but it is very it is crucial to interrogate intent.  Yeah.  And thinking about that is messy.  Scary too.  And scary. Even saying some of that shit out loud. Um. But you know if we really want to change howif we want to change this then those are the sorts of things that we need to talk about with each other you know. Instead of just falling back on that good dude I do not know going back into that good dude closet. Coming up more messy truths.  We have talked about all types of like of terrible and vulnerable and difficult and explosive shit. But if you ask me to talk about money in actual numbers  Yeah. You get scared.  Yeah I am still shook. With that. Because I believe that there is like a rudeness to talking about it.   Hey this is Death Sex  Money producer Katie Bishop. In the first half of this episode you heard some excerpts from Kieses book Heavy...and Damons also got a new memoir out. Its called What Doesnt Kill You Makes You Blacker. Weve added both of those books to a reading list you all helped us build last summer...at the time we were working on an episode about what its like to be a man right now. I think were confused about our place. Theres a very unclear set of expectations as far as how a man should behave. The confusion comes from being told your definition isnt strong enough. Im now learning its okay to cry. But weve given no clear path to strength. I think this is the crisis. Theres a vast silence at the heart of the interactions men have with other men. Theres no clear rules so this gets very very very very confusing. You can find the reading list...and the episode...at deathsexmoney.orgmen. On the next episode...musician Jason Isbell. He sits down with his best friend--who also happens to be the editor in chief of GQ magazine-- Will Welch. They talk about the things theyre embarrassed to spend money on...and what its been like to support each other through sobriety.  Well I have very specific uh memories of uh exiting my you know walking out of my the building where I worked at the time. It was in Times Square and I was standing on 43rd street and I was like I do not know man this is not working this is really not working. And um you kind of walked me through some options but what was nice about it is you were not offering I would not even say you were offering advice and you certainly were not suggesting that you had a resolved idea at all. It was just kinda like well let me tell you my experience. Um and then I had a totally different approach but felt completely backed up.  This is Death Sex and Money. Im Damon Young in for Anna Sale. And Im talking with Kiese Laymon.  So which is the hardest to talk about? Death sex or money?  Sex. My fear with sex too is like I just equate so much with sports and basketball. And Im like damn I was so much better at basketball when I was 19. Does that mean Im - is that the same - does that apply to sex? Like -    Surely you gotta get some points for knowledge or some shit right?  You know it is funny that you talk about fear particularly in regards to engaging women because that was like the primary emotion that kind of colored my interactions with women and girls for the first at least the 20 years of my life. Maybe the first 25 years. I was much more comfortable you know as we were talking about with the basketball I was much more comfortable being myself around dudes and when I was with uh young girls particularly ones I was attracted to I would just like just dive just basically just compress inside myself. I would be like one of them collapsible suitcases that like How did all this shit fit into this little bag? And that was me because I was just so governed by anxiety.  Uh huh.  I was scared of being inadequate.  Uh huh.  Of saying the wrong thing of being naked. Of possibly a woman being into me and me not being able to satisfy her or please her. But it how much of that is just about ego?  Yeah. Which is about amazing amounts of fragility right?  Yeah. About like you knowing that you could do this. Not her feeling this way. But you knowing that okay I was able to satisfy her in this way.  Yeah. Yeah fam. Like I mean I was a big boy so I was really afraid of - I was afraid of hurting people or people doing things with me because I was just bigger than everybody else? But like you when I started to have sex um around 16 and 17 and 18 and into my early 20s. I was definitely just obsessed withat the time I would tell myself I was obsessed with whether or not you know this person felt comfortable and good. But I mean after every - during every thing like every five minutes like Did you come? Did you come? Did you come? Did you come? Did you come? You know like young women who I was with was like I will let you know. You gon' know. It is okay. Like When it happens we both gonna know that. You know? And so that wasnt about me wanting this person to really feel good. That was about me wanting to make this person feel good and this person treat me like I made them feel good which I think sorta sounds if not abusive definitely sort of aggressive in a way.  It is manipulative. It is.  Completely manipulative.  It is.  And again what I think is important is that I just dontand this is not to take any responsibility off of usbut I think these are conversations not only that we needed to have but that we still need to have as grown grown ass men. Ive never honestly had those conversation until sort of right now.  I try to do it in my work but in public its a little harder. You know thinking about how these conversations to me happen usually between the computer and me. Right? Meaning like I am reading your work I am reading somebody else's work or I am trying to write some stuff on my own. It makes me think aboutand I am trying to think about what we are talking about like that thirst and desire we had to be around black men or just men talking about shit and moving our bodies and what notI have been thinking about what actual like day to day friendship means in your 40s with black men. Like day to day. You know because most of the people that I would consider uh people who are like inspiring me to do the work of liberation and or bring pleasure to me with their art are people who I dont live around. You know what Im saying? So I see 'em every once in a while. Like now this is the first time we actually met even though we have interacted a lot over um social media. But is that enough and does that sustain a friendship?  Um. Hm. That is a good question. Because you think back to just that sort of community you got on the basketball court where you are with each other you are banging up against each other you are seeing each other youre laughing talking shit. And that doesnt exist the same way when you are 40 with other men.  Right.  So you have to find - you have to find supplements. And the digital connection is a supplement.  Right.  It might not be as um robust as that interpersonal face-to-face connection but it is a real thing. It is a real thing. The digital connections are real. Like Panama and I Panama Jackson and I you know we met in 2004. Started VSB in 2008. Didnt meet in person until 2011.  Wow.  Yeah.  Wow.  Yeah. We met in person for the first time we wrote this uh this uh relationship book and we met in person at the launch party in D.C.  After three years of working together.  After three years of working together and after seven years of being friends. And it is not like we live on opposite ends of the country. This nigga is in D.C. and I am in Pittsburgh.  So I am interested in howwithout putting you all's relationship on the couch because I find that in my own lifehow does it work that you obviously like somebody enough and value and respect somebody enough to build something with them but not enough to be like yo how about we make an opportunity for us to actually come together? I am thinking about with my own friends like for me it always has to be around sport. Like the guy I would consider my best friend I didnt talk to him for the longest because I gained so much weight and I was like you know all these fucked up things I was like yo we used to play ball together and when he see me he is gonna think Im fat and all this kinda shit. But when I moved back down south I was just like yo if Im going to connect with Ray how are we going to do it? And I as like oh I am like I will get some Lakers tickets. So we go to the games. As opposed to what I really needed was to just fucking go to his crib and just sit on the couch and talk.  Well it isjust specifically with Panama and Ia thing that definitely prevented me from making that move was that I you know when we first met and when we first started VSB I wasnt in the best place financially.  I feel you. That is real.  And you know I definitely know there was some like some hesitation and that hesitation was borne out of like an embarrassment. Where I know he is like working on Capitol Hill making six easily and I am like eaking by first as a substitute English teacher. Then I was working at some YMCA. The most I made in the year before I was 30 was maybe like 32 33.  That is real.  Which you know which was enough in Pittsburgh to you know to do whatever but I justthere were a lot of things that I prevented myself from doing in those years because Id dont want people to be as aware of my own circumstance.  Like but do you think - do you worry that you could ever be in that place again where you are making 32000 or less and feel embarrassed about how much you are quote unquote worth in this culture.  You know what I think thats one of the things that scare me so much that I dont even think about it. it is a fear like I dont know like aliens attacking or - it is so - it hits me on such a primal level that I dont even bother. Or even worse than aliens. Like hell.  Oof.  I definitely think about death more. I think about like just terrible calamities disease. I think about  Since you since you started making money.  Since I started making money since I have a family Im like in a constant state of like perpetual state of just of just hoping bad shit doesnt happen.  Wow. I feel like Im in a perpetual state of just assuming it is gonna.  Mm-hmmm.  I mean I dont have kids either but the money so like you know I feel like Im black people rich. But I feel like I could lose it but I feel like I feel like I could get it back.  Mm-hmmm.  You know what Im saying? And also I could lose it because everybody around me needs money. One of the things Im good at is giving people money . Um but yeah like the death thing I definitely anticipate dying every single day. I feel like Im gonna die soon as I leave here go get on this plane to Pittsburgh. Um and I assume at some point Im gonna lose every dime again. But I think Ill make it back thats whatthats the weird part. But part of that is I think because I have a tenure-track job so technically I have a job for life. But I actually dont think thats true. I think theyre going to find some way to get rid of me. So anyway I justI think white folk will take my money away from me somehow    And or the black people around me who need my money. Im a give it all away.  But someones going to take it.  But somebodys gonna take it  Yeah.  But I feel like I feel like if I dont die  I feel like I could make it all back which is a which is a silly-ass way to live in the world. Kiese Laymon author of Heavy his memoir which has won everythingI think it even won the NBA Dunk Contest it is won every award that it could possibly win and he still says he wishes he had one more month to work on it. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. The team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. If youre not subscribed to this show Death Sex  Money go to iTunes and subscribe now. Ive done it. You should too. And you can find all the back episodes at deathsexmoney.org. And to follow Kiese Laymon and myself  you can find us both on Facebook.  I dont know how to use Twitter. I dont know how to use Instagram. Twitter also is like a city to me.  That is a good analogy.  Theyll speak to you any kinda way on Twitter. Like the way they do up here you knowIm from Mississippi we dont talk tothere is like a decorum. Even among the racist motherfuckers like they will still be like All right now you know? Im Damon Young and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. 