Jeff Garlin Im funny whether I weigh 180 or 480. I am just funny. 480 and 180 would both be equally sad though. One Id be a twig and one Id be like What the hell happened to you?! This is Death Sex and Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lotand need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Jeff Garlin is best known for playing Larry Davids manager on Curb Your Enthusiasm.  Boom she was there you cannot control who pops in. She pops in! Larry David She pops in? Well why did not you pop her out?  I tried poppin' her out she would not pop out! He also stars in the ABC sitcom The Goldbergs and just released a Netflix movie called Handsome. Hes been so busy recently that when we talked he would almost completely lost his voice.  Can I can I get some hot water? I was in California. He was at our studio in New York.  If you have lemon great if not just give me a hot water too. Okay cool man. Jeff knows how to deal with vocal strain. Hes been talking on stage since the '80s when he started doing stand up.  It is a real important thing comedy to make us human and help deal with pain. Anna Sale Hm.  Life throws a lot of pain at people and my job is to ease people's pain. That is my job. Comedy has helped Jeff deal with his own pain quite literally. In 2000 right after he shot the pilot for what would become Curb Your Enthusiasm he had a stroke. He was 37 years old with a young son and one more on the way.  Its funny I was sleeping in my son James' room. Maybe I had a show the night before and I came home late? James was sleeping with his mother and I remember the dream I had. I was having this dream about being on a spaceship and my job was to take care of the plants that were on the wings of the spaceship and I walked outI was out there not even in a space suit watering the plants! On this thing!  I remember it so clearly. And then I woke up and I was nauseous and the room was spinning. And I go to the hospital and they take they take a - they examine me and they say You are having a stroke. I mean I was not - I was afraid of dying at the beginning but then when I stayed in the hospitalyou know a few days in and things are starting to even outI am talking with a slur. I can barely walk and I thought I would never do comedy again. It is over. I did not like feel sorry for myself but I was like lost. Like what is this? I used a golf club for a - um you know like a cane - 'ecause I thought it was funnier.  Uh huh.   I thought I am a comedian! Not that I played golf even but I had a golf club. Jeff used that golf club as a prop on the Curb Your Enthusiasm set. He went back to work just a few weeks after his stroke. He considered it his rehab.  By the end of the season. I was pretty much good to go. But the journeyif you watch Curb Your Enthusiasm now if you have seen me lately if you watch any of my movies anything and then go back and watch the first season of Curb you will see an ill man. A sick man. I was very strokey as I like to say.  Before your stroke was your health something that you thought about or not so much?  Well yes yes but no meaning what led to my stroke was Id gotten in a car accident but I was really fat when I got in the car accident and I was stressed and I was taking all these meds. I developed Type 2 diabetes so. And then by the way CurbI actually ended up gaining weight ya know. I was justit was full of anxiety and I was up to 320 pounds. I weigh about 260 now but I was really - and I am working on getting down to about 230 240 and then I will be good. But man I did not take my health seriously. I was arrogant I was ya know just arrogant that is all. Over the years Jeff has tried a lot of things to change his relationship to food including transcendental meditation and going to meetings of Overeaters Anonymous.  It is so strange as compared to the other addictions like cocaine alcohol what have you because you do not have to have those to function. You think you do but you do not. Whereas food I have to keep myself nourished. So every day you are faced with these choices and they are quite difficult. I mean it is a challenge every single day. You really have to live it moment to moment.  How has thinking about food as an addiction for you how has that been helpful?  Well the addiction part is great because then when I am sober i.e. for me sobriety -  So you say sober you use that term.  Oh most definitely for me it is sobriety its sober. If I approach it like sobriety it helps me be successful. If I do not approach it like sobriety I am doomed to failure.  Have you had instances where you feel like you have like fallen off the wagon?  I wentokay so dig this. So ya know I went almost seven years without eating any sugar. And the thing you do not know about addicts is that its not just bad things in life that you do not want to feel that cause you to want to eat a cookie or drink. It is celebrational things positive things anything with a feeling brings about wanting to eat. I always say I eat Pop Tarts raw 'ecause I do not have time to toast 'em. I need to shove down my feelings.    And so I remember this really clearly my older boy James was guesting on The Goldbergs he was playing a kid in high school who was very similar to meit was just the storyline ya know? And the day he is shooting I was so happy so happy like one of the happiest days of my life. And Im over at the craft service you know all the food they serve the crew. And without even thinking I ate a cookie. And I didnt even realize Id done it until I was done. Well I thought well I guess I can control this. And an hour later I had ice cream then I had more cookies and then Ive really been stumbling ever since. I have had a month a month and a half but you have actually caught me right now I am currently sober.  How long have you been sober this stint this current stint?  Two days.  Two days.  Yeah I am in New York man!     There is stuff here that is shoved in my face! Whether I want it or not it is New York. New York's the most delightful place to eat in the world! Are you kidding me?    So yeah. a couple days. Actually not even a day.  A day.  Not even. Probably hours. I dunno. But I am as I speak to you I am sober. Coming up Jeff Garlin on building his comedy career while building a family. He started by marrying his agent.  She likes to joke that she got more than 10 percent.    Ha ha.  Its August. The beginning of school is right around the corner. And after our student loan episodes so many of you told us that you wish you could tell your younger self what signing up for loans was going to mean for you years later. For me theres a lot I wish I knew when I was just out of high school. Sowere going make a podcast playlist thatll be a toolkit for life after 18. And we need your help. Send us your suggestions for podcast episodes that contain some wisdom for the first years of adulthood. It can be a Death Sex  Money episode or from somewhere else. Were going to build this playlist in a in a new wayby text. Text the word episode to 7-0-1-0-1. Thats episode to 7-0-1-0-1. Well respond and then you can tell us your suggestion for our Welcome to Adulthood podcast playlist from there. My suggestion is the recent series from the podcast The Heart called No. Its about consent and sex and the long process for young women about learning how to say no. Again text episode to 7-0-1-0-1. Well circulate the playlist later this summer. Think of it as an orientation packet for young adulthood that you will hang on to long after youve lost all the other paperwork. On the next episod we hear from a widow in her mid-30s who talks about the awkwardness and isolation that comes with losing a partner so young.  When somebody dies people are definitely - like they do not know how to talk to you about it which I think is totally universal and completely normal. Like I have - I have been on the other side of it where like somebodys been like So-and-so died and Im like Oh I dont know how to respond even though this just happened to me!  This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Growing up in the Chicago suburbs Jeff Garlin was never a great student. He struggled with undiagnosed ADD and mostly focused on cracking himself up.  When I was little I said things like girdle I said Jamaica brassiere like those were words I thought were funny.   Girdle?  It is true!    Yeah girdle. Its totally true. Im talking about a 4-year-old 5-year-old but yeah. From preschool on I was the funniest kid in school and I took great pride in that. But. I frustrated my dad you know 'cuase I was ya know a different kind of kid.  So you were sort of like - when you say you were a different kind of kid what do you mean?  My dad was very much on the straight and narrow. He worked in law and he was very much by the book.  Hm. How has how has having ADD helped your comedy?  It forces me to be in the moment and it forces me to...thats about it. It forces me to be in the moment. You know here's the thing. When I sit in quiet moments like ya know and just stare at the stars ya know or I meditate nothing pops in my head of looking back on my life. How is this how is that. So when you ask me these things it might be the first time I am ever considering it  Huh.  So I may a week from now go Oh heres what ADD did for me but right now the only thing I can think is to function having attention deficient disorder one of the things you need to be is totally present in what is going on. It helps you focus. So that is what has helped me.  When you were starting your comedy career and you are in your twenties were you worried about money when you were starting out?  Oh yeah. I mean I do not know that I was necessarily laying around worried about it but I did not have it. I remember once in Chicago I had to walk about five miles because that is where the wiring place was. I had not eaten and I am walking through the bitter cold in the snow to get money. God bless my dad.  Do you remember why you asked at that moment?  I WAS BROKE!! Ha ha ha ha! I mean I really had not eaten I had not eaten for about a half - a day and I had no money. I am not too proud to call my father who I know loves me who I know does not want me to starve and go Hey man i am not getting money for a couple days. Can you send me some? And the only thing that was hard about that was knowing that he did not have much money. But he sent it. My dad! Jeffs dad got to watch his investment pay off as Jeff got famous. Then he got ill with lymphoma. He died in 2011.  I lost him young he was only um seventies early seventies. Ya know its like um it happens. That is part of the festival man. It is temporary. It is all temporary. Like my dad's death was not shocking. It was a loss a hole that I will never be able to fill. It was not shocking.  When you think about that process of losing your father are there things that you left unsaid that you look back and wish you had said?  God no! I at all times told him how much I loved him he told me how much he loved me there was great affection great honesty. Nope! Nothing.  Did his decline change your relationship at all?  Um well. It became softer. Ya know um it became quieter. But the only difficult thing iswhen people who are dying he died of cancerthey hit that point of where they are done. That is it. They are done. They fought the fight. They are done. And that process from that moment through hospice is way too long. Way too long. And I am not saying he suffered but it was over. And so that dragged outso after he was pretty much I am done there was another month. And then it got to the point where he could not have a conversation so it was allthat was the sadness of it.  In your family now is your youngest son about to finish high school?  Yeah he is hes going to be going into his senior year next year. Yeah.  So how are you feeling as a parent right now? With your two boys approaching being out of the house?  Well my 21-year-old still lives at home too. Uh which Im different than my wifeI want them to live with me forever.    I want them to be next to me forever they let me kiss them as much as I want I squeeze them and I am there for them. What I have done in terms of discipline is just show them respect that way if they are not respectful they feel it on their own it is delightful. And in terms of how old they are I remember when they were little I used to say Cannot you just stay this big? Ya know as a joke but man it gets better ever year. And I just I dig them so much and I do not really think about I just think aboutI just think about where they are at now I do not think about Oh time's passed or any of that stuff. I do not like overthinking.  Yeah. You have been married now for more than twenty years. What do you get out of your marriage now that was not part of your marriage when you were first married?  Hm. Well my I am sharing time with a woman that is more soulful and more intelligent. And I started life with someone who had those qualities but has worked her life to develop them. So it is who share it with and also she and I share two children that we adore. And that brings upon all these feelings. I mean that fills me like nothing else has ever filled me. So we share those things and that makes it almost completely different than when I first got married.  Yeah. How is sex in your fifties different than sex in your forties?  Wow see. Um...I am hesitating because I do not have much sex. Ha ha ha ha ha!    And I did not in my forties either! And to me sex is so magical and so special and sothere is nothing greater than sex including when I amya know comedians will argue with me when you are killing that stage its pretty close to sex but sex is the one thing more than any others that makes you feel human. Human man! So I feel human in other ways. I am not saying I have a sexless house or anything like that. It is just as many people do as they are older and married it is just - it just does not happen for children for whatever it is ya know? And what you want in a marriage I think is to be pres - I think this is me personally I think the key to marriage is being present everyday. Just be present just look the other person in the eye and go Man I dig you. I am really happy to be sharing this experience with you. And that to me makes marriage worth it. And then ya know have sex once a week. Ehhh if you have got time for more fantastic. And by the way do not even have sex. Just stand naked together and have a conversation dance naked be vulnerable be intimate. And I am not talking as like a marriage coach. I am just saying these are my impressions of marriage.  Do you have any questions for me?  Okay. Um. What are you wearing?  What am I wearing? I am wearing a button-down shirt with polka dots on it. Green shirt with navy blue polka dots.  And do you feel good about how you look?  I feel okay. I am dealing with post-baby body changes  Well lemme just say something to you something about that. Just wear it like a badge of honor. I am gonna tell you something we talked about all these things that I will tell you. This is specifically for you.  Okay.  Be kind to yourself. You always hear people say that but really be nice to yourself because the world is not out to make you feel better or be nice to you it can sometimes but in general you are in charge of being nice to yourself. Every morning when I get up I look in mirror and I smile to myself because I look ridiculous first thing in the morning.    Well that smile makes me laugh and then I set the tone for the day. Thats Jeff Garlin. Look out for him in Curb Your Enthusiasms ninth season which is coming to HBO this fall. His new Netflix movie Handsome is available now. Jeff's character is named Gene which was his fathers name. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to Stephanie Joyce for her help on this episode. Our interns are Mankaprr Conteh and Kent McDonald. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And if youre in LA on August 12 come out for a live episode taping at the Annenberg Space for Photography. Details are on our Facebook page. And while youre online why not head over and give our podcast a review. We love reviews! And it helps other people find our show. Jeff still does standup regularly in LA. And much like his approach to the rest of lifehe doesnt like to overthink it.  You know Id have to say at least fifty percent of the time theres nothing in my head except the thought oh Im walking to the stage! Oh Im standing on the stage! Oh I have a microphone! And then I just start talking. So quite often theres nothing prepared. ZERO! I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.