 Hi Anna. My name's Beth. I am a mail carrier. I work in rural Maine. This is Death Sex  Money. And four months ago this listener Beth was among the essential workers who got in touch to tell us what it was like reporting to work when most of the rest of the country was shutting down.  I do not know if this virus is on the mail. The packages the mailboxes. I touch everything and I wonder if I am carrying this virus in my truck. I wonder if I am leaving it at somebody's house for somebody else to get. It is scary.   Hello?  Hi Beth.  Hi!  Hey it is Anna Sale.  How are you? Beth lives with her 8-year-old daughter and boyfriend in Maine. Her boyfriend works in IT and has had to keep going into work too. Since Beth wrote to us in March her state has kept COVID cases fairly low. It has one of the lowest infection rates in the country.  I definitely do not feel as scared. Um you know with more information that is coming out about COVID-19 um and we have since gotten gloves at work and now we have masks and now we have hand sanitizer. The postal service has been in the news lately  not because of health and safety there but because of the way its being managed. There was national outrage this week about budget cuts and slowdowns at the post office potentially undermining mail-in voting this fall. Those cuts were walked back yesterday but the postal service is still grappling with long term financial losses. Some of that is due to the pandemic. First class and marketing mail are way down. But the number of packages being sent in the mail is way up... up to 80 higher at some points during this pandemic. Thats what Beth is noticing at work.  A lot of pandemic purchases like bicycles and trampolines and cornhole and inflatable pools.   Well that is good. People are finding some some joy in their yards. That is good.  Yeah.  And um before coronavirus started what was a normal day like for you?  Um well I would go in at 7 am and I start out by sorting my mail and I load up my truck and off I go. Um normally on an average day I would have anywhere between 80 and a hundred packages to deliver. Um but since  anywhere from 150 to 250 packages a day. I have added quite a lot of time to my route.  So it is a longer route now because there is just more quantity. People are getting more in the mail.  Yeah. You know if everybody orders one extra thing it is one extra thing for me to deliver. One extra thing for me to get out of my vehicle for. It just adds extra minutes every day.  Do you make more money if you are working longer hours?  You know what is funny is I do not um my route  what is - what is great about rural carriers is we work on evaluated systems. So like I get paid for 43 hours no matter what. So if I do my route in 38 hours I get paid for 43 which is great. Because I can get out of work early and come home and I can do what I need to do and clean my house and go pick up my daughter. But if I work 55 hours I am only getting paid for 43.  Have there been days where your route has taken so much longer than normal that you are afraid you are gonna miss pickup?  Uh yes absolutely. Absolutely. And um I do not speed while I am driving but I definitely I spend less time at a mailbox and I definitely run from my truck to a house to drop off a package and I run back to my truck and it is it is go go go go go all day long. And sometimes I do not have time to take a lunch break or go to the bathroom. It is probably not the best thing but yeah.  You know one thing that I was thinking about talking to you is like to me I am very aware of the postal service in a way that I have not been in a long time. You know I have I have been you know sort of broadly aware of the challenges that the post office has been facing for decades now. Um but with the focus on you know whether we are going to vote by mail and also with you know so much more volume happening in the mail because we are not leaving our houses as much has it given you like thinking about like the role you play in society as someone who delivers mail like do you do you feel a different sense of purpose now than you did before?  I definitely do. I am definitely delivering a lot more um goods for people that I did not deliver before. Um like pantry items and medications and um stimulus checks.   That is cool! Like what a fun thing to get to like see. You are like Yes! I am giving this person something they are going to need. That is cool.  Yeah. They definitely rely on me and people will come out and say you know You are really late today! What is happening. Are you okay? Did you break down?  Do you feel like in some ways has has going through this with the people on your mail route do you feel closer to them? Do you feel like it is deepened your relationships with any of them?  I think so. I did tell one couple 'ecause they were petrified to come out of their house. I told them if they needed groceries or anything to let me know I would be happy to go get them for them. Just give me a list and I will swing by when I get out of work so.  Was it an older couple?  It was yeah.  Oh that is nice. And when I picture you on your route is it are you in like a mail truck with like the USPS logo on the side?  Yes.  Okay.  Yeah. I call it my tin can on wheels. It is very very hot. Those little mail trucks the older ones. There is no air conditioning in those whatsoever. I put a little thermometer in there the other day and it was 108 degrees.  Oh Beth.  Yeah. And it was only 88 outside I think it said. Yeah.  Do you have like a little fan or anything?  There is a little fan mounted on the dash but it just blows like engine heat at you all day. It is very hot.  Which does not help.  No. So when I go pick up my daughter I am just a big sweaty mess and I feel I feel gross and I am like ugh sorry guys!  And tell me how - so you have had - you have an eight year old who is been out of school since the spring. She is in daycare now. Um how has childcare worked for you over the last several months?  Oh well my mom was watching my daughter for a little while. Um and she told me she was really stressed out. And I knew it but I am - I was also stressed out too. You know working and doing homeschooling and it was it was tough. And then one day my mom just said I cannot do this. I said okay. And I took leave for pretty much the entire month of May until daycare opened. So when they opened it was like a thank thank the Lord moment. 'ecause it saved me a lot of stress being able to go back to work.  Man. Did you get paid during that month?  Um no I did not. Um I took leave without pay.  Was that something you were in a position to handle financially?  Um financially it was fine but I am just I am not I am not a mother who is has the patience and ability to be able to stay at home. I - I am a busy body. I like to be able to go out into the world and work and feel like I am productive. I am just I am not a stay-at-home mom.  Yeah. I find what you are saying refreshingly honest like as a mom myself I find like part of the challenge of these last months has been like how much of my identity is not being at home? Even though I love my children so much. You know?  Oh yeah. Oh I would do anything for her I would but staying at home is not in my bones. It is just not.  When you had to tell your supervisor at the post office that you needed to take time off um and I guess when you took the leave you did not know how long it would last right?  Yeah.  Was that a hard conversation for you?  It was hard for me um but it was not hard for her. She is also a mother so she was very understanding. When I told her you know my mom cannot watch my child anymore. She said okay what do you need? And I told her and I cried. And she was like no worries. It is taken care of.  Hmm. You know when your mother was was providing childcare. Something that made me think about is like it is such a gift sometimes to have family members who can step in and help um when you need help with childcare. Um but it also is complicated because when you are not paying them um when they decide they do not want to do it anymore you do not have any - like it is hard to negotiate you know?  Mmhm. Yes. And I I felt so guilty asking my mom to help but she said you know your father and I will do whatever we can to help you. Um and then when when she pulled back it was like  but you said you would help me!  Yeah.  It is been really tense.  Yeah.  Yeah. And my mom and I are you know we are pretty close and we never argue. We never have really. Um even when I was a teenager we we got along you know? And so to have this big blow up it is it is hard.  Mm. In your community do you know yet whether your daughter's going back to school?  Um we are not sure yet. I got a phone call from her school maybe last week and they just wanted to hear from parents whether or not they were comfortable sending their child to school. They kind of wanted to get a head count if and when school opens how many were comfortable doing like um half virtual learning half in session or not at all.  What did you find yourself saying when they were asking you those questions?  Um well I find because my daughter has been going to daycare since June 1st when they opened she is - she is been exposed because of what I do for work. And because she is going to daycare she is with kids all day kids of people who are essential workers. She is been in the thick of it just like I have basically. I feel comfortable that she can go to school. Distance learning for us was just an absolute failure to be honest. It was a struggle.  And if you when you think about the prospect of what it would be like if your daughter could not go to school if it was all remote learning um what would your life be like? What would it look like in your family?  I cannot work from home because I deliver mail. So I honestly would have to stop working in order to help her with school. And I I do not know that I could do that.  What have you learned about yourself this summer going through all this that you did not know before?  Oh gosh that is a good question. Um I have learned I probably have a lot more patience than I thought I had.  Um there is a lot of things that are not in my control. Um and it is very much a wait and see time and we all kind of have to wait and see what is going to happen. So I have to have a lot of patience with that.  And that is new.  That is new. Yeah. I have always said that you know I am the most impatient person in the world. And with this I have really had to sit down and kind of breathe and just be patient and wait. Thats Beth a postal worker in rural Maine. Beth has since found out that her daughters school will be open in the fall. She is so excited and I am too Beth wrote to us in an email. If you want to go back to hear the original episode where we met Beth along with other essential workers theres a link in our show notes. And were working on a new episode with more of your stories about child care  whether youre a parent or child care worker we want to hear what caregiving is like for you right now. Send your stories to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.