 Previously on Financial Therapy from Death Sex  Money  In March of 2020 I started to get into online gambling.  I have a more conservative viewpoint on how we should spend our money.  At a certain point I would lost um like 10000 in like a week.  The whole situation was so shocking.  We had to have a series of really hard conversations initially where I was just like hey - I understand if you want to leave.  How has your trust in Garrett been affected by what has been happening with his health and with money and your financial lives?  I guess I have been struggling with that a lot. I I do not even know how I feel about it still. I feel like I cannot really say. Im Anna Sale and today we are continuing our Financial Therapy series sitting in on sessions between Amanda Clayman a licensed clinical social worker and a couple were calling Cora and Garrett. If you missed the first episode in this series go back and listen to that before you listen to this one. There youll hear about the snowballing crises the couple faced last year. Both Cora and Garrett lost work and Garrett got into online gambling. Then he lost lots of money and spiraled into despair...and eventually tried to kill himself. And I just want to pause here to sayif youre struggling with your mental health right now weve got resources in our show notes including where to call if youre having thoughts of suicide yourself. After Garretts suicide attempt his wife Cora completely took over handling their money. Something she wasnt very involved in before.  Now I am dealing with all the money stuff. And I feel like theres this awareness of this thing thats always there.  I have made it pretty clear that I am not the most responsible person or at least I was not the most responsible person when it comes to these financial matters. So like that aspect of our relationship as of right now is not really in my court. In this episode Amanda talks with Cora and Garrett about the ways they see money differently and about how they can find trust again. Heres Amanda.  At the end of my first session with Cora and Garrett I gave them some homework. To think aboutand talk together abouttheir strengths and weaknesses when it comes to dealing with money. So I wanted to start there. But as soon as we got on our Zoom together me from my closet in California Cora and Garrett side by side on their living room couch near Detroit I got a little distracted by the other presence in the room with them.   Sorry. She is here I will show you. She is a lab mix.  Oh she is so cute.  Lily say hello.  It is nice that she is hanging out today.  Yeah definitely.  Well shall we jump in? I want to be mindful of time since I know its later where you are.  Yeah.  Um - tell me about what the homework experience was for each of you and together.  I did not think it would be that hard at first. Like I just thought all right I am talking about my strengths and weaknesses. And I am giving an example of each like that is kind of how it felt to me. And I literally sat down to do it and then Garrett got home from work and the mail came and he brought it in and opened up a letter from our old insurance company that said that we owed them a bunch of money for claims they paid out that we had not filed to them. We would filed it to our new insurance. And they were like you owe us this exorbitant amount of money in 30 days or we are sending it to collections. And I was just like oh my God. It just really freaked me out. And and I like said oh I am freaking out about this right now. I need a minute. And then Garrett - like I perceived him to get really angry with me. And I got really angry with him for getting mad at me for freaking out because I just needed to freak out.  Cora let me just pause you for a second. 'ecause I just want to backtrack and loop Garrett in. Garrett what did it mean to you when Cora reacted the way that she did?  Um my reaction was more of a thing of what I am willing at this point in my life to allow to make me upset. So when Cora was that upset about this thing that seemed to be to me like a little bit innocuous and kind of something out of our control which it was. And and I think she realized that and felt the way she did. I just felt like well you know what? This is just gonna like if we continue down this road this trajectory with this conversation its just going to ruin the night. I mean whether or not it is necessarily the right response I have just decided at this stage of my uh after all of this stuff has happened um over the last six months I kind of just decided that I just do not want that to bother me anymore.  So it is really it is a matter of survival for you to have a personal kind of boundary in how much you you let yourself take on emotionally around money and financial stuff.  Yeah. With with those because because I do not currently have that much control over our financial life in the same way that - as I did before and I find it to be very nice to be honest in a lot of ways.  So -  Cora your face.   I trust Cora. I trust -  I felt that way too when I didnt have to do anything with money.  I trust Cora and I kind of do not really want our life to be completely dictated by um every little thing that could and will maybe go wrong. I kind of want to I I feel inclined to take things on a case by case basis. In this particular case I was like wow I wish I had just left that in the mailbox. Like it would have changed the whole dynamic of the night.  Well I just feel like if you had just let me have my moment that I asked for that we would have moved on from it in 10 minutes. But instead you were like Your freaking out about this is upsetting me because this means that we are going to miss out on this. And then I am just like Ahhh! You know I was like just leave me alone for five minutes and then we will move on. You know? Like people need to talk about their feelings even if they are ugly.  Do you guys have any sort of regular money talks with each other?  No we have tried but it is never worked. Like we have always just like um not done it or like - I think it was suggested to us that we like schedule something regularly that we like check in. And then we like did it for like three weeks and then it stopped happening.  We - I think we one of us or both of us were avoiding it and we just kind of stopped doing it. Is my remembrance.  Yeah I recall that as well.  Again because we have just found money to be a source of conflict for us in a pretty big way including the conversation that we had for homework. And it is just been something that has been easier to avoid. Which inevitably resulted in conflict anyway because then like things would come up that one of us did not know about or one of us was surprised about. And then we would argue about it anyway so.  What were the kinds of conflicts that were coming up when you would try to talk about it before?  Like I remember we - like one fight we had that was really horrible it was like when we went to the vet with Lily just like a normal vet checkup but we were going to have to buy like Heartgard and all that stuff you know? And I always just get six months of the things when we go. And it was like just after Garrett's first layoff during the pandemic. Um and I was still looking for work. And we went together cause it was like on a Saturday and like I just asked them for that and they brought it out and paid for it. And then we got in a huge argument about it because Garrett felt like I had made that decision without really asking him. And he was not comfortable withand you might remember this differentlybut like was not comfortable with spending that amount of money when things were sort of uncertain. But I was like well our dog is going to be here in six months God willing and it is going to cost more if we have to buy this again next month. You know so I am like thinking about those things in the long term. He was thinking like well right now things are uncertain and you just spent a lot of our money.  Yeah. It sounds like that made you feel super anxious Garrett.  I yeah I felt anxious at that time about money in general. It was I had not experienced like a layoff or anything like that. There was no real kind of idea of what the future was going to hold so at the time I was in more of like a famine mentality of maybe our whole lives would be completely different in six months or you know what if something horrible were to happen. So that is kinda that is kind of where my head was at.  It is such a good example because I I think that that is one of those like gray areas where it is very clear that our decision-making is affected by how we are feeling in those circumstances. So like when when there is been a layoff which makes us feel out of control um when we are in a pandemic and it seems like the world has gone crazy and it is very natural to just sort of want to tighten up and control everything that we can control with money. And it actually takes a certain amount of processing and work to be able to step back from that and say okay how does this decision make sense if I think about it more long-term? Like if I am thinking about it over the six month period. Um how much of my life do I want to say okay we are just going to operate that as normal like these are sort of committed types of expenses versus these are the ones that are discretionary that we might want to scale back. It is not like those things just naturally sort themselves in our heads. It is only oftentimes when we get into a situation where like Cora you would make the decision one way Garrett you would make the decision in another way. And it is only through kind of talking it out i.e. conflict that we can get to a place of like okay now I feel like I I have a better sense of sort of what what I want my preferred decision to be in this kind of a situation. But unfortunately I think for most of us the way that we experience that is it looks like a fight. And pretty much none of us enjoy a fight. Um so oftentimes we we do not get to even have that experience of being able to process it and make a decision together because in order to avoid a fight we either make that decision independently. Or or we say like this is what I am going to do. You are you are wrong. You are incorrect. Does that make sense?  Yeah that does make sense. I think before Garrett was laid off and before I was unemployed for that summer we I guess have been able to successfully kind of avoid each other in certain situations like that. Like yeah. So then when we were suddenly like both like pretty much unemployed and doing everything together it was like oh my God this is how you make that decision?   More of Cora and Garretts second financial therapy session after the break.  This is Financial Therapy from Death Sex  Money. Im Amanda Clayman.  So let us get back to them the strengths and weaknesses part. So you were sitting down Cora to do the homework when all of this stuff happened um with the bill. Were you able to sit down and think about your strengths and weaknesses?  Yeah. So I lets see  I feel like I can be strategic and think in the long-term pretty well and I am good at saving money. It is like I am not easily sort of like tempted by stuff. Um but I also use it in meaningful ways and like ways that do bring me joy like buying earrings from an artist friend who you know I really care about or um you know like little things like that that I do not do very often but when I do it makes me happy and I feel like it makes someone else happy. And then in terms of weaknessesLily's having a dream a very intense dreamuh in terms of weaknesses I feel like I can maybe be like too frugal and it could bother people.   Are you looking at Garrett as somebody who could be bothered by that?  I am looking for a reaction and he is not giving me one so.  Oh I am sorry. I am just listening to you. Just listening to what you are saying.  Okay. So like I I went on a trip to Amsterdam with my friend a few years ago and he like we found really cheap plane tickets to get there. And then I like did not go to the Van Gogh museum because it was like 25 Euro or something. I thought that was exorbitantly expensive. And I thought that was ridiculous. And now in retrospect I am like why did not I just go to the Van Gogh museum? Like that is so stupid. Like I -- now looking back I am like that feels silly. So that was that was like an example that came up for me.  Hm. There are a bunch of things that I kind of want to like um touch upon but but before we do that let us let us go to Garrett and hear about your strengths and weaknesses when it comes to money.  Yeah I feel a little bit um weird about answering this because of the things I know too or I believe to be true about the way the Cora feels about my ability to handle money. So let us say I am going to answer this like somebody has absolutely no idea about my background with gambling.  Okay.  Because prior to uh getting into gambling a lot I was very uh like on top of things. Uh and I I think about my relationship with our finances a lot of times from that lens and not from the reality of like my behavior over the middle of the prior six months. Um I would say that I am a good money manager that that is one of my strengths. I am good at knowing where things go. I mean some people find it to be really overwhelming. Um I am actually pretty savvy when it comes to how to how to get uh personal loans for things how to get financing how to get things that you want using the system that we have. Which has been uh to my detriment and to our detriment as a couple.  Youre a strong operator.  Yeah I can totally be um maybe not a financial advisor but a financial manager for somebody if I knew that their money was you know that I I did not have actual control of their money.  Um but I I know that one of my one of my weaknesses is that I am a little bit more - I am in a more frivolous category. So if there is something that I feel inclined to purchase historically especially um I would not feel that much pull not to make a decision uh you know that kind of made me feel satisfied in the moment. And then I am pretty generous. And I have been pretty generous with my friends and with - in the past. And uh I always tip really well. And some parts of my job are very similar to like the underdog kind of feeling of like well nobody's going to really appreciate you. So I used to go when I was very - like a younger kid - and I would be the least suspected person to tip really well. I would go and I would just tip like a ton of money. Because I was like ha ha you would not have suspected me to be the person that would come in and make your you know your life easier.  Anything that you are hearing that is surprising as you each listen to each other?  Well I this does not really answer that question but I when Garrett talks about the um like the generosity thing that is something that I have observed in him and have always observed and um and agree with. And I think that that has rubbed off on me in a good way. But um I have always seen you as more frivolous and that is not because - that is not like a thing where I think like like that I do not respect you or that - but I just compared to the way that I manage money or spend money or whatever I have always looked at the way you use the money and I felt like oh my gosh he is like spending a lot of money on you know this sort of thing that I would not spend money on. And I feel like you think that that that is an unkind view of me to have of you maybe.  I used to compartmentalize finances like uh as long as everything was kind of like in check that you know X Y Z thing were paid or like a certain percentage of everything is going in here then everything that was left over that was not going into savings or it was not going into you know it is like kind of fair game. That is like kind of the way I approached it.  Yeah. And like I think wow this is so great. Like that means that we have this extra amount that goes into savings or that goes to pay off this debt faster.  Yes.  Like I pay off extra on things most months if I can.  I pretty much have never done that.  Yeah. You think that I am like incredibly - I am just saying what you have said to me. Like you think that that is like irresponsible sometimes to do that.  I do not I actually do not feel that it is irresponsible. What I do feel is that whatever is leftover is not going into savings because you are paying extra -  Hey guys.  Sorry.  I I I do not think that you are - you are each sort of re-explaining the the value system that drives the kinds of decisions that you are making as -- presenting it as correct. Like no no no. If you just understand this thing about the way that I make this decision then you will agree that my way is correct.    I am going to offer that neither way is inherently correct. It it really is a reflection of of how how you see money as a means to an end in your life. Like what is the value of money? What is money doing for me or doing for us? And and the two of you are expressing very balanced points of view when taken together. So if if we can sort of pull out the pieces in here that can be helpful to identify in in what we wanted to co-create moving forward. Like I can see how well it worked in certain circumstances Cora the way that you maintain a sense of safety around money and that you control your your anxiety about money that you may feel by sort of just having a default no. Like the frugality is something that is sort of like you know that within the zone of frugality that you - that mostly things are going to be okay. But I am also thinking about how super delightful it must have been when you got together with Garrett and all of a sudden here's somebody who does not have that same sort of natural frugality around money who can who can bring you into the world of being more generous and open and free flowing about money in a way that does not trigger your anxiety. And similarly I am thinking Garrett there was a lot that must have felt really great for you to have a person who would so appreciate all of those things and be so affirming in some ways when you could be the person who is like treating and giving. And so under certain circumstances this is a pair bond that works really well -- under limited circumstances. And then when the circumstances really changed then you discovered that that the same things that were strengths in certain circumstances became weaknesses. Or when the two of you would try to coordinate would become a source of conflict.  Mmhm. Yeah totally. I think it was really nice for me when you Garrett were like Let us go out for drinks! And like you were like We can buy two! And I was like oh my God we could buy two drinks? Like you know what I mean? Like it is like cause that honestly that was not what I was raised around.  Yeah. I am sure I am sure this probably is pretty common that a lot of these um that kind of spending and kind of approach is really awesome when you are not in a partnership where your money and my money becomes our money.  Well yeah like now it is not as exciting I guess when you buy me something because I feel like you just spent our money to be honest like that is the zone I entered when we got married. But even when we started living together it like stopped being as fun.  It is so true that the things that attract us to our partner it - those attractive qualities initially that get us to bond are often not the things that sustain the bond long-term. Um it can often feel like you meet with somebody who knows the same dance that you do or knows the other the corresponding steps in the dance. So like it just seems like you are moving around the floor of life without having to really coordinate too much because you both intuitively know the steps you know what your partner is going to do. And then we get into a situation where that dance does not work and it does not work because we want something different in our lives long-term um it does not work because we run into individual difficulties or circumstances change. So now suddenly instead of things feeling really intuitive it feels like we have to really look at our process and we have to say that things that we want which can feel very you know can bring up all kinds of stuff around that. Um where we have to take real responsibility for saying this is what I want. Even in the face of a partner who might be well hey I want something really different. So I would say that the the work of financial intimacy is in many ways the opposite of financial romance where if the romantic piece is that we do not have to say anything at all the intimacy piece means we really are safe enough to say the most vulnerable things that we can even imagine.  Coming up Amanda talks more with Cora and Garrett about opening up and when they have gotten vulnerable with each other including when they both had COVID.  Because we were so sick we like had to hang out and like not do anything physically because we could not. It was like this weird blessing in disguise. In really unpleasant disguise.   This is Financial Therapy from Death Sex  Money. Im Anna Sale.  And Im Amanda Clayman. Before this year Cora and Garrett used to have separate bank accounts and theyd divvy up expenses based on the amount of money they were making. But after Cora found out about Garretts gambling debt she got the passwords to all their bank accounts opened a joint account and took charge of Garretts paychecks when he started work again earlier this year.  So it is definitely definitely kind of weird because I am just kind of like okay well I just I send my money to Cora every week and then it is then it becomes our money at that point. And then it is just like okay. I keep like a certain amount of money and then - it is really just like a small amount. And it is like that system works really well for like us keeping our money for sure. Yeah. But it is a little bit like uh to me it feels a little cold. It does not feel like there is any like kind of like overall reward system. Like I used to have personal goals monetarily and I do not feel like I have any because I do not feel like I have that control. And part of the reason I stay motivated for doing the kind of work I do which is extraordinarily dirty and really hard and grueling and like totally not something most people would want to do -- part of the reason that I do it instead of working doing something else is because of the financial reward of doing it.  Mmhm. Yeah I think we should be clear that the system right now is a temporary transitional system. And the benefit of this temporary and transitional system is that it gives you enough stability. And let us appreciate Cora's contribution here in that sense. That - that between the two of you you have these strengths in your partnership of somebody who can come in and say you know what I am going to jump in here. And I am going to use all of my safety skills and all of my my frugality and management skills to come up with a plan that makes sure that our safety needs are met and that we are back on track. And from that sort of um platform of safety it becomes possible to experiment and move incrementally towards something that does feel more inclusive.  Yeah. You know its um it is difficult to accept sometimes accept the reality of your decision-making or you know.  Mmhm. There is there is something in your in your wording there that I want to point out when you say It is difficult to accept. Um and if we contrast that with I have difficulty accepting you know the It is difficult to accept sort of puts the feeling out here a little bit more.  Yeah. Yeah. I I think I do have difficulty accepting the um I have difficulty accepting the consequences of my actions you know?  How do you think about how your gambling specifically has affected your relationship with your wife?   How do I think about how my gambling... um I I do not know that I think about it that way. I th - I do not know that I think of it specifically as the gambling necessarily. I do because the reason I say that is because like you know Cora found me like covered in my own vomit and blood in the bathtub. That I almost feel more guilty about than -  Do you see them as separate?  They are not separate uh emotionally they are not separate in my in the uh emotional baggage that I have but they are separate events almost because in the timeline of leading up to today. So they are they are not any more or less significant. It is just they are things that are that - that stands out to me is more of a emotionally traumatic thing.  Yeah.  I mean I might have been gambling way longer but this event put me in the hospital and then Cora was dealing with all of that.  What strikes me is how alone you must have felt for things to have have gotten to that point.  Yeah. And um I can uh really relate to uh to those feelings that I was having then but I also it is like a new it is like a weird thing like where I do not um I understand how somebody could feel that way but I almost feel separate or from like that kind of person. And now I cannot put myself back in the in the in the same head space.  And that could be because you still do not it does not feel safe for you to be able to go back to that place. Um that one of the ways you you stay focused on the things that you can take care of and the kind of like um the the parts of the external recovery and the financial like recovering um where you guys are at financially is by keeping that piece sort of off to the side. Um one of the unintended consequences of that can be that it makes it harder for the two of you to be able to to talk about um what it would take to get you back to a place where it is safe Garrett for you to also be kind of reincorporated. Not just into your family's financial life and the financial choices and how you you make decisions together um but also so that Cora can feel safe to know that you are not sort of drifting away like in an unknown way sort of drifting off and having this whole internal experience that she may not know is as serious as it was before your suicide attempt. Does that make sense?  Yeah.  Yeah. Yeah. Is that something that you guys would be okay to talk about a little bit?  Yeah.  I see Lily on the couch again and I feel like she knows I feel like she is like Deep feelings. I am going to come right up over here.  Yeah totally. I think my fear is like this this fear of seeing you go out of control when it comes to money or spending or choosing to do things that spark a - like that pique an interest in the addict part of your brain. And like then I like - and then I do not trust my own trust. And then that becomes distrust I guess because I am like I want to trust you but then I am like maybe I should be really - maybe we should have like more guarded scenario or like more protection set up. And then I am like now this feels like distrust. And then I feel like it comes across that way. I do not know it is really hard because I do trust Garrett in this really deep way emotionally and yet like this thing happened and I am like really struggling with it still but in different ways. But then sometimes it comes back up in ways that I thought were done you know like the like I did not think I had like any kind of PTSD kind of response. And then like I I like I do. Like I had like panic attacks horrible. Then I like will think that that is past me. And then like it will kind of start to come back up. And like I guess it is in those moments of feeling that lack of emotional security or like he is drifting away and that is like what I am the most afraid of. And I find myself being insecure then and like feeling really like bad about myself that he tried to leave. And then that is when I feel like almost like rejected. Like it is my fault. I am like not even really answering the question I feel like. It is just like - it is all these really deep intense complicated things that have been really hard to actually deal with because life feels like an insane hamster wheel right now. And it has felt that way since this happened. Like it is been just like complete insanity nonstop forever. Like I am so glad we got zy as that sounds. W were so sick and miserable and I am like so grateful that we were okay. But if we had not had that time together to just like be like I do not know if we would have survived it you know.  Yeah. You were really craving that that closeness and a sense of no kind of um boundaries or impediments between you.  Yeah. 'ecause like after this all happened I felt very like distanced and like I could not - like there was like a lack of trust or like a loss of trust or like I just felt like I had to be in charge instead of just being like an equal or a partner.  Yeah. And that is a tough position to be in.  How did - I can I I just want to get Garrett's perspective too on like what was it like for you to be sick with Cora?  Oh yeah it was really yeah it was really nice.  You guys.  I do not think it was uh I think we can look back on it in retrospect and say that it was it was helpful for our relationship. I do not think it was great while it was happening. It was nice to have time to spend together. It was always nice to have time to spend together. Its always been something that I really enjoy.  But there are different ways that we spend time with each other. We can spend time sort of as coworkers um or as playmates. Um there is a quality of of being able to be connected in a state of vulnerability that is A really central to intimacy but certainly when there has been injury um when we are are suffering and feeling hurt and overwhelmed it it is returning to that safe bond of connection that really helps even on a - I mean we can look at it biologically but it just like calms down our whole bodies to be in that state. And now I see you on the layer of like coworkers - that seems to be getting back on track and you are you are functionally doing the things that kind of need to get taken care of. Um so then there is this other layer of being able to to be really present in your own individual vulnerabilities and to be able to be open-hearted and facing each other while in that state too. And sometimes that is the piece that is really really tricky and really really hard. How is the process of of reconnecting happening for you right now?  I still feel like I do not get let in very much like fully to your experience Garrett. And I do not mean like that as a criticism or anything. Like I just feel like I am still kept at arm's length a lot of the time and that is hard. And I know a lot of that is just like probably my own insecurities because of what happened but I feel that way a lot.  Garrett do you feel a sense of open-heartedness and connection with Cora?  Yeah. Yeah definitely. I do not feel that there is anything that I am holding back from sharing with you. About how - the things that Im experiencing.  Can you tell her I mean speak to that that part of her that is really afraid and feeling scared here. Try to talk to that part of Cora directly.  Okay. I am to the best of my ability right now sharing everything that I am feeling and experiencing with you openly. And it might surprise you that there might not be that much going on outside of what you are already privy to. So I I feel completely open and able to be vulnerable and honest with you about my emotions and about how I feel about things.  Do you think she should be worried or needs to be worried about you?  No I do not think you need to be worried about me but the thing is about saying that is that um that is probably what I would have said when I was suicidal too.  Yeah. That is the thing.  But right now having a few more tools in my in my in my uh at my disposal for dealing with these kinds of things you do not have to worry about me making drastic decisions that are going to alter our life.  Why does - whats different?  I have a support system like outside of our relationship a lot more than I did before. And um through through the program and through um relationships that I have developed with people over the last six months.  This feels like a really important conversation for for you guys to um to have. As part of the process of of reestablishing safety and trust as part of your intimacy is being able to to be honest about what worries you um so Cora I think your questions about like almost like how did this happen on my watch? Like here's the person that I am most connected to in the world. And he was going through something that I I was shut out of. I was not a part of and he was really struggling in a way that I might have been aware on some level that there was a struggle but I did not know that it was this bad. And in order for me to feel safe moving forward I need to know how I can know and trust and reconnect with the Garrett that I know and love to make sure not only that you Garrett are safe but also that you Cora are safe. It is not like to have that conversation Garrett means that you are doing something wrong or that you are not actively demonstrating your commitment to your health and your recovery. Um it really is just the opportunity to sort of like keep turning toward each other in those moments of vulnerability and shrinking the space of secrecy between you. Does that make sense?  Yeah.  Yeah that feels nice to hear you know. I guess I do still feel the wall. That is all.  Next week on Financial Therapy  I feel like when Im like We paid off the credit cards! I am super excited and that Garrett maybe is not as excited as I expect him to be.  I am not that excited because I know that this is just one stage.  We still have moments where it is hard to talk about certain things. But it is got like it is overall gotten a lot better.  I mean we are definitely petty arguers as well. But we have been able to laugh together a lot more.  Would you say that you are feeling closer to Cora?  Yeah I feel closer to Cora. I mean the fact that we are having a child together is pretty significant in that equation.  If you are struggling to see eye to eye about money in a relationship and you want to work on achieving that financial intimacy that Amanda talked about earlier in the session weve got a list of five qualities that Amanda looks for when working with couples that can help build healthier relationships when it comes to money. Text financial therapy to the number 70101 and well send those to you. Well also send you a way to sign up for our weekly Death Sex  Money newsletter. And if youd like some resources for dealing with debt in your life go to deathsexmoney.orgfinancialtherapy. If youre struggling with a gambling problem call the National Problem Gambling Helpline at 1-800-522-4700. Or you can get peer support by going to gam talkthats g-a-m-t-a-l-k dot org. Finally if youre experiencing thoughts of suicide please tell someone. Call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255.  This special series was produced by Yasmeen Khan and Katie Bishop with the rest of the team at Death Sex  Money Anna Sale Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn with additional editing by Anabel Bacon and Jenny Lawton. Original music by Isaac Jones. You can find me Amanda Clayman on Instagram amandaclayman and on Twitter mandaclay.  You can check out all of our past financial therapy episodes with Amanda at death sex money dot org slash financial therapy. Look out for our next episode of Financial Therapy with Amanda Clayman... next week. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.