Hey its Anna. We changed our plans for Death Sex  Money this week as we watched the slow-moving storm pummel the Gulf Coast. Harvey has made us think about the conversations we had in New Orleans two years ago for a series about life there around the tenth anniversary of Hurricane Katrina. In those episodes we profiled five people and heard in detail about how their lives were forever changed by a few days of rain wind and catastrophic floods. We also heard about their collective trauma of having the home you know suddenly underwater and about the long long process of rebuilding. So as we think about Houston and other affected areas this week we wanted to revisit revisit one of those episodes from 2015. Youll meet Dr. Kiersta Kurtz-Burke was working at a hospital when Katrina hit. As you listen think about the scores of people along the Gulf Coast this week who are trying to help each other in a desperate situation. Kiersta Kurtz-Burke For the people that worked there you know this was part of what our training was. And a lot of people that worked at that hospital we were attracted to a kind of chaotic environment. That is why we were there. This is Death Sex  Money...in New Orleans. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. When the thick summer heat settles over New Orleans it all comes back to Kiersta Kurtz-Burke.  The body remembers. When it gets hot I tend to have more dreams. It is hurricane season too so you know you hear on the news okay and you are thinking to yourself I gotta make sure I have a tank full of gas. I have to have these things in place in case I need to evacuate. 10 years ago Kiersta didnt evacuate. She was inside New Orleans Charity Hospital the public hospital that had served New Orleans residents rich and poor in some form since the 18th century.  Charity Hospital was a pretty chaotic place day in and day out so there was that level of um that this was what we always did maybe just a little bit more insane. Kiersta is a rehab physician and as Katrina hit New Orleans and the levees failed she was with more than 350 stranded patients. Water flooded into the hospital windows were shattered by the wind and there was no power. Anna Deavere Smith  By now its 106 degrees. There are no lights. Were reduced to feeding people very small portions. Kiersta was interviewed by Anna Deavere Smith the actor and playwright about two months after the storm. That became a monologue in Deavere-Smith's one-woman show about health care in America that is called Let Me Down Easy. I played a recording of the monologue for Kiersta when we met up in New Orleans.  Let us listen now. Let us see... Anna Deavere Smith  ...I tried to keep a kind of stiff upper lip in the beginning you know Hey were going to get out of here. Dont worry about it blah blah blah... Kiersta is white and and from the midwest but most of the nurses she worked with and her patients were black residents of New Orleans. And she noticed they had much lower expectations for how theyd be treated in the emergency. Anna Deavere Smith  Then here I am coming from my privileged position What do you mean theyre not going to come and get us? Of course theyre going to come and get us. FEMA knew we were here we were in constant contact with FEMA but my patients really did sense. And that part made me ashamed. And it is just...I just thought well this is...this must be what itd be like your whole life. Just this feeling that we have to do for ourselves because nobodys going to come get us. Just that feeling of being abandoned. That was all new for me being abandoned. But for my patients and the people who work at Charity Hospital it was just one more thing.   Its very emotional. Ive actually...I have heard it one time. But obviously it is very deep...deeply lodged in my heart. I really hear my voice in that. It is still very present for me. You know I have very clear memories of every single moment of every single day that we were in the hospital. Over six days Kiersta helped carry patients up and down flights of stairs and tried to keep people calm when it seemed like no one was coming to rescue them. She was part of the last group of people to leave the hospital the Friday after the storm.  We even cleaned the physical space before we left. You know we thought We will be back here in a week or two weeks. Pretty naive at the time but we did not want it to look messy and so we cleaned up you know made sure everything was in the right spot and we had used a lot of towels to mop up and so we put everything...stacked it up. We really did not know that that was not a reality that we were gonna return to those jobs.  And where did you go on Friday?  So on Friday they actually  thank god for the Cajun Navy as we call them. It was not...it was you know not FEMA it was not the federal government it was actually Department of Wildlife and Fisheries who kind of were watching everything go on and they just said we need to get in there with fan boats. So we were evacuated our patients were evacuated they went kind of all over the place. And then we were put on buses  we were put on boats and then put on buses  and we could see the layout of the city and I could see kind of off in the distance my neighborhood and I knew that it was completely flooded. We had about 8 feet in our neighborhood. So you know we had not seen video photographs...  ...Anderson Cooper getting famous.  Yeah. Anderson Cooper. That was all to come really later.  What did you do with your anger after Katrina and those days of waiting in Charity?  Um...I was much more angry later I think in retrospect. I was so focused in the days we were in the hospital of getting out. And it was only in retrospect that I felt so angry. I feltI was so angry about the way that New Orleans was portrayed during that time. I was just furious. Um and again we did not have...I did not have the images and little news clips of people looting. You know I remember being somewhere in front of a TV a couple months after the storm and seeing some clips and kind of the way that people were portrayed and I think that infuriated me. I think I threw something at the TV. Kiersta was back treating patients within about a month after Katrina working for the VA.  We had a...a temporary clinic set up in Baton Rouge. We are still in a temporary facility believe it or not in New Orleans. That temporary VA location sits right across the street from the old Charity building. Charity Hospital never reopened after the storm. The hulking art-deco building has stood empty abandoned for 10 years.  And you can still see there is somea very faded poster up there on the fourth floor and then the fifth floor is where the rehab unit where I was with patients and you can still see those posters. Um a lot of people made posters saying Thank you when we were eventually evacuated. And around the front you can still see some posters that say Help. Um so now I work at the Veterans Affairs hospital which is just right across the way. At the VA Kiersta sees a lot of patients now with traumatic brain and spinal cord injuries and amputations.  I have one patient who is 103. He is a World War II vet. And then I have patients that are in their mid-to-late 20s. A lot of the people that I serve and that I take care of are from a small town where everyone in their high school class went into the military. But at the same time as a country so few of us are really touched by the military. So you just have pockets and pockets of people for whom the last two wars have been all encompassing and then you have another group of Americans who see it on TV read about it but otherwise are relatively unscathed by it.  The way you describe that like a small core group who were very affected in the midst of this larger culture that does not understand and will not ever understand is very similar to how you described the experience of living here through the storm.  That is true. I never really thought of it but it is true. You...you have experiences. I would never you know compare my experience of being in Katrina to being in combat but I do relate to in some ways how much difficulty they have with everyday life. Um it is very hard I think when you are in a life or death situation and so many things are dependent on you and then you come home and your wife or your husband says Geez you forgot the milk again. You know? And suddenly there is a routine-ness to life that does not have the same  same impact on the world. And so I do relate to that part of it I think more than I ever have before.  The people that you worked with during the stormare you still working with them in some form?  Some people. Not very many. We have all wound up at different hospitals. When I see people when I talk to people from that experience it is always very emotional. We kind of all dispersed all other the place. Which is...that was a...that is a...such a minor disappointment in the big scheme of things but to not ever have that closure to not ever be together again was painful. You know. We just kind of all got on buses and we all got on different buseswe got on any boat any bus we couldand I really had no idea that we would not all be in the same place or you know be able to say thank you to one another. That is still something I would love. Coming up Kiersta describes the tediousness of rebuilding and all the ways Katrina is a part of life ten years laterfor her and for her patients at the VA.  You know I have a lot of Vietnam-era vets who most of their combat took place in water they may have had a very traumatic experience during Katrina and I worry about that you know. I worry about flashbacks. -- This conversation with Kiersta was one of five I had with survivors of Hurricane Katrina.about the years after the storm and what they remember about the moment it hit. Big Freedia It didnt matter who you was. Everybody was in the same boat. Simone Bruni There was definitely that sinking feeling in the stomach that one gets when youre in survival. Jeffrey Rouse So we got out of town went to some relatives in Houston. Terri Coleman That was the moment it all solidifiedyou were like shit the world died. Those are the voices of Big Freedia Simone Bruni the Demo Diva New Orleans Coroner Jeffrey Rouse and Terri Coleman a professor whos lived in New Orleans most of her life. You can find our whole series about New Orleans ten years after Katrina on our website deathsexmoney.orginneworleans. Theres also a link on our Facebook page. We hope that in listening to these stories you are moved to help those in the path of Harvey now. Weve compiled a list of organizations you can give to to support the disaster response and the recovery to come. Its on our website at deathsexmoney.org. I gave to the Texas Diaper Bank. Katie gave to All Hands Volunteers. Anabel gave to the Houston Coalition for the Homeless. And if youre listening to us in Houston or another affected area and know of a recovery effort that needs support please add it in the comments on our website. And know were thinking of you--  If you want to write to us or send us a voice memo and tell us how youre doing were listening. Send us your thoughts at deathsexmoneywnyc.org.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Kiersta Kurtz-Burke and her husband Justin Lundgren are both doctors. They met in college in New York City and moved to New Orleans 23 years ago.  I thought it was such a romantic story you know. We came to New Orleans on vacation and we never left. Um and then I found out yeah like a lot of people they have that story. They bought their house in the Mid-City area of New Orleans in 2003. It was heavily damaged in Katrina. She says adrenaline got her through the first year and a half after the storm but then that ran out.  All of the energy that drove us to rebuild or to make a life in the new New Orleans that cannot be sustained forever. I definitely felt that. It is one thing to be able to sustain that Ok I am gonna eat off paper plates. We are gonna have candles and we are gonna gut our house and then we are gonna rebuild it. And I am working in a temporary facility but as that goes on it just gets really old. Things go so slowly in New Orleans and then you add into it the federal government. You add into it you know insurance payments. We were lucky we had insurance but you know it took over a year to even be able to access that. So you are slowly rebuilding your house. Your neighborhood's coming back little by little. Schools were not reopened for an entire year after the storm so we did not hear kids you know? It is a really strange thing in our neighborhood.  Was there a part of you that thought about leaving and starting in a different place?  You know very remotely. Very like a flicker I would say. When I look back of course I would love to say it was all this very noble intentions. You know we knew that New Orleans needed health care providers. We did not want to abandon the city we loved but there is this other sense of we cannot live any place else. We just got too weird for any place else other than New Orleans.  Like what would you think about when you say We got too weird?   Just I do not think there would be very many other places where it would be acceptable to be a half an hour late for work because you ran into a second line or you know spend your free time making costumes for months on end or...just...I think also Katrina. You know? I think there was aDefinitely if there was anotherIf there was a sense of otherness before the storm then there was...there is also the sense of How are we gonna go someplace where people understand what happened? But at the same time it is also part of the story that we tell ourselves in order to bond ourselves to the place and not leave because why would you stay? It is an absolutely insane place to have a city in this day and age. We are under sea level the coast is eroding another disaster can happen at anytime it is a broken city in a lot of ways the infrastructure is incredibly corrupt. I could go on and on and on. But part of it is the longer that you live here the less fit you are to live anywhere else as well.  I mean the way describe it it is like you have become a little bit mad.  Yeah. I think touched. I love that word and I did not grow up with that word but we use it a lot in New Orleans. Like You are just a little bit touched. It can mean a little bit crazy a little bit strange...It is just a little bit off. You have to be a little bit off to see this place and say This is where I am gonna lay down roots. This is where my kids are gonna go to school. I am gonna rebuild friendships in this very tenuous place. I think you have to be a little bit touched. Kiersta and her husband are now parents to two six year olds. Their son Leo is from Chinathey brought him home in 2010. Two years earlier they adopted their daughter Vida from Thibodaux Louisiana which is about an hour away from New Orleans. They started the adoption process before Katrina. A social worker was scheduled to come by for a home visit...  ...right around the time of the storm. So needless to say that did not happen. And then about two years later we continued the process. Um...and weIn the course of all this it took much much longer than I thought it would but we met a woman here in Louisiana who is my daughter's birth mom and she was about four months pregnant with my daughter Vida and she felt very strongly that this was not meant to be her child that this was meant to be a child for someone else. And we got to be at the hospital with her when Vida was born. She never wavered in her decision that she was not gonna be a parent to this baby girl. But it was really hard. It was not...it was not easy. I think that in the beginning of starting that adoption process I reallyin my mind I knew that having an open adoption having you know the birth mother involved birth family and being a part of the child's life and having the openness was the right thing to do. But when I really think about it I think I was paying a lot of lip service to it. I think it is really different to say that and then to have a relationship with your child's birth mother. Um...and you know I have not always known where the boundaries are but I also did not know how much joy I would have in having her in my life. And you know she is also my daughter's mother. I am so excited when you know when she gets student of the week. I text my husband and then the next person that I text is Tracy because I see so much of her in my daughter. And so I did not know that that relationship would be um so important to me or I thought that I could do that but I did not know how much I would really enjoy it. Kierstas son was abandoned on the street in Taiyuan China and was taken in by an orphanage. He was born missing most of his left foot. Kiersta and her husband dont have any information about who his parents are.  It is an absolute question mark and blank slate for my son. And we try to be realistic we try to say I do not know. I tell him a lot of I do not know. We know where he was found. We know the orphanage he was placed in. We went to visit it. We met some of the people but there are a lot of question marks and I wish I had those answers. And I mainly um wish that I could speak to his birth mom. And I want to tell them that he is doing great and that he got a robot foot and that this is the design he picked out and this is what Mardi Gras is like and one of the first full sentences he learned how to say was Throw me something mister.  We had only been home about six months and you know he learned English pretty quickly but it was just like you know that was one of the first full sentences he learned. So I would would love that. I would give anything for that. I just never knew it was possible to miss somebody that you have never met before.  What is it been like to raise kids in New Orleans after Katrina?  Absolutely magical. Absolutely magical. You know this is not probably on the top 10 list of places that you would raise ayou know. It never makes the Family Circle Top 10 Places to Raise Kids but there is an amazing street culture amazing music culture and they do not know anything else. You know they we talk about it a little bit. They have some you know sense of Katrina. They go to a school that is K-8 so some of the older kids have experienced it but they do not really know you know. They do not really have any sense of before and after. They do know however that you can evacuate and that we will evacuate and that we need to keep a tank full of gas. Dr. Kiersta Kurtz-Burke. She still works at the VA in New Orleansnow in their brand new facilityand shes heading to Texas on Friday to volunteer with a medical team. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Special thanks to Anna Hiatt Zoe Azulay Stephanie Billman David Herman Rick Kwan Andrew Dunn Joe Plourde Rachel Aronoff Benjamin Franklin and Laine Kaplan-Levenson. Photographer Rush Jagoe took pictures of all the people in our In New Orleans series. Check them out at deathsexmoney.orginneworleans. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music and this is the Outer Borough Brass Band performing it. Thanks to band members Jeff Pierce Scott Bourgeois Rick Faulkner Joe Scatassa and Jason Isaac. Were also including the list of ways you cancontribute to Harvey relief in our weekly newsletter this week. Sign up for our weekly newsletter at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. Kiersta is committed to staying with her family in New Orleans but thats where her pronouncements about the future of her city end.  Whats hard living here is we want to have this end to the story. We want to have the 10 years be a closure. Is New Orleans better than ever? Is it a gentrified hipster paradise or is it a sinking hell hole? And the reality is there is just no short answer. There is no period on the end of the sentence yet. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.