Alan Cumming What I am trying to do is to normalize being a hot mess. Even if you are successful and doing all these things yes that is my life but I am not a superhero. I still cry in the shower you know sometimes. So I think realizing that you can still have a happy life even though you have got some darkness in you I think that is the way to go. This is Death Sex and Money. The show from WNYC about things we think about a lot... and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. You know Alan Cumming. Depending on how old you are you might remember the Scottish actor as Eli Gold on The Good Wife or the Pee-Wee Herman-esque TV host in the Spy Kids movies or the emcee in Cabaret.  Alan is 56 now and he is just written a memoir called Baggage Tales from a Fully Packed Life that begins around the time that he first performed that role in Cabaret in the mid-1990s as his career was taking off and he was figuring out his public identity. Alan Cumming I was in Hollywood I was making a couple of big films there and I found these pair of glasses on a sunglasses stall at Venice Beach and I they were just round black glasses and I just thought they did not have any you know they did not have Black sunglasses stuff in them they were just clear. And I just thought these were the greatest frames for me. And I wrote about in the book about how there is a play by Terrence McNally about Maria Callas and she says Everyone must have a look! And she is doing this lecture and she looks at this person in the audience and she goes You do not have a look. Anna Sale   And I think it is that became my look! 'ecause it is a look that really suits me and I bought them and I thought I am going to make these my prescription glasses. And I went to Australia and I got the uh lenses put into the frames at a little optometrist's in Melbourne and the lady wasthat is where my favorite Australian saying came about. I said Are you able to do this? You know I have got these sunglasses and can you do my prescriptions in? And I am only here till Friday can you do that? And she went It should not be a drama. And I just love it because it should not be a drama. You what it mean? It was just a great  absolutely sort of you know jaded and dour kind of delivery of this lady saying something was absolutely true it should not be a drama. And I just love that. Alan was attracted to this no drama mantra after a period of a lot of drama in his own life. His first marriage had fallen apart he was struggling with an eating disorder and he was coming to terms with the physical and emotional abuse hed endured from his father when he was a child. When his marriage ended Alan moved into his own place for the first time which suddenly forced him to make choices about what he wanted his lifeand his surroundingsto look like.  I discovered that I really like colorful things bright things. You know in my first marriage I very much gave all that sort of... responsibility to my wife and I just I would never I would never had to understand what I liked in that way. It was all decisions made for me I was very passive. And then all of a sudden I was 30 I had this apartment and it was mine I could do whatever I liked with it and I thought What would I do? I just painted the entire thing bright yellow.  And I want to ask you about about your eating at the time. Um... you describe struggling with an eating disorder but what what were the how did you understand it at the time? What was happening with how you were eating? I was aware when people started to get worried about me and sort of say You are too skinny you are not eating enough. You know and I... you know you sort of... you know maybe skip a few meals sort of thing Oh well whatever and then it becomes a habit becomes a pattern. I mean I realized it was... it was the only way I could controlit was the only thing I could control in my life. I think that is what all eating disorders are about people feel out of control and the only thing they can control is their body and then that becomes an addiction about eating less and less sort of the only thing you can control. You know you do not quite realize that at the time but then I got really annoyed with everybody's being so concerned. I thought Do not be concerned about my weight be concerned about me. I just it made me want to do it more. I remember having a dinner with friends that came to see me in Cabaret when I first did it in London. They were allI was sitting at the end of the table just picking a salad being very antisocial and I remember they were all really concerned. It is funny you get sort of you feel very objectified and that people are only talking about your body not about you. And also I felt I was very much being lauded for being skinny that was something that was happening as my my skinniness was a prefix to everything I did.  When was the first time you talked to another man about having disordered eating? I guess I had a therapist at that time called Chris uh in London. So he I think it would be him yeah. I did not really speak to at that point I did not really speak to anyone um about what was going on with me. I just I was very... I did not I kind of I hid it all. So it was a really really really difficult time and now I understand all these things. I understand these things about eating and the power thing you know I understand I was depressed because I was having flashbacks repressed memories coming up very violent and horrible thing. So then I talked to I think it was it would be talking to his therapist about it. You know he was great actually sometimes you just all the stars align and you meet someone who just you are able to connect with a therapist I mean I think it is a very intimate and chance-like you know interaction. And with him I think there was a lot going on and he was really really helpful. You know he was my sort of savior in a way. He really gave me back my confidence.  Do you find when you are stressed now in your life or years after you were 30 do you find that that sometimes that it shows up with the way that you eat?  It has uh a few times yeah yeah. I have I have there is been phases where I have been so busy you forget to eat and you slightly get off on the fact that you have not eaten and stuff like that. And then you can see changes in your body. Also as you get older your body changes your metabolism changes. Like right now I I feel like I have put on little bit of weight I have noticed. I did this show in August going around in Scotland in a van with Miriam Margolyes the English actress sort of a travel series for Channel 4. You know we had chips French fries with every meal for like a month. And that was including breakfast!  And uh you know then I came back to New York and suddenly it was Fashion Week and I was doing all these events and I was you know and I am going for fittings. And I used to I am sort of sample size so I do not have to go for fittings people just send clothes over and they fit. And also I have been doing quite a lot of you know ex weights and things in the pandemic. So my chest has gotten a little bigger. I have gone to a 40 chest can you believe it?  Wow.   Then I thought after all the chips and it is got a little bit of weight on my tummy and I was like Oh this 32 waist is a little tight. So I really I guess I guess I noticed things like that. I kinda like being sample size and I keep fit and all that stuff but it is not sort of I do not see it in quite the sort of negative damaging way. I do not sort of think I need to do this because that is the only control I have over my situation in my life not at all. But I am always very vigilant about tipping into danger areas.   When you think about that first period of your life when you really felt like you got to feel carefree and have fun how much was sex and drugs part of that?  Um not like a massive part. But sex was I definitely went into a phase where I was having a lot more sex and that was fun. And that that relationship I was in was a very sexual one and in a really healthy way I think. Then when that ended I expanded a little more my sexual partners and stuff like that and had a few years of being very I guess that is my more debauched phase and that is where I would go out dancing and you know ecstasy was the sort of party drug of the time and I used that. I am not sort of uh I mean I like getting stoned I am a bit of a stoner. I like drugs that make you feel happy. I do not like drugs that make you speedy and wired and mean and paranoid. I like to relax and have fun and feel positive and loved up.  Um when you think about... you said your debauched years your more debauched years was that the 90s late '90s? When was that period of your life?  Yes sort of the late '90s including and into the 2000s actually yeah.  And can you put to words for you doing ecstasy and feeling loved up like what did you like about the feeling? What did it open up for you?  What I like about it it is sort of this tingly feeling your body is kind of you have these rushes and it is also tingly and you are sort of  breathless almost and it is a bit like having a panic attack. It is kind of like what happens when you have an actual panic attack. And then then it changes into this really euphoric sensual glow. So what I really liked about it was that it mirrored the beginning parts mirrored what I was experiencing quite a lot in my life at that time which was is being a bit short of breath and panicky and you know anxious. Then it mirrored that but then it forced me to go over the edge into total relaxation and joy and release and that I could not do in real life. I kind of I self-medicated with ecstasy and I think it actually it worked. It really did the trick. Coming up Alan tells me about meeting his now-husband and deciding to settle down.  If you are going to start a new relationship when you are 40 it is you should think that this is it. And so if it is going to be it you want to look back on all your other relationships say Okay what went wrong? What was I bad at? What was I good at? What do I need? Let us just get it out on the table. -- Weve been hearing from quite a few of you about housing since we asked to hear from those of you who consider your current situation temporary. Youve sent in stories about the quest to find something more affordable about moving back home and about other short-term choices youve had to make. Were compiling these for an upcoming series were working on with BuzzFeed News all about housing and we recently heard from a listener named Tavi who has been living in the Bay Area since 2007. Tavi If you were queer or an artist or trans um if you were a sex worker or a performance artist like this was the place. And it was kind of Bohemian paradise if you will. Tavi bounced around a variety of living spaces until January when they said that they were illegally evicted from their last place. They found temporary housing through a friend but it only lasts until June of next year and Tavi said that it no longer feels sustainable to stay in the Bay Area. So theyre hitting the road this summer to figure out where to live next Tavi I... am converting my Prius to a live-in tiny home on wheels. And my plan is to go state by state and both see places that I as a queer and trans person might feel safe living. And also while I am at it I will see some national parks and beautiful places. have some adventures and... that is my plan. Wish me luck! If youre also in a temporary housing situation tell us about it. Record a voice memo and describe your current living situation to us. Then email it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. After his first marriage ended Alan Cumming had a series of relationships with women and men throughout his 30s including one that he now describes as abusive and sometimes even violent. Alan Cumming Not like violent in the scale that my father was but when that... came into it I was like Ooh this is really... we have got to get out here right now. They were angry and I thought I could fix them. I thought it was my fault. Uh and that uh neither of those things were true. So then when Alan was first getting together with his husband artist Grant Staffer he knew he wanted to do things differently.  I have you know definitely been around the block a few times. So I was very in a phase of now being very sanguine and honest and not trying to sweeten myself because I knew what I was capable of and I knew what I... needed. And I just I just thought I do not want to go through some other mess. I do not want to do that again. Obviously I just was falling in love with him but I also just did not want to to I did not want to blow it and I did not want to sort of present a false picture of myself. He did that too. You know he came back to me with his honesty. And so it was a really great way to start a relationship.  When you think about the beginning of that relationship and that honesty were there ways that you sort of structured what you wanted to expect from one another in a in a relationship that you verbalized that you had not in previous relationships about how it could work?  Yeah. I just I had not really ever done that before. You know I thought you just kind of meet someone you fall in love with them you just think Well here we go. Whereas I think that you know I... I mean he said to me that you know it is he he knew me quite well by this point. And he said You know it seems you like drama and I do not want to do drama and I and he was right. It did seem like that. I had a lot of drama going on in my life in my personal you know love life if you will. And I said to him I know it looks like that but seriously I do not want drama. It is I mean I have obviously I am to blame for that. I I I let it happen I stayed and you know I was in a sort of uh you know in a kind of cycle that I was not very proud of and I could not get out of and I thought I could fix it. I think when you are in an abusive relationship the first time something crazy happens you sort of think Oh gosh that was terrible. I wonder why that happened? And then once it is happened two times then it becomes the norm and that is it. Then there you are you are in this really mental well mental is not quite the best sort of you know screwed up and unhealthy thing and you have and you have not and it becomes your norm so quickly. And so I was realizing all those things about myself. I was realizing that I needed to break the cycle of those trying to fix people and... allowing myself to fall into those situations because it was familiar to me you know? That is what I was realizing. It was comfortable um even though it was awful. So I that was a situation where I was like no I really do not want that. It is not my um you know sweet spot. Two years later Alan and Grant got married in London in a civil ceremony and were married again in New York in 2012.  In your in your relationship now is monogamy important to you?  Um no. I mean it is not it is not something that I think is essential to my wellbeing. I was not successful at being monogamous when I thought that it was the best thing to do. I think by my very dint of my gender that is that is a more difficult thing for me to achieve or to maintain. And then I just sort of over the years sort of realized that it was not why was I why was I...? If something happened why would that be the worst thing in the world? I have seen so many relationships just end overnight because of one stupid sort of you know blow job or something. I just think it is so ridiculous that that and I think there is many many ways that you can betray someone much more deeply than that and if you have a situation where you have talked about the fact that that might happen in your life and that you will handle it with kindness and respect and care then it just becomes uh less scary a thing. I think more so in same-sex relationships it is something that people have an understanding of. Uh and that if it happens it is not... it is either understood or it is agreed upon or it is just a sort of thing that you know you have talked about it and you have come to some agreement about it that suits you and that suits your relationship. But for me I feel like I am not going to pretend that I am going to be able to do something that I just know I cannot do. And also that I do not want to do. It is not like I go around having sex with people all over the place but if that were to happen I feel that uh that is you know something that we have sorted out between us.  You write in the acknowledgments of your book about your husband. Uh he was responding to seeing you on social media intoxicatedly crowd surfing wearing a monkey suit  on another continent. And and you quote your husband saying Alan is a butterfly and we have to let him fly. And... what a loving loving thing for a partner to say that is both seeing you and fully like loving you and how you are in the world.  Yeah yeah it is beautiful. And like sometimes for the last year with the pandemic and there is times when he is very worried I was starting to travel again and you know just he was very worried about it because I am asthmatic and before we were vaccinated it was quite scary. You know I was worried about if I caught it how how I you know... my asthma might... it could be really difficult for me. I remember there was one time where he did not want me to go to the supermarket. And he goes Let me do it. I will go and you stay here. And I said You are trying to keep me in a room you are trying toIt is like that film with the you know You cannot keep me in the house. You are asking to imprison me in the house.  Wait are you talking about the Brie Larson movie? Where she is stuck in the  Yes yes yes.  It was a little more swanky than that the room I was in. Nonetheless I was saying to him You cannot do that. You have crossed the line that you know I am a grown-up. He was just anxious and being kind you know being caring. But sometimes people's caring and anxiety can kind of go too far and sort of impede your your life. Anyway when that was all happening I said I am a butterfly remember?!    He was like Yes. Oh yes you are right! I have got to let you fly I have got to let you fly I have got to let you fly.  Yes You have go to the store. You can go to the store.  I have to go to the supermarket yes.  Even butterflies have to go to the supermarket.    Is there anything about being uh 56 that surprises you like being this age?   I mean lots actually because if I was 20 years ago I think 56 oh my God you know I would be pudgy and in my pajamas all day and or you know I do not know what I would think but I I had this vision of I mean I remember when I was in drama school thinking Oh God 21 my life will be over. 30 ugh ancient! You know all that stuff the goalposts change as you get older in terms of what you think of age uh what you do at certain ages.  Yeah you have a line where you write something like Life is a slow march to death we might as well have fun or something.   Yes it is though! You know I am decaying in front of you right now as we have this conversation we are both decaying. And uh I just think let us just enjoy it! And the whole trajectory of my life is so alien to what I thought it was going to be. It is completely not uh what I thought was transcribed for me or what I expected or what I hoped even! And uh so I just I find it I find it amazing that I am able to do all the things that I still do and want to do. And I feel like I am still in touch with I am still able to be in touch with you know younger people who are young enough to be my children. I have that sort of connection but at the same time I have got wisdom from having been through the life I have been through and... so it is a nice combo.  Do you have any fears about aging?  Um I mean not about aging as in getting older and... I mean there is obviously things. You think Oh that is my shape of my face I have got little jowls now. You know it is harder to lose weight than it used to be. I still feel fit and kind of healthy and I like the way my body's going. I like the way I am looking like I like having gray hair. It is funny the other day I am doing this film with Katie Holmes and I went for my costume fitting. And in the in the description of the character it said he was kind early 60s thinning hair and I was like Well I can do the kind! And um I am sort of doing that thing where I am playing like people in their 60s! So I got my costume fitting and a couple of the I heard myself say No this is not good and My ass looks too good in this. I know that I do not getI am actually at the stage where I am trying to disguise my I am trying to make myself look older!  Look a little more frumpy?  Yeah yeah. And sort of you know less high and tight So we will see how long that lasts. That is Alan Cumming. His new memoir is called Baggage Tales from a Fully Packed Life. And if you or a loved one needs support around an eating disorder you can call or text the helpline of the National Eating Disorders Association at  931-2237. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. This episode was produced by Afi Yellow-Duke. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein Caitlin Pierce and Andrew Dunn. Anabel Bacon also worked on this episode. Our intern is Sarah Dealy. The Reverend John DeLore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Instagram annasalepics that is P-I-C-S and the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Thank you to Jill Reilly in South Boston Massachusetts who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money.  Join Jill and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Alan has been keeping up with his at-home workouts and he told me about how he stays motivated while he does them  In my gym up I have a little shed it is a gym where I have been lifting weights and ex  Where your chest has gotten large yes.   My two-inch expansion from 38 to 40. Uh I have done this thing where the shed is entirely covered with photographs of me from throughout the years from magazine covers and film posters and blah blah blah.  That is amazing!   And so I exercise to thousands of images of my younger hotter self. And it is a very sort of uh good inspiration to you know do another thousands of meters on the rowing machine or something. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.