 I was a demon child.  He suffered a lot.  That makes me found like I am fucking Jesus. Like I just...   You were suffering a lot. And yeah it was awful.  Yeah it was tough. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Earlier this year we did an episode about near death experiences. Bex Montz was one of the people I interviewed. Hes a 23-year-old trans man who survived a suicide attempt. And he wrote in to the show about it.  Like I legitimately did not think that anything was going to come of it 'ecause I just do not think that my life is that interesting. Um.  Yeah its probably not going to go on air. This is Bexs mom Katie Ryan. She knew about Bexs suicide attempt but it wasnt something Bex shared with the rest of their family. Until the podcast came out.  One of my niece's friends listened to it. And recognized his name. I am like you used your whole name on that thing you know and this podcast is kind of a popular podcast. I think you know that.   I guess I did not like think it through. I was like yeah why not?  It is fine.  Was it fine?  Yeah. My sis-  I sort of figured they all assumed. Like I have been mentally ill since I was like 13 years old. Jesus Christ I hope there is a suicide attempt in there or else I am like what have I been doing with the last couple of years. You know?    Oh my god. This is something that stayed with me about Bex after the first time that we talked. Hes really funny even when hes talking about some of the darkest moments in his life. After I moved to California I remembered Bex lives in the Bay Area too. I wanted to meet him in person. And meet his mom. Because Bex had told me that after he attempted suicide in 2014 when he woke up in a hospital room the first thing he saw was his mom sitting in the corner.  When I got to the emergency room it was weird he was in a pod by himself. And there was nobody in there taking care of him. And I did not realize he was not conscious. Um and I tried to wake him up. And he is a super light sleeper. And just touching him normally would have like bolted him upright. And I shook him and I was like turning his head and it was just floppy. And I was like oh shit. He is unconscious. Katie's a doctor. She is an OB-GYN. And she works at the hospital where Bex was treated.  I have sat in that ICU with patients. Like I have been in the room that he was in. So it was um - yeah it is just surreal. Bex has struggled with depression since he was a kid. But that day he took a lot of pills. He slit his wrists too. Before he slipped into a coma Bex called 911. That saved his life. After spending a few days in the hospital Bex went back home to live with his mom.  He would not talk to me about what happened -  Yeah.  - at home.  I mean. I do not - yeah I had a therapist. I still have a therapist that I really really like. And I see like twice a week. And so I was talking to him. And I sort of figured that you were like - like you were there. Like you knew what hap- like you knew what happened. Like you saw me. Like you -  Yeah.  So it sort of felt like...  There is still parts that I do not know though.  I get... I guess.  Like you cut yourself. And like what happened to the blood? There was no dirty rags anywhere. I could not find them anywhere. Like what did you do with them I do not know.  EMT cleaned up. They came in. They called some uh some cleaning ladies and they came and scrubbed the whole house. It was great.  You are lying.  No no. I know. I mean--I...I do not I do not know. The reality is I do not know like part of it. Like there is not a whole lot from my end.  Yeah. But you and I have never talked about the thought process that led up to -  Yeah. I - like I want to try to figure out all the shit by myself. Like that is my ideal. That is my inclination is like I can do this by myself. I can figure this out by myself. And it will not be a big deal. This tensionbetween wanting independence and the comfort that comes with family supportthat is something that Bex is working through. Hes still living at home with his mom. His older brother lives with them too.  Its been helpful living at home. That it just like it means I have a place that I can go home to. Which is super soothing when there is a lot of other issues going on in your life.  Do you feel close to your mom Bex?  Yeah yeah. I think it started when dad died. That like it just became like no one else was around. Like we moved and there was sort of no one else to talk to.  I mean they pretty much grew up - you know I was the only adult in the house until they became adults. So we all became kind of treated each other like adults pretty early for better or for worse. Katie was 44 when her husband Rick Montz died suddenly from a heart attack. BM was 9. Back then the family lived in Baltimore where Rick was a gynecologic surgeon and oncologist at Johns Hopkins.  He was super committed to his work. Um and super committed to his family but spent way more time at work than he did with his family. Just sort of worked like a crazy man most of the time. Um yeah. He is the love of my life.  Did you ever see your husband one of one with patients?  Yeah I worked with him. Yeah. It was kind of magic.  What do you mean?  It was just fun to watch him. He was just a really great surgeon so it was fun to watch him in the operating room. And um yeah he just um. He was good at it.  And Bex when you think about a moment with your father when you were a child. Like what is a memory that comes up?  Um a couple of them. Some of it is my dad used to come home and we would go running on Thursdays. That is the only day of the week that dad would pick us up from school. And then if we got our homework done then we got to go running. And like really he got to go running and the kids came. But it was almost always dark. And it was like Baltimore Maryland year round. So sometimes it was freezing cold so we went running when it was freezing cold and there was snow on the ground. I remember once like we had this run where there was all this black ice and we just kept falling on our asses. Like no matter what the weather. Sopping wet out we would go running. But it was mostly like in the dark this one running path.  He would not take them out in the middle of the night so.  But it was dark.  It was dark. But it also was not like 30 at night that he would get to you guys instead of putting you to bed he would take you out for a run.  No no no.  Yeah it was just yeah.  You are like I am a good parent. I promise.   He was a good dad oh my god!   So you and your husband were both in your 40s. You are as an  dealing with birth and the possibility of complications and death at work. Your husband is dealing with death at work. Did you talk about your own deaths with each other?  Yeah um we did. Rick thought he was going to live kind of forever. He was the big runner exerciser. I am not. He was pretty sure I was going to die of heart disease because I just never took care of myself. So he was pretty sure that I was gonna die first. And we had talked about he said he was never going to get married again he was gonna date and we joked about it. That he would have a series of different people. I am like please just do not bring them home to the kids. Please do not bring them home to the kids.  Really?  Yeah! 'ecause I just do not need this rotating door of women coming into my children's lives. And no we talked about it a lot actually. And my family's here in San Francisco. And we joked that you know that the only way we are going to go back to San Francisco is that if he died I would move back home. And that is what happened. He died and we moved back to San Francisco six months later. Kind of did all the things you are not supposed to do. Sold a house. Bought a house. Quit my job. Got a new job. Changed my kids' schools. Like all those things they tell you not to do in the first year after a death we did all of them.  Was that the right thing to do?  Yeah for sure. I had to. Yeah I had to. I needed the help. I could not do it by myself. Coming up  I wish that I could have just gone undercover for forever and then like a year later I like show up and I am like ha ha! Surprise! I have been a dude the whole time! Bex talks about coming out to his mom as trans before he felt ready.  Yeah I think I probably would have waited until I was like more settled down so that I could actually like answer questions. 'ecause I could not answer questions like I could not articulate any of like are you okay with being called the daughter? Are you okay with being called a sister? Like what does that mean to you? And you were asking me these questions.  No I was not!  Yes you were! Yes you were!  Its the end of year a year thatgood or badis leaving its mark on many of our lives. A lot of the internet has decidedly turned against 2016. But one bright spot I noticed was a recent series of tweets from Jihan Crowther whom you met in our episode called Why Youre Not Having Sex. Shes noticed that as a black woman her opportunities to have sex are much better when she leaves the US. And she talked about that on the show.  It felt really really scary. I think I expected a lot of like a bad response to that. And I think I just felt relieved and surprised that the inverse happened. I called up Jihan to talk with her because as she said in her tweets coming on the show to talk about something really personal ended up kicking off a lot of good in her year.  I remember reading something where Cheryl Strayed said something like if you walk into the light and speak your truth youll find that youre not there alone. And thats exactly what happened. And it was really kind of amazing and it kind of led to other opportunities to write things and it sort of ultimately -- you cant really draw a straight line to my new job but you kind of can.  Whats your new job?  Im writing for a new HBO TV show thats being run by a hero of mine. I didnt think I would sort of land in a place like that starting with just kind of telling the truth about things that are hard to talk about. Jihan says shes writing for a show with Alan Ball the creator of Six Feet Under. This happened less than a year after she decided to quit her full-time office job to finally try to support herself by writing. Shes still not dating much. But after her 2016 Jihans not too worried out it.  I dont feel hopeless about it at all. And that is just maybe me ignoring history or my own experience but theres also no reason not to. I think even me ending up writing full time is something that I spent a lot of years hoping would happen and it finally did and there was no reason to expect it and so I kind of feel the same way about the relationship piece. Theres no reason to expect it but theres no reason not to. One of the pieces Jihan wrote this year was for Jezebel. We posted it on our Facebook page. Its called What Dating Abroad Taught Me About Stateside Racism. And on a personal note I want to thank you for all of your support for the the show and me during 2016. I shed a life that I knew and loved for this whole new world of parenthood and California that Im really excited byand just getting used to. You have shared your stories with me and with each other. Like Jihan did. Stories about what youve experienced and how youve gotten through. In this next year lets keep doing more of this. Listening to each other and pushing each other to be more honest brave humble and kind. I need this. I think we all do. Happy New Year.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Bex Montz says losing his dad was really hard. But he remembers feeling depressed even before that as a really young kid and not understanding why.  I got really sad when I was a little kid. Like in bed late at night getting very sad. And having to attribute it to something. I remember one of your friends died and I would always attribute it to that because that was the one bad dead thing that I knew happened. That I knew was acceptable for me to be sad about.  And he cried at the end of every movie. Like and it was just this emotional outburst at the end of a movie and he would just be in tears. After his dad died Bex continued to struggle with depression. He says junior high and high school were a disaster. He hadnt come out as trans yet  And I - yeah I was just fucking miserable and just wanted it to be over with.  What was your plan for when high school was over. What was the fantasy?  Oh boy. I was going to go straight to college and then go to med school. I was going to be a doctor. Like I could not wait to get to medical school. Could not wait.  What do you think that was about?  I meanFreud would have a fucking field day but I am sure some of it was dad stuff. And some it was that like medicine was how I was taught this is how you find a job that you find interesting where you can help other people and you can constantly be curious. And like medicine is how you do that. Like medicine is that job. And so it felt really right and like the right thing to do. Bex went away to college. But he started drinking a lot. His grades started to slip. He was really depressed. And struggling with his gender identity. He talked to a few friends at school about it but wasnt ready to tell his family. But his mom could tell something was going on.  He had been talking to me for awhile about getting an LGBT counselor. I am like this is a great idea and I am online trying to find resources. He had burned out at mental health on campus. It just was totally dysfunctional. Um and I was trying to find resources in the community. I am online da da da da. And I visiting and we were driving and he brought it up again. And I had probably talked to somebody at workbecause I used my coworkers as therapists instead of actually getting a real therapist  Super healthy. Super healthy.  So I talked to one of my coworkers and I must have like said maybe it is something more. Because he was self identifying as a lesbian at that time and I thought maybe it is something more than that. Maybe it is bigger than this. And um so we are driving and he brings up the idea again about getting an LGBT counselor and I just kind of looked over and I was like are you thinking of transitioning? And he goes mom! You cannot just like ask people that out of nowhere! You cannot just be like asking stuff like that you cannot do that. And then he started crying hysterically. And I was like oh so I guess we know the answer to this.  Like okay. One you are not supposed to ask that fucking question. Like let me come out to you Jesus goddamn Christ! And I think that I had like also recently bought dude's clothing. I was trying to be semi-secret about trying it a little bit. Like there is this trial period that I wanted. And I did not get it because this fucking asshole like asks me whether I am trans. And I am not going to look her in the eyes and be like no I am not considering this. But also like I do not want to say yes. I was not ready to come out. And I was out. And I was totally out.  Did it feel like a relief after crying or no?  Uh no. 'ecause it wascoming out becomes a whole thing in it of itself. And it was super stressful. It was just more stress. It was just super super stressful.  And it felt like your mom was forcing - speeding up the momentum of everything before you were ready to share.  Yeah. It felt it felt like I had not 100 decided that I was going to do this thing and I basically had to make a decision.  I did not force you into it though. I just asked if you were thinking about it.  Like you do not - okay. If you are not trans you probably never think about transitioning. So in saying yeah I am thinking about it. I am basically would be coming out to you.  And you as a mother Katie. You are googling LGBT counselors - you are trying to find the way in to be helpful and loving. And like to hear Bex say what you said in that moment was the exact wrong thing to say like how does that feel?  Um it does not bother me that much. Nothing was right. Nothing I did was right. Um and he really never asks for help and the fact that he kept asking about getting an LGBT counselor so yeah I knew something bigger was happening. Things were desperate and it needed to be addressed if that was it.  Yeah and I mean I do not hold it -  He needed help.  Yeah I do not hold it against you. It is just like for sure not the ideal way to go about it. But also like nothing about that situation was ideal. Nothing about a lot of parts of my life have been ideal.  Yeah. These gender issues are the smallest problems we have faced together.  Well yeah.  They feel small.  They are minuscule. For me. Compared to the other issues that have the mental health issues. Those mental health issues were why Bex eventually dropped out of college. He moved back home with his mom got sober and got top surgery. It was after all this that Bex tried to kill himself. He didnt tell his mom how bad he was still feeling.  Thats not my inclination at all. And particularly when I am super depressed I do not want to be talking to anybody. And so I do not. And Katie says thats made her question everything.  I never know what is real what is not real. What is okay. What is not okay. That I - you know even when it feels like things are good I do not trust it because it is just safer not to trust it and to just kind of keep my eyes open. And think and wait and watch and try to be there.  Do you feel like you are able to watch Bex and try to keep him safe?  Um I have learned that I cannot keep him safe. He does not share enough he does not ask for help from me. So I know intellectually that providing room and board and access to a car that those things are helpful for him but I cannot keep him safe. I cannot do that. He has to do that. I have not been able to do it. I have failed. Yeah.  So you have had to learn that?  Yeah I have had to learn. I thought that sleeping on a mattress outside his bedroom door and taking the door off the door jam would keep him safe and it meant that he was not - yeah it meant nothing it meant that I was pissing him off 'case he did not have a door to his bedroom and I was sleeping on the floor outside his bedroom because I could not trust him. And it did not work.  Your face Bex is such a big cringe right now.  Yeah yeah. I mean because it is true. Like I can just - I have not made things easy on anybody. And like that is obviously not a choice. Like I do not purposefully wake up in the morning and be like today I am going to be an asshole. But it also does not feel good you know.  Do you think about being a parent Bex?  Uh not a lot no. I do not think that I could make the sacrifices required to be a good parent. I think that it is really hard to be a good parent. I think mom has done a great job with it but I do not think I would be able to do it. Like there is this thing that you love desperately and you always want to be around and progressively over the course of its life as it gets more interesting you have to let it go and like that sounds awful. That sounds horrible. Like both of you guys are fucking idiots! Like that sounds awful.  And like yeah I just. I think I am too self centered.  Do you think being a parent would take you out of yourself? That it would force you to stop spending so much time perseverating about things that do not need to be perseverated about? And fill your day with other stuff?  I think that is idealistic. I do not think so. 'ecause it is not - yeah I think that it is idealistic. That realistically it would be that way for a while and I would try really hard but in reality like I am going to deal with depression and anxiety and my issues around gender for the rest of my life. That sucks and until I figure out how to deal with that in a constructive way there is no way I am going to bring another human being who has no say in it there is no way I am gonna bring someone else into it. If someone wants to come in on this then fine. That is my dating profile. If someone wants to come in on this  but like I am not going to force anyone you know?   I have to say when you said you guys are fucking crazy like I thinkI have a 5 month old babyand hearing youI have related to you Katie more than I have expected to in this conversationand the puzzle of having so much love to give to your child but needing to find just the right slots where they will let you give it.  Yeah.  And sometimes you try and you end up repelling them like the wrong side of a magnet is such a daunting thing.  I mean parenting is - it is crazy. And obviously I take care of patients when they are pregnant. And they think that this is the most complicated time of their life and like I cannot even. I just let them think this is the most complicated time of their life because the reality is just literally unbelievable of the responsibilities of being a parent. And it is just a huge job. Huge. And you can mess it up. Its been 14 years since Katie lost her partner in parenting her husband Rick. The anniversary of his death was just about a month ago.  Katie have you dated?  No.  Has that been a choice?  Yeah. Yeah. Um I do not understand it fully. And I probably do need to see a therapist about it.  I just want to note. You have said that like five times so far maybe you should actually do it.   I think initially I did use the kids as an excuse and I really felt strongly that I did not want to be bringing random people through their lives. They went through enough and they did not have to do that. But now my kids are adults and I have no excuse and I still come up with excuses. It is just I do not know.  How do you think about where you are in the grieving process?  Um you know it is been a really long time. And my life has been good without him and I never thought I would be able to say that and it relaly has. So it is sort of surprising um. But yeah it is changed who I am for sure. I - I do not think there is any way it cannot. I am a different person now. There was part of me that was just completely crazy and wild about him and it was hard in the first years and I thinkit dawned on me one day that I think that that girl left me. I think that it was too painful for part of me to want to be with him. And I just had to let her go and she left and like I did not know this happened but one day I just knew that she was not bugging me that she was not making my life hard. And it was kind of a relief. She just was not there torturing me anymore. 'ecause it was bad. It just felt like I just wanted to be with him and there was no way I could do it and yeah she just went.  When did she go?  It was a couple years probably after he died. At least a couple years. Four five years probably. It is not a bad thing. But it is not super great either.   And Bex when you think about your mom and what you want for her what do you think?  As long as she is happy she can do whatever the hell she wants. Like the most I can do is try not to get in the way of her happiness but I know I will. Like I know -  No I do not think you do.  Okay when I am deeply deeply depressed which I inevitably will be again that will get in the way of your happiness.  A little bit yeah.  So the most I can do is sort of mitigate that circumstance.  By taking care of yourself.  Yeah by trying to take care of myself. This is just me being self-centered. It is just like to take care of my mom I need to take of me. It is all about me. We have been talking about motherhood for too long come on bring it back bring it back. Thats Bex Montz and his mom Katie Ryan. They live in San Francisco. Bex is reapplying to undergraduate programs now. Hes thinking about pursuing a degree in public health. Katie hasnt yet made a therapy appointment. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And pleaseif you like the show give us review on iTunes. Just go to the iTunes store search death sex money and click on write a review. By sharing your thoughts youll help new listeners find the show. And while youre checking out the podcast feed look for Bex's first appearance on the show in the episode When I Almost Died. He offered some advice to other suicide survivors. And he had this to say about his mom.  I love her to death. Thats probably a really bad way to put that.  But yeah I really love her. I think that shes amazing. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.