 It turns out for me having control is more important than having money. I need to feel I have a choice in everything that I am doing. That is a real... that is the thing I cannot live without. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. The day I talked to musician Liz Phair she came into the studio right before a recording session for a new song. She told me the timing of our interview was intentional.  I am worried about the song I am gonna be recording in the studio later today which made it perfect to come here. I could have scheduled going to the studio a different day but I knew that I would be very stressed about the song that I am gonna record today so we put work in today to get me distracted enough to go to the studio so I could do the song that I am worried about. There it just it is it sounds more complicated than it is really.  It is just that I have learned how to use my rebellious streak to my own advantage.  I think that is one of the graces of aging is that you get to know yourself well enough to make your bad habits start to work for you.  Yes exactly. How do we turn this into a productive habit? Liz is 52 and that kind of self-knowledge is what makes her new memoir Horror Stories so good. In the book Liz writes in detail about some of the most private moments in her life like the affair she had that ended her marriage and years later the pain of being cheated on years later by someone she loved and the grocery shopping that helped her cope.   I got to the Trader Joe's chapter and I was like oh I am just photocopying this chapter to send to my friend who is going through a divorce. So...  Aw. Tell her I said Solidarity sister. Putting those personal stories in a book is a new thing for Liz. But in her music shes always been frank in ways that made people love her and also made them uncomfortable. Back in her 20s she sang about the transactional nature of relationships. Like in her song Fuck and Run...  Its fuck and run Fuck and run As Liz aged her music matured with her. After her affair and divorce she sang about her worries about how it would all affect her son in the song Little Digger.  I have done the damage the damage is done I pray to God that I am the damaged one Liz never intended to be a professional musician. She studied visual art in college writing songs was more of a hobby. But her first album Exile in Guyville was an unexpected hit. It quickly sold 200000 copies. Rolling Stone put her on its cover under the headline A Rock and Roll Star is born. And Liz was miserable.  I felt really traumatized. I had not expected to have the kind of reception to the record that it got. So that first year I was just going everywhere and doing photo shoots and playing performances that I did not feel like I was good enough to be doing. It was just a whole year of inadequacy. So like I was playing catch up with my own career.  Who was teaching you how to be a performer?  Nobody! Is not that funny? Nowadays you would think if you had an artist that did not know what they were doing that you would you know put them with a band or you know rehearse them or do whatever it was. But we were it was the 90s you know and I didnt have a manager like we just it was like an archaic time in a weird way. There was this sense of run and gun and we just did that.  What was it like to do your first photo shoots once it was clear that you were becoming a celebrity?  It was really hard. It is funny it is funny. I did not enjoy my first blush of fame very much and doing photo shoots was especially difficult because it was like a portrayal and I would been trained as a visual artist so I kind of understood what we were doing with these images. But they had heard the explicit lyrics in some of my songs they basically kept trying to undress me and do these super sexy photo shoots that did not make any sense to me cause I was stomping around in like combat boots and you know cargo pants and black shirts at that point.  And and like how when you recognized that you are in a photo shoot that was the concept was highly sexualized and you were going to be sexualized. Did you did you have the ability to to change the concept?  I did not know that I had the ability to change the concept. If I would had management from the beginning I think a lot of things in my career would be different. But it was like a free for all get Liz to do this get Liz to do that get Liz to do this. In terms of how they were portraying me it was hard to reconcile that with what I thought I was being which was like an observant artist and maybe a provocateur but it seemed like America only saw one way to market that. And that was the sex side. And it was all happening fast. Lizs second album Whipsmart came out just a year after her first and as the pressure of fame mounted Liz did a 180. She married her boyfriend...an editor who had worked on one of her music videos and she moved in with him and his teenage son in Chicago not far from Winnetka the affluent suburb where she grew up.  It is hard to explain but if you put out a record at 26 and you can imagine that at 27 I have just bought a house. I am married and you know in less than a year I will be pregnant. You know it is I felt like my life was not my own at that point. I felt like my life had taken this hard right turn and I could not keep up with it. I could not keep up with the person everyone expected me to be. I could not keep up with how many people had heard the record. And I think getting married and buying a house and getting really domestic was like a way to retreat from that. And I was trying to pull back into a self that I recognized and I just pulled back too far. And I put a really hard um stop to it all.  Help me understand that like you are you are sort of being lauded for talking about sex in a way that women have not in music and for being honest and raw in a way women have not. And then you find that you are pulled towards becoming a wife and retreating from from that public life. did that feel like a contradiction to you in terms of how you thought of who you were as a woman?  It did not feel like a contradiction to me at all because I would grown up in a community where most of the women did not work. They were wives and mothers and that actually seemed extremely normal. That seemed refreshingly reassuringly familiar. But what I did not factor in was how well I would do in that role how well a personality like mine would do in that role. I kind of just it it was what I would envisioned for myself and what everyone had envisioned for me in my upbringing and it was not that my husband had asked me to stay home or do something domestic. It was purely my own decision-making process. I was trying to imitate the lives that I would grown up with.  How did you first start to notice that kind of retreating into domesticity was not going to be a perfect fit?  The long hours with you know the isolation and the long hours just being in a house I think not really knowing what to do with myself. You know I have always made art and what I have learned over time is that there are certain things that I have a natural attraction to But there is some things I just do not and fulfilling that kind of like wifely picture of domesticity in the traditional sense was just not something I really cared that much about. It was not something that was particularly um uh I do not know uh intriguing to me. It did not use the parts of me that I love to exercise. Eventually Lizs restlessness became overwhelming. In Horror Stories she describes the repetitiveness of her new life parenting a baby and isolated from her artist friends. She began a long flirtation with her manager that turned into an affair as she describes in the audiobook Audiobook excerpt Im calling Ethan to tell him whats happening in my day instead of saving the news for my husband. I know Ive strolled too far down the wrong path but Im addicted to the attention. It makes all the ordinary things I have to do seem colorful and interesting when he listens to me.  When you first started feeling uh interested in another man um what do you remember going through your head?  It was not so much the man that I was interested in. What I remember was the exhilaration of being with someone that saw me as a music person again. I had done this to my own life. I had retreated from the music business kind of put a hard stop to everything that was going on in my career and at the worst possible time at the height of my success arguably. And that had felt right in the sense that I regained a sense of control over myself and my life. But if you really put a hard stop to it and then there is nothing after all of this striving and all of these accolades and all of this excitement you are left with that idle time and you are left with a sense at least I was of who am I? And what I recall from being attracted to this man that I had the affair with was it was a way back into the life that I would had before. The person that I would just essentially you know chucked off of myself. I think that is what it was. I mean it sounds stupid but I was attracted to him but I was also attracted to the life that I would given up.  I mean what you are describing I feel like is every every woman I think that goes through the experience of becoming a parent then has to go through this experience of like what parts of myself that were here before are still here. Um did you think you were going to be together with this person when you were falling for him?  Um no I did not think that I was going to be together with this person. Um I thought that I could just kind of get that excitement going again and I did not think that it was going to derail my life but I also found when the actual affair started that I could not take the lies. I could not take the deceit of it. And I think I will uh some friends just said you know if you are not found out youll you know just let it go. And I cannot live like that it turns out.  when you think back on that time do you think of it uh with a sense of like this was a mistake I made or a sense of I understand why I needed that at that time in my life?  I honestly think it was a huge mistake a massive massive mistake. I would advise strongly and do to this day anytime anyone is I know is having an affair or is considering it I strongly advise against it. I do not advise sticking with something that is not working. I do not advise living a lie. I wouldnt cheat on anyone ever again not just because I hurt other people and it is not just because it took forever to kind of settle like how I blew my life up you know? Um I would never cheat again because it actually you harm yourself. It is self destructive behavior and that is what I object to strongly  When your marriage was over and you were learning how to be a single mom did it feel like there was more room for your artist self?  Oh gosh there was you know not to put too fine a point on it but yes it was it was a relief to be able to be to know who I was know that art was going to be important to me forever and I could not live without it. That is what I could not live without. Coming up Liz leaves Chicago. And she meets someone new.  I could tell that there was something that was a little off kilter about that. I just could not put my finger on it. And I certainly did not know how devastating a relationship that was going to end up being. Speaking of infidelity you had some REACTIONS to our episode about cheating that we re-released a few weeks ago and you had more cheating stories to share. Some that are happening right now. Last night I found myself under a married man in a hotel room in a foreign country a listener named Stella wrote in. I know he has a wife and a son thousands of miles away. We also heard stories about how cheating affects those people.  My father I always thought was a very moral person. He was my everything. A listener named Elizabeth was an adult when she found out that her dad was cheating on her mom.  I feel like my dad cheated on me too in a way. How am I ever supposed to trust him again? We shared a lot of other reactions to this episode in our newsletter last week. Some really good conversations happen there so if you dont subscribe already make an early new years resolution and add it to your list. Get it at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter On the next episode were doing something different. A Death Sex  Money year-end spectacular. Get ready. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. After Liz Phairs marriage broke up she moved with their young kid Nick to California. And she jumped back into making music. In 2003 hit the top 40 charts for the first time with her pop single Why Cant I.  WHY CAN When you were thinking about what you wanted and what you wanted your life to look like after going through the divorce um and thinking about what you wanted professionally what you wanted in your personal life um what do you remember picturing?  I pictured having it all. I pictured being um a recording artist who toured occasionally and having a family. I mean I going all the way you know keep rolling it forward until it is on golden pond. You know like like I fully still have that vision for myself if someone says like What do you picture? You know I picture in my fantasy life being like that older woman in a cardigan set who has the house on the lake that the family always comes to every year. You know what I mean? Like like that would be that if I could spend hours thinking about that for a while like if I let myself. When Liz was in her late 30s things seemed to be falling into place. She went on a blind date with a single dad of two daughters...and they got serious. But then...after years of datinghe told her that hed been cheating on her...and that he had a new baby with another woman.  I was trying really hard to stay sober and not drink every night. And I could not handle the emotions that I was feeling. I felt like I had no skin. I felt like a raw nerve and anything anyone said to me felt like an accusation or pity. I felt like I was separated from everyone by like a thin wall of grief in a real weird way. And I kept being invited out because friends were trying to keep me busy and they saw they would never seen me like that before. Theyd never seen me devastated and incapacitated. Um so everyone was asking me out and I went and I just kept going out and doing the things. But I would sit there emotionally totally removed and I just waited for the hours and days to pass.  Was it hard to be in that space when you are someone who is a known person you are a public person? Like how do you where where can you where can you go?  Where can you hide?  Yeah.  Um luckily at that point I was uh I was staying at home. I was not doing my career particularly. I was composing for television. I was doing whatever I could to stay home with my son while he was in junior high and high school. So I I did not have to be Liz Phair at that point most of the time. I can imagine in a weird way that it would have been easier if I had to be cause I could have just slipped into that persona and put it on autopilot without having to just sit and feel all my emotions and think all my thoughts. It was it was I think it was the book-end to my affair. I really do think that.  did being a person who was betrayed in a relationship make you think about the end of your marriage in a different way?  I think I knew that after I got divorced like I knew that pretty early on. It was not lost on me even even before I would stopped seeing the man I had an affair with it was not lost on me the amount of damage that it had done to just everyone involved. What happened when I was betrayed was this sense of I started to tell myself the narrative that I did not deserve I was not ever going to be happy. I was not ever going to find you know because I had done things in my past I did not deserve to have and I think I am still working through that.  Like youre being punished? Or -  Yeah I have been punishing myself for an incredibly long time over that. And I really should just stop. It is really stupid. I kind of felt like it was collective settling of a score. I felt in a way a tiny sense of gratitude and relief. I sort of factored it in as like a small state of grace to kind of pay for what I would done. So as awful as that was and I am I am not putting a silver lining on it cause there is none but that settled a score to me. That was bad enough that I felt like I paid for what I would done.  What was it like beginning to date?  Stupid and awful. Like Its still stupid and awful. Like it is never anything but stupid and awful in the dating world as far as I am concerned. Um I have a really tough time conveying I feel like and I said this to my friend after another romantic attempt like sort of did not work out either people meet the me that I was when I was nine just sort of a normal person and then and that feels really good because then I know they really like me and then they have to encounter the Liz Phair thing which I do not have total control over. You know I cannot really shape that narrative. That is a cultural narrative. And then they have trouble grappling with that cause they thought they just met this nice suburban girl. Right? Or they meet me as Liz Phair and they think all these you know oh we are going to be a power couple and it is going to be amazing were going to do all these sexy cool exciting glamorous things and then it is like the normal me that is just at home making popcorn and watching like period romance movies and and they do not want that. So like it is really hard to find someone that can hang in the rock world and also go home to Winnetka. And I do not want to take my foot out of either state. I am straddling several states and it is very hard for me to find someone that can see that and understand it. Liz is single now...She says she and her ex have a good co-parenting relationship. Their son Nick just graduated from college...which has prompted Liz to think about her own next moves.  He is launching his own self. I feel in a parallel way I am launch relaunching my own self as an artist and there was just a section of my brain that belonged to my son for 22 years. There was just the section that was off that was inaccessible to anything else and it took up a lot of space. And Liz is still very close with her parents. They just sold their Winnetka home this year and Liz says that was hard.  I have never not gone home. So I have every year I have been home in Chicago at their house four five times a year. You know like it is it was it is never not been a part of my life. So when we knew that this was coming I do not and I think my mother understands us you know I did a lot of helping clean out closets and do all that kind of stuff. But as it got closer I became more and more withdrawn from it. I sort of relished in all the views from all the windows and remembrances. I would done all that over a long period of time. But I am I have trouble with transitions traditionally and I think there was a sense that I almost could not look that last month or two at what was happening.  You have trouble with transitions. Just tell me a little bit more about that.  Im I have like a blind spot sometimes for what is required to make a transition. I point my GPS toward a goal and then whatever I have to go through to get to that goal is always a surprise to me. So I am looking really far down the road most of the time or I am looking at a very granular closeup. I have trouble with this the middle ground and that is true in my art too. I like high contrast. I am very comfortable at the extremes on either side. I have trouble with the middle area there is like this sort of murky cannot quite figure it out sense of uh formlessness. I just I go toward the distinct goal and then deal with whatever comes up.  I mean you did talk about golden ponding.  Im so ready for that. I can smell the cardboard of the board games right now. I can hear the waves lapping at like the old tin rowboat you know whatever it is. I have fully that is that is the problem. If you want to know my problem in a nutshell I have too much imagination and not enough organization. So it makes me dangerously able to wing things really really well. Thats Liz Phair...Her memoir is called Horror Stories. In 2020 shes got an album of new music coming and shes heading out on tour with Alanis Morisette and Garbage. Oh and that Trader Joes chapter from Lizs book I mentioned at the top of this episode? I wont spoil it but its really good and you can read it on our website at deathsexmoney.org. Thanks to Random House for letting us share that excerpt with you along that clip from the audiobook. And in our show notes theres a link to a Spotify playlist that we made of our favorite Liz Phair songs. Enjoy. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Facebook Twitter and Instagram. And you can email us anytime at deathsexmoneywnyc.org.  Have a wonderful time in the studio this afternoon. Im excited to hear how the song turns out.  Oh God. That was really mean. You just totally like snapped me back to attention like aw dammit. Okay. You know how like at the end of a massage they press the top of your head down.  Oh God.  And youre like why are you putting me back in my box?  Yeah.  I dont want to go back in my box. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.