Rashema Melson I cannot live this life this is not for me. I need to remind myself of where I come from. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale.  You just looked at your phone.  Yeah.  What was on your phone?  Somebody sent me a donation. Im sitting with Rashema Melson in the common room in her dorm at Georgetown University. A message just popped up on her phone.  They said Just a little something for the holidays to spend with your family. Keep us posted on your progress especially if you need help. Help comes in many ways.  Is that from a stranger?  It is from a stranger. I do not know who this person is. Rashemas finishing up the fall semester of her sophomore year at Georgetown. She started getting donations from strangers about a year and a half ago. She was a senior at Anacostia High School  a public school in southeast Washington DC. Ninety-nine percent of students there get free or reduced lunch. Rashema was valedictorian and she became a national news story.  It is graduation day for Rashema Melsonand with the turn of a tassel this young lady goes from homelessto Hoya.  I am just kind of used to people walking up to me Hey can I get a picture?  Really? What do they say?  They ask me  it is always this list they have. Oh my god are you Rashema? Yes. You graduated from Anacostia? Yes. You were valedictorian? Yes. You were in a homeless shelter? Yes. Oh my god! It is annoying sometimes because I wish people would stop calling me that. I am not the homeless valedictorian  I am Rashema Melson. Rashemas on full scholarship at Georgetown. It was a dream come true. But the transition to college hasnt come without strain.  Especially cause I am so close like one bus ride away from home. Or you know whatever I call that place.  Yeah.  So.  What do you think what has being a student at Georgetown taught you about money?  Money? Hmm. Got to get more of it. Thats the best thing that I could possibly think about.  What do you spend money on during the semester?  I spend money on my family which is the truth. My younger brother he is 15. He is the only one left in the household so my mom gets a certain amount of food stamps so if her food stamps run out she will ask me Hey can you help me out. It is never like a give me or you have to do this. I am always like Hey do you need anything? And a lot of people come see me and say That is not your responsibility you need to worry about yourself blah blah blah. And I get that. But me and my family  I grew up sharing meals with people sharing one meal with three people. That is always the way my family or me and my friends are gonna be we are always gonna help each other out.  Your mom had trouble finding work for a long time. Is that how you would describe it?  I do not know my mom's deal. I am not even going to speak on that in case I say the wrong thing. Oh Jesus. Rashema says her mom always had to rely on public assistance. Rashemas father was shot and killed when she was less than a year old. Then when Rashema was 13 her family lost their housing. Rashema her mom and her two brothers didnt have anywhere to go.  We were actually moving around living here and there. We got split up sometimes a couple night we stayed on the street and then that is when my mom she was like I do not wanna keep doing this. Let us just go through the shelter and from there maybe we can find housing. So that is when we entered the shelter when I was 15 going on 16.  So it was two years of moving around and having unstable housing before the shelter while you are going through puberty surrounded by your brothers. I imagine not having much space to yourself?  Nope. Not at all. And that is a really big stage in a female's life. It was just different for me. I think when I was younger I would say that my family bullied me and I say this with a smile now. But when I was younger it upset me so much. I am the only lighter-skinned person in my family. Everybody else is darker and they would say like I talked white and I was like Whatever. I am a kid and I was really overweight. The doctors were saying I was gonna be obese so I was put on a SlimFast diet when I was 8.  When you were 8.  When I was 8. It was just the life that I went through and I felt like I did not have a normal childhood and I did not get the experiences that I see other people have. But Rashema always excelled as a student. It was clear that she was a good reader as a kid. By high school she knew she needed to stand out.  I remember my first cross country meet in high school. I passed out once I crossed the finish line and I am looking at most people are staring at me. Im like What place did I come in? I do not care how I am feeling. They are like Seventh. You did so good. I am like I did horrible. I just started crying and I was like Do not touch me. I need to become No. 1. I need to run again. And I was like so full of emotion and I kept saying I am not gonna get into college if I am not No. 1 I need to be No.1 I need to be No. 1. Everybody was looking at me like Oh my God. What is wrong with that girl. And my coach kinda was like Come on let us take you to the bathroom. I was like I do not care you do not understand. I was like I am homeless. I live in a shelter. I need money. You know what I am saying? And my parents cannot  my mom cannot afford college. I need this. I need a scholarship or I need my grades I really had a burst of emotion that I feel like I have never had in my life. And when I ever think about it now I feel that emotion. Im just like yeah I cannot fail I mean what would I do? Do I wanna believe that I did not work hard enough or there is something more that I could have done? I just yeah no I cannot fail. So. Landing a full ride to Georgetown didnt make that fear go away. It feels like an opportunity Rashema cant squander. Getting involved on campus hasnt been a priority.  I really do not get out much. I just study. I work and that is about it.  I can remember when I started college just the experience of all of a sudden sharing a dorm and a social life with people from all over the country and who had all sorts of different family arrangements growing up  all sorts of different income levels that they were used to. What do you remember about the first weeks and figuring out who the people were that were surrounding you?  That is what I did not do. My goal here my job here is to just get my education and keep moving. Its not a bad thing. Its not that I dont like people or anything like that. It is just my motives are different and I think when people come to college you know I hear all about yeah that social life. We are gonna go to parties. There is a lot of parties here and on Friday night I am like in my bed I am getting some sleep because the week was so tiring.  This semester across the country there've been protests across the country around the feeling of inclusion around race on college campuses including here on Georgetown's campus. Have you felt any of that? Did those protests resonate with you at all?  I did not know about those protests. You talking about the Black Lives Matter?  The Black Lives Matter but then U of Missouri and Yale. And there were some at Georgetown around the naming of the building  You know I am really bad with this and this is exactly what I mean when I say I am so focused.  You did not read the news?  No and that is the thing. Literally last night I stayed up til 4 oclock in the morning. I was watching the Eric Garner video I was watching the Trayvon Martin case. I was just educating myself because I have been caught up in my own bubble worrying about how am I gonna help my life.  Youre focused.  Yeah and I kinda had a little breakdown this semester because you know I wanna get out and I wanna have fun and I wanna be able to on a Saturday not just focus on work but I am kind of stuck I am kind of in a situation with like you are not going back home to a family who financially supports you or you are not going back to this place where you do not have to worry if you do not get a job your dad's gonna talk to a friend and get you a job it is nothing like that I am the one who is pushing my family. Coming up how feeling lost at Georgetown this semester turned Rashemas attention back home.  I think my biggest goal at the moment is just to show my family  especially my brother  that I am here for him always and just cause Im at Georgetown and on this side of town means nothing. In our last episode a mom named Diane Gill Morris shared her story about raising her two teenage boys who are autistic. She talked about all the ways their autism has made parenting more difficult than she ever imagined and about how she wouldnt have had kids if shed known how hard parenting them would be. The episode touched a nerve for a lot of you. Many of you sent in notes of support for Diane. Weve forwarded those on to her. One of those notes came in from a 31-year-old woman living in New York City. She has a sibling with autism and she teaches autistic students. Im not a parent so I cant relate to Dianes story completely but I never signed up to be a sibling of someone with autism either. But Im so glad I am one. While there were certainly challenging experiences growing up my brother is the best thing that happened to me and the best thing in my life. I suspect my parents feel similarly. We love him so much but its important to share how hard it is. Loving someone and finding joy in them and not wishing they were any different still means its hard. For others the episode was deeply upsetting even offensive. A woman named Erin from Omaha Nebraska left us this voice memo. She is autistic and she has a kid whos autistic too. Erin Telling the world that you wish your autistic children had never been born and that that they have taken too much from you is not brave or admirable its hateful and bigoted and devalues the lives of disabled people. This kind of narrative actively harms autistic people by spreading the message that we are lesser kinds of human beings burdensome to caregivers and that the world would be better off if we didnt exist. We also heard from Jon whos 54 and was diagnosed with autism about five years ago. Jon In your podcast the mom says if she knew what she was in for before she had her boys she would not have had them. My version of that my wish is that I relived my life starting over with one crucial difference. That everyone would know about autism and the ways for helping parents and their kids cope and thrive. Thanks to all of you for sharing your responses with us. And you might remember that a year ago we asked you to tell us your stories about living alone. On the next episode we get updates about whats happened since. Walid Shantur I can no longer say that living alone is pleasing and satisfying. -- This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. When Rashema Melson hit a wall this semester she wasnt just worn out from studying. She was also angry about all the pressure she was feeling.  I got upset I just was like why cannot I do other things and why cannot I do what other people do? Why cannot I watch movies all night or why cannot I go hang out with friends?  When did that happen at what point in the semester?  I think it happened. It was in October. I really felt stuck like I had no option. The only thing I have in life is this degree like this degree is saving me. Without this degree I am nothing. Why should I be nothing because I do not have a degree? Like little pieces of paper and some grades do not define me. And that is where I got to the point where I am like I am not about to deal with this. And I thought to myself  I said I need to go back to the shelter. I told my dean I went to talk to him I was like I have never lived richly. I have never had exquisite things. I know what it is like to be in that struggle I was happy then and just living the life that I wanted because I was pushing myself. And now I have all these other people in my back like Yeah you gotta do it. And it is all this in my ear and I am just like These people are driving me crazy.  It is interesting to me that when you hit that wall it was not Maybe I should go out on a Friday night instead of staying in and studying or Maybe I should go out on Saturday or Maybe I do not have to do all the reading on this Monday night. But it was Maybe I wanna drop out. It went that far.  It did. It did. Like I just felt like that is my life. I feel like people see me as that is the homeless valedictorian she goes to Georgetown. My life is Georgetown. It is like if you are not in school then what are you doing? It really made me feel that way where I was like I do not even want to do this anymore. That feeling has faded some. But Rashema still isnt very concerned about building a social life at Georgetown.  I feel like I want to dedicate more to my family and be more involved in their lives. And really instead of being like Hey should I go on a date and  I do not go on dates. I do not know why I said that. But if I started dating someone why not take my mom out you know? I want to learn about her I do not know a lot about her either you know. I have been around her my whole life but I mean I could tell you the things that make her angry. I could tell you her birthday and stuff. But as far as really jumping into getting to know her we have never really shared our background stories with each other. Like I really really want to build that relationship that we never had.  Was your mom comfortable with the media coverage?  I say she was like 5050 honestly. I think she was happy for people to come to her and say 'wow your daughter's amazing' and get positive feedback I think that made her feel good I think what she did not like about it is that her friends who she was close with they were finding out things she was like I did not really want my business on display. And I think in a sense it was kind of embarrassing um...  You said earlier that when you were a kid  when you were a kid and your family would point out that your skin was fairer than the rest of the family and would point out the way that you talked like you were white. Was that in some ways kind of picking at you for being focused on school and excelling at school?  I doubt it. I really just think they are mean people.  As a kid did you talk differently than your family?  Um I really thought I was adopted. I am so different from them. And I see that I am not different from them now because they have this stride about them this anger kind of in them. And this like kind of raunchy way  I cannot really explain. They are loud and boastful people you know what I mean? I was always quiet polite blah blah blah pleasing others  stuff like that. And now that I am kind of experiencing these moments in life where I have my breakdowns when things get in the way where I feel pressured. I feel that anger and I feel that side of me that comes out. I feel the way that the tone in my voice changes. I feel those things. Then I feel close to them. Not because we are feeling the same thing but I think I feel what it is actually like to see the real world. And now it is like I feel it. Yeah I feel it.  Is there part of you that is at all afraid that as you get your degree as you become more successful earn more money that it will be hard to stay close to your family?  Nope. And I was just having that conversation the other day. One day I actually did feel like I was living this Georgetown life. You know the fact was that I was getting comfy. And when you are comfortable you do not need to push. You know you settle you just relax. You are cruising  you are on cruise mode. I did not need to be cruising. And you know I went to go see my family. Somebody had just got killed the other day um shooting. I just always need to go back and remind myself. Cause that is what pushes me. If I lose my motive my drive the reason why I am so determined  that is a problem. I can not get comfy in this world. This would be over in two years. Rashema sees her family regularly. Rashema takes the Metro to the other side of town where her mom and brother now live in an apartment. Theyve moved out of the shelter. Her mom and brother have also visited her at Georgetown.  I remember the first semester  cause I was here for the summer as well  I remember the first semester that I was here almost everybody else went home and I was still here. I did not want to sleep by myself so I told them Come up here and sleep with me! And they stayed with me  was it a couple days? They stayed with me and we like in these little small twin beds. And we just slept together. I do not want to be alone!  In the dorm?  In the dorm mmhmm.  Is it comfortable when your family is here on campus with you?  Yeah I mean  what do you mean by that?  Just like that they are coming from a different part of DC. you are the one who gets to live here. They know they have to go back at the end of the visit.  I would rather be with them.  Really?  Mmhmm. I never want my family to feel like I am getting the better stick of things. And this is not permanent. This is my home for the moment. And you know why should they? If anything they are more stable than I am at the moment. My name is not on my mom's voucher and my name is not on my mom's lease. I am not on my mom's health insurance anymore so they are kind of good. And I am still kind of figuring things out. Rashema Melson. Shes a sophomore at Georgetown. She also regularly posts videos on her website rashemamelson.com where she answers questions from young people trying to figure out how to get to college. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Special thanks to our intern Destry Sibley for all of her help this semester. We also want to welcome our new producer  Chester Jesus Soria  to the team. Chester was raised in Houston has been covering politics in New York City but is excited to get back to making audio. Hes a big podcast and music fan. Four years ago he blew all his savings to see his favorite band Pulp reunite on stage in London. He says it was totally worth it. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. Or you can email us with your story or feedback anytime at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. At school Rashema has become really close to her roommate. Theyve lived together since their freshman year.  She is really intelligent. You say one thing to her it is like talking to Google. And she just pop up all these facts on you. And she like I am telling you  if you had a conversation with her like she would not stop talking. But she would be so interesting to you you would not even notice the time flying. I am spending Christmas with her family.  Where does her family live?  New Jersey. I am not sure which part but I know it is not the part with the Six Flags cause I asked her. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.