 Japan had attacked Pearl Harbor. We were at war. And what was happening to us was sort of the fallout. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Esther Abe was the first former incarceree I met at Heart Mountain last summer. Shes in her 80s now and hadnt seen this place since World War II when she was a young girl.  You know I havent been back here since we used to live here. Here is where Esther and her family were once held under guard of military police by the U.S. government because they were Japanese American. Its just off the highway about 13 miles outside of Cody Wyoming between farms and sagebrush covered fields. On the horizon is a mountain with two rounded peaks. Heart Mountain.  We just accidentally found the website and we had like three weeks notice that we had to pack up for this vacation. But we found out they were having a pilgrimage. This gathering is part reunion and part witnessing. Esther traveled with her grown son and daughter to show them where she was forced to relocate as a girl from her home in Washington State.  So it came to life for my daughter she saw our name in the registrar's books and it kind of woke her up. Thought oh this is true.  Were there any flashes of memory that came back what you did when you were a little girl?  You know it was something happened that I did not expect. I saw that Heart Mountain -  On the horizon?  I saw that and I kind of choked up. I did not realize I was going to be that emotional. No tears just choking up.  Mmhm. What do you think that was?  I think it is you know it is a big part of Japanese history of Japanese really American history and a lot of the schools did not know it because it was not even in the textbook for decades. So all of a sudden for us to be here and talk about it freely and everybody's memories are coming out and they share their stories. It is big. Japan bombed Pearl Harbor 78 years ago this month. After that the U.S. government determined that people of Japanese ancestry living on the west coast were a national security threat.  More than 100-thousand men women and childrenall of Japanese ancestryremoved from their homes in the Pacific Coast states to wartime communities established in out of the way places. Franklin Roosevelt signed the executive order mandating their relocation in 1942 the year this newsreel was made. The U.S. Supreme Court later upheld the decision.  Two-thirds of the evacuees are American citizens by right of birth the rest are their Japanese-born parents and grandparents. More than 14-thousand people lived here at Heart Mountain in a community of hastily constructed wooden barracks  The entire community bounded by a wire fence...and guarded by military police. All those barracks are long gone. There are few physical remains on the land from that time. Japanese Americans have had pilgrimages to former incarceration sites for fifty years in some places but theyve only done them annually here at Heart Mountain for a few years since a museum opened in 2011. More than 350 people came this year... By now enough time has passed that the only firsthand accounts of life at Heart Mountain are from people who were young children at the time and are now in their 80s and 90s.  How old were you when you were here?  I think I was either 9 or 10 somewhere around there I cant remember. Marie Sakaguchi Niwas family was sent here from San Jose California. She went to elementary school at Heart Mountain.  Have you been back since?  No this is the first time.  What memories have come back being here?  Well actually kids memories. What we did played around. I wasnt at that age I was not aware of all the social consequences of the evacuation and didnt know anything really. I was a dumb kid.  Thats what I heard over and over again when we talked to the people who lived here. This place represented many things including their childhood home.  This sounds kind of idiotic but as a kid there was no fear Shig Yabu was 10 when his family was sent here from their home in San Francisco.  You have to remember theres 120-thousand people who went to ten different camps. Everybody has a different story. But as a youngster we were looking for adventure. Like a vacation. You kind of look forward to what is going to be. You know we didnt think about the guard towers we didnt think about the barbed wires we just wanted excitement. When Shig was in his 70s he wrote a childrens book about his time at Heart Mountain called Hello Maggie about the magpie bird he kept in his familys barrack. That was just one of the animals he befriended as he told a crowd while he was leading a tour.  Heres some of the pets I had. Lizard horn toad salamander ant farm in a jar a sparrow Shigs been coming back to Heart Mountain every summer for several years now. New this year is a barrack that was restored on the site.  I remember my parents sitting on the bed. Why? because there was no chairs no table no shelves no toilet no water.  Yeah. I remember something else about the description of the barrack. Sometimes the barracks would be high and the cold wind during the dead of winter would go underneath the barrack and the floors would be real cold.  Whats your name?  Ken Kitajima.  And what block were you in?  Nine. Facing Heart Mountain the fence yeah. By the way Shig I got you beat by two years. I was 12 years old when I was incarcerated here.  What an old man!  Sitting in this barrack you could tell peoples connection to the incarceration by looking around. The oldest people were the ones who lived here. The middle-aged people were their children. The teenagers and young adults their grandchildren. And for the descendents of incarcerees the mood was a little different. Less light swapping of memories. It felt more like a diligent search for missing information.  Cmere Kai...  Are you all related?  Yeah. My wife it was her dad who was at the camp as a kid.  And my grandparents. Karen Ono Hammond brought her husband and their two teenage boys to the Pilgrimage from Orange County California.  My dad passed away a year and a half ago so I thought this would be a really good opportunity to come and show them kind of their Babas history.  And whats it like for you to be here?  It is hard! My dad didnt really talk about it much until just right before... probably four years ago he started talking about it. So I think that kind of opened up things for us to start talking about it and finding out like what exactly happened and   How old was your father when he was here?  He was four like probably four to seven years old.  So a little boy.  A little boy yeah. But he remembers looking through the barbed wire and seeing the mountain and my aunt just told me that he used to he was in one of the barracks that had a window and he would trace the mountain. Like put a piece of paper up to the window and trace it. So. Yeah.  You hadnt heard that before?  No. Just a few feet away I ran into Denise Hatakeyama who also made the trip from southern California.  This is my friend Barbara she came with me. Both Denises parents were here. Her mother is in her mid-90s. Her father died when he was 102 just a few years after the museum opened here.  I asked him if he wanted to go and he said he never wanted to go back. He didnt need to see it. So.  Did your mother what did your mother think about you making this trip?  She thought it was kind of neat she says oh that is really... and I think she has dementia and if she was able to she probably wouldve come.  Whats the word that she uses for this place? Whats she call it?  She just calls it camp. Yeah. She calls it camp. 'When we were in camp.' I dont know if thats her way of making it sound not so bad or maybe it wasnt that bad or whatever. Denises friend Barbara Jenness is not Japanese American shes white. Theyve been friends for 40 years.  Because of dogs. We have Newfoundlands. Barbara Jenness We have the same dogs. And and I love history. We were just looking at all their paperwork. She is got all the paperwork for them being assigned here. It is just it is... it is God it is bizarre. I mean it is just...to think that you were told you had to...  Go somewhere! And stay there!  Yeah. Yeah. And I cry. I am terrible. I cannot even fathom that this could have happened. You know I am like oh my God so...yeah.  It is pretty terrible.  Yes like I said I just cry.  Its ok Barb.  Yeah so I think. Yeah. So I think just something that we all need to know about.  Uh I think that people should should uh know as to what happened. Yeah and so I really do not mind uh talking about it. Takashi Hoshizaki was one of the oldest people I met at the Pilgrimage. He turned 94 this year. He was a teenager when he first came to Heart Mountain.  We got on the train um not knowing where we were going to go  and spent four days on the train.  Wow they didnt tell you where you were going when you were on the train.  No. Uh no idea. And then also we were then asked to pull the shades so we and we and then you thought well is it because they didnt want us to look out and see what was going on? Or I guess in the other case the government didnt want the people on the outside to think wondering what is this trainload of people that looked like Japanese? So I think it was sort of a safety thing. And so we had no idea. When we sat down for an interview Tak as he goes by told me that he also remembers being intrigued by the adventure of leaving his home in Los Angeles. But Tak also said as his family was shuffled around on their way to Heart Mountain he listened in on the conversations of other Niseisthats the term for the children of Japanese immigrantswho were Americans born in the U.S.  Talking to the other people especially the older Niseis I heard things like yeah well we should have resisted. So then I said well what is happening? You know what is really happening?  Were they college students or what - how old were they?  I think. They were the - what I - in my mind I said the older Niseis - I was 16. I think these guys are probably early 20s and probably no more than 25 26 years old. Yeah.  And you are just sitting there listening as they are talking and you are saying wait a minute.  Yeah listening as a little kid.  Yeah.  And they I mean they they transformed the way you saw the world.  Mmm. Yeah so it to me very enlightening. And so I said well wait a minute something is really wrong here. And as I began to talk more with the people then I realized I guess I got a little angry. Tak settled in with his family in Wyoming. He graduated from the first high school class at Heart Mountain. But that feeling of angerthats what came up when he got his draft notice in the mail there in 1944.  I said no. That is it. I am not reporting. And in fact I did not discuss that particular decision that I made to anyone. And eventually the marshals or whoever they were came by and picked me up and then I ended up in the I guess you might call it a prison. First it was a county jail in Casper Wyoming. Then along with 62 other young men at Heart Mountain who were protesting the draft Tak was sentenced to three years in federal prison.  They apparently as the saying goes threw the book at us.  When you were here at Heart Mountain with your family and then when you were incarcerated in a county jail and then a federal prison did it feel - how did it feel different and how did it feel similar when you were told you had to be in a place and you could not leave?  Well when we when you arrive at the in the federal prison you get an interview with the warden because the warden wants to find - probably find out what what type of a prisoner is this guy going to be? And I remember telling the warden I says I feel no difference here. There is barbed wire here in the prison there is barbed wire back in the camp. We have searchlights in both places and restrictive - basically very restrictive type of an environment. But I told him the only thing I miss now is the family. And so that was the difference. So - so there is very little change in the transition as we went from camp life over into a prison life. Tak was released from prison after serving two years. And in 1947 just before Christmas President Harry Truman pardoned Japanese American draft resistersmore than 280 overallincluding Tak.  Uh jumping way ahead in 1952 I got married 'kay and my wife was very interested - she liked to ride horses so I said well - and I had heard stories of wild horse herds running around in this area. So I said well you know Barbara how would you like to go to Wyoming and see if we can find some of these herds of wild horses? And she says oh okay fine! So on our honeymoon as part of the trip through Jackson Hole and Yellowstone and so forth came down into Cody and up the road to where Heart Mountain was and drove back in and thats 1952. So I just suddenly thought what was it when I left I left when in...in 40-something but anyway within five to six years I was back.  On your honeymoon.   Yeah.  Wow. Tak was also drafted again. He served in the Korean War. Afterwards he earned a PhD from UCLA raised a family and had a long career in biological research. Coming up  Who knows what a lot of these kids were really exposed to. I hear more about anger from Shirley Ann Higuchi the child of two former incarcerees. She says coming to the annual pilgrimage has reshaped the way she feels about her parents generation.  I think psychologically sort of what happens um with these pilgrimages knowing that our 80 and 90 year old Nisei are now you know really beyond years um and and knowing that they were incarcerated as children. Um I think the kind of imagery I get is that uh it is almost like a certain level of protectiveness. It is almost as if they become my children.  Growing up the term that I learned in school for places like Heart Mountain was internment camp. During World War II they were called relocation centers by the government. Some of the older people that we talked to at the Pilgrimage also used the term evacuation when talking about coming to the campanother term the government used back during the war. Since the 1970s Japanese American groups as well as historians have reexamined the words used for these places and the people imprisoned in them and have advocated for other less euphemistic terms. In this episode were using the words incarceration and incarceree those are the terms that the museum at Heart Mountain uses. Some have also advocated for the use of the term concentration camp. The team at the NPR podcast Code Switch did an excellent episode earlier this year called Americas Concentration Camps that digs into that termand the conversation between Jewish and Japanese American groups about its use. You can find a link to it in our show notes. Speaking of Code Switch we are still working on our collaboration with them about race and friendship. And one group that we could hear more from is white guys. If youve got a story to share about race and friendshipparticularly about a moment that stands out to youwe want to hear it. Send in a voice memo to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episodemusician Liz Phair. In 1994 she was in her mid-twenties and riding the wave of her provocative hit album Exile in Guyville. And she told me all that attention drove her into domesticity.  I felt like my life had taken this hard right turn and I could not keep up with it. I could not keep up with the person everyone expected me to be. I could not keep up with how many people had heard the record. And I think getting married and buying a house and getting really domestic was like a way to retreat from that. And I put a really hard um stop to it all.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. When Shirley Ann Higuchi was growing up her parents talked about their childhoods at Heart Mountain. It was how they met.  But for that incarceration I would not be here talking to you. Um when they bumped into each other years later at the University of California Berkeley their faces interestingly enough looked identical to when they were kids. And I that recognition um turned into um a love affair and marriage. Shirley is now the chair of the Heart Mountain Wyoming Foundation. She works in D.C. where shes a lawyer for the American Psychological Association. She grew up in Ann Arbor Michigan. Her fathers family had lost their farm in San Jose during the war but her dad went on to become a professor of pharmaceutics and co-founded a few biotech firms. Their family was comfortable financially when Shirley was growing up. She says there werent a lot of other Japanese American families around in Michigan so all she knew about Heart Mountain was from her parents stories. Primarily her mothers.  She was 11 years old at the time when she got ripped from her home in San Francisco and put in ah to Heart Mountain. Um I think one of her coping tools and this comes up I think in terms of um uh childhood trauma or traumatic events is um to somehow gloss over the experience and sort of recreate it um in some ways to be a little bit different than it was. So she really never talked about the negative aspects of camp. In some ways she made it sound like it was almost a fun place to be. It wasnt until Shirley was in college and doing a project for a philosophy class that she started to question what had been left out. She interviewed her mother about Heart Mountain and then another Japanese American woman who was incarcerated during the war.  At that time I realized that there was another view to the incarceration than my mother's view because the woman that I interviewed cried most of the time that I was talking to her.  What was that like? What did what do you remember about that conversation?  I guess in some ways I was a little surprised and it was almost a little bit of an alarming feeling. Um mostly because I then began questioning the objectivity and the information that my mother was sharing. And then I think on a second level it was almost like me being worried that she was not able to fully express herself um around her experience.  Your mother?  Yeah. My mother's. Um and I remember I questioned her about that later. I said Well mom you know were not you angry at all about what happened? And you know she pretty much you know said No I it was a fun place to be. It was where I met Dad. I said Come on mom you know were not you a little angry about what happened? And then the conversation escalated to her yelling at me telling me that I do not know what it was like there. And essentially I the communication I got from her was you do not have a right to have an opinion about the incarceration because I was there and you were not. Um it was not an easy feeling to be in at that time.  Were you angry as an American?  Uh I would say yes I have been angry and I probably still am.  You know it is like a um you know it is funny I did not I do not know how much that go-to emotion of being angry um is a result of my parents' incarceration. But I noticed on my throughout my childhood even into adulthood my first reaction to go with my first emotional reaction is to be angry.  Mmm.  Growing up in Ann Arbor I mean basically I remember as a kid you know being a little bit of a bully I mean I would beat up kids you know beat up boys mostly because girls are too easy to beat up so -     But I would I actually it came down to a point where one time the next door neighbor kid you know I think his name was Tommy something or other he actually called me up one night and he goes can you meet me in the playground after school tomorrow because I want to wrestle you. And I am like sure you know.  And it is like I do not know why I did that. I just remember growing up that I was always getting in physical fights with kids.  That is - that is interesting. I was thinking of it like more like a political anger. And you thinking back were wondering about even your disposition as a child if that was related to your parents' experience being incarcerated.  Right. I I often wonder whether maybe it is somehow tied to the incarceration. Um you know because I think that if you feel like information is kept from you and then you later through your years find out that what had happened to my family was you know basically unconstitutional and um a deprivation of the rights. Um I think you slowly do develop an anger over a period of time.  But it sounds like from your mother's point of view she did not welcome your anger on her behalf. She did not feel like you were angry -  Well women were not allowed to be angry back then.  Yeah.  You know I think women in generally and I think being of Japanese background I mean I think being angry was considered uh bad manners. I think the Japanese culture is very complicated. But I think there is sort of something there where you need permission sort of to speak. Or need permission to talk out on things. So um no she did not welcome it. Although I think in reality in many ways she was angrier than I was but she just suppressed it and managed it differently.  Why do you say that?  Um because I think that one of the things I remember telling um I have I work for a psychological association and I have a lot of friends that are psychologists. I remember one time I just said God my mom is just so controlling! You know like she would send me clothes even though I am working and I am had a family she would send me clothes. And the psychologist turned to me and said Shirley of course your mother's controlling. And I said What do you mean? She goes She was ripped from her home and put in a prison camp pre-adolescence and she lost everything. And you are wondering why she is controlling? It would be strange if your mother was not controlling. And then talking to other uh people in my generation we are called the Sansei third generation they told me 'Oh yeah my mom was really controlling too. But the thing is again remember I was not exposed to other Japanese Americans growing up so I could not really compare notes. That has been resolved since my engagement with Heart Mountain because now I know I am not alone and essentially what I experienced was normal.  I love that that you come to these gatherings and you are talking to the children of people who are incarcerated and one of the threads of conversation is like Oh god what ways do your parents drive you crazy?   Right right right.  That you can you can see the ways that going through this trauma has echoed through many different families.  Right right. And there were a lot of great things growing up in my family because my mom wanted to assimilate and she wanted achievement. She would make sure you know we had a really nice home um which was probablyeven beyond the neighborhood we lived inwas probably beyond really my father's means at the time. And she would buy me a lot of nice things and I noticed that the all the my friends at the time who were all white and black but um would comment like Ooh I wish my mom would do things that your mom does. I mean my mom would let us play you know when we had company over we would the kids would play Bingo with a silver dollar. She would go to the bank and get like I still have them like a hundred silver dollars that I won playing Bingo and everything was always fun. You know we went to the World's Fair we went to Disneyland. We did always everything was fun! And I think that was to make up for what had happened. You know that we will have the best of everything. So you will always be kind of on top.  I want to move forward to the time before your mother's death. Um did the conversation between you two about Heart Mountain and her experience shift as she was nearing the end of her life?  Um I think it shifted in one substantial sense in that on her deathbed um my Aunt Kathy her younger sister asked her where do you want your koden to go? Which is in Japan is the memorial money you know so if you die it is very traditional for Japanese to designate a charity. And without a beat on her deathbeduh she had pancreatic cancershe she said Heart Mountain. And we were frankly stunned. And apparently she had donated up to a 100000 to the Wyoming uh Heart Mountain foundation. Um and we were totally unaware of that donation. I knew nothing about it. I think my dad had an inkling but she was secretly sending money to Wyoming to dream of something being built here. So um when she died um the original founders or some of the founders of um the local community here in Wyoming made a decision to dedicate the walking trail in her honor. And I remember my first reaction was actually being annoyed and feeling a little angry. Like oh my God my mom just died. And they are trying to get us to come out to some dedication. There is obviously a fundraising motive here. And my dad did not want to go and my brothers did not want to go nobody wanted to go. And I was really on the fence about going as well. And there was something about being invited out there knowing and having some idea that my mother valued Heart Mountain um that sort of pushed me over the edge to say You know what I will just go.  It was only you from the family?  It was only me. But then when I expressed the reservation and resistance to my sonum who was in high school at the timehe goes Mom I will go with you. I will I will be with you to go through that. Um which is great. I mean he is a great son. So.  Mmhm. Yeah. And and that was the first time you had been to this place?  Yes it was the first time. It was it was very um emotional to see so many people there. Sorry.  That is okay. It is okay.  Honoring your mother.  Mmhm.  In some ways I learned more about her after she died than I knew about her growing up.  How have you come to understand why she was sending money? Do you know why it was important to her?  I am still sort of working through that um several of the incarcerees told me that um prior to her death in some meeting they had in San Francisco that she literally stood up and said I do not care what we build but we are going to build something at the site. I do not care if it is a tea house or a um um a memorial or a you know even a small restaurant or cafe. We are building something at Heart Mountain. And and um I never heard that from her before her death. I think there was some part of my mother who really knew what she went through was something that should not be forgotten. Thats Shirley Ann Higuchi. Her mother was Setsuko Saito Higuchi. Shirleys working on a book about her family called Setsukos Secret Heart Mountain and the Legacy of the Japanese American Incarceration. Itll be out next spring. In 1991 Shirleys parents along with all the other living former incarcerees each received a check from the U.S. government for 20000. It came after Congress passed a law that President Ronald Reagan signed to formally apologize for the forced relocation and incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II. The memorial and museum at Heart Mountain is open year-round just outside of Cody Wyoming. It is definitely worth a visit. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to Dakota Russell at the Heart Mountain Interpretive Center and the Buffalo Bill Center of the West in Cody Wyoming. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. One other thing I heard from people incarcerated at Heart Mountainwas about what happened right after the camp closed. A woman named Mitzi Asai Loftus told me it wasnt the happy return she was expecting.  When I went home the kids I grew up with in the first to fourth grade would have nothing to do with me. I was so excited to leave Heart Mountain and I am going home and nobody would talk to me walk with me play with me at recess. And I had to walk a mile and a quarter to school a mile and a quarter home every day and half way along the way Mrs. Bettswith would come out and yell at me say nasty things and sic her dog at me. And before I went to the camps she used to invite me into her yard on my way home from school give me a glass of milk and a cookie. And she had a tire swing. I would sit in there and sing to her. I was so bewildered to have herI just decided she is going through menopause and she is out of her head.  Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.