Diane Gill Morris I mean I certainly kind of consider myself the go-to person for If you really want to have a conversation about what having kids is like you know and maybe want somebody to talk you out of it come to Diane! This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. I first met Diane Gill Morris on the Death Sex  Money Facebook page. Wed posted an article about people thinking about having kids and Diane commented We have two teenage boys with autism. I love them deeply but she wrote if someone had told me that this is what itd be like I never would have had kids. We reached out to Diane in North Carolina where she lives outside Raleigh.  I just feel like its - we live in a society where especially you know now with Facebook and everybody will post these great beautiful pictures of their kids and talk about all their great successes and how wonderful things are. And I feel like sometimes it would benefit people to understand that you go into kids thinking that its going to be this wonderful amazing life-long experience and the reality is it may just take so much more from you than you would have imagined. What she imagined was very different when first she met her husband Greg. She was 18 a college sophomore. They were both studying journalism at the University of Missouri.  And I was in love with him within three weeks. And...  Why?  We just click. I was just crazy about him. I got home literally after our first date and called my mother and I said Oh my god you wont believe this date I just went on. I cant wait to see him again. And we ended up spending the next day together. And then we were just together ever since. That was 23 years ago. Soon after Diane graduated from college she and Greg got married.  And they quickly started talking about having kids.  We had bought a house and it seemed natural to you know put a couple of kids in it. So my thought was that if I had my kids young I could then go back to my career. So like Kenny was born I was 25. Theo was born I was 27. I figured by 30 Im back at my career. And that is not how things worked out at all.  When did you notice that there was something different about Kenny?  Well he was - you know he hit you know 12 months and he had a smattering of words you know about ten words that he was using. And then maybe at about 15 or 16 months old my husband and I just kind of looked at each other and goes - and were like When was the last time you heard Kenny say something? You know it just like suddenly dawned on us that he hadnt - he had just kind of stopped talking. They took him to the doctor. But it took about another year for Kenny to be officially diagnosed with autism when he was two and a half years old.   At that point Theo was already 8 months old.  So you had already chosen to have a second child.  Yes. And at the time we were like Well you know whats going to be really great for Kenny is that you know Theos going to be here to be like this great role model for him. And then Theo was about 16 months old and by this point you know now we knew what to look for and you know how to - how to judge these things. I remember my husband and I each sitting next to Theo and hes playing with blocks and like putting them in a row or something. And were like Theo Theo Theo and getting absolutely no response. And we just looked at each other and we were like Well okay. Here we go again. Both of Dianes sons struggle with speech but they have really different personalities. Kenny was a pretty laid back little boy. Theo wasnt.  Theo was a nut. He was - he used to beat up everybody. When he was six years old he put his teachers arm in a sling. He would go off about anything. It would seem to me like everything was just going as normal and all of a sudden he would be desperately upset. And my first reaction as a mother was to try to connect with him right? You know you get down on their level and you get in their face and youd be like Sweetheart its okay dont - You know I dont even know whats wrong but Its okay everything you know Im here. And what I had to learn was that made me vulnerable. Because when I got down on his level he could now smack me in the face in places that really hurt. So I had to learn to disregard my own maternal instincts.  So you had to think about your personal safety.  Yeah. You know and - but you know we started this therapy relationship development intervention and it helped me to understand where he was coming from. And I - you know understand that what we were dealing with was just such tremendous anxiety that he would just explode. Diane pulled both Theo and Kenny out of school and taught them at home. Shed already cut her work hours down to part time.  Theres just not enough services to make it possible for you to - for you to be able to go to work all day. You know we would get help. You know so we would have a helper who was supposed to be there to - you know when one of the kids got home from school.  And then suddenly they say Oh I cant come my cars broken down. Or they quit because the payment through Medicaid which is how we got those services was just so low that they were always looking for another job. And so you know my husband and I have tried numerous configurations. Most of the time its been me not working full time.  Why did you end up being the parent who worked less than full time? Did you choose that or did it fall to you?  I think - I think in some ways it made more sense because I think for me I wanted to be there. And my husband you know it just didnt - and it didnt work for him. Its just very hard for a man to say to his boss I need to work fewer hours and you know still expect the same respect within the workplace.  Were you working because you needed the money or because you needed to be working?  I - I - I was working because I needed the money but I also did need to be working. I mean being - it would not have been healthy for me to not be working. Because it is very hard to have a social life when you have kids like that right? I mean moms get together with their kids right? You go to the playground with your kid. Well my kids the lunatic who I have to be like right next to every second. I cant sit down and have a conversation with another mom. Because Im always worried that he is going to beat up some other kid on the playground. So there was no social interaction opportunities for me. So having -- being able to work is probably what kept me sane throughout that experience. Diane also started going to church even though she didnt go regularly growing up.  And I found that being in service and just kind of having that quiet time having this quiet hour and a half was so something I needed. But people were asking for prayers about all kinds of things and I would be like Okay if this is how this works let me do this. You know and I would pray and cry and cry and cry and cry and cry and cry and pray and Id just be like Just tell me what Im supposed to do. And at some point I realized that I was - I was beating myself up in an effort to impress God. I was making myself feel worse. And over the years I have found that I have become not just like fully atheist but like devoutly atheist.  Why?  Because if I have to accept the idea that somebody chose this for me thats - I cant accept that. I cant get there. Thats too hard. But if I can just accept that its just you know a accident of biology I can do that.  Did anyone at church ever tell you This is - this is Gods plan everything happens for a reason?  Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I mean everybody says that. Everybody says you know God only gives special children to special people. To which I say Well then God can go fuck himself.  I - I - I - you know I mean like - not.  No. No. Thats not a thing. Coming uphow Diane is planning for her kids futures...and her own.  You know right now our current plan is not to die  because I dont know - I dont know what would happen.  1 in 68 children has autism spectrum disorder according to the Centers for Disease Control. And boys are nearly five times more likely than girls to have autism. The group Autism Speaks estimates that autism costs families about 60000 a year on average. A listener named Marlene wrote in about autism in her family. She has three children -- two sons with autism and a 16-year-old daughter. She and her daughter sent in this voice memo. Daughter I think I came to learn about what it actually was called in maybe like fifth grade - fourth grade maybe. I didnt understand - think it was anything bad though. It was just - Marlene It wasnt bad. Daughter It was just something that they had. Marlene Yeah. And what do you think that you find most difficult about having your - having brothers with special needs? Daughter Um I like to think of myself as - we do have our spats were siblings were always going to have that. But Im always concerned that Ill hear more stories about kids not interacting with them because theyre too freaked out to approach them. And as their big sister I want to take care of em too. You can share your story with us anytime. Just email deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode... Walid Shantur And I started realizing how satisfying it was living alone. I personally found it intoxicating being by myself. Last year you shared your stories about what its like to live alone. Well revisit that episode and get some updates about what is happened since. Jen My living situation has completely changed. And a lot of things in my life have completely changed. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Diane Gill Morriss sons are teenagers now. They have their routines down -- but parenting hasnt gotten any simpler.    Go on back to your room and when youre ready to eat breakfast let me know what you want to eat. Diane sent us this recording from a recent morning. Her younger son Theo is yelling in the background while shes trying to convince her older son Kenny to eat breakfast.  Stop it. Stop hitting your head. You need to go to your room. No let me go. Talk to me when youre ready to eat.   Puberty is awesome by the way!  What changed with puberty?  Oh I mean Kenny was like this really sweet kid and he hit about 14 and a half and he turned into like it was just like he got pissed off about everything. He would start smacking himself in the head. Most of his aggression was towards himself and towards the walls. The walls have taken quite a toll. And it only got worse. The more I interacted with him the worse his behavior got. So I had to change my approach. So now when he starts getting mad about something I tell him I am not interested you need to go to your room. And he recognized that he needed to learn how to keep himself under control. Because I had to make it his responsibility. I cant control him. He has to learn how to control himself. Kenny now that hes 16 he is very soon going to be a young black man. He is. I mean hes 57. He is a young black man. And I am still trying to figure out how I make sure that he is safe in the world. You know when I cant explain to him all the - all the intricacies involved in what it means to be young and black in America. For me personally I feel like it leaves me isolated. Theres a lot fewer - theres a community of moms with special needs kids thats actually like organized and together. Its almost entirely white. These are the moms who - a lot of these are moms who get to stay home. And they tend to make relationships. And a lot of the minority moms that I know who have special needs kids work.  Have to work.  They have to work. And they do not have the opportunity - the time and opportunity to make the same relationships. I mean Im - Im guessing that that might be the reason. But were friends on Facebook and everything. And I see them all you know together for their - their little you know night out or whatever. And Im like you know Oh okay well you know Im glad theyre enjoying themselves. I would have liked to have gotten out tonight but whatever. You know kind of thing.  Youre not invited.  But yeah but its like Im just not on the list. And I dont know that we would all be friends anyway. I mean Im dont - I dont know these women like so well that I would be say Oh you know we would all be best friends if - if - if that were - if it werent - you know if they would just invite me or something like that. And you know legitimately maybe they just do not like me which I think is a totally - a totally valid reason not to invite someone. But -  But you dont know.  But you - right. And this is just kind of the reality of my life. Cause Im a - Im mixed. My mother is white and my father is black and Ive kind of spent my whole life as that person who wonders Was I excluded just because they didnt want me there or was I excluded because it never occurred to them that they would - it never occurred to this group of people that they would include a black person?  When you feel down like what do you do?  Um I have a bottle of gin in my cabinet.   Really?  Yeah yeah my mother wont want to hear about that. I - yeah I have a - I - I drink probably pretty regularly. Um its just the tension of meeting their needs and you know making sure that everybody's okay and it builds over the course of every day. And you know by the time the days over you know good god you need a drink. And - and - and thats I mean thats just kind of how - how you can - how you get through the day. In fact this - this Ive found to be pretty common amongst special needs moms. A good number of us polish off half a bottle to a bottle of wine at the end of each day. You know thats not uncommon.  Do you drink with your husband or is that like your special alone time?  No um he doesnt really like to drink. He - cause he just - he just does not see the need. He doesnt have that need. He does not let things get to him the way I do.  How has parenting changed your marriage?  Greg and I have been together since I was 18 and he was 19. And you know I cant say that I knew that I had a man who could go through something like this and be strong. He - he does bedtime every night unless he has to be someplace. You know I hear them in the bathroom and hes being totally silly and theyre giggling together you know. He - he just - you know he just is such an amazing partner. And I think you know the hard part is you know is not having the time together that we - I think we thought we would have by the time you have teenagers. You know by the time theyre teenagers youre thinking that youre going to get to go away for a weekend together. Or go out to dinner or things like that. And we do get to do that occasionally but its much harder to make it happen. We dont get to go away thats not an option.  When was the last time you traveled together just the two of you?  Once! When - actually I think I was pregnant with Theo. I think we only had Kenny at that point. We went from Raleigh to Winston-Salem North Carolina for a week. And that was it.  And so what weve done a few times is - where we do a hotel night in town. So we did a night - we did a weekend once where we spent two nights at the Embassy Suites that was like five miles from our house. So my parents were with the kids and you know we could be there in less than ten minutes if something happened.  Do you ever tell like sort of you know dark humored jokes - jokes where youre making fun of your kids to each other?  Oh totally.  Totally. I mean like you know yes. We routinely make fun of our children. . You know because I mean they do - they do things that are just like ridiculous. And you know what else can you do? You know I mean this is like the weirdest thing is that you know they are difficult and stressful and you know a constant challenge. And yet they are sweet and loving and funny and - and they kind of do their own versions of jokes. Yesterday Kenny and I are making oatmeal cookies and I say Okay the next step is baking soda. And he looks in the cabinet and he like gets this smile on his face. And he pulls out the honey which is in one of those bear shaped jars. He knows thats not baking soda! Hes done this a million times. And he just smiles at me. And hes holding the honey and he is like waiting for me to react. And were - and our heads are getting closer together until our foreheads touch. And then Im just like That is not- and before I can even finish he just bursts out laughing. He just - he completely cracks up. I mean for him thats his version of a joke you know? And I thought it was awesome. I thought it was great. And I told my husband about it when he got home. Theyre just like - theyre amazing people and you know you - I am constantly astonished by how they have managed to evolve despite all their challenges.  So I hear you say that Diane and - and I think back to how we started this conversation. I think back to you also being pretty clear that if youd known what motherhood would be like for you you wouldnt have had kids.  Yeah. And - and thats still true. I mean when I think about my life what I wanted for my life this is not it. You know I wanted a career I wanted to travel. I wouldnt - I would not have chosen this path because I had to give all of that up. And I cant - I dont even know if thats ever going to change. I mean I dont know that theres going to be a place for them when they are in their - when theyre adults. I mean that still has to be my priority as a mother no matter how old they are.  Or how old you are.  Or no matter how old I am yes. And thats - thats where it gets hard. So - so I - I think its shifted. When they were little it was all about figuring out how to help them. How do I help them? How do I help them be better? How do I - what should I be doing? I dont know what to do. And trying to figure that out. Now its okay this is who they are. I can help - I can continue to help them grow and evolve and at least now I kind of have some understanding of what that entails. But the hard part is just accepting that this is quite conceivably the rest of my life.  Do you think you and your husband mourned what could have been at the same time or did it happen at different paces?  Um I dont know. I mean its funny. Its not something that we - its not something that we talk about that much. Because I think were just both very aware that its there. I mean the - the most heartbreaking thing my husband ever said to me and this was years ago when the boys were small you know he just goes to me one day I couldve been such a great dad. And he is a great dad. But I understand what he means. You know he was just like We could have raised these like really amazing young African American men and we would have made sure that they were well-educated and we wouldve made sure that they were you know respectful and intelligent and you know had lots of exper - great experiences and all this stuff. But you know you have to push so much of that down. You know its a bizarre experience to essentially mourn the loss of someone you never met. But you know you can - you can drive yourself crazy with that. You know because these boys are right in front of me. And theyre beautiful and sweet and amazing and you know they deserve a mother whos not sitting there thinking I wish you were somebody else. Cause you know that is not fair. This is who they are. For whatever reason I dont know. But - but you know they are - they are my children and I love them and I will do whatever it takes to make sure that theyre okay. And thats what I have to focus on. Thats Diane Gill Morris. Shes a mom and freelance writer from Cary North Carolina. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein James Ramsay Destry Sibley and Rick Kwan. Special thanks to Stephanie Joyce for her help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. Or you can email us anytime with feedback or a story to share at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Diane says whats hardest is not knowing how or when things with her family might change. So I asked her...  What would make your life easier?  Wow that is an incredibly big question. The only thing I can think of would be a million dollars. A million dollars would make - like like not having to worry about that. Couple million bucks? That would make my life easier. You think you can hook me up?  Well you said a million at first and then you said a couple million.   I know! Well I started to calculate. I was like Well I got two so  I need to rethink that. Maybe one isnt going to be enough! After taxes... Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.