 There is a lot of things that you cant start or or plan ahead for because you dont know how its going to go a year from now or two years from now. So those things are just staying in a dream basis right now. Thats what DACA recipients are doing. They are dreaming about a future that is thats not there yet. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale.  Hi!  Oh hi!  Hello!  How are you?  Freddy nice to meet you.  Hi Freddy. I met Freddy and Vanessa this fall at their apartment in northern New Jersey. Its a cozy spot on the ground floor. They met just over two years ago at the gym.  I saw him and he looked kind of like the coach and I said excuse me are you the coach of this class? And he is like yeah. I said okay. Well I need to introduce myself to you. It is my first day here. So just look out for me so I do not die. Like I have never done this.  Freddy did you like immediately kind of notice Vanessa or what - ?  Well I did notice the hair. She had the biggest hair in the class.  A few weeks later when Freddy sent out a group text wishing everyone in the class a Happy Thanksgiving Vanessa responded directly to him and they struck up an exchange.  So then we ended up meeting at Dunkin' Donuts for like at 11ish midnight.  Or so. How long did we chat for like like an hour?  A couple hours like two hours. Hour two hours over -  I was listening most of the time.   Like always.  Both Freddy and Vanessa are in their early thirties. Vanessa is an administrator at a university. Freddy works at a paper company and also part-time at the gym. They both grew up in New Jersey in immigrant families.  I mean you told me you were from Mexico. So my - my assumption was that it was a situation like my family like you came from another country and then eventually you got residency. That was just kind of how I assumed cuz Latinos most first generation Latinos in this area anyway have had that experience. Vanessas mother is from the Dominican Republic and growing up Vanessa went back and forth to the DR a lot. But Freddys only crossed one international border in his life. When he was 6 he left the small Mexican village where he was born and came to the U.S.  I remember that we were in a car the back seat was taken off. So we lied there. They threw some blankets and covers on top of us. Basically we were covered we were hiding in there and then they put the baby seats I think it was two baby seats on top of us and we drove for like maybe two hours or so.  Did you understand you were hiding?  I kind of understood because they told me not to make any noise but I did not know why or or or what was the purpose of that. Vanessa didnt know any of that when things started to get serious between them. She also didnt know that Freddy is one of the 700000 young people in the U.S. with DACADeferred Action for Childhood Arrivalsand that his legal status here hinges on it. She just knew that Freddy was unlike anyone she had ever dated.  I do not know there was just something very honorable about him all the time and a couple mon - I would say a month into us dating we were we were scheduled to meet up that day probably again at Dunkin' Donuts I think um and I got into a huge fight with my sister who who has mental health issues. And my sister and I were coming back from this party that my mom was hosting and we brought plates of food you know for leftovers. And so um in - in trying to like defend myself and manage the situation the food was being flung everywhere.  It had been like a physical fight.  Right like everywhere. Rice beans pernil which is like roasted pork. It was everywhere. My glasses broke. It was a disaster. So of course I tell him do not worry about it we will see each other tomorrow because like I cannot I have to deal with something. And he had no idea anything about my sister and his instinct was just to come to the house and see if everything was okay. He just showed up. And he said what happened? So I just start bawling right cannot even say anything and he said you know what? He had given me a flashlight. That was the first thing he ever gave me was a like a flashlight bat to protect myself um walking to and from the bus stop.   A flashlight.  Yeah its like a titanium steel this it is like three feet long um so it was in my car and he said just hold the flashlight. He cleaned the entire car that night and I am intermittently going from sobbing cuz I am so upset that this event has occurred to being grateful to then being embarrassed you know all these things and um and he was just there you know like when he was cleaning my car hes like do not worry you are not alone anymore I got this.  When did you tell Vanessa Freddy that - that you had DACA and had previously had been undocumented?  Hmm. I think it was it was like a month or two after? Based on how we were trusting each other or just opening up to each other I felt comfortable and - and then I figured well if she is going to react in a negative way it will be okay you know it is not gonna I guess it is not going to break me. It will just be a way for me to say she is okay or not with it. You know so depending on her reaction I was gonna basically determine how did I stand next to her based on her view of DACA.  It came up where he said well I have to tell you something. And uh he said I have DACA. And I was like okay so? Like I it just it did not click right away um.  Did it feel like a secret you had to reveal like something you needed to -  Yes. Yes. Yes because again uh she she never would you have guessed it?  No. And I am thinking that the process for that to turn into like legal status was not that difficult because what my family had gone through was like oh this is you can there is a way. You can find a way. And then I can remember one of the first times we went to this little Mexican restaurant that we love to go to and eat tacos and stuff and so um we were there and I said wellyou remember this Freddy?and I was like uh I was thinking about it and we could just get married.   She proposed to me.  Do you remember that?  Yes.  And he just was silent like he just looked at me and then looked down at his food and kept eating.  He didnt say anything.  I am like um are you gonna say something? You know and then he eventually he said um you know I take marriage very seriously and I would never want to go down that path just because of of legal status. And I said well you know if it does not work out with us and that that could be like my lifetime gift to you kind of a thing. Also a way to to express my gratitude for - Im gonna start crying for his um sorry - sorry.  Its okay.  So weird um. Thanks. Um no it was away I think to also express my gratitude for who he was and who he was showing himself to be. Um. I think I looked at it as like aha! Like this is an opportunity to like help him because he has it he is so together and he is so steady and sure of himself and so you know sometimes I would not say it is intimidating but it is kind of like this is my way to like help you or give you something that um maybe like matches like my how I felt and my gratitude because after dealing with you know just regular dating for so many years it can really uh make you lose your faith in like ha- finding like a good partner and that is a good match and all these things. And that is what motivated me to say it in the first place. Um and then of course because he is so sure of himself and solid he says he would never just marry someone for the practical sense of it because even if it is civil marriage he takes it seriously and I am like I cannot even get you that like are you - ?  Um. But I think also at that time I was naive thinking that it was a quick and easy process. Coming up politics intervenes in Vanessa and Freddys relationship when President Trump takes office.  Right now with this administration you never know where you stand. You know so you can be good today and then tomorrow its chaos.  In case you missed it I am pregnant with my second child and right now and the team and I are in what we call turbo production mode to get ready for my upcoming maternity leave. While Im out welcoming this new baby and nursing and learning how to be a family of four the team is still going to be putting out new episodes. A lot of them are interviews done by me and like the last time I was out on maternity leave well also have some exciting guest hosts who will be sitting in. But for now because I have the weird hilarious due date of December 25th. And so we thought it would be fun to make an advent calendar of sorts to count down the days until this baby comes and this phase of our turbo production mode is officially complete. So we are going to share behind-the-scenes moments with you all and some fun surprises every day until my due date. You can check it out right now at deathsexmoney.orgcountdown and follow along all month long. On the next episode a woman who was working her way up at a bank all the way to becoming a vice presidentbut couldnt stop thinking about becoming a nun.  I started to freak out because I am thinking I do not fit that stereotype. A nun was like someone who is never done bad things a nun is someone who has no personality. A nun is someone who is boring and nuns are someone who does not enjoy her life right? A none as someone who is not living her best life.  This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Freddy has had legal status in the U.S. the whole time he and Vanessa have been together. He got DACA when he was 26 not long after the Obama administration created the program for so-called Dreamers kids who were brought to the U.S. illegally. Before that Freddy didnt have a drivers license or a Social Security number. But he did work and pay taxes. That paper trail was useful when he was applying for DACA.  They ask you for records for your tax. Uh at least four previous years which I had. And then a lot of pay stubs medical bills just records that shows that you never left the country within a certain period of time. So it is a lot of paperwork cuz you gotta show almost a weekly basis of paperwork in order to confirm that you - you have not left the country. So we initiated the case and it was very fast actually and I guess all me my evidence was very solid and so maybe within the next few months I received a letter that I my case was approved. And eventually about a month or so after the fingerprinting I got my my working permit. And so the first thing I went for was for my license. Then I did not have to get the bus for work anymore. From here to my old job is literally 10 minutes away. When I had when I took the bus I had to ride almost two hours to get the bus because from here it is highway straight with the bus it was around the highway so I had to take two buses. For five years Freddy didnt have to worry about that two-hour commute both ways. He also didnt worry about getting deported. Until President Trump took office. Vanessa and Freddy moved into their apartment together just after Trumps inauguration. And Vanessa started to grasp what it would mean if the President made good on his threat to end DACA.  I remember we were coming back from dinner once and um I was like you know what happens if Trump cancels DACA tomorrow and then everything that we have tried that weve started planning for cannot happen? If they cancel DACA and you no longer have a social or a work permit um that does not help us in terms of planning to buy a house or what happens if they cancel DACA and then they go after all the DACA recipients and like we have a baby? Like I do not want to be a single mom under those circumstances. And I remember him saying like I did not think about that. And I was like well this is what I think about all the time like what have you been thinking?  And he is like I do not know. I just thought it would work out. And Im like okay we have to get on the same page um -  I - I mean I think I was not giving it so much thought about it because I had been living without a a working permit longer than with so in my thought is I have done so much without it than with it you know? So that is not going to change anything for me. You know so that is why in my mind I thought whatever happens its not going to stop me you know and that is what she did not understand at that moment.  Because for you Vanessa your - your partner losing legal status would be a loss. The way you have lived in America would not be possible if your partner lost legal status.  In a way yes. I felt like there would be so much more uncertainty for how do we continue to plan for the things that we have been planning freely? Um you know up until the last couple of years traveling for me has been a huge part of my life and my identity. I - you know we had agreed and we made a commitment that I will not travel outside the States until we can do so together. So - so that just kind of totally changes how I was thinking about like our free time or building memories um kind of outside of our daily environment.  So the the reality of building a life with a DACA recipient whose status might be in question slowly occurred to you and then it became something you couldnt stop thinking about.  Right. Yeah it was how how do we how are we going to make it work? What do we need to do to make it work? I would I remember being at work um and every time I had free time I would be like searching everything online and I would try to look up different scenarios like DACA recipient airplane travel. It - it was I was obsessive. I just needed to know every piece of the puzzle and how it all fit together.  Vanessa do people at work know about the immigration process you are going through with Freddy?  No.  You are secretly Googling when you are Googling at work?  Right.  Do you have to do you feel like the fact that youre a DACA recipient is information that is best kept private?  I think it is. I dont think anybody needs to know anybodys situation uh in terms of legal status. Freddy and Vanessa started talking about marriage again. They thought if they were married it would help protect Freddy if DACA disappeared. They began planning a wedding and reached out to a judge to perform the ceremony.  We - we called her and we just said hey um we are thinking of getting married like maybe by the end of the summer. And she was like well if you do not have to wait I would not. I have been seeing a lot of cases get shot down in immigration court lately so if you do not have a reason for why you are waiting another two months I think it is better if you just start the process now. And then we were both kind of like oh shit um.   And my goal was to get married maybe a few months years down the road just to build that relationship more solid. I felt that it was still going to keep growing.  And it was funny because um I guess because we - no one else was part of all of these conversations right except the two of us. And so not everyone else fully understood and so like the quickness of it was really like a bucket of cold water to I think everybody else um but our moms were on board and so then that was enough for us and the whole thing was very um memorable but it was surreal and I think it took a while to feel like married not like we just kind of like you know threw it together.  Where was the ceremony?  In my mom's backyard. Freddy and Vanessa met with an immigration attorney right after that. He told them even though theyre married for Freddy to get a green card he would need to leave the country and re-enter from Mexico legally. Normally people who have entered the U.S. illegally have to wait 10 years before they can apply to come back in. But because of his DACA status Freddy was eligible for something called advance parole that would allow him to leave for a short period of time and then return. But the week before he was going to submit his paperwork to travel to Mexico the Trump administration announced it was ending DACA and advance parole for DACA recipients.  Done deal. No more.  And you hear about it in the news?  Oh yeah. And then um advance parole was no more. Like that was it cold turkey. Whereas the - the fact that DACA was being canceled was being taken up in the courts and all of that stuff advance parole was just not gonna be a thing. So then we said ugh okay. Back to the drawing board.  So the risk of Freddy leaving the country was a whole different thing uh like leaving the country could mean he could not get back in.  Would definitely mean at this point that he could not get back in.  I mean we literally we were in - in a very short period window where if the paperwork would have been submitted we probably would have made it within maybe days or a week or so. So just that knowing that alone that you you missed it by a few days it is like it is almost like if you are building a house and the whole house just collapse again and you gotta start all over. Now theres a whole other long and complicated process Freddy and Vanessa are trying to see if Freddy can eventually apply for a green card without leaving the country for 10 years. And theres time pressure. If court challenges to preserve DACA fail or if his DACA paperwork isnt renewed next year Freddy could be deported.  Does having to report for DACA the next time feel like it is a scarier process because of the way the politics are changing around it?  I mean it can be. I am not going to stress it because I cannot stress the future.  How do you not stress stress it?  Well there is two things to stress. Number one if if it has a solution you shouldnt stress it and if it has no solution then you shouldnt stress it. You know?  Freddy you sound like Yoda.  I try to put very minimal time to stress.  What do you do with when - when the uncertainty occurs to you like what do you do then to to work through that feeling?  So any problems that are out of my hands I pray to God to give me the best outcome out of them. And whatever the outcome is whether it is good or bad once I feel like I prayed it and left it in God's hands then that is the best that came out of it whether it is good or bad you know. So even if it is not a good thing at the moment it is the best because its going to make me stronger in the long run.  Is that how you process stress Vanessa?  Uh Im trying to do that more. My - my first response to stress is to analyze like what is what is a way to solve this to improve this to fix this. Um and then all the behaviors that come with stress stress eating stress drinking um sleeping not wanting to work out or whatever. Um so I am trying to be more centered uh spiritually so that things do not stress me out as much. And then we have to we have to just let it go you know you cannot live in that constant state of fear and stress every day.  We just gotta keep moving on and if it gets solved then good you know thank God for that. But if it if it does not then we are always going to find a way to live around it. Thats Vanessa and Freddy. Theyre planning a second big wedding in a Catholic church later this month saving for a down payment on a house and starting to talk about kids. Since the Trump administration rescinded DACA young people can no longer apply. But federal judges have ruled that current DACA recipients can ask for renewals. Court challenges are making their way through appeals and are expected to go before the Supreme Court.  Vanessa and Freddy do have a rough plan if he is eventually deported. Theyll either go live with Vanessas extended family in the Dominican Republic or settle in Mexico even though Freddy hasnt been there in 25 years. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Stephanie Joyce Joanna Solotaroff Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Instagram and Facebook. And you can email us anytime at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Since Freddy got his drivers license five years ago hes owned three different cars. Right now hes driving a Buick Regal.  How did you pick a Buick Regal?  Well I am 30 years old. Spiritually I am like 45.  Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.