 Marisa and I started to look like a straight couple instead of some sort of queerish mish-mash. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Liam had been crushing on Marisa for a while when it happened.  We were both getting on the same subway and I needed to get off the train and transfer but I was so wrapped up and excited in seeing her that I just stayed on the train. Liam Lowery was a freshman at Fordham. Hed noticed Marisa's cool haircut and worn cowboy boots in the campus cafe a few months before. Marisa Carroll was older a sophomore.  We had some mutual friends. I was casually dating other people. So she didnt think much about it when Liam asked her to coffee.  And then he walked me home after tried to plant a kiss on me as we said goodbye. And I shut it down.  That you did.  That wasnt within the rules of the game. I felt like we had met on friendly ground. But the act of him having come on to me in that way I just couldnt get him out of my head. I reached out to Liam on Facebook chat. So when that Facebook chat popped up on that computer screen you were stoked.  Then I was panicking. I was very excited initially also I felt like she was instigating it. And I was like oh this is a very big shift. So then I think I texted you and asked if I could bring anything and you said Yeah if you want to get like a diet Dr. Pepper. And I was like okay yes. And then once I had a task to do I felt a lot more comfortable. What happened by the end of that night together?  Made out. It was awesome.  Totally made out it was great. And how did making out with Marisa feel for you Liam?  Totally sweet. Great. Worth the wait. It felt like a transformative experience. I was very at that point familiar with transformations. Liam wasnt always Liam. Hed been born a girl.  Id previously come out to my family as trans and I knew I was transgender and doing the whole name change deleting the old Facebook all that kind of stuff. You created a new profile?  Yeah I just deleted everyone because when I came out at the end of high school I didnt receive a lot of good feedback. From people who I thought were my friends. So I just thought lets burn it down lets start over. And Liam at this point where were you in the process of transitioning?  It was clear to me that there were some things I was going to want to change physically. What was challenging was at that point I was like someday Id like to get reconstructive chest surgery top surgery and I also would like to start testosterone. So I was starting to reckon with me being trans wasnt going to be like me having an eye color or a hair color. It was going to be a very big part of my life. I had no desire to be in a relationship before I met Marisa because I was like I have so much work to do. And yet how could I not once I met her? Did you not have a moment of like oh my gosh I have got so muchI need to focus on myself this is a lot Im going through  That happened later. When did that happen?  That happened after wed been dating for about six months. I was like I just dont know what were doing I think we should break up.  I got dumped. Is that what it felt like?  Thats what it was. I totally got dumped. Before Marisa met Liam shed always thought of herself as straight. This was different. Because to be clear even before Marisa met Liam shed heard about this guy on campus who was trans.  That was something that people wanted to talk about. Oh so Liam was a transgendered celebrity.  Oh totallybig celebrity. Their relationship had gotten really intense really fast...to a point. Did you introduce Liam to people in your life? Your family?  No. I introduced Liam to various friends and people in New York but Ieven if there wasnt identity questions involved I dont know if I would have introduced someone I was dating to my family at that point so it just seemed like something that we didnt have to discuss. Was LiamI mean this is in the era of social mediawere you and Liam on Facebook together?  We were on Facebook but we were not Facebook official. Which is important  It was a sticking point.  It was a sticking point. I didnt want to have that be public on social media.  You didnt want me to post on your wall though.  I didnt want him to post on my wall. What was it about the wall?  Cus then people would get the idea if you were only posting all the time that we were in a relationship or something.  God forbid.  I was not ready to commit to what our relationship meant and to commit to what being in a relationship with Liam meant. And I think that really showed me that I had to commit to him one hundred percent. And to all of him. Why did you get back together or how did you get back together?  I realized immediately it was a horrible mistake. Marisa had written me a letter. I immediately wanted to call her and say this is a horrible mistake Im an idiot. But part of it for me was like Oh my God Im going to include you on this journey of me starting making all these huge changes that Ive waited my whole life to do essentially. And you wont even beyou wont even have me write on your wall or be in a Facebook relationship with me which is a very silly yardstick and to me But its also a very appropriate one.  At the time. It was entirely appropriate because of course at the time I was like I cant have you be in this if youre not gonna fully commit to me and commit to me being out publicly. So I waited I forget exactly how long because I was in torment. I dont know we just saw each other and it really wasthat was sort of the second big transformation. I remember you were wearing a white shirt and I brought you flowers and we walked to your apartment from the Metro-North station and it just felt really different. All the same things were there all the same attraction and intense emotional connection. But you were holding my hand the whole way. Coming up what is changed and what has not in the three and a half years since Liam started testosterone.  I started getting really hairy. Everywhere. My voice started to get lower things like that. But those were all changes thatI knew I wanted those physical changes. And Marisa to her credit was like whatever you want. I really like you whatever you want to do.  Oh I was in likeIm your biggest supporter. Dont break up with me again. Please! Arent I great huh? There are about 700 thousand trans people in the U.S. according to the Williams Institute at UCLA. That is a bigger population than Seattle. It includes JJ a listener in Connecticut. He shared his story after hearing we were working on an episode with Liam and Marisa. We met in '97 on an AOL dating board. He and his partner fell in love. At that point they were both living as women -- as lesbians. But they shared a discomfort with their bodies. They were together for ten years -- they got married they built a life in the California suburbs together. Until they split up. JJ moved back East to be near family. Once I got to Connecticut I was like Oh my God whered all these trans guys come from? Its like they grow them on beanstalks out here. Im like what the hell? It helped him work up the nerve to begin medical interventions. Separately his former partner transitioned and now lives as a man. People at work dont know he was born female. And now theyve just started talking about getting back together. In the past I was all about being out. Now? I dont give a shit. Whatever it takes to make the relationship work is what were going to do. Because thats more important. Well send you more listener stories in the new Death Sex  Money newsletter. It comes out every Wednesday. Go to our website to sign up -- deathsexmoney.org. The sign-up is in the right hand column. On the next episode Lawrence Bartley. He is been behind bars since 1990 for murder since he was 17. He got married in prison and has two young boys. The older one is seven. He says things like why does all the daddies in here wear green pants? Why do the daddies have to stand upwe have to stand up in the visiting room in order to be counted. I explained to him one time but he didnt get it so Im waiting for that moment when he really really gets it so I can really explain to him. Because I dont want to shatter his world right now but I dont want to lie to him. Thats what I dont want to do. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. After he started injecting hormones Liam Lowery watched his body change. And then he started noticing other things.  Definitely became harder to cry. Tears didnt well up in my eyes as much and that was like the biggest one I saw. Were you scared of the emotional changes?  Yeah because I was scared that I would get turned into a man against my will. And that you know those things about myself that I liked or that I thought made me a good partner I was so scared they would just get washed away. Did you notice any changes in what happened when there was fighting or conflict between you two?  Do you think so?  I think that we had more difficulty talking things out.  I remember one argument we had was I would do an injection and my leg would be so tingly and it was really this odd sensation. I was like oh my leg is so tingly. Marisa was like what? Are you okay do we need to go to the hospital? And I was like of course we dont need to go to the hospital you dont understand. Thats sort of when I started to become likethere was this very harmful time pretty soon after that where my gut reaction when she would not instantly understand from two words what I was talking aboutI would be like Im trans you dont get it. Im trans youre not whatever. Thank god that got quashed pretty soon because you were like no I just dont understand because youre not telling me. So how could I understand this thing Ive never done before? But yeah. Thats more what I remember of that time was having this feeling of like misunderstood. Constantly. Well also because you are going through a lot of this alone. Even as youre in a relationship.  Yeah and being worried about ruining a relationship because of this change that Im making that then of course I couldnt help but feel like I have this commitment to myself that I was going to do this before I ever met you. This is a non-negotiable. There were moments there are times where its like you know you cannot understand this. This is something that I know that youll never know. But I will say to have that be my baseline. To have that be my oh if you dont get something its probably because of thiswas not healthy for us. And wasnt healthy for me because it really made me feel like I was at war with the world including the person I loved. Especially when I was going through a lot of changes and for kind of the first time ever feeling like I didnt even know myself. Did you ever get really angry when he would tell you that that you didnt understand that you were not doing enough to be supportive?  Yeah absolutely. I mean I loved him. Thats really the answer to why I was able to weather that period was because I loved him and I wasnt thinking about what wed do in the future I was thinking I cant get through a day if I dont spend time with you or talk to you. But yeah I think its very hurtful to feel like Im really putting in the effort to try to be a good partner and try to be supportive and Im getting kind of shot down. And then at the same time feeling like I have to put on the appearance of not feeling hurt because youre right you are the person whos going through this you are the person whos suffered you are the person whos finally being able to become the person they want to be. I didnt want to make him feel like I was another person in the world not supporting his journey. You know? Liams choice to do just a top surgery -- on the chest -- and not on the bottom -- on the genitals -- is not uncommon. It has a bigger impact on outward appearance and at a certain point costs can get prohibitive.  Plus not everyone wants it. Did your intimate relationship your sex life change as your body changed?  Yeah Id say that it did but Id say that the biggest change was when we started dating our sex life was great. Not to be too bold but I think it was fantastic. But its worth mentioning I guess I had never been nude in front of anyone except Marisa or a doctor and before that I had never been nude with myself except to shower quickly without looking down at my body. So I had some definite disconnect. So to be told by someone that I was so into -- not only am I attracted to you Im attracted to you without clothes as well and youre very hot and I like you -- was really special. But then as I started to have the changes in my body that I wanted it was sort of different for me because I was starting to communicate likes and dislikes in a way I had never done before because I had never really known before.  And then I took that as Oh so this has all been a sham? You didnt actually enjoy being with me this whole time? I thought Im having like the best relationship the best sex of my life. And you were not into it. And have misled me. Which I didnt so much say out loud but its definitely how I felt. How I felt when I was thinking about it on my own. I felt kind of not betrayed just kind of sad. I was like oh this stinks. What does this mean about our relationship? Did this not count before transitioning?  Totally its like this counted for me so did it not count for you? Theyve been working through all this for years now. They both graduated college. Liam is in law school and working as a trans activist. Marisa is a writer at Marie Claire magazine. They live together in Queens. That doesnt mean theyve figured it all out. It was hard when it was finally time for Liams surgery last spring.  I was really scared because its a major surgery. They put you under. Its expensive. It meant that he couldnt work for months afterwards. Which even though I wouldnt be paying for his surgery we live together. We share our bills all these things. Like it mattered if Liam wasnt working. But more than that it was like I think you have got a rockin bod. I like you I love you I think that youre sexy and beautiful and all that the way you are. I think I said that once and the response wasnt like he didnt shut me down. But he had a very real conversation with me about I appreciate that but this is how I feel.  It was sort of like the conversation I remember it as me needing to learn to tell you what I needed to hear from you. And also needing to give you space to say I want to talk about your feelings but right now I need you to say this to me. I need you to communicate to me that you understand that this isnt a choice for me we have to do it. And then to also say and I want to talk to you about how youre feeling. Because I know you cant be feeling good. Instead of very black and white looking at it like I promised myself Im doing this. Im doing this. I dont really care. How did you pay for that surgery?  I received help from my parents. Actually it was sort of funny because I was sort of saving money ambiguously for top surgery at some point and I wound up instead purchasing an engagement ring which I dont regret which was the right choice because that was part of it too. When its natural if I were to pit it in my head as my transition and Marisa are at odds and I must choose one over the other... When theyre coming out of the same bank account.  Right.  All of this I was not privy to by the way. And thats not the decision I wouldve made with Liams finances.  However thats what it was. It was my choice and I made it. The top surgery is gonna happen when its gonna happen. Im going to work it out. Somethings gotta give whatever. So I had some savings left but it was not near enough. And insurance was actually supposed to cover my top surgery. We set it up and I was so excited. Because I was like finally were going to get this done. At that point that is what it felt like for me. It was the same as when I started testosterone. I was checking things off a list more so than feeling like I need to be a full human I need to do this. It was like ugh this again whatever. Then a little bit before my surgery the insurance company backed out. Like days before. Less than a week. Liam told his parents who hadnt always understood his trans identity.  My dad was like well you still have the date. Right? Why dont weits a wedding present. Well take care of it for you. Its a wedding present.  Yeah. That was really that meant a lot to me. Why look ahead to marriage at this point?  Is that one for me? Okay.  That ones for Liam.  Well I guess part of it or a big part of it was when I got my name legally changed Id been going as Liam for a year but it didnt change what was on my ID card. It didnt change that when I got carded someone would be like Liam huh? Your drivers license was not Liam?  No. And I had to live that way for a year knowing this really true absolutely undeniable thing and not being able to have it recognized legally. And thats what marriage the shift meant for me. It wasnt about have we made a lifelong commitment to each other are we sure. At the end of the day its like its about the piece of paper. As silly as that might sound. So you volleyed that over to Liam pretty quickly.  Totally. Did you feel comfortable with the idea of getting married? Youre in your mid 20s.  Yeah. I feel really psyched. Im not the mastermind behind this plan however. And being a mid 20s woman of New York its not something that is a default for me. Liam talked about wanting to make a lifelong commitmentI think weve made a lifelong commitment. Like I think we could or at least I felt at the time like wethis thing is locked in. We dont need to have a tax incentive-related reason but if this is something that means that to you if marriage is important to you then Im totally on board. Because if youre driving this train Im sitting in the first class car. Im all about it. The way you describe your decisiveness Liam is striking. Like there are things that you have known and theyve been unquestionable about things like going on hormone therapy doing the surgery getting married. Are there things that you think back in previous versions of yourself that you miss?  No I was so unhappy. I mostly remember being really unhappy as a kid and a teenager. And Im sure there were a variety of reasons. But for me a lot of it was about the gender identity piece. Ever Ive been with Marisa Ive never felt that way before. Ive never felt that sort ofeven when things are a nightmare and somethingthe insurance company just called and said theyre not covering my surgery and what are we gonna doIve never felt that haze of sadness covering everything. Can I say one more thing? I think because of maybe the setting and not wanting to sound mushy I want the legal recognition of being married to Marisa but being with her is the greatest joy of my life and its what I want to do forever and thats why I want to get married to you. Just to clear it up. Look at those testosterone-fueled tears.  How do you say no to that right? Liam Lowery and Marisa Carroll. They just got married at Liam's parents' house on Thanksgiving Day. Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein James Ramsay Jenna Weiss-Berman Chris Bannon Greg Rippin and Jim Briggs. Im on twitter annasale. Death Sex  Money is on Facebook -- if you like us like our page. And sign up for the new weekly newsletter on our website at deathsexmoney.org. All of our episodes are there too. There are also pictures there of Liam and Marisa -- including a photo from their wedding day. You appear like a straight white guy.  Exactly. You are over 6 feet tall. You have broad shoulders.  Accurate. You are like the masculine ideal.  Yeah. I cannot tell you how many times I have almost just gone out and just pierced up my whole face because I wanted to be visibly queer again and I missed that. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.