Hey this is Anna. I want to let you know this episode is about and includes descriptions of intimate partner abuse. If you need them we have resources at our websitedeathsexmoney.org.  I think you know it is created a sense of skepticism in me that I did not have before. I can identify sort of certain patterns and things like I think that I could not before. It is sort of rubbed a little bit of the sheen off of the world. And I dont for better or for worse like it is the person that I have become. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Writer Carmen Maria Machados latest book is a memoir of a relationship in her twenties. One that she now calls abusive.  When you say like I was abused or like my ex abused me people get very nervous. Like there is just a weird the word creates a lot of anxiety in people in all kinds of directions. But it is much it is like a useful shorthand when it in sit- youre like do you have four hours or do you have one second? Like I can say to you I can tell you the whole thing. Or I could just say to you like I was in an abusive relationship. And like it sort of encompasses a lot of different experiences. And I think it I I believe that my experiences fit into that category. Landing on that word though was not easy. Carmens relationship she writes in her book In the Dream House didnt fit into the images of what comes up when you say abusive relationship. She was with a woman and for the most part their fights were verbal attacks the wounds didnt leave marks. Dream House as Epiphany she writes at one point. Most types of domestic abuseare completely legal. Carmen is 33 now and has been with her wife for seven years. The relationship Carmen documents in her book happened years ago in her mid-20s when she was a grad student at the Iowa Writers Workshop. It was her first relationship with a woman. Shed dated men before that but had thought about being with women since she was a teenager.  And I remember once having this fantasy so far back that it was before I identified as queer where I basically was like if I never meet a man and marry him I would like to like live in a big house with a bunch of women and we just like garden and cook and like have a million animals. Um what it looked like was this like weird beautiful queer utopia um scenario. So I feel like maybe when I rolled into this relationship like what was in my brain was like obviously a slightly more sophisticated version of that with the understanding that I was queer um but having not lost any of that idealism? Um -  Yeah.  - which is a super super bad combination as it turns out. Um cause I knew nothing and I had this really really rosy view of what it could be.  Oh. When you first were noticing that you were attracted to her and she was attracted to you what did you like about the way you felt when you were with her?  I liked - I mean she looked at me. You know I was like a weird awkward fat girl woman young woman. And like... I had sort of watched a lot of people in my life like have relationships and have people be really into them. And like I just did not know what that looked like. Um and there was something and I felt like I was always doing the chasing. I was always sort of pursuing people and I was always the one who was sort of trying to had to initiate things. And I just wanted somebody to like look at me and be like I want you you know? And that is exactly what she did. I mean I - I do not know. It feels so silly to say it out loud cause it feels so minor and so simple and like like could it possibly that be that easy?  No its huge. Are you kidding?  But like you know? Like I mean I think when I look back on it I mean I was writing this memoir like I kept thinking like how embarrassing it was how easy that was. You know and how I just sort of like you know I imagine it is like you know how the dodos like when the men landed on those islands and the dodos just like waddle right up to them cause they were like what the fuck are you you know?  So you are the dodo in this metaphor?  Yes.  But she walked up to you. Like she you are describing that she like saw you she looked at you and you were not having to work for it.   Yeah well like I guess I also think that um you know I I did not have a great sense of - like at the time I felt like like uh you could look at that scenario and be like oh then she you know how could you be the dodo? Because she is you know she is the one whos sort of putting her heart out there. But like the fact is actually that is not what was happening at all. Um because in re - in retrospect like what was actually happening was like part of a it is part of like a like fairly identifiable pattern. Um I do not know if you are familiar with the idea of like love bombing. Um -  Tell me about love bombing. I do not know what that means.  It is this idea and it does not just apply to abusive relationships but it just applies to like like where there is where sort of part of the process of being sort of prepared for this like cycle of like worship and sort of devastation um is this sort of like walking up to somebody and being like you are perfect you are everything you are a flawless human being. Like and and sort of creating this sense of like like putting them up on this massive massive pedestal for the purpose of them being sort of knocked down. And I say this I do not mean to say it as if like that is like part of a calculating plan because I feel like it is a lot more complicated than that but it is sort of this like first step. So this first step was somebody saying to me like I want you like I am obsessed with you. Everything about you is perfect which was just a thing that no one had ever said to me before. Their connection was intense enveloping even. And so too Carmen learned early on were their fights. She says her ex  thats what she calls her in the book  would scream at her say demeaning things to her.  I remember like when my ex would yell at me there was just this I mean I feel like I the only way to describe it it is like your esophagus getting kind of yanked to the side. There is like this sort of brief kind of nausea that would happen.  Was there a pattern that developed like when she would become angry and curse at you how would you respond and then how would she respond? What became the pattern?  Sometimes I would cry. Sometimes I would get angry and I would be angry at her and I would say like that was really horrible that was a horrible thing to say to me. Um sometimes I would just kind of shut down and be like I do not I do not want to talk about this. I do not want to deal deal with this right now and then she we get angry that I was not speaking. I mean it was sort of like this like endless cycle you know couldnt like I could not really I could not really escape it cause yeah if I if I said something then she would you know we would sort of yell and there would be more yelling. And if I did not say anything she would be like I hate it how you you just like you just like do not respond to me. It was like nothing I could do was like correct or right. Um you know and as the relationship progressed I mean her emotional response I - I mean certain things became triggers that you know were like recognizable. Like she was very jealous and so anything that could be perceived as me expressing you know ha- like happiness about the presence or existence of another person of any kind became like a kind of trigger.  So did you learn to avoid talking about other people who were making you happy?  I did I did yeah. Anytime I mentioned anybody I mean if I was like I have a student who did really great on a paper or on a story she would be like you want to do you wanna have sex with that what that student? And I would be like no what the hell is wrong with you? I mean in the beginning I feel like I felt very exasperated a lot you know? 'ecause I was like what what are you I was like I do not even know how to respond to this. But then by the end I feel like I was just like um sorry I do not no I do not want to sleep with that person. I am sorry for bringing it up. Um or I just would not bring people up at all.  When this was just starting in your relationship when these angry outbursts were happening when these fights were taking on this intensity did you think it was normal?  I think I thought I mean it was sort of a combination of things. I knew that people I mean obviously I had seen my parents fight and I knew that like that was a thing that some people did. And I also remember her saying to me this thing that I did not have never forgotten which is like she was like you know lesbian - this is just what it is like to date a woman. Like women are more intense. Like these relationships are more intense. And I guess I had no reason not to believe her because I was like I mean you would be the expert. Because she had dated lots of women and like she was my first girlfriend and I was like okay well I mean I guess I believe you if you say to me that like lesbians are just different in this way.  I do not know and and I think it just seems like I was like well you know I I guess I have intense emotions. Like I guess that makes sense. Um I mean it just it just seemed to me like it just seemed like it made sense in the moment. And I was like okay well I guess you would know. But also I was you know 24 I think?  Yeah.  Like I was so little. Their relationship lasted about a year. For a lot of it they didnt live in the same town. Carmen would drive from the apartment she shared with roommates to the house her ex lived in a few hours away. That was the site of a lot of these fights. Including the one when Carmen says her ex threw things at her came after her and Carmen barricaded herself in the bathroom.  She just kept hurling her body against the door over and over and screaming and screaming and screaming and I - I just did not know. I was so scared and just I mean I was hysterical. I mean I was like so beside myself I did not even know what to do. And and then later when it stopped and I opened the door she was just like sitting there being like what what happened? What happened? Why are you so upset?  What did you think was happening?  I truly had no idea. You know I Googled a lot of stuff. Because I was like what could possibly cause somebody - ? You know it is funny cause I I mean now I know the language for or for that which is a dissociative episode but I I did not actually even know - . So I just was like Googling like you know uh memory lapse you know I was just trying to I was just Googling like whatever word I could think of. And it is like if you do not have the right words if you do not know what you are looking at or you cannot look at it like there is so much you can miss. And I really wanted there to be an explanation that in was like it is not her fault you know? Um if I am like Oh I threw up this morning and then I you know you are like okay that is an inf piece of information. And then I am like Oh it is cause I drank really a lot last night. You would be like Ugh God like that is gross and irresponsible. Or I could be like Oh I had the flu. And you are like Oh poor baby. You know? And it is like one of those like invites judgment and the other one is just like Oh you cannot help yourself. You were sick. You know? And I feel like I wanted there to be an explanation where I could be if you gotta be like poor baby like I know you did something really scary. It was really scary and awful but like it was not your fault and I do not blame you. And I needed that to be true. Like I needed that to be a fact. Thinking the alternative meant that like I was it meant like looking at what was actually happening and I did not want to do that. Coming up what happens after Carmens relationship with her ex finally ended and she talked to other people in her life about whether they knew.  I do know that some people feel guilty that they did not notice or they did not know it was that bad. But I do feel like just somebody being like you seem different. Like you have changed like acknowledging that was like yeah like it was something there was something I dunno. It is just good. It is like it is like when it it becomes about the burdens being carried by another person a little bit.  Since our collaboration with NPRs Code Switch podcast about race and friendship came out weve been hearing from many of you about what youre still reflecting on from these episodes.  Probably the thing that resonated with me the most from the episode is when Antoinette was talking about the hierarchy of feelings. This is Sheena a listener from Atlanta. She reached out to us while we were putting together these episodes and again after listening. And Sheena said hearing Antoinettes story about how shes felt obligated to take care of a white colleagues feelings at work sounded really familiar.  A white boss would talk to me about personal things that were going on in her life and would seek emotional comfort from me. And when I work for you it is not my job to emotionally comfort you. I am not your friend I am your report. And so um the fact that she felt so comfortable to act like that with me in the workplace made me feel that she was taking advantage of the power dynamic between us of her being a white woman and me being a black woman and that I would feel obligated to be there for her and to support her out of fear of what would happen if I did not. We want to know more about what youre getting out of these episodes. Send us an email or record a quick voice memo and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org And stick around at the end of this episode to hear something entirely different. Last week I interviewed my colleague Andrea Bernstein the co-host of the Trump Inc. podcast about her new book American Oligarchs The Kushners the Trumps and the Marriage of Money and Power. Were sharing a bit of that conversation with you at the end of this episode. On our next episode Twyla Tharp. The legendary dancer and choreographer talks with me about aging and how she sees her body and its limitations.  You can feel very sorry for yourself. You can definitely feel yourself as victimized. Oh I have lost so much. Oh I used to be able to run so much faster so much further. Well yes. Uh but did every step mean as much to you as these do?  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Carmen Maria Machado writes in In The Dream House about how her relationship with her ex ended. Her ex wanted to be with someone else and broke it off. Carmen didnt think of their relationship as abusive until she was talking to friends about the breakup in the months afterward.  Somewhere in that conversation like in that whole sort of summer where I was like talking to people and kind sort of doing like kind of an autopsy of what had happened that that word begin to make sense to me. Um as a as a way of describing what had happened.  And can you tell me about that? Like what were the things when you were trying to decide if that word fit or not what what are the things that you would think about?  I mean I had only ever really thought of the word as meaning the sort of the way that we all talk about it or that people generally think of it. Like like a man beating up on his wife. So to think of abuse as either a thing that could happen between any other sort of combination of folks in any gender or sexual identity or thinking of it as a thing that does not require somebody to give you a black eye I think took a lot of sort of reading. It is funny cause I for the for the tour I have been doing for the book um they had this awesome um advocate do this like really lovely sort of fact sheet so that people can pick it up and it has like resources and things but also shes sort of written this little bit about what is abuse. She is like you know I could give you like a list of things to look for. But like really what the way a way to think about it is like whose life is diminished and whose fears concerns mo you know motivations et cetera like animate the relationship. Which again like I did not have that language back then but like I feel like reading that I felt this real sense of just like yeah like like somebody there was somebody who ran things and somebody who became less than themselves you know? And I was the person who became less than herself and felt like unrecognizable at the end of it.  As this relationship was ending how important was it to have people in your life who had been sort of witnesses to different moments of - of some of these fights who could help say like no your memory is - is right?  The fact that I had anybody was really helpful because I did not have many folks. And the people that I did have it was mostly kind of incidental. Like for example my roommates knew just because I lived with them and they just overheard a lot of stuff you know? And that is something that she could not really avoid. There was a time when I was crying every night. Every night I would cry for like four hours because she would be like yelling at me on the phone and then I would like come out of my room just like dehydrated and like puffy faced and looking like I would been run over by a truck and they would just be like Hey... you know?  Like -  You would not talk about it? They just would see it.  They would just well they would hear it you know? And I think for a while they did not quite know like what to do or what to say. And it was only when sort of like it ended that they they really were like we always hated that bitch.  Like you know like you know after it was over they were just like they were like you know and they were amazing the whole time but I think they sort of did not want to say like Well fuck her! Like while we were still dating you know like that was I think a very complicated thing for them. Um but then as soon as it was actually over for good they were like very comfortable like telling me all the thoughts that they had had you know while we were dating. And I am really grateful to them that they exist as these people who like you know in the face of in the face of folks saying like I do not think it was that bad or like It probably did not happen or whatever people say um there are people who are like Oh my God. Like I saw I saw the worst of it. Like I saw how I mean not not the worst worst because the worst worst happened like in her home and was private. But I saw a lot of it and it was very bad you know? And that was actually something that was really comforting to me and I think ultimately like kept me from feeling like I was completely going off the rails because I because even when I was like maybe like even when I would sort of be like 'Maybe it was not that..' You know like I would have these like doubts they would be like Do you remember this? Do you remember when like she screamed at you for so long and then she broke up with you and then she kept calling you and calling you. I had to take the battery we had to take the battery out of your phone. Like do you remember that? It was just useful to have somebody sort of saying that to me. Now I mean I feel like  I was trying so hard to do it right. I really was. And I feel like also you know I am sure that I did things that were not perf- like I am not a perfect person. And you know I am currently in like a really wonderful stable healthy loving relationship. You know sometimes I fuck up sometimes she fucks up like you know were human beings and like relationships are complicated. But I feel like to be in a scenario now where I feel like everybody's operating in good faith you know and even when we are at our most hurt or our most scared like everyone's still just sort of like trying their best and there is this sense of like care. I mean it is funny 'ecause only now being in it and it seems so wonderful that I am like oh God I cannot believe I thought that anything different was okay. You know I cannot believe I ever thought that any other way of thinking about this made sense to me cause this this seemed this is like this is how it should look. Um but I did not know. Even after her ex was out of her life their relationship was woven into who Carmen is. For starters Carmen met her wife Val because of that relationship. Val dated Carmens ex before she did and was an important support after the breakup. And Carmen says the cruel things that her ex said to her during some of their fights are still present rattling around in her head.  There is still things that I do that I catch myself doing that are like artifacts of that relationship. I always want to like tell my spouse like I was here here are all the things that I did here are all the people I saw here's a text from my friend about our plans that we made together. Like I am always trying to like establish my - my alibi which is so horrible because like there is no reason for me to do that with my wife. She is never asked that of me. She is never like been suspicious. And I still do it. And I catch myself doing it. And then I get very angry at myself you know I will be like what the hell are you doing? Like why - why are you doing that still?  Something I noticed reading your book is there is a few different places where you talk about all the time that you spent implying that it was sort of wasted time during your during your MFA program during this relationship whether it was fighting or traveling back and forth to be with one another. Um and I wonder if now that you have this book in your hands you can see that you were working through something important.  Yeah I think I can see that. I mean I still think I guess none of it is wasted time if like it is just part of your life you know it is like yeah it it it made me I mean not not I am not it is funny cause it is like this sense of should I be grateful for this experience? I am not grateful for it. I think it was horrible but it also like brought me to like the person I am married to and it brought me a really like I think healthy sense of perspective on a lot of things. I feel like I had my half of the conversation I wrote the book and now people get to have their own half of the conversation whatever that is. I mean I really wish I had not spent the second year of my MFA being yelled at and traveling all over creation and like just having myself kind of broken apart in this way. But also I did and I wrote a book and I mean you know it is funny people keep asking me like why this book right now? And I - I keep being like well the true answer is that I kind of had to get it out of my system. 'ecause I feel like it just defined so much of that part of my life and I just needed to like pass it like a kidney stone you know? Um and now I have for better or for worse and  I did turn it into something and she is real sad but she is pretty good. I mean she being the book.  I was struck by how you said this is my half of the conversation and other people are having another another half of the conversation. Like um it makes me think about like how - how - how challenging it can be to tell stories about a relationship because um both after the fact and while you are in it when you are trying to figure out whether you are in a healthy relationship or an unhealthy relationship like it can be confusing to to figure out who are the reliable narrators and who arent.  Sure. Yeah of course.  Um and I just like um after being in this relationship where for so long you - you felt um you did not have the words for what was happening and now you have written this book about what was happening what has that been like to say this happened to me and this is how I experienced it?  I mean I guess I wish I could say it was like empowering which I feel like is like the natural answer to that question. I do not know if it was. But I I dunno I guess there is something strange about having it sort of fixed in time you know? And like I will keep probably meditating on this relationship and on this book and it is possible that in like five years I will have like a different feeling about who I was back then and who I am now. 'ecause you know whenever you write a book you are always like fixing something in time. Right? You are like stopping the clock and being like here is like Carmen in two thousand you know 18 2019 meditating on Carmen from 2011 and like it will always be that relationship. You know it is never you know unless I write about I write like anoanother chapter when I am like you know in my forties like it is always going to be that like those two like sort of versions of myself looking looking at each other. And I do not know it is just strange. I mean I do not know if I found it cathartic. Like I found writing the book very painful. Um it is strange to just have it in book form. I do not know. It is like this 'ecause I felt it used to feel so like weird and messy and it was just like trying to wrestle like a Kraken and now it is just like this little book that you can hold in your hand. Thats Carmen Maria Machado. Her memoir In the Dream House. It was included on many best-of the year lists in 2019. And weve got a link to that abuse factsheet Carmen mentioned  up on our website. It was put together by Hyejin Shim and Graywolf Press specifically for queer survivors of abuse but it offers insights and resources that are useful for everyone. Thats at deathsexmoney.org. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Ayo Osobamiro. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Carmen told me she is proud that her book is complicating ideas about who abuse happens to in relationships. And she hopes it makes more people feel like they can share what theyve been through.  I have said the thing I have to say you know I passed the kidney stone. Now someone else gets to - see the metaphor breaks down if we talk about it as a kidney stone cause then I am like then somebody else gets to pass the kidn- no somebody else gets to hold it? I do not know.  A kidney stone that becomes a baton.  I know right? Thats horrible. Thats so gross. Oh that is super disgusting. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. And before you go I want to share some of my conversation with Andrea Bernstein the co-host of the Trump Inc. podcast which is also put out by WNYC Studios and produced with ProPublica. Andrea has written a new book about the Trump familyand Jared Kushners familycalled American Oligarchs The Kushners the Trumps and the Marriage of Money and Power. And let me tell you its chock full of death sex and money. I talked to Andrea on-stage last week at The Commonwealth Club in San Francisco about the intermingling of money and politics for the two families including for Donald Trumps father Fred Trump.  Something else you document thoroughly in the book is for Fred Trump he knew that real estate was not just about location location location it was about political donation donation donation. And I wondered do you have a sense of how he learned how to maneuver around New York city politics at that point in city history?  Yes I mean he was a really entrepreneurial guy and he-I mean he worked really hard. His father died his father Frederick Trump died in the Spanish influence epidemic and he when he was a teenager. And he had a job where he would pull carts on icy roads because the mules would slip. So he was a hardworking guy and he was in real estate. And what he figured out in the mid thirties is he wanted to get a piece of a bankruptcy. A company that was in bankruptcy court was being divided up and the judge really had wide discretion about who was going to get the pieces and he really wanted to get a piece. So he figured out at that moment who controlled the judges and who controlled the judges in Brooklyn was the Brooklyn democratic political machine. And he understood that he had to cultivate ties with that Brooklyn political machine because they were doling out they control the judges they control the contracts. So he starts to create these ties and he gets a piece of the contract but then his huge break comes when he realizes that the federal housing administrator was also a tool of the Brooklyn machine and he starts to curry favor with this person a guy named Tommy Grace. And he gets this outsize portion of federal housing administration loans which enables him to build these huge projects in Brooklyn and Queens. And before World War II is over he becomes a millionaire in 1940's dollars and that is what launches him. The ability to see that it is government support of real estate that is going to lift it all up. And he had to get to the decision makers to make sure that when they had discretion things are going to go his way. And I mean that is so defines the Trump business model through the decades currying favor with whoever. Figuring out where is the person who is going to be able to deliver the thing you want and then figuring out how to curry favor with that person whether it is through a donation whether it is through giving to their favorite charity whether it is through charming them and taking them on his helicopter there are a variety of ways. But Fred Trump and then Donald Trump's sort of used went through all of them.  And you talk about the Kushner family also figuring out how to pull those leavers as well. How old was Jared Kushner when he made his first political donation?  Eleven. This was one of the donations that his father had orchestrated. Uh and so if you you can go and look it up in the federal elections it says uh records. It says Jared Kushner student.  And it was like 1200?  2000. And it was two separate contributions of 1000 I think. You can hear more of my conversation with Andrea over in the Trump Inc. podcast feed. And while youre there dig back into their archives. Its an incredible show with meticulous investigative reporting thats also really fun to listen to. Another recent episode I loved is called Turning Politics into Money. Thats Trump Inc. Inc like Incorporated. Find it wherever you listen to podcasts. Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.