Norma Elia Cant It is a way that we grew up on the border with the skills of negotiating different worlds all of that. You do not get that anywhere else or I could not get it anywhere else. So I really appreciated where I came from. At the same time it freed me to know that I could go anywhere. That the border was who I was it is who I am but it is not a limiting space it is a freeing space.  Anna Sale This is Death Sex  Money the show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. A lot of her essays and poetry are about  that small wood-frame house...which was set up on stilts to protect it from annual floodwaters. But as she moved the last of her familys belongings out she told me she wasnt really mourning the building itself. Norma Now that we are all gone and there is no one there it is just a house. Anna When you think of home right now what does that make you think of? Norma Three things My childhood that was home. Where I am now that is home. Wherever we get together we create home even if it is virtually on the Zoom. My sisters and I we share what is going on with our lives we share jokes what is the latest movie or the latest book or whatever you want to share. And that creates home. Norma is the oldest of the 11 kids in her family. Shes described herself as having insufferable older sister syndrome--her words. But now at 74 shes trying to let go of some of that. Norma I am not the one scheduling the Zooms. It is one of my sisters Elsa but she does a beautiful job. She prepares a theme for each one. We dress in a different way. Last week it was the beach because we are all missing the beach. You cannot go. We all wore our beach hats and sunglasses. Several of them that were wearing bathing suits. I was not. And so they teased me. We just have a lot of fun! Like a lot of us Normas life takes place primarily on Zoom now. Shes the president of the American Folklore Society and she teaches literature at Trinity University in San Antonio where she now lives. Thats about two and a half hours away from Laredo where a lot of her family still is today. Her parents immigrated there from Nueva Laredo Mexico when Norma was a baby. Norma My dad was a laborer and my mother stayed home with us and she was a seamstress. She would make dresses summer dresses especially and sell them to the neighborhood kids. She earned money that way but it was very tight and we did not have a lot of money. The funny thing is and you hear people say this all the time but it is true I never knew we were poor. I just thought that is how everybody was. Anna How did it work? How did you share space together? Norma Well when I was very little when there were not 11 of us only four or five it was a four-roomed house the kitchen and the living room was tiny and two bedrooms. One bedroom was for my parents and the baby whoever that baby happened to be at the time.  All of the rest of us were in the other bedroom with my grandmother. My brother usually slept in the living room on the sofa. We used to joke that was his room. Anna I want to picture-- I loved how you wrote about your quinceanera. I just want to know thinking back on that self of yours when you were 15 so you were not yet the oldest of 11 they were still coming. But when you think about that moment for you did it feel like a clear before and after? Norma It did. It did mostly because there were certain things I was not allowed to do before and then I was allowed to do them after. It also created a bond with my mom that was more like friends after than before. Then there were other things. I was allowed to wear heels and I was allowed to wear makeup shaves...all of those things had been forbidden because they were for adults. There was a marked difference. It was a very low key quinceanera but it was very special. We did go to the church. So that was the first time I was the center of attention if you will. So that was different. Anna When you said your relationship with your mother changed do you think it was because you started thinking of yourself as more grown up or she started seeing you as more grown up? Or what in particular shifted? Norma I think it was a little bit of both. When I turned 15 she did start relying on me more as a co-parent I think. For example one of my younger siblings got in trouble at school and they called me. They do not call the parents because my father was working and my mother who did not speak English was not able to go. I was the one who had to go and deal with my younger sister not wanting to say the pledge of allegiance. Anna Was it a political stand or what was? Norma I wish.  No she may disagree with me but what had happened she was a cheerleader and the cheerleaders had been out there for some ceremony and they had already said the pledge of allegiance. In her mind she did not have to do it again.  I was hoping it was political but no. Anna No it was just redundant. Norma Exactly.   Anna Did you know anyone when you were growing up who worked in higher education? Norma No one absolutely not. I did not know any. I did not know what a PhD was I did not know any of that. My high school counselor counseled me against going to college and wanted me to get a job right away. The only reason I got a scholarship was because one of my friends instead of picking up one application picked up two and so I filled that out. Anna Wow that is amazing. Norma It was incredible. Because I really wanted to go to college but the counselor was pretty much dead set against it. So my friend lifted one and we both filled them out and she turned them in and I got it. Anna Wow. Norma It was a rotary club scholarship and it was for 144 in 1965. I went for one year on that scholarship and I also got a job at the library sorting books and re-shelving books but that only lasted the one year. Then the second year I worked in the summer and paid my tuition for the Fall but I could not pay the Spring. It was in December and I was finishing my studies and I did not have anything for January. I did not have the tuition money. I did not know what I was going to do. I got a job working at Central Power and Light Company which was a utilities company where I worked for seven years and continued going to night school. At that point my dad also had arthritis and had to retire. He was disabled with the arthritis and could not work anymore. Pretty much I was the sole breadwinner for quite a while. Anna Your younger siblings were still little kids. Norma Exactly. They were little kids. My father did not want me to go alone to night school. So I started convincing some of my coworkers to sign up for classes. Anna Oh really? Wow. Norma Yes so I would not be alone. Anna What was your job at the utility company? What'd you do? Norma Oh I did everything. The first job was at the window the drive-through window where people would come and pay their bills. Then I graduated all the way up to handling major contracts with oil companies and stuff like that. Anna Wow. Norma I did everything. It was a learning experience. I learned a lot about all kinds of stuff including I think I became a feminist working there because I saw the inequality and the way women were treated the sexual harassment that was going on. I was lucky enough to be perceived as being too prudish to the approach. I did not have the same issues that some of my coworkers did. One of the things we did while I was working there is questioned why somebody would get paid more because he was a man. I remember the manager tells me He is the head of household. I say Well so is Emma. Emma was my coworker who was divorced and had two kids. She was head of household and they had never even thought of that. Anna When you had to leave school was it painful? Were you afraid you would never return? Norma Yes very I would cry every night because that is not what I wanted to be doing. I did not want to be working in an office typing up contracts for businesses to let people have their lights. No matter how I justified it as it being an essential job that people need their electricity it did not mitigate the feeling of I do not belong here. The sadness I was very sad. I was also kind of learning to be an adult. At that point most of my friends from high school they had gone on to college were coming back 20 21 22 with degrees and teaching having jobs. I was still at the office going to night school until the University from South Texas opened the branch in Laredo in 1970. I was able to go ahead and finish my degree. Anna When you first told me about the job at the utility company you said I worked for seven years. I am thinking how you can say that in retrospect now that it was this discreet period of time but when you were living it you did not know when it would end? Norma It felt like forever. I never knew. In fact some of my colleagues my coworkers stayed there until they retired 25 years later. When that was happening I would think Gosh if I had stayed I would be retiring now. I would be done. It was amazing to realize that it is one of those change points in my life where a decision makes all the difference. It was my choice. I chose to quit my education and go to work. I chose to get that education. It was a sacrifice. It was not easy. Norma When you chose to leave was it your choice or was it something your parents suggested and you knew you needed to? Anna No it was my choice. And to this day I do not know what would have happened had I not been so dutiful daughter not the ultra responsibility. Because obviously I could have applied for loans. We did not have federal assistance at that point but I think I could have. Other friends did apply for loans to go to college. I do not think my father really wanted me to at that point. My mother was all for me going on and getting an education. My father was always fearful that I was going to grow away and not come back. Especially after my brother's death I think he became even more overprotective.  Normas brother Tino enlisted in the Army in 1966...when he was still in high school. He was deployed to Vietnam where he was killed. He was 19. Norma It was pretty traumatic. He was the first one in our family to go into the military. My paternal grandfather was such a pacifist that he moved the family back and forth across the border whenever there was a war. The family moved to the US side when the Mexican revolution was happening but then they went right back a few years after when world war one broke out. He was adamant about not going to war. Anna How long was your brother in Vietnam? Norma Not very long. He died in '68 in February. He was gone into the service longer than he was in Vietnam. In Vietnam he was not there very long. It was during the Tet Offensive of 1968 and it was a sniper. And I was getting ready for work and so was my dad when the Army green Volkswagen drove up and my mother knew immediately what had happened. She started crying. When the soldier who spoke only English came to the door and I was translating I did not need to because my father understood and my mom were crying. The younger kids had been asleep. They woke up. My dad was so angry with the man. He kept saying no no it cannot be possible. Then of course he calmed down but it was really a tragic turning point in our family and for so many others. I saw my dad lose his faith. He had always been a really devout Catholic. For a while he just was angry at God. Anna Were you? Norma Not necessarily at God. I was angry at the government because I really believed that it was a unnecessary war. Anna How did your brother get into the service? How did he get to Vietnam? Norma He had not even graduated from high school. I graduated in '65 and he was right after me a year after. He saw what happened. I went to community college on a scholarship for one year but then I had to quit and go to work. He had hopes. He was brilliant. He wanted to be a scientist. We have been talking about it since we were kids. I think he saw that was not going to happened and the service the Army was recruiting heavily. They promised of course the GI Bill. And so he saw a way out. In fact we had a conversation at one time and he said When I get back I am going to enroll and go to university. And of course he did not come back. Anna I want to ask you just to move ahead while we are thinking about your brother. I noticed you traveled to Vietnam many many years later. Norma Yes I did. About 22 years ago I had an opportunity to travel to Vietnam with a Vietnamese American friend of mine. It was a really interesting trip on many levels. One of which was to be within five kilometers of where my brother was killed. I went to the Buddhist temple in the town asking for a blessing. I burned some incense both for my brother's soul and also for the man who killed him the sniper. The guy who was there the I guess you call him a priest was incredibly understanding and gentle and kind. I can still see his eyes looking into mine as he says the prayers. He did not understand English. My friend was translating for me. And the prayer I did not understand the words but I understood the feeling and it was a very deep emotional release for me. On some level I felt that this had come full circle that that is what my brother would have wanted.  Coming upI talk to Norma about moving away from the border...and what she learned about home in the process. Norma It was living in DC that gave me the perspective that I was not necessarily bound to the border. Anna The bound word is such a strong word. You were not bound there. Norma Yes and I still feel it is a really difficult lesson in detachment about being bound and being rooted at the same time and finding that rootedness also frees you to be bigger than that.  All this month on Death Sex  Money we are talking about getting older. A couple of weeks ago Jo Ann Allen guest-hosted an episode for us about all the different ways aging can look. That episode has inspired you to send in some reflections of your own about life after 60. Gail Talking about getting old is really complicated. I think about how it is kind of the good the bad and the ugly. This listener Gail called in from just outside Washington DC. She is 63. Gail The good for me is that I do not sweat all the small stuff anymore. The bad is that even though I feel like I am 18 I do not look like I am 18 and so when I look in the mirror that is a cold realization I do not recognize that person. The ugly is that my husband learned that he has cancer. Since that diagnosis I have been forced to think about a life that is going to look maybe different as I get older than what I thought it was going to look like. All our recent episodes about aging are at deathsexmoney.orgaging...along with some of our favorite interviews Ive done over the years with older guests. We are turning our attention next to what it is like right now for those of you who are single...and dont want to be. We are collecting your stories and thoughts about being on the front lines of dating in this strange time. Tell us what youre noticing by writing an email or recording a voice memo and sending it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Now we know a lot about dating right now is awkward and even harder than normal so to get us into a positive mindset we are also collecting your best one night stand stories. If you have a magical memory to share...of a connection that may have been fleeting but left an impression...record a voice memo and tell us that story. So far weve heard one night stand stories from mostly young women. So men and those of you over 60 who weve been hearing from a lot lately? We want to hear your one night stand stories too. Again send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. By the early 1990s Norma Elia Cant had gotten her associate's degree her bachelor's her master's and her PhD and with the exception of a brief research stint in Spain she done it mostly close to home in the Southwest. Then when she was in her 40s she got a chance to move to Washington DC to work with the National Endowment for the Arts. Norma Being in DC was exciting it was during the Clinton era and all kinds of exciting things were happening in terms of for Chicanos and Chicanos or Latinos. There were others from Texas who were there and we started a women's group of all women from Texas who were in DC at the time We would meet once a month for brunch and connect but in DC is where I met Elvia my partner. Anna Tell me about that! What were the circumstances of your meeting and did you know it was significant in the moment? Norma I did not. I had no idea I was surprised but pleasantly surprised to find love in a very deep way. I arrived in DC in September of '93 and I was going to stay with a friend. I was in that apartment but the connection was Alicia Gonzalez another folklorist that I knew from before and Elvia and Alicia were good friends. And so I met her in Alicia's home. And we joke because she does not remember me she remembers my cat.  Anna That cat did some work for you. That is good.  Norma She was. She was Bonita or Boo Boo and she was a white long hair Persian beautiful cat that went with me everywhere. She walked in and saw the cat and fell in love with the cat and later with me I hope. Like I said it was a surprise to me. We were friends first for a long time until we got together in '94 I think it was. Then I came back to Texas and she stayed in DC she worked for the forest services. It was a long time before we could be together. Anna Did you use the term long-distance relationship is that how you think of that time? Norma I do not because there is a saying in Spanish  I do not know if I should say it. Amor de lejos amor de pendejos?  Anna I do not exactly know what that means but I kind of know. Norma Yes you know what it means! I do not use it however I guess that is what it was.  Anna In the early 2000s Elvia retired and finally moved to Texas to be closer to Norma. She also grew close with Norma's mother Virginia. Norma She would refer to her as her young daughter mija chiquita. And Elvia's very short so kind of often plays around with that word. Elvia supported Norma through her dads death in 2004. And she was also there when Virginia's health started declining not long after. Norma Once when she was very sick she was in the hospital and she asked me to forgive her and I did not quite know why. I asked why. Then she said Well because you were the oldest you did not have a childhood you helped me co-parent all these children. I had never really put it from that perspective. I had always thought of it as just what I did. Of course I started crying and I said Of course I forgive you. There is nothing to forgive. All of this is in Spanish of course. Anna What is the Spanish word for forgiveness forgive to forgive? Norma Perdonar. So she said perdone mija. Even just saying it I got emotional. Anna Yeah. It is nice she got to see you listen to that and hear that and for you to say Of course I forgive you. Norma I think so because not too much later she developed dementia and then Alzheimer's ultimately and at that point she was no longer able to acknowledge those things. On New Years Eve in 2016 she was in the hospital. I came in and she held on to me and whispered lucid as anything  I want to die. Of course I said Si mami. Cuando tu quieres. As much as it hurt I knew I had to let her go. Anna What you want mommy you said. Norma Yes. Yes. Whenever you want. Anna How did your father die? Norma My father had a number of physical ailments. He had cancer he had heart issues and he knew exactly what was happening. He kept telling me I do not know how to die. He knew he was dying and then he kept saying I do not know how to die I want to die. I do not know how to die. He basically starved because he stopped eating. He was about to come home with hospice when he passed that night and we were all there. My brothers and sisters were there during the day. At night only four or five of us would stay. I can say I was there for his last breath. But it was a beautiful passing because he had made peace with everything and everyone. Each one of us had gone in maybe a week before and he had said goodbye to each one of us. I cannot describe it. It was just an incredible gift to be there. That did not happen with my mom I was not there. Anna I want to go back to your father because I am struck you said he both said I do not know how to die and he also said goodbye to each of you. When he was saying I do not know what to do here how did you understand that? Norma I think he was asking permission to die. He was asking for us to let him go. He did not put it in those words. That is how I interpreted it. I also think he kept referring to my grandmother who lived with us. She was the one who had died and he kept saying I do not know how she did it. How did she die? I want to know. Anna When you think about what grief was like for you with your brother and your father and your mother you were able to be with your father not with your mother at the point of her death but before and your brother not at all and before he was ready or before anybody was ready to say goodbye. What did you observe about how that changed grief for you? Norma They were very different. I would say my brother again it was anger because of the potential and because of his plans and all the other in addition to obviously the sorrow of I am never going to see him again all of that. With my dad it was Oh God hes not suffering anymore. At some level it was gratitude. Also in a way I forgave him for whatever he had done in his life because he had been an obstacle in my life in his desire to protect me. But he also forgave me when we said goodbye that was the exchange. With my mother she was 91. She was going to be 92 in 10 days or something. It was again gratitude not just that she is not suffering anymore but gratitude for her life. What happened was when my youngest brother was born she was at the point of death. She would tell me this story of how she had not died. She had told God I am not ready and it was because of me. Because had she died at 20 I would have become the mother of all these other children. She felt that she could not do that to me. I was very grateful that she did not leave me in charge of all the siblings and had come back and allowed me to live my life. I think she fulfilled her mission her contract with all of us. It was not easy. I did not realize how deep it had affected her the poverty and everything until she had Alzheimer's and she would start reliving some of those episodes in her life. For example one time I came home and she was crying and she said Que te paso mami? She says I do not have money for the milk for the baby. It was really hard. Anna These are things she shielded you from. Norma Exactly. I am so glad that she lived to see us in our homes with our partners. My sisters married all of us living our own lives and it is a testament to her life. She made it possible.  Thats Norma Elia Cantu. I highly recommend you check out some of her writing if you havent. Start with Canicula her 1995 collection of essays and photos from her childhood...and then her poetry collection published in  Meditacin Fronteriza Poems of Love Life and Labor. Norma graciously agreed to read a few of them for us...you can listen to them on the web page for this episode at deathsexmoney.org. Death Sex  Money is a listener supported production of WNYC studios in New York. This episode was produced by Anabel Bacon. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Emily Tafur. The Reverend John Dalore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Twitter annasale. The show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Thank you to Mackenzie Meehan in Brooklyn New York who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Mackenzie and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. I am Anna Sale. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.