 Every other phase in my life it was very clear that I wanted one thing and I just got off of off of the treadmill so to speak and then there was like no clear I need to go there. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. Domonique Foxworth used to play in the NFL. I talked to him about leaving football behind about two and a half years ago and it stands as one of my favorite episodes we have ever done. With the Super Bowl coming up we thought we would share that with you again along with an update about what Domonique is up to now. Because when we talked before Domonique was about to start his last year at Harvard Business School. He was in his early 30s. And he was looking ahead to life without football at its center for the first time since he suited up for pee-wee football as a little boy. Turns out Domonique says now hopping off that track was harder than he thought it would be. We will have that update at the end when he tells me among other things why he quit the high-paid executive job he landed right out of business school. When we first spoke Domonique was in Baltimore his hometown. I was in New York. But I told him we would been in the same place before.  I was at the 2004 Gator Bowl in Jacksonville Florida. And I was rooting for West Virginia.  Sorry about that.  Yeah. Do you remember the score?  I know we had forty-something and I believe you guys were in the single digits or maybe like the teens?  That is right no. 41-7.  Yeah it was a good game.  No it was not! Domonique went on to play in the NFL for seven years for the Denver Broncos the Atlanta Falcons and the Baltimore Ravens. He was also the president of the NFL Players' Union for two years. Domonique lead efforts to better understand the long term effects of concussions on players' brains. And he negotiated directly with NFL team owners.  I do not want to paint all the owners with a broad brush because I have developed some relationships with some who I do not think they are like assholes to put it that way. But I think a lot of them are honestly. Domonique says that changed the way he thought about the game he would loved so much growing up. He started playing football when he was six years old.  I remember very clearly in the apartment that we were living in sitting down with my dad and he asked me what I wanted to be when I grow up. And I told him professional football player. And he proceeded to say okay well you should set little goals between now and when you get there and work - do something to work towards it every day no matter how big or how small. And that night I actually did sit-ups because I was like alright I am going to get strong enough right now to get in the NFL. So it is good old six-year-old logic I did sit-ups until I probably got to 300 or so and I remember probably for the first time since I was a baby not being able to control my bowels. Because I was so dehydrated. I threw up and had some other stomach issues. So I remember my dad saying well you cannot like do it all in one day.  Is it true that your parents have never missed a football game of yours?  That is absolutely true. I had one or both at every single game my entire life. So it was  This was pee-wee league junior high high school college NFL all over the country. One of your parents is in the stands.  Yup. I remember when I was a kid not knowing that I had good parents until after a practice in high school. My parents were late picking me up from practice one time. I was like really upset. Like what the hell? Why am I still here 30 minutes after practice is over? And all these other kids were like yeah I wait here every day for an hour. Who knows when my mom's gonna show up? That was the first time they were like not there for me exactly when I needed them. The first time I looked around at other people who were just like me and saw that they did not have that.  When you get older in high school and you are thinking about college and college ball and the NFL and you start to realize like not everyone who says they want to be an NFL player when they are a six-year-old boy gets to be an NFL player did you question it? Or did you always kind of know?  I do not think I ever had like real serious doubt. But - so I graduated from high school half a year early and I started at the University of Maryland full-time class and full-on practice with the football team. And I was awful. So you go from being a dominant kind of player in little Baltimore to playing with men essentially. 21 20-year-old guys who have been in a full - a real training program and played against other men and the high school that I went to had a football team for two seasons before I got there. So we did not really have a developed much of a developed program. So I got there I was getting dominated by them on the field I was getting dominated in the classroom because I mean you know your senior year in high school you are just kind of chilling. So then I go there and they are not chilling. So I ended up pulling it all together and getting like a reasonable GPA but that first month or so on the field and in the classroom was miserable. And that was the first time when I was thinking I was like I do not know if this football thing is for me.  What was life like in the dorms for you?  I do not know it is definitely a different experience than the average freshman because you are kind of a celebrity on campus.  What was it like to be a celebrity on campus with women?  There were some easy opportunities or lay-ups as I called them back then. And those easy opportunities  Oh man lay-ups.  Yeah. I was an 18-year-old guy. I mean forgive me. Are we gonna get a chance to get into conversations about the more mature Domonique Foxworth that has a better perception on masculinity than racking up numbers? That is how I thought when I was 18. Forgive me. So when those opportunities presented themselves there was a specific type of person who was looking for you. And those are not the type of people that you are necessarily looking for for a long-term relationship if that makes sense.  Yeah. It is an extension of fandom.  Yeah. So having fun and having these great sex stories from being a college athletebut attracting the type of woman like attracting my wife we went to the same school but we did not date then because she was not enamored with the persona that I was and so I think it hurt us academically. Where our professors were harder on us because they thought we were dummies who were just there to play football and it definitely was difficult romantically. And I think it probably had a racial component also in going to a predominantly white school. It is like well these women who would not necessarily be interested in you as a long term relationship type of person they are like well this big kind of mandingo strong black man let us experiment with that and see what this is all about. Which obviously  Were you aware of that at the time or looking back?  Um I think I was aware of it at the time. Or I kind of used it to justify some of the things that I would do. So I was not like the best boyfriend or the best everything at the time and I think I would use things like that like well they are just after me because they want to be close to the football guy or they think I am in great shape and they think I am this stereotypical oversexed black male. And they want to give that a try. But they do not want to actually take me seriously. So I mean whatever. I do not care if I am with her and her friend and do not think much about it. So I think I was aware of it to the extent that it gave me cover you know. So playing on a winning college football team is sort of like being a rockstar...along with the other 125 guys on the team. You are growing up together learning how to deal with celebrity together. But none of you are making any money.  A moment I am really interested in is that transitional momentyou know University of Maryland was good when you were there but there were just a very few of you who went on to the NFL after you graduated.  Right. Mm-hm.  Did you talk about that with your teammates the reality of when you play for the NCAA you do not get paid and just very few of you are looking forward to a massive payday.  One of my best friends in life and he is still a really good friend of mine like it breaks my heart to talk about now because our friendship is up and down occasionally but we are still pretty close. I am the godfather to his daughter. But I remember we kind of stopped talking for a year or two when I went to the NFL and he did not. And I remember very clearly when we were training together to get ready for pro day which is when NFL scouts come and watch you work out at your school. So we are training for the pro day. And I think it was evident that he was a great player but he had had injuries and it was evident that he was going to have a much harder time making it professionally than I was. And I said something to him to the effect of well I love you. As long as I make it like we both make it and whatever you need. And I guess maybe that was the wrong thing to say at the time. I thought it was the right thing to say. But I remember very clearly him responding to me by saying that it was some quote from the Bible that said a rich man has about as much chance to make it to heaven as a camel passing through the eye of a needle. It felt like he resented me or there was some jealousy. And it definitely hurt our relationship going forward and I do not know that we have ever like been the same.  Well it is interesting that it was financial. It was not like you get to realize this dream it was like I realize you are gonna get this big payday.  Yeah. The guy that I was just talking about had three knee surgeries and a shoulder surgery and reconstructed his index finger. So he is going to have to have a knee replacement he was told that in his 20s. You are going to have to have a knee replacement by the time you are 40 and no one's covering that. That health care that he needs. And no one's making up for the fact that they guided him towards a major that he was not interested in but they guided him that way because they needed a easier - he needed an easier major that was more flexible with his football schedule. These were all decisions that were pushed upon a seventeen-year-old kid that would benefit the institution more than it would benefit him.  So it sounds like it was in college that you were politicized in a certain way about the economics of sports and how players need to advocate for themselves.  Oh yeah. None of us had any control or leverage in order to protect ourselves and then there is the whole idea that we are students before athletes but the sport's - if I had an exam during practice then I went to practice. And if I got 100 percent on my chemistry exam no one is going to receive any benefit including me. So the motivation is there for me to do well to get an interception on Saturday. That will benefit me. That will benefit the athletic director the coach the university the president the alumni the students. I take issue with people pretending that the benefits that are afforded the university and all the people involved are not a result of the sacrifices of the players. Coming up Domonique explains what made him finally leave football behind. And we hear an update from him about another major career decision.  They have all these statistics that they share with us at business school before we leave about how many people change jobs in the first year and I have become a statistic. A good one I guess.  We are in the middle of working on an episode about your breakups. A lot of the stories you are sharing describe the gory details of the breakups themselves. But you are also sharing what happens afterward. Teresa a 35-year-old listener in London recently went through a breakup. She says it was sudden and really painful. But she wrote us For the first time ever I was able to do everything right in terms of post break up. Teresa All those years of the same advice I have told friends all the years of advice I have been told but was never able to put into practice about paying attention to myself about just mourning and crying and doing what I needed to do in terms of being upset about no texts no communication. About all of a sudden I started doing exercise regularly I started meditating journaling all of these things. And even while I was feeling so lonely and so you know rejected abandoned I knew that I would come out stronger in the end. It is hard to do breakups well. That is why we are compiling your best advice in a break up survival kit so we can all be more like Teresa. What have you watched listened to or read during that painful period after a split? What is helped you move forward and heal? Email us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org or contribute to our public Google Doc. There is a link to that on our website at deathsexmoney.org. And look out for our episode all about your breakups. It is coming out in just a few weeks.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. At the end of his college career Domonique was drafted by the Denver Broncos. He spent three years on that team. But then in 2008 he was traded to the Atlanta Falcons. The year before the Falcons had lost 12 games and only won four. Domonique needed to WIN to get a new contract. And the move South made him wonder if his career was over.  I was living in a hotel for a little while and then on an air mattress in the place I rented until my furniture got there. So it was really a lot of time to think when you are on an air mattress and you do not have a TV and when you are at the bottom of the depth chart and you think your career's coming to an end. It is a lot of time to think. And I think that was a really pivotal time in my life and had me thinking differently about my - about who I was. Then it turns out I ended up having a great season and signed a major a really big contract in Baltimore. Baltimore. It was a return to the town where he grew up. And that big contract was worth 28 million dollars over four years. Then Domonique got injured.  So you had a shorter career than you could have had in the NFL because you tore your ACL in practice.  Mm-hm. Right.  On that day did you know that it was going to be over?  No. I did not know it was going to be over um -  When did you realize?  I think when I went back the day Iso I recovered from the ACL and I went back to start practicing. And things were not right. That was an issue. But also things were not right for me psychologically. I just participated as the president in the negotiations for the collective bargaining the most recent collective bargaining agreement and I sat across the table from the owners of the teams and negotiated over the projected ten billion dollars the NFL was supposedly making. And days later I was on the practice field. Like sweating and listening to coaches yell and all that and thatat this point in my life I felt more comfortable at the table than I did on the field. It did not feel likeI went from the top of the totem pole to the bottom. We get paid well because the talents that we have are so rare. But you are still the labor.  So in some ways it felt like you were not being treated like a grown man. You are being yelled at by coaches after sitting at the table in a position of power. Then you go back to the field  Yeah that is exactly what it felt like. And that is when I said I should apply to Harvard Business School. I always had business school in the back of my mind but I realized I could kind of playthe same way that I could play with the best in football I realized I could play with the best intellectually and professionally.  That is interesting because you know you hear career-ending injury and you think that that - it would be this very fraught moment for you. But it sounds like you had stored up some resentment by that point that you were ready for something else.  Yeah that is exactly right. I mean it is the really big difference is guys who are able to maintain the love for the game and I do not think I have maintained that. I do not know if I have joked with some of my friends saying that you are either really strong mentally or really weak mentally to be able to maintain that because you either do not see what is going on around you or have the strength to put that out of your mind. So when I was a high school player obviously like do anything I could for my team and the guys - like that is the last time where I felt like I was really on a team. Then when you get to the NFLI had a great rookie season and I was playing well and they went and signed another player at my position for like 30 million dollars and then I was not allowed to start. And so my first contract was not a ridiculous amount of money. It was great money but it was not life-changing your grandkids will have these great opportunities type of money. And that is why I wanted to come to the NFL. So when I saw him sign that deal and then him get this playing time over me I was very angry and I wanted to get that opportunity. So my goal became lessas much as I wanted to win the Super Bowl or play really well I wanted to play well because I knew that if I could play well I could get this extension I could make this money and then my kids can go to private schools. And so it became more about thatgetting to the next transactionthan it did about being the best player and supporting your team and sacrificing for your team in the way that it was in high school.  Did you decide to retire or was it forced on you?  I think I decided before it was forced on me. Like I knew that I was done before they knew I was done. And then eventually they said you know you are done. And I said I know. Thank you for the opportunity I am sorryI felt it is crazy too because I felt this great amount of guilt that I was not able to fulfill my contract. I did not feel enough guilt to give them the money back that is ridiculous. But I remember thinking when I was a rookie and I was a third-round pick and I was a rookie contract I remember thinking very clearly like they owe me more money. I started half the season played in a bunch of playoff games made big plays and played like a starter. And they are paying me like a third round pick. And I feel like for my last contract it was the opposite direction. And I remember trying toin the same way I tried to rationalize some of my decisions in college I tried to rationalize it like well the league as a whole owed me this money or something like that. But it still did not like alleviate the guilt that I felt. But again I was not that guilty. Because they are not getting the check back.  And are you when you think of where you are financially right now are your grand-kids set or do you need to make some more money?  Absolutely.  They are set.  Oh yeah. It is great. Love it.  How does that affect your decision-making about life when you are in your early 30s and do not need to worry about money?  It is a weird thing. Because there isI think we all kind of say this say like well if I hit the lottery I am quitting my job. And I am gonna travel and be on a beach all the time and just hang out. And I can. But I do notthere is this I did some reading recently about the hedonic treadmill which is what I feel like I am on. I had like a mini mini existential crisis while in business school because in my mind it is like I want to go to business schoolI want to become a billionaire. I want to take however many millions I have now and turn them into hundreds of millions. Or billions. And that is just like howit is like why you go to Harvard Business School right? But when I got there I was surprised because that is not what they teach. They kind of teach this like more look for fulfillment. And so there was a period there where I was like what would really fulfill me? Do I want to stay home be like a stay-at-home dad? And I came to realize that that is not what makes me happy. So like the one thing that I gotor the couple things that I got from football that I realized that I want to continue to have in my life is 1 relevance. And 2 competition. And I remember when I like sitting and being honest with myself I was like all right well you really liked the attention did not you? And it is not something you want to say but it is like yeah I kind of did. And I liked having the platform. But I still think that somewhere inside of me there is still like who does not like being the big man on campus? And I do not want to not be that anymore.  You mean you came of age at a time when when your name would be announced people would literally cheer.  It is kind of ridiculous whatand I think that I found when I was having this existential crisis where I was like what do I really want from my next job and what do I want out of the rest of my life the year between football and business school I would just study all day but I would be around the house and I was not very happy. This just does not make me happy to not have a goal to strive towards.  Tell me about your wife.  She is awesome. She is crazy smart uh she isprivate schools her whole life both of her parents are doctors and she had a different experience than me growing up. Which was very cool to have. I think that is cool for our kids to have that perspective. But she went on to Harvard Law School and I remember thinking this is really great like I do not want a stay-at-home wife that is not how I grew up. I thought that is what I wanted. So then we had kids. And that is not who she is. She is a stay-at-home mom most of the time and that works for us. I thought I wanted this kind of power relationship where it is two people who are just climbing to the top of everything and I think I probably thought that because I was in the NFL. And I like feared that somebody was going to come and try and take advantage of me for my money. I wanted someone who also had earning power I think that part of probably like subconsciously why I thought that. But that is not actually the person that would fit into my life. If I had this kind of alpha personality person around and we would clash a lot and who is going to stay home with the kids? That question is never asked with us it is like she wants to I want her to.  Do you still want to make a lot more money?  Uh I do not know honestly. I think it is become more clear to me that the money is less important. I mean I think the moneyI do not live a crazy life. It is most of my life is pretty normal. I think the best thing about the money is having flexibility and more than that is for me at least is it kind of gives you that kind of prestige and relevance that I say that I am looking for. People knowing that you have that money. Or people knowing that you have had success in the NFL is good. And I think that is part of the reason why I want to make more money is because I think that I do not like that people thinkor I assume that people make assumptions about me about what I am able to afford or what I am able to do is only based on me being an athlete. Whether it is true or false is not important I just like I want to get to the point where I feel comfortable saying that the things I have achieved financially and the things that I can afford in my family is partially because of football but even more because of what I have done afterwards.  Do you enjoy watching football now?  Nope.  No? Do you just not watch?  Nah. I have a hard time watching injuries. A sport that is as dangerous as football and has the long term repercussions that we have all kinda been reading about lately it is difficult for me to watch guys get knocked unconscious. That was two and a half years ago. Since then a lot has changed.   Hello?  Domonique?  Sup California number? You are so cool   Since we first talked Domonique has finished business school at Harvard. He lives in Washington D.C. now with his family. He and his wife had a third kid. And Domonique took a job with ESPN.  When we last talked on the show you told me you did not watch football anymore you did not watch the NFL anymore. Now it is part of your job to talk about football.  Yep yep. So I watch it now. Right after he finished his MBA Domonique's career was headed in a different direction. He was hired as the chief operating officer for the National Basketball Association's players union. But he says he knew early on it was not a great fit.  As an executive like 80 percent of the day is spent doing really boring kind of mundane things and I tend to think of myself as a little more creative and fun and I was fortunate enough to make enough money while playing that I had my choice and I found myself on the subway to work in New York one morning with a bunch of other people who were on the subway to work and they were angry and I was not all that happy and I was looking around like but I do not actually have to do this.  Huh.  So I kind of made the decision to try my best to quiet those ego - the egotistical urges in me that liked having the big title and liked having the big salary and so I quit with no plan to do anything else. He was unemployed for about two or three months. But he would started writing on the side. And he realized he liked it. That is how Domonique started working for ESPN. He contributes on-air and writes for the site The Undefeated.  I kind of do air quotes when I say I am a journalist because I do not want to be like disrespectful to I do not know like real journalists like Woodward and Bernstein the craft of journalism. Because I am far from there yet.  Like has that feltin your life you have been a standout excellent performer at everything you have done that the public has been able to see. So has it felt uncomfortable learning how to be a writer on the internet learning how to be a commentator with people watching?  Yes and that is kind of the best part. People talk about um how difficult it is to transition out of the NFLprofessional sports in generalbecause there is no supplement for some of the things that you will miss. There is no comparison to playing a game in front of a hundred thousand people or millions of people on TV and having your every move criticized. And I like the idea of - I have come to enjoy saying things that are different and challenges people's beliefs and then going to Twitter afterwards and hearing people tell me how smart I am or how dumb I am. I enjoy both.  Are you still mostly living off of your NFL money?  Yeah.  As far as how you are paying the bills?  Oh yeah. That is hopefully I will never have to live off of anything else. I should be fine if I do not do something stupid or Trump does not tank the economy. Then I will be good.  Do you have enough money that you are living off of the earnings of your wealth?  Yeah yeah.  So it is nothing is going down. There is no decreasing.  Nope.  That is a nice situation.    It is. It is a tremendous situation and I love it and it is not without guilt. Mostly I think just because the older I have gotten and this is probably in conflict with my football mind but the older I have gotten the more I realize that we have as individuals have less to do with um the outcomes of our lives than we want to believe if that makes sense. So like in football it is very it is kind of like coaches preach and players believe whoever works the hardest is going to win. So it is in your complete control. And I think that is probably something that I believed. And the fact that I was successful making a lot of money like of course I want to believe that the people who are successful and make a lot of money are the people who have worked the hardest because that means that I have worked the hardest. But in actuality when I go back through the timeline of my life I think of all of these like random happenstance events that happened to break in my favor to lead me to the life that I have. And then once you get more experience in the world and you learn more about other people and other cultures and other situations you realize that some people do not have a chance in life. And no matter how smart they are how athletic they are how talented they are they are in situations through no fault of their own that they do not have the resources or the opportunity to succeed. So I mean I am not giving any of my money I give money to charity but I am not giving it all back. Like this is a life that I like and appreciate but I also try to be honest with myself and think like to some degree I kind of feel like I do not think I necessarily deserve it.  What part of Washington are you living in?  The white part. The fancy part.    The white part. Because I was going to ask does it feel when you are moving back home but you are in a totally different financial position than when you left like what is that feel like?  Like it never feels comfortable. So my wife her whole family is super-successful in D.C. and she seems very comfortable in this house and in the stores that she shops in and in the schools that the kids go to. And I am not. I never have been. I always feel like when I go into the fancy stores with her I always feel like people are looking at me funny and I always feel like I have to buy something to like prove I can be here and I should be here. And the same thing when I go to the kids' schools. I cannot help but be like but I am a 31-year-old black guy from Baltimore and all the other parents are lawyers who are like 45 and it just feels to me it feels like they belong more than I do. Even like the black parents who are in the schools that the kids go to. It is like uh my best friend from childhood like did seven years for selling drugs and I grew up in a nice part of Baltimore County. So I do not know it just feels odd. But I have to admit there are some benefits to being back here and being around family. It makes Christmas a lot more fun. A lot more exhausting also but it is good.  How is family different with three kids?  Yeah I mean I could go with the old joke that everyone says about going from man to man to zone at this point but to be honest we had match-up issues before we had three. So it is a challenge. But I think the best thing just because football was such a part of my life since I was so young I cannot help but internalize some of those kind of cultural things. And one of them is everything is super important. And every time something goes wrong with one of my kids like in my mind it needs to be rectified immediately or else they are headed on a one-way course to prison and I have failed as a parent. So I think kind of realizing that well it is okay if things go wrong every now and then and being as patient as I can. Like kids have it is kind of a cliche but they help they have helped me probably as much or morenah not more. I feed them. They would not even eat without me. Never mind. I have helped them more than they have helped me. I was going down this whole beautiful Disney nonsense path when it is just BS. I feed 'em. If they were not around I would find a way to eat. But I think just in general it is funny because we kind of think of growing up as something that we all do when we are young and then we are like in our mid-20s or late-20s or something and like we are who we are. And that is just BS. Like I am different than I was three years ago and I like who I am better than I have ever liked the person that I was at any point in my life. That is Domonique Foxworth. He contributes to ESPN and ESPN Radio and writes about football race and culture on the site The Undefeated. We have linked to a few of his pieces on our website including his reflections after seeing the movie Concussion. We all played this game and we are all subject to the potential devastating consequences Domonique wrote. Suddenly I was more aware that I am not separate and safe. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. I am based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Jim Briggs mixed the original episode with Domonique. Our intern is Adriana Rush. The Reverend John DeLore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Twitter annasale. The show is deathsexmoney. Email us anytime deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Domonique may be back to watching football but he told me he is not interested in his 3-year-old son ever taking up the game.  I would love for him to play sports of some kind but I just do not necessarily think the risk the risk of doing damage to his brain it does not seem worth it to me to take the chance. Because he does not necessarily need the payoff. He could be anything. I am Anna Sale. And this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.