 I want to actually start in in a somewhat unconventional way because we are thousands of miles across uh the country from one another. Um is there a way that you can suggest that we both move our bodies to help us be  Yes you can do what I am doing now. If you were here with me you would not need me to instruct but we are sitting in our swivel chair and we are moving our knees from side to side and we are rolling our heels to the outside as we rotate from side to side. And we are shlumped. And we are concerned about the shlump and we say sit up straight! So we do that we have to adjust. It it is a big deal. You got to get your chair in much closer to the table. Now you are adjusted you are sitting up straight and you are still wobbling from side to side. You are with me? Good.  Mmhm yes I am.  Okay.  And I am five four and my toes are barely hitting the floor. Are your toes are your feet firmly planted on the ground in your chair?  Yes. And I am five three. Get down! This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Twyla Tharp is a 53 giant in the world of dance. Since launching her career as a choreographer and dancer six decades ago shes become best known for blending classical elements of ballet with more modern styles. Shes also known for a certain kind of rigor both in terms of her technique and the discipline she brings to her work. Thats something shes documented in books like The Creative Habit and her latest Keep it Moving. Shes 78 now and still choreographing new works. And she told me days off are not a big part of her life.  Uh I try not to have them.  Really?  Yeah basically. No uh Sunday for me my family uh is Quaker and Sunday is a very special day. So working through a Sunday is difficult but I do do it sometimes. Uh uh but on on those days uh what would I do? I would probably still stretch a little. I mean the body cannot just curl into itself uh and then read and do everything more slowly everything that one always wishes during the week oh if only I had time maybe I would not have burned my coffee. I made that up. My coffee is always burned no matter how much time I take. Twyla was born in a farming community in Indiana and in 1950 her family moved to California near San Bernardino. Her family ran a drive-in movie theater and Twyla was put in music and dance classes by her mother who believed she would be famous.  She ruled the world uh and she was incredible. Um so I have always been highly programmed  Highly programmed.  Yeah highly programmed and people say well did not you resent it and were not you were rebellious no I was too smart for that. I did what I was told to do because my mother made certain that the instruction that I received was the very best that she could find. And I learned a lot as a kid and I am very grateful that I did not rebel.  What for you was was the the the itch that that prompted you to move from California to New York when you were in college?  Oh I got kicked out of the chapel midterm for making out.  Oh!  And so the  Oh.  the college decided that I should leave midterm or or whenever I left. Maybe it was the end of freshman year.  Yeah.  Yeah that is how I tell the story. I think it works.   Did you as you were getting to know the landscape of dance and dancers in New York City did you have a sense of where you wanted to fit?  Well that is a very interesting question. How long do we have for the answer?  As long as you want to give me.  I mean my classical technique uh was something but I knew it was not really uh top drawer. Uh so I came here to accomplish what I could of that even though at the age of whatever 19 or 20 it was too late. Uh but I worked very hard and what I saw were the people who had started doing this much younger working at this level much younger. And I was smart enough to stand behind them and learn from them but to also realize 'You know what babe your triple pirouette to the left sucks. I think you better find another occupation'. So I continued working classically but I had transferred to Barnard College and had partially come to New York to study forms of dance that were not available in Southern California basically so-called modern dance. So I am going into the gymnasium in the bottom floor of Barnard's main building for my first modern dance class of all times. And I go in the door and the teacher says We will now dance a sunrise. And I said to myself 'I do not think so'. I turned around I walked out I went to the Dean I said I did not come here to dance sunrises. I came here to study modern dance. Martha Graham is teaching. Merce Cunningham is teaching. Ill go study with them and you will give me credit. And she said Okay. On top of her college classes Twyla started taking two sometimes three dance classes a day at different studios around the city. And while she was learning a lot from her teachers she was also figuring out her own style.  I said to myself 'Well okay Merce does great what he does and Martha does great what she does but I do not want to do what they do'. Go see if you can figure out what you do want to do. And I think ultimately that is how I became uh my own dancing person. Twyla graduated from Barnard in 1963 and quickly got a job as a dancer for Paul Taylors company another major modern dance ensemble. Just two years later she choreographed and premiered her first work Tank Dive and decided to form her own dance company.  My first five years were spent with a remarkable group of women. And these ladies uh and myself worked every day all day in any space we could find. Uh the Judson we would go and sign up for. But you could not occupy the space the entire day every day every week of the year. So you had to find other alternative spaces and so we went to three or four condemned buildings and managed to get in and rehearsed in them for a while. And nobody got paid anything. Excepting if we got a gig that paid we split it between us all evenly. And that is how it worked. And we did it because we wanted to do it.  So no one got paid anything with that company.  You did not expect the the dancing was going to support you financially. That is not why you were doing it. You were doing it to dance.  Mmhm. What kind of apartment were you living in at the time?  I had a loft.  How many people did you live with?  Myself.  Yourself in a loft apartment just out of college?  No apartment. No apartment. Hello. There was no elevator. There was no shower there was no hot water. There was no kitchen. It is illegal to be there. It is not an apartment. It is a loft. It is space.  I see.   Its space.  I see. Im not picturing the right thing. Did you did you go out at night on nights off?  No I am a dancer. Listen I gotta be up in the morning. I gotta be in class. I did not do the scene and I consciously did not do the scene because I was not there to occupy party space as a dancer.  Huh.  That was not my intention.  So you would not go out you were not going out and taking it in? You were going to bed and taking care of your body.  Yeah I was I was invested in examining the possibilities of human movement in dance. And furthermore I knew even at that age that the scene was a distraction.  Huh. A distraction how? How did you see it at the time?  Uh because it it has its own it has its own priorities which is are not we all very cute? Uh and I just wanted to know well sure. But what can we do? The Twyla Tharp Dance Company took off. It was touring internationally and in 1973 she made her first crossover ballet Deuce Coupe set to songs by the Beach Boys. Her personal life was changing too. In 1971 she gave birth to her son Jess. But pregnancy didnt slow her down.  I turned it into a project. Uh I managed to get in this period of time my very first video deck. So I was carrying a Panasonic up and downstairs with the tripod with a Wollensak uh you know with the camera uh in order to set it up in the corner and be able to document uh one reel every week on which I would record a half hour of improvisation to the same piece of music. And I acknowledged as the pregnancy developed that there were things that I should cut out like for example battement to the back should go uh and you want to be really careful about how you torque the pelvis when you are throwing the leg to the side. But I continued to do very aggressive movement which I do have on camera right up until the day I went in. I was doing some very aggressive falls the day I went in or just before and my son looks at them he goes Mom oy! I said I know. I do not know.  So every week during your pregnancy as your body is changing you have this you have this record of how your body was changing and how your movement was changing.  Exactly. And exactly. What what I what how I was restricting the range of my movement.  That is so it I what a way to deal with the frustrations of pregnancy to turn it into a curiosity.  Uh eliminate them right?  Yeah.  Make it into a major celebration of what you can do. It was extreme but uh I think serviceable.  And after you you were a single parent after about a year is that right?  More or less.  So how did you how did that work early parenthood and work?  Not easily. Not easily. Uh for one thing I went back to the loft. The loft is as I said before without elevator straight up 78 steps. So now not only am I carrying the groceries the laundry and the Wollensak up 78 flights I have a child.  Yeah.  Uh and this loft is still illegal which means diapers cannot go into the trashcan on the corner. They gotta go at least four or five blocks away. And you are tearing up envelopes so you do not have your name and your address on them stuff like that. You do become a bit paranoid. But that was essentially our home base for several years uh before he needed to go to school. Uh then I moved uptown.  Who was helping you?  Uh I had begun to form a small administration. I mean everyone who was working in the company at that time uh loved him. The only rule in the studio was do not step on the kid. Because he would be crawling around and you know be up and about. And I figured well gee he is a lucky one. He is got lots and lots of moms this is great. Well maybe. Uh but uh they were very generous with him and I think that you know it is a lot for a kid to take in. Uh and then he began to have his own life when he went to school.  Yeah. And he announced when he was 11 that he wanted to go to boarding school?  He did. And that seemed probably reasonable because the company at that point was becoming uh much uh more established. Uh and we were touring a lot. And it was a very real split uh between the time and attention and presence that I could have with him and still function with the company and I was still performing as well as making the dances. And you know when he said he wanted to go to boarding school I felt it was an option that should be considered because there he would be in a in an ongoing situation where people could be giving him full attention.  And for you when you think about the relationships that you had with the people in your company at that stage or or even even ongoing I mean these these are relationships that you have for many many years. Have you thought of them as part of your family? Have you thought of them as employees?  Its both. Its both. And it is an interesting question because uh many modern dance companies of which there are not many but certainly Merces Paul's companies the Taylor company uh they did connect too as family. But neither Merce nor Paul had children. They did not have a family. Jess is my family. The company and people that you dance with move with intimately with that kind of connective uh you are in the trenches uh have a very special relationship. But it ought not be for everybody's sake confused with family because you know come Thanksgiving people split.  So having your own son having Jess kind of helped you see that distinction.  Having a child gave me an anchor that otherwise uh would uh there would have been periods of time when I would have been without a North star.  Hm. Can you tell me a little bit more about that? How has that worked?  Only if you stop whispering.  Can can you tell me a  Thank you.  Let me say it let me project it more.  Thank you.  I I was slumping I need to push  Dont slump!  I need to sit up more.  Right.  Ah. I am noticing my posture has okay.  Alright.  Um can can you you mentioned your North star he has been your North star.  Right.  And and I I just said um can you tell me more about that? That is that is a striking way to describe  Well when I mean youre a mother right? You are a mother uh and that umbilical cord in a way is never broken. Uh so that child is your North star uh and you want to spare them any pain and you want to give them every advantage. Uh and that is what a parent is. Coming up Twyla talks about what shes learning in her current phase of life and how she feels about getting older...  I have been in a singular position. Um most classical ballerinas uh have retired close to the age of 40 certainly by the age of 45 because they are limited by the repertory. They are limited by the Swan Lakes. They are limited by the Giselles. The roles do not change. They change. For myself as I continue to dance I am in charge of the role. I change the role to what I can do. And I always assumed that I would go as long as I would go. End of story.  We often hear from you that when a particular guest or topic on our show reminds you of someone in your life you send them a link to the episode. Maybe with a little note explaining why it made you think of them which is a really loving thing to do. So we decided this Valentines Day wed like to encourage all of you to do this pick out an episode of Death Sex  Money for the people you love and send them a link to it. Weve made this easy for you. At deathsexmoney.orgvalentine youll find a shortlist of 20 episodes of our show that seem especially appropriate for Valentines Day. Youll also find a Valentine there that you can download and send along with your suggestion. Yes we made a special Death Sex  Money valentine card. Theres also a link to our entire episode archive at that page if the episode youre thinking about didnt make the shortlist. Again thats all at deathsexmoney.orgvalentine. One of the episodes that is on our Valentines list is with actor and comedian Ken Jeong. He came on the show to talk about starting out his career as a medical doctor deciding to switch careers and then filming his breakout role in The Hangover while his wife was going through breast cancer treatment.  I did everything in my power to... actually think like a doctor and to think clinically. I mean just for strength you know because obviously I was emotional. So to calm me down I had to you know be in doctor mode. Were going to share that episode with all of you again look out for it in your podcast feed next week.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. In her new book Keep It Moving Twyla Tharp writes Age is not the enemy. Stagnation is the enemy. But when she was starting out as a young dancer and thinking about the typical arc of a career...the passage of time was threatening.  Every dancer knows from the moment they start in the studio uh and they get into a working situation at 18 or 19 soon they will be old. Every athlete knows it too. Uh and it is an enormous burden but it also makes of the time that you have an enormous privilege and you want to manage your time really really responsibly and profitably. Uh and so it makes you very focused.  Responsibly and profitably. Like how how did you experience that when you were thinking about what your earning potential was across your career?  Oh I am not talking about money here. Im not this has got nothing to do with money. This has to do with evolving as a physical being.  Uh huh.  I mean listen if you want to make money do not go into dance.  Mmhm mmhm. Has it been for someone who has had such a ritual and a discipline around work when you have noticed your body changing and new limitations arising um can it be difficult to have compassion for yourself?  You can feel very sorry for yourself. I do not know if that is the same thing as having compassion for yourself. You can definitely feel yourself as victimized. Um and as I said before and everybody does this in every possible arena 'Oh I have lost so much. Oh I used to be able to run so much faster so much further'. Well yes. Uh but did every step mean as much to you as these do right?  What was it like for you to recover from hip replacement surgery?  This was the first ever surgery I would had of any sort. Uh so it was not just the hip it was the idea that the body is being violated. Uh and it is being entered into by something from the outside world that frankly is out of my control. It was that kind of mental adjustment that I had to make. Physically it you know we are used to pain. Um I was off the cane in like a day and I was walking you know basically straight out in a week. Uh but the body was unmanageable. I mean the balance was not there. Um and I was kind of completely ungrounded. So it was a lot of therapy. Um and I was very careful about it because the last thing I wanted to do was to feel it moving out of place and have them go back in. And uh the surgery has been you know remarkably successful. Um and as is often said I sometimes worry oops that side's now better than the other side.  What was it like during those days before you were back up and walking? Did you did you have feelings that felt unfamiliar coming up?  Well no. Uh yes. Uh it I try always when it it I am down uh to find what is the value here? What is the lesson I can pull out of this so that I get some bang for my buck right? Um in order to you know have something thereafter uh to value. Uh and um I would say that it had to do with the um the every day uh the mundane the quotidian uh and that uh you are very grateful. You are very grateful and the gratitude uh becomes a life of its own. And anything else that you get in a day a small degree of progress uh an idea whatever is just icing on the cake. You are gr you are grateful.  Yeah. What is your relationship like with your son now?  Very good. My son uh and uh my grandson uh -  How olds your grandson?  Uh he is 11 10 10. He is 10.  Uh huh.  He is 10. Um and uh they are wonderful and you know both of them in their own ways as well as his wife are are my best friends. Yes. I could say that.  And you and your son work together?  We do.  How would hes sort of your like your business manager is that right?  Amongst other things.  Amongst other things.   Counselor in chief. Uh you name agent uh leg legal advice on occasion. Definitely promotional. Mom smile more. Mom make it fun. Right?  Was there a time in your relationship where uh you noticed a shift between sort of mother son dynamic to be able you know to being able to take um guidance from him in a way that did not felt feel disrespectful or inappropriate?  Um yes and no. I mean I think that w w and and I value this that what you have here two distinct generations you have two very different modes of thought. I greatly value his capacity. He is he is a fabulous bridge builder. I I blow them up he rebuilds them  my son uh goes on occasion to the same trainer I do and he was accounting to uh the trainer and the trainer goes Ma trainer goes to Jess Jeez your mother curses a lot! And Jess goes Yeah I know she is half wild. She is like feral.  What are the words that you use to describe the phase of life that you are in right now?  The phase of life that I am in right now? Well there is the near vision and the far vision. Okay. The near vision is what I call a a scratching phase which is to say Im sort of between between projects.  Uh huh.  I have a vague sense of what and where I need the next one to go but it has not settled into anything tangible. It is a very uncomfortable place to be because there is no security under your feet. You do not have you know a clear path to a clear um tangible goal. And that is why the bigger picture uh as to where I am now uh is always about 'Okay what is the real purpose here? Never mind that we you know you got to get a new project going but why are you doing it again?' Does that make any kind of sense?  That does that does.  Thank you.  When you think about why your why right now why you are working what is your purpose  Well the why yeah.  How are you thinking about that?  The why is difficult because uh the body becomes obviously a different instrument. Um and it is muted if you will. It is like a violin with a mute on it. Uh you are a different physical being at the age of 78 then you were at 2 or 4 or 12 or 20 25 30. They are all different. Uh they all have their own character. Uh and I am still uh looking to stabilize myself in terms of my physical reality because that is the bottom of the well I always go to when I am in this phase of scratching. It is like 'Well okay what can I do? What can I what do I have now that I never had before? Which in my case is uh small movement. Uh and small movement means a lot and I can see it expand into much bigger movement on uh other dancers might we say yay verily probably younger. Um but I must not let any sort of envy or resentfulness or regret enter into this picture which is tough.  When you say you have small movement now in a way that you did not before what is new about the small movement?  Um well okay so uh we have in the world of the classical ballet something called pli. Pli means to fold in French. And a pli is a very deep knee bend where essentially your feet are in an open position and you bend your knees all the way out until your bottom sits on your heels. That is a deep pli. Uh I could probably get down I do not know about getting up. Therefore I do not do deep plies. Uh I do do demi plis. That is a partial pli and in the partial pli because you are not so critically balanced you have more range of movement. Uh so in thinking about that myself uh when I transfer that to working with other dancers who do have a perfectly comfortable deep pli I can suggest to them something I have learned in my demi for their deep.  Hm interesting.  Hm. That is what I try to tell myself. Thats Twyla Tharp. Her new book is called Keep It Moving Lessons for the Rest of Your Life. You can find videos of some of her classic dances at our website at deathsexmoney.org. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Ayo Osobamiro. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. And thanks to Heather Powell in Pennsylvania who donates to our show each month. Be like Heather and become a Death Sex  Money member to support our work at deathsexmoney.orgdonate. While Twyla might not be able to show her dancers exactly what she wants in rehearsals anymore she gets her point across in other ways.  Dancers have a special kind of communication system in the studio. Uh just a bend or a twist or a little fah-huh will do the trick.  Is that an approving sound? Whats that sound mean?  Oh no that is a disapproving sound. It drops uh uh drops down. Ah-ha! That would be approving! Although if it is really great I will be jumping up and down. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.