That is the hard thing about breakups. They change you and it is not easy to come back from. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. A breakup is one of those rare things in life where theres a clear before and after. You were together before. A team. Now youre separate and you are on your own. Cynthia Penalva went through her hardest breakup four years ago.  He was my rock. He was my person. I really miss that. Her breakup was with her best friend. Theyd been really close for about 15 years starting when they were teenagers growing up in Miami. They went to the same church their families knew each other. They even worked together.  So we saw each other like six days a week. And then one day they had a conversation that changed everything.  I remember that he was trying to beat around the bush. And I asked him are you coming out to me? And he didnt answer that. And he was so scared telling me. And I was so scared for him. I was just worried for him.  What were you worried about?  I was worried that his family was gonna disown him. And that it would change everything between us.  So he heard you saying Im worried for you so maybe think twice about whether you want to come out because you might lose a lot.  Yeah.  Which to him might have sounded like dont come out.  Yeah.  Is there something you wish youd said in that conversation that you did not say?  God yeah. I relive that moment a lot. I wish I would have said Im here for you how can I help? How can I make this easy for you or who is he? I cant wait to meet him. That kind of thing. I wish I could have said that.  Have you told him that?  Yes. Yes Ive since tried many times to reach out and open things up and try and try. But I think its too late.  Hows your life been different not having him as a close friend?  Um. Its hard to catch other people up. That is something I heard a lot in your stories about breakups. The pain after a relationship ends does not just come from being alone. Its that you lost this person who knew you so well. How do you cut someone out of your life who is a part of you? I feel like no one talks about this. I called his mom Mom. And then one day he said he was leaving the band. It really hurt. I just never really got the closure that I wanted. Breakups are personal. Ugh. We have been collecting your stories for the past several months. You have sent in hundreds and hundreds of emails and voice memos exploring all the dimensions of a break up. Being left... She was really cold and really rude. Hey weve gotta talk. She just didnt look at me in the eyes. Its not you its me. And of course those are the worst words ever. And we heard from a lot of you who did the breaking up. I told my husband that I was done. Our relationship SUCKED. I was not going to change and he was not gonna change. I dont want this to be my life.  Do you think youve decided that this isnt gonna be a forever relationship for you? Listener I feel like every time I decide that oh okay this is it I am done...its just hes so sweet! Going through all your breakup stories I was reminded how the hardest part can be the lead-up to a breakup. Especially when youre the one considering leaving.  This just seems like kind of a way to wipe the slate clean and start over and just kind of burn down my life as it is and rebuild it. This listener who Ill call Steve is thinking about breaking up with his boyfriend. Hes in his mid-30s. He was 19 when they started their relationship.  I dont know really what its like to not be in one. At least as an adult. You know part of me wants the freedom to not feel like I have to text if Im running late or decide on what we want for dinner together um.  Are you bored?  Yeah yeah.  Why havent you broken up?  Um because I love him and I dont want to hurt him. And I am scared of being you know older and alone and unable to find somebody else if I wanted another long-term relationship.  Do you think youre going to break up?  Um I mean point blank completely honestly no. My guilt is I know hes open to fixing this and I worry that Im not - I am going to basically keep staying in the relationship and resenting him for keeping me in a relationship that is perfectly good but that I still just wonder about. A few days after we talked Steve sent us an email. I regret saying I resent my boyfriend Steve wrote. He loves me enthusiastically and without reservation and I resent my own inability to fully return that love. When is it is more about you than your partner breaking up can be really confusing. You cannot just blame everything on the person you are leaving. A listener named Mia sent in a voice memo about deciding to breakup with her boyfriend after six years. It is a choice she still struggles with. Mia I realized I just was not happy. It was not anything that he had said or done. So I left. One day about six months after we broke up I told him that I could not talk to him on the phone anymore because it just made me too sad. Shortly after he met a girl. And Ive never heard from him again. That was three years ago. I think that breakups arent black and white. Even if you break up with someone that does not mean that its not ripping your heart out. But breakups are not always sad. They can feel like a liberation especially when you invest a lot of time and energy trying not to breakup. That is how it felt for Beth in Philadelphia when she left her marriage after eight years.  I mean I fell out of love with this person. And I was just so racked with guilt for a very long time about how I had committed in front of all these people to stay with him through thick and thin. It gave me so much shame to think that I could change my mind.  What was the moment when you realized I have to get out of this relationship?  I was uh I mean there were so many little signs. And then one day I ride my bike a lot everywhere I go so I spend a lot of time thinking on my bicycle rides. I was in the middle of a commute and every day I would think about what we were going through and what should I do and how can I fix this? And then just completely involuntarily I just choked out the words I dont want to be married.  You said it out loud.  Yeah. Its like I just couldnt hold it in any longer. Beths husband moved out within a few months. Their divorce was finalized a year later.  And then oddly enough  I met someone very quickly and got remarried.  Really?  Yeah . Which is the last thing I thought I would have wanted. It just kind of happened.  Do you wish youd initiated the divorce sooner?  Yes. I just wish Id been more honest about my feelings sooner. I think it could have spared us both a good deal of pain.  We are just not meant to be in a relationship with each other and that is okay. Honesty and directness are key to Jouvon Evans' breakups. She sent in this voice memo from Windsor Ontario. She describes herself as a serial breaker-upper. And she has it down to a science.  I prepare a speech. Like bullet point notes. I definitely like to do it face to face because I want that person to be able to have their fair share and say their piece because I know that the reason that people go back to each other is because they didnt say everything or didnt explain or communicate everything that they felt during the breakup. And nope Im not doing this back and forth with you. Of course you do not always get the opportunity in a breakup to say your piece. Sometimes your relationship is just over with no warning. That is what happened to a listener named Drew in Iowa.  I think I have always been a person like you could tell me if you did not want to be with me or if something was wrong. It was about a year into their relationship when Drew's boyfriend asked him to take care of his dog while he went out of town. He told Drew he would be back in a week.  One week turned into two or three turned into a month turned into a couple months. And eventually by the time the fall came around it had become apparent to meor at least I had come out of my own delusion I guessthat he wasnt coming back.  Do you know why he left your relationship?  I dont. I do not. And to this day thats really the most difficult part about it. Just you know the imagination spins up and you end up concocting narratives and what ifs and what did I do wrong assigning blame. And thats the most damaging thing. Also causing damage was his boyfriends dog.  This dog had a lot of separation anxiety and eventually after destroying a couple of different kennels he just burrowed right through the wall to get out and try to get to me. And there was no interaction about the issue. Trying to call. Trying to text. And just not having any response. That was obviously the first signal of the road down to recognizing this had been over and I wasnt informed.  Did you get angry?  At first yeah. As a matter of fact it was the following summer he was in town very very briefly and I agreed to have lunch with him. At that point I was resentful but about all I could muster was to just say Hey this is fucked up. And I just left it at that.  Thats amazing. I would come up with other things to say than just that.    Right. That was about all I could muster.  What kind of relationship do you have with the dog?  Actually very good. Its been kind of funny because its the best part of my day when I walk in through the door after getting home from work the dog goes absolutely ape shit. Its actually been kind of nice to have him around.  And just one final question. You noted in your email that you - that you are not in touch. Do you know what he is doing now?  I do not. I guess sort of the little bit darker part of me when I am sleepless at night every once in awhile Ill just Google his name just to make sure no obituaries come up. Drew wishes he could know why their breakup happened. But with no communication he has to figure out how to move on without any answers. A lot of you had different opinions about whether staying in touch after a breakup was the right move. Sometimes though a clean ending is not even possible. You have to figure out how to move forward together. Like when you are related.  When that moving van pulled out of New York it did feel like screw you in a way. Matthew Slutsky wrote in about his relationship with his identical twin brother. They are 35 years old and for their whole lives they have been close. Really close.  We lived together. We did a lot of work together. They went to the same college...  We wrote Please consider our applications together. They got engaged the same summer...  And then same thing with our weddings. They lived in the same neighborhood in Brooklyn. They even had the same car. Honda Civics different colors.  We always were I think expected to kind of move in one stream and so we did that. Thats Peter Matthew's twin. A few months ago he moved with his wife and baby to Philadelphia where the twins grew up. Matthew says it felt like he was dumped when Peter moved away. It was the final blow after a few years of drifting apart that started when they both had kids.  Parenting between brothers doesnt happen. Parenting happens between partners and spouses. And this structure that we had built this way of being in the world I feel no longer was supported and no longer possible when we had kids and for me that was really the hardest time. Trying to keep that sameness when things were diverging and we had two very differentamazing but differentchildren in front of us.  But it is kind of cool that we have this chance to meet these two new kids and bring them into these separate lives which is something that we have never had the ability to really do before.  Hm. Your daughter saw you as an individual without your brother.  Yeah. She sees me as an individual. And I really do think that as part of that I am starting to see myself as an individual. I think thats one of the dynamics thats come out of fatherhood. This opportunity to be my own person and to do this in a way thats really me and not the team. Not the Slutsky brothers. But now Matthew and his family are now considering their own move to Philadelphia.  Of course whenever I tell anyone that were considering this they say Of course you are because your brother did. And that is a dagger in my side. That really hurts. And I want to make sure that Im perfectly clear within myself that if we move its our decision that is in the best interest of our family. And if we do it making sure that its a different relationship that we have and that Im not doing it because my brother did. Ive heard stories of married couples that get divorced and then get remarried and think about their second marriage as the first. And if and when we do move closer together and kind of get that physical closeness back I really want it to be a new relationship. Coming up  He emailed all our friends and he wanted support about returning and I felt like how can I trust him? More about what happens after breakups including one womans story about rebuilding a marriage after her husband left her for his grad student.  My daughter discovered he was on Facebook with her so I got furious and so he unfriended her.  Going through all your breakup stories has been emotional. You all are bringing up some stuff up for me. There was one afternoon when I was going through the inbox and before I knew it I was eating a bowl of ice cream and listening to Celine Dion sing the song All By Myself. But we are helping each other too. We have been sharing together how you got through your worst breakups in what we have been calling a breakup survival kit. It is a Google doc and it has been amazing to watch you click in and add what you have read or listened to what you have watched or just general stuff that you have done to help you get over breakups. One suggestion that I really loved came in from Rosie in Brooklyn who was having a hard time after a breakup last fall. Rosie So I like did what all people do when they are going through a breakup which is just like just troll the internet for anything and everything you can read about other people's breakups. And what to do if you have been broken up with. And how to make your heart stop feeling like it is just a piece of Jell-O sitting there. And I came across a post on Reddit which was actually the most helpful and resonating thing for me. The Reddit post is called How to Handle Getting Dumped Like a Pro. It is full of some really sage advice that often bears repeating. Like rule number one of getting dumped No Contact. Immediately. I mean it. Because as the post says He needs time to process you need time to process and every time you make a fool of yourself texting things you will most definitely regret later the response you receive  will be like getting dumped all over again. Rosie posted the link to that Reddit post under the Things to Read tab in our breakup survival kit. You can find it at deathsexmoney.org. Just look for the link on the right hand side of the page. And inspired by our breakup survival kit we are having a MOVIE night! Next Wednesday February 22 starting at 30 pm Eastern30 pm Pacific we are all going to press play on the movie 10 Things I Hate About You that classic breakup movie that is also a favorite of the Death Sex  Money team. Come watch a movie with us. All the details are on our Facebook page. On the next episode comedian Cristela Alonzo. She broke out as the first Latina to create write and produce her own network TV show. And then it was cancelled after one season. Shes back with a new comedy special called Lower Classy but she told me she actually feels lower-middle classy these days.  I have the kind of money where I can go to Target and buy anything I want without having to look at the price.  I am going to the clothing section now!  Exactly! I am like bring me that Mossimo I can afford it you know what I mean.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. After a breakup there is the recovery from a breakup. And it can be really hard to predict how long that will take.  When we broke up there was a span of like half a year a year when I still thought fondly of her. I think thats what they say about heroin users right? You just remember the good times. This is Simon. Thats not his real name.  The bad things that happened the fights the violence. It wasnt part of the memory. Simon wrote in about a relationship that ended about two and a half years ago. He met his girlfriend at a bar. Soon after they were spending every night together. But their relationship was a tumultuous one. There was a lot of fighting. Sometimes he says things got physical.  There was a time when I think she had picked me up from work and another fight broke out. She said that is it Im driving you home. At some point within a couple miles from her house she just hauled off with a closed fist and cracked me in the face once twice three times in a row.  Punched you?  Oh yeah. Right in the cheek cheekbone area.  Did it hurt?  Oh yeah. You dont really anticipate how hard someone can hit until you actually get hit by them. It was uh I saw a few stars.  Did you think about leaving the relationship right then?   No. And I think thats when - I really do think that is when I realized I was experiencing what - I had girl friends who had domestic violence issues before and of course it was always like why dont you just leave? And when I would think about leaving it was like you know what the things that Im in it for outweigh those once a month blowup fights.  Did you tell anyone she was violent with you?  Not for awhile. Um when I would talk to friends about it my friends would either say well its not that big of a deal. Youre a guy just hold her arms down until she stops. Or it was shock and appalled that they couldnt see it from the outside when it was going on.  Could you just hold her arms down?  No! The fighting continued. And Simon told me it got worse.  There was one night where she pushed me down half a flight of stairs in the apartment. He broke up with her after that. They got back together. And then she broke up with him.  Its not to say I didnt try to get back with her a few times. Which I think is the nature of domestic violence against you. You just always feel like maybe that was right where I needed to be. Or maybe it was something that I actually did wrong this whole time.  Did she break your heart?  Yeah. Yeah. Um. And I think that even now its still broken.  If you could be back together with her would you?  Thats a question I think I deal with maybe more often than Id like to admit. But yeah I think there is plenty of things I think back and she unwittingly became the measuring stick from which I compare all of the relationships to. Whether it be the ability to be emotionally vulnerable or the personality types the witty exchanges. Or the sex. Everything is always used as Well Ive had better. I do sincerely worry that I might not ever have better. And that is an uncomfortable thing to admit when the person who Im talking about could make me feel scared for my life. All the things that have been threatened just by the things that shes done. Its really uncomfortable to say. But yeah. I think I would.  I think about why do people return to someone whos hurt you so much? And I just felt like we had too much between us. Nan Bauer-Maglin and her husband are one of those couples for whom a breakup didnt last. She was 60 years old when they split up. Her husband was 61.  He fell in love with his student who was 25. And it came as rather a great shock actually.  What was it like those first days after he moved out?  Terrible. I thought about suicide. You know theres a great feeling of rejection especially I think if youre older. You feel like an older woman who will never have another relationship. You just feel ugly and invisible and sad and quite gray. The feeling of grayness was very strong.  Did you stay in touch with him after he moved out?  Yeah we did. And that might have - it might have been a mistake. I kept debating it. We emailed every day and talked every day except on weekends. But then after about a year or a year and a half I just decided I didnt want to do that. If I wanted to move on I had to let go. And so we stopped. And it was pretty soon after that it that he decided he wanted to return. And it was very hard because I felt like how do I know this is going to be it? But then again we had 25 years between us and a family and everything and I just I wanted to return to that relationship.  How did you deal with the humiliation of your friends witnessing this whole thing and then reconciling?  I dont think I dealt with it well. I felt very humiliated. Very embarrassed. Very ashamed in certain ways. Like a failure. I felt all my rhetoric about being a strong independent woman was undermined and revealed that actually all I wanted was to be in a couple. And a number of my friends were very angry that I decided to return to him and didnt want to talk to him and didnt want to see us. But actually I learned some things from the breakup.  What did you learn that you wanted to change?  Well I learned that I was too negative. And that I nagged. And that little things bothered me. And all of that went away when we returned. It just wasnt important anymore. Like her husband Nan was a college professor. And after they got back together she published a book about the experience of being broken up with as an older woman. She titled it Cut Loose.  First I was gonna call it Dumped. But thats so negative. You are cut loose you are betrayed they break up with you. But Cut Loose is also about freedom. I sort of knew that I could be on my own and I had friends and I was very committed to keeping all my relationships. Nan and her husband were together for 13 more years. And then this past summer he suddenly got sick. He died a week after being diagnosed with pancreatic cancer.  The horrible part was that we didnt have really time to talk about anything or to talk to each other or talk to the kids. Because it was so fast.  Did your time apart and when you were broken up did the feelings of abandonment from back then resurface in any way?  It did and I thought a lot about the similarities and differences to that experience.  What felt the same?  The same was that I knew I was going to be totally lonely. And there was a sense of anger. I think people feel that when someone dies. I thought you know why did he do this? Didnt he know it was going to be so hard? But I knew he couldnt help himself. Whereas the first time I was angry and he could have helped himself. Um but its much better because I dont feel rejected.  Do you feel cut loose at all now?  Yes. Yes. I think death cuts you loose and also pushes you towards if youre older towards thinking about dying a lot. In some ways I would like to die. Because I miss him a lot. But also I dont want to die because I want to see all the kids grow upthe grandkids I mean the kids are grown upand I want to see them prosper.  Yeah. When you think back on your marriage and your love story with your husband do you think its a good one?  Oh entirely. Even the bad parts. But I also feel the loss a great deal.  You know the stages of grief? I kind of went through all of those. I started reading more about divorce and death.  You said death?  Yeah like divorce as a death in the family. Just the stages of grief and how you allow yourself to grieve. A woman we are calling Michelle is going through a divorce right now. She called me while her five-year-old daughter was at school.  I have somebody looking up at me. She depends on me for everything. Its just sad.  Youre being watched by someone that you want to protect.  Absolutely. I cant have those ugly breakdown moments. You know? I cant let her see me that way. Sometimes Ill snap at her and Ill apologize later. But I kind of am grieving in silence. At night when she goes to to bed or when shes not here or maybe sometimes when Im at work Ill have a breakdown on the way to the car or whatever you know.  What is it that youre crying for?  I thought we were better than this you know? I thought we were better than the infidelities the resentment the contempt. All of the stuff that happens and builds up in marriages throughout years. It just grows and then it explodes. I mean there were so many things wrong in the marriage and Im glad that I made the decision that I did. But its still just incredibly sad because I feel like I broke my daughters heart. Thats - that is maybe one of the toughest things. You know?  Yeah. When your daughters not around when youre by yourself when a wave of sadness hits you. What do you do?  I close my eyes. I go into myself and I just focus on my breath and I say over and over in my head focus on me. I have to focus on my breath. Thats the only thing that I can control. Focus on my breath.  The only thing that Ive got going for me is that Im breathing. Trying to remember that. Still breathing. This listener whom we are calling Thomas sent in this voice memo. Hes also right in the middle of a divorce.  Im not sure if Im mourning for the relationship or for the waste of time. Its hard to see that there was really any value in the relationship at all. Thomas is 25. He and his wife got married right out of college. Two years in he found text messages she was sending another man.  That was the first time. And we tried fixing things after that. But that didnt work and there was a second time. So this kind of repeated. And that was really difficult for me. And my house felt like a hostile place. So I asked her to leave.  And youre young. Youre at an age when I imagine many of your friends are not married. Do you know many people whove gone through divorce?  Not really actually. At least growing up I never knew anybody who was divorced. I have met a couple of people through work more recently but thats it. I really dont know anybody.  How much are you talking with your ex?  Frequently.  What are you talking about?  We rely on each other for emotional support to just - like were the only people who understand what happened to the other person. She reassures me that things are gonna go all right.  Are you looking forward to your divorce being final?  In some ways. But only - I think those ways will be very fleeting. The scariest part for me is what else comes with that. Because I have to figure out where to live. I have to just figure out who I am. Like every box that I get to check I get closer to having to be on my own and figure out my own shit.  Yeah.  And thats hard.  Yeah. I got divorced when I was 30. Do you have any questions for me?  So many questions.    How do you look back on your marriage? Your first marriage?  Oh that is a big question.  With many answers. I look back on it now and um. And it feels like a completely different version of my life. It feels like a long time ago. I also think of it now like with a kind of um compassion for both of us because we were young and we were figuring out a lot together. But I definitely feel like after that marriage was over I felt stronger than I had ever had - like I never it just summoned more from me than I ever had been asked of before. You know? When everything was wiped away what did I want to build back? And that was terrifying and it also was such an incredible opportunity because you get to think about what are the things that you want in your life and whats important.  Thats good to hear. Thats really good to hear. Thats a listener were calling Thomas. And Thomas to my memories I will add what Nan Bauer-Maglin wrote in her book Cut Loose Let us not be Pollyanna-ish there is pain lasting pain or at very best distant echoes of pain and traces of loss even as one goes forward. Still in that book's dedication Nan offered her husband an ironic or sardonic thank you. She wrote He and I both learned a lot about lovingapart and together. Thank you so much to all of you who shared your breakup stories. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville California. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to Brooke Gladstone for being the voice of Reddit for us. Our intern is Adriana Rush. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. You can email us anytime your show ideas or reactions to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And subscribe to our weekly newsletter at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. We will remind you in next week's newsletter about the movie night on February 22. Watch 10 Things I Hate About You with us. All the details are on the Death Sex  Money Facebook page. And keep adding to our breakup survival kit about what is helped you through heartbreak. For Beth the woman who decided to get divorced on her bike ride a new ritual provided some comfort after her husband moved out and took most of their furniture with him.  It was so empty. I have these beautiful hardwood floors and so I would just dance. I would get home from work and I would drink some wine and then just play all the terrible music that I wasnt encouraged to listen to during my marriage.  Is there a particular song that you remember dancing to?  A lot of Enya.   You really went there. You were like self care man.  Yeah. My poor neighbors. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.