Ken Jeong There was definitely that question mark of like I want to perform but I dont think its in the cards for me maybe Ill just be one of those doctors that couldve done something else but youre doing something more noble. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Ken Jeong got his big break playing an Asian mobster named Mr. Chow in The Hangover.  Ohhh you insult my mother cooking you insult my mother cooking! The movie was an unexpected hit in 2009  earning more than 460 million dollars worldwide. It made Ken Jeong famous. He became known for his catchphrases and for his furious naked pounce out of the trunk of a car. Audiences were laughing at Mr. Chow but his anger came from a very real place.  Theres like a 10 min rant that I go on in the desert in Vegas. And Im just yelling as Mr. Chow. It was almost an out-of-body experience. It was a subconscious rage against the machine if you will of cancer. What is going on? This sucks. While he was filming this role that would launch his career Kens wife Tran was being treated for stage three breast cancer.  Why did it happen to Tran? Why is it happening at this time? I dont get it. Just all sorts of frustration. After The Hangover Ken went on to star in The Hangover II and III and six seasons of the TV show Community. But Ken and his wife met years earlier in the LA hospital where they both worked as doctors. She in family medicine he in internal medicine. Ken grew up in North Carolina the son of South Korean immigrants. When he went to college he started out pre-med at Duke and considered switching over to the drama school. But then didnt.  I always joked that I was Koreaned into staying pre-med. But the truth of the matter is it was definitely dialog with me and my parents. My father in particular was very great  he would come to all my plays he would come to all my performances. He knew I was talented. He would say I dont deny your talent. Youre amazingly talented. I just dont knowas a short Korean-American in American society what are the chances of you making it?  Were you planning for a long career in medicine?  Yeah I was. I felt like this is where I was headed. I started doing stand-up comedy during medical school just as a hobby like once every three months at a bar where there was open mic nights. Actually it got me through med school in many ways looking back. A couple times I remember doing it before a mid-term just before an exam just to relieve my stress a little bit. In many ways it was like a stress reliever.  And then residency is just  thats just working constantly. And not sleeping. From what I understand you would still do improv at midnight on Saturday nights while you were a resident?  Yeah. My medical residency was my favorite time in my medical career even though I was the busiest and working 90-100 hours a week. The director of my residency was a really enlightened man who to this day still inspires me. He just was my  in basketball terms this is a basketball reference  he was like my Phil Jackson he looked at life a little bit left of center. A little bit zen in some ways. I interviewed for residency at 10 different hospitals around the country and he was the only guy who saw my resume and said Thats really cool that you do stand-up.  You included it on your resume?  Yeah I included it on my resume. I wanted to see how they responded. Some would say Thats cute or some would be like Whatever. But he was the first person to really embrace that and the only person out of every place I interviewed and he said something Ill never forget  it was like 20 years ago he told me this. I know people will tell you you can be a better doctor because of your comedy background I will also make the observation that you can actually be a better comedian because of your medical background.  How?  I think just handling the stress of it all. Having the endurance to be on call for like 24-36 hours. When Im working on Community on a 17-hour day its a lot like being on call. There is something to be said about having a stamina when youre doing very long film shoots on anything. Ive always operated under the philosophy of if I can handle med school and residency than I can handle this. It helps on more of a psychological end I suppose.  I was thinking about that because whether youre on stage doing stand-up or on screen your confidence as a performer is so clear. Youre huge. You just fill up the space. How much of that confidence comes from doctors have a reputation for having healthy egos and being confident...  Thank you.  I agree. Not a question but a very accurate praise and observation. No I think there is something to be said about going through school and college and med school and surviving it and having that as a badge of honor. And also as a physician or being on call there is a kind of intensity and strength in that intensity that comes out. I think its more of a visceral attitude that Ive taken from my life. I think youre right. There is a sense of that go for it attitude. Absolutely.  You moved out to California after your residency training and you met your wife Tran Ho at the hospital where you were working together. What did you first notice about her?  I remember we would pass by each other in the hospital occasionally when we were rounding. She was very pretty very together. She just seemed very together. I remember we had a doctors' night out like young doctors. Doctors in their late 20s early 30s. We all got together for a happy hour at a bar. And uh we both at the same time we call ourselves the other couple of When Harry Met Sally. Were like the Carrie Fischer Bruno Kirby couple. We had both broken up with our respective mates at that time and we were both bonding over that. It was almost in that scene where Carrie Fischer and Bruno Kirby -- theyre not looking to hook up. If anything they want to get out of there but then they realize they have so much in common. Thats kind of what happened to us. We both realized -- oh my god this is amazing. She made me laugh. She was really the first person I ever met that made me laugh so hard. Shes just so funny. We really bonded by our love of comedy. You dont meet a lot of people in medicine much less date them who like that but we had that in common. I remember one night we went out to sushi and it just ended up being a nice little date night except being the whore that I am I went up and did stand up comedy. Hey! Watch me perform watch me yuk yuk! Thats not a great date but  And then as youre dating you incorporate her into your act.  Yeah with her permission.  Shes Vietnamese doctor last name Ho. Im not fucking with you. Doctor Ho. Im a comic this is pure joy. 'Get in the car Ho! Make me some rice Ho. You complete me Ho.'  I ran every joke by her. It just shows what thick skin she had. Shes like a comedians dream for a wife or a girlfriend. Because shes just so secure in herself. Her last names Ho and Im doing like the worst hackeyiest ho jokes. Even when we got married she was like I knew I married a comedic actor at heart. Not a doctor. And the whole while the pipe dream was to be an actor. Not even to do stand up -- I missed acting. I missed performing on that level. But if it never happened that was fine. During lunch breaks I would go on tape for Will and Grace or something like that.  While youre working as a physician?  It was almost like buying a lotto ticket. Thats really what it was. I didnt mind  I never booked anything by the way I never got any parts  and I didnt care because I would brag to my friends  Hey guess who did a pre-read for Two and a Half Men yo! Really? Yeah totally. Wow hes so badass. He can do it all. He takes care of the sick AND he knows some of the production assistants on Two and a Half Men! A few years after Ken and Tran got married Ken took the leap. He quit his day job to pursue acting full time. He and Tran had twin daughters Alexa and Zooey. They were five months old and still breastfeeding when when Tran found a lump.  Its so common to get a plugged duct or mastitis. Those are very common. As physicians we would see those all the time and reassure the patient  These are just plugged up ducts that happens youll be fine. This one didnt go away. It just got bigger. I remember the whole time neither of us were thinking of cancer in the differential of that diagnosis. We were just like Oh man its probably infected ugh. We actually tried some antibiotics and nothing was working. It was just getting bigger and more red. That to me I thought was an infection.  Was she seeing another physician or were you both looking at it and diagnosing it being two physicians yourselves?  Both. Both self-diagnosis and then we ended up seeing a physician. She did a biopsy and it was negative for cancer. Yet it kept getting bigger and Im like Great this infection is getting worse. Maybe its a staph infection. I was just worried that it was an abscess. I remember thinking This is getting more red more painful and its just hot to the touch. We went back to the surgeon and she did basically an excisional biopsy of the whole mass and she said it didnt look like an infection. And then literally a couple days later it came back as stage III triple negative breast cancer. Which is one of the top three most aggressive breast cancers there is. So it was just the worst day of my life. It was just How the F could this happen?  Did you have the conversation what if you die from this cancer?  Um you know within 24 hours of the diagnosis she had told me that the fact that we have Alexa and Zooey and we have a beautiful family together I regret nothing no matter what happens. Yeah. So she was that strong. Stronger than I would have been in that situation. Which made me even more angry that why is someone so strong and so well loved by all her friends and family and so respected. Why are bad things happening to good people like her? I did everything in my power to actually think like a doctor and think clinically. You kinda had to just to survive. He was thinking like a doctor but acting like a comedian. Coming up Ken on his role in The Hangover which he decided to take even though Tran was going through chemo.  It was actually Tran that was like you gotta do it. Youre kind of burning out right now. We are working on something new and exciting at Death Sex  Money its different than anything weve done before when it comes to helping you deal with your money anxieties. This time were going to be offering some concrete advice. And to make it happen we need you to send us questions about a money stress thats on your mind. Whatever it is it should be something youre dealing with right now... that you could use a little real-time help with. Maybe youre in a job where you manage other people and you feel the weight of being responsible for their financial well being. Maybe youre about to get married and are wondering if a prenup is smart or if itll jinx you. Or maybe you find yourself shopping to alleviate stress and want to make a change. Whatever youre thinking about tell us. Record a voice memo or send an email to deathsexmoneywnyc.org.  And well tell you more about this project as it gets closer to being ready for the world. On the next episode comedian Maria Bamford whose performing days started when she was a kid. Her dad would give her a special time to talk at the dinner table and make the rest of her chatty family be quiet.  I remember the feeling of like you gotta you gotta say something really good right now. Like you gotta see something like killer. Like okay. Um there are these okay Miss Labadi fifth grade she told me about these bodies in Amsterdam that were found beneath the bogs fully formed human beings with skin on and they are still there but they are from the 1400s. That is my time! Thank you very much. Like it had to be good. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Ken Jeong won an MTV Movie Award for his role in The Hangover. The category being MTV was Best W-T-F Moment.  More importantly than this I want to take the opportunity to thank my wife Tran She taught me that life is short and dont be afraid to take chances and I just want to tell you that Tran is cancer free for two years. I love you. And toodaloo motherf-----!  Theres a lot in there.  Yeah. It was during that time  the MTV Movie Awards coincided with our two year anniversary of being cancer free. She had responded to all the treatment. And statistically theres only a 23 chance of that literally a 23 chance of being cured. And it just literally happened like that weekend. Yeah. And then by that time The Hangover had been out in theaters and it had just changed my career it changed my life at that point professionally. It was all happiness. It was all happy. And privately even more happy because we knew that we had miraculously survived.  When you got the script and read the role did you have any hesitancy because of the way it was  its an Asian caricature the character Mr. Chow.  Yeah if you looked at my past work  I didnt have an accent in Knocked Up or Role Models or in a lot of stuff I did. I was very careful to make it a meta joke. Youre making fun of the characters. I always envisioned Mr. Chow as a mirage. Remember it was a hangover and it was the day after theyd been roofied so everythings really foggy and gray. It could have been an MIT professor for all I knew but theres the haze.  Theyre the hazy memories of three white dudes.  It is like Mr. Chow. These were very deliberately meta stereotypes. I was always careful in anything I do not just The Hangover when youre doing a role with an accent to kinda  you are making fun of that stereotype. I did Vietnamese bits  my character's not Vietnamese  but I did it just to make Tran laugh. In the movie I say g cht in Vietnamese that means chicken die. I was hoping that would make it in the movie so when Tran saw it it would be like What the hell? And Cm n bn means thank you in Vietnamese but the way I played it was come on. It was almost like an accent. There was a lot of Vietnamese in that movie that I deliberately sprinkled in there.  To make your wife laugh.  Yeah at that time I did not know The Hangover would become The Hangover. Its the most obscene love letter to a spouse one could ever have I suppose.  It really is.  Seven years on does it still feel like cancer is a part of your marriage?  Every time she sees the oncologist its still a part. Youre still a cancer survivor. Its become what my mentor in residency had always said. This blending of comedy and medicine  I feel like this is that. Personally what my wife has been through personally  and what Ive gone through professionally  its merged. Those lanes have converged. I feel like thats kind of  more than the TV and film that I do  I feel like in many ways this is some sort of at least higher purpose for me to live for. Its become my church in many ways.  Is your physicians license current?  Its still active. Im not practicing but technically Im still active.  Why do you keep it active?  I think its more to keep me grounded to remind me of who I am and where I came from. Its a hard won skill. At the very least. Its a very hard won skill  Im extremely proud to have gotten that degree. And although I may never use it its something that is important to me. It doesnt matter if I have the license or not at the end of the day but at this point its more of a symbolic reminder for me of who I am. So I just want to keep my options open. There might be an urgent care shift I can pick up.  You just never know. Any walk in clinics listening to this interview right now Im available for shifts. Thats Ken Jeong. Hes currently a judge on the reality singing competition The Masked Singer and he put out a stand up special on Netflix last year. Death Sex  Money is a listener supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Ayo Osobamiro. Special thanks to Caitlin Pierce Zach Mack and Joe Plourde for their help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. And thanks to Sharon Mcaleer in New York who donates to our show each month. Join Sharon and become a Death Sex  Money member to support our work at deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Kens wife Tran is in remission today. And she still works at Kaiser Permanente where she and Ken met.  Shes hasnt really transitioned into movies yet I do not know... I dont even think shes done a web series. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.