Lucinda Williams Who was it thatKatharine Hepburn or Bette Davis or Lauren Bacallone 'em said you know At my age I can say and do whatever the hell I want to say or do or -  Is that how you feel now?  Pretty much yeah. This is  Death Sex and Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot .and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale.  Am I too blue for you Am I too blue? When I cry like the sky Like the sky sometimes Am I too blue? This Lucinda Williams song Am I Too Blue is from her self-titled album which came out in 1988. Its one of my favorites of all time. It is tough sexy and refuses to gloss over the pain of loss. Lucindas in her 60s now...but all her life shes been writing songs about...death sex and money.  Or at least death and sex. Do I have any songs about money? Lets see.  I feel like -  Yeah there are a couple of lines here and there. Theres a line in Buttercup that says and now you borrowyou rough me up and now you want to borrow money or something like that.  You already sucked me dry Cannot do it anymore honey You roughed me up and made me cry Now you wanna borrow money  Whos that about?  This ex-boyfriend.  Uh-huh.  You know he washe was in a sober living house when I met him and I thought thisll be cool. This guyll be cool. No. So he moved out and moved in with me and started drinking again. Then unbeknownst to me he started messing around with heroin. So to make a long story short I becameI know what it is like to be a battered woman let us put it that way. It was like looking at him like his eyesI was thinkin' to myself I am gonna die. You know this must be how it feels. So now I understand. You always think Oh why do not they just leave?  Why did not you just leave?  Because you kind of go into this numb state. It is kind of like a kid does when a kid is growing up in a dysfunctional family. Like when the parents are fighting or whatever. You know and the kid kind of goes into that sort of like protective mode of you know getting real quiet and going and hiding in the closet you know. And I knowI know what that is like too. Umm... you know get in these relationships and you get stuck.  Yeah. Well we just dove right into it there.  We got right into it. And myyeah. My publicist is sitting out here with this bewildered look on his face like Oh my gosh. I did not know this Lu! This was how my conversation with Lucinda Williams started. She was in Nashville I was in New York. So we couldnt see each other. But she didnt flinch from the broken and messy moments of life.  I have always enjoyed pushing people's buttons you know. I dont think I have any filters left anymore. Lucinda's newest album is called The Ghosts of Highway 20. Its named for the interstate that runs from Texas to South Carolina cutting through Louisiana where Lucindas from.  I know this road like the back of my hand Same with the stations on the FM band Farms and truck stops firework stands I know this road like the back of my hand Lucinda was born in Lake Charles Louisiana. Her father Miller Williams was a noted Southern poet. Her mother Lucille studied piano at Louisiana State. The family traveled around a lot for Lucindas dad's work as he took different fellowships and teaching positions to places like Chile and Mexicobut they always circled back to the American South. Lucindas the oldest of three kids... but she remembers feeling pretty solitary growing up.  I always felt different you know. And um just kind of moreI think I had awell a lot of it had to do with all the traveling we did.  Were you lonely when you were growing up?  Was I lonely? No I do not remember feelingno because I justI lovedI could escape into my you know artistic world.  Hmmm.  I was extremely shy when I was a kid and very sensitive you know. As soon as I learned to read and write I wasI hadI put thisthis notebook together of seven poems and short story by Cindy Williams. Lucinda's my full name but I was called Cindy when I was growing up. My dad remembered... when I was in first gradeI think it was first grade or second gradethis was in Macon Georgia and you know the kids in my class were asked to bring in a sample of whatever their hobby was and I brought in mymy folderyou know my notebook folder thingseven poems and a short story.  Oh.  And there it sat next to all the other you know rock collections and whatever else the kids brought in. When Lucinda was about nine or ten her parents split up. Her mom moved out of the house.  We lived with my dad that is the thing in 1960-something. I mean when your parents split up you did not move in with your dad.  Yeah.  My mother moved out you know. My dad helped her get a place. You know that is all just kind of a big blur. Um there wasI do not remember exactly when you know they separated. There is a picture of us with my stepmother that same year you know. But then there is also a picture of my stepmother and my mother you know in the same room so it was all very kind of unusual. You know my mother she was diagnosed withtechnicallyparanoid schizophrenic tendencies. And manic depression. I think thats what it was. So she was always in therapy I mean from the timeprobably since pretty close to after the time I was born she was in and out of mental hospitals.  Did you understand when you were a girl that your mother was sick?  Yes because my dad was actually quite protective of her and he would say It is not her fault she is not well. Which is a good thing  Mmhmm.  On the other hand you know because all kids have littwhen you do not get that nurturing maternal nurturing thatthat is sort of what defines you know how you are going to relate and deal with the world for the rest of your life. So I do not blame my dad forthat is how he dealt with it. There is a part of that that is healthy the only problem is that I was never you know sort of given permission or never gave myself permission to you know be angry at my mother. So that is all in there somewhere. See how much I know about therapy?  Yeah.  This is because my mothercause my mother was in therapy all my life and you know she would talk about Carl Jung I mean she read all the books. She had 'em all. The paperbacks of Im Okay Youre Okay. I have got 'em all now. Lucinda's commercial breakthrough was this song Car Wheels on a Gravel Road. It came out when she was 45. It was her first gold album. And the title track describes a little girl trying to make sense of the world around her.  Child in the backseat 'bout four or five years Lookin' out the window Little bit of dirt mixed with tears Car wheels on a gravel road Car wheels on a gravel road A lot of the time Lucinda was in that car with her dad.  These were the years you know when my mother was not well when she was not having a good day or something you know he would take us with him somewhere you know on a drive or something. He took me with him when he went to visit Flannery O'Connor when I was about four or five or something. Flannery O'Connor was he described her as his greatest teacher and so she was kind of a mentor. So she invited him to her house in Milledgeville Georgia. When we got there -  Was it just you and him?  I think it was justyeah I think it was just me. And when we got there we had to wait on the front porch because Flannery was writing. She had a very strict writing schedule and you know she would not receive guests as they used to say. So then finally she came out and greeted us and everything. And she raised peacocks.  Really?  And they were running around all over the place. Yeah well my dadI do notI veryI vaguely recall this because I was probably about four but he says you know that I was chasing her peacocks and apparently I got a big thrill out of that.  I would say that is pretty exciting to get to chase Flannery O'Connor's peacocks around the yard.  I grabbed on to her work when I was probably about fifteen or sixteen you know because she deals with a lot of madness and people who do not fit into society and you know just read everything I could get my hands on.  Who do you remember being your allies when you were a young teenager when you are twelve thirteen fourteen?  Um my dad. I mean I was really closeI mean he saved me really. Because we formed this really really close bond. That lasted throughout her life. After Lucinda started playing guitar she and her dad became an act of sorts.  At parties we would have other writers and around and sitting and drinking and talking and you know. I would go get my guitar and you know play some songs and I would say Dad tell ustell everybody about the time you met Hank Williams. And I would sit and play softly in the background that hymn Farther Along you know? Tempted and tried we are oft made to wander. This was at a certain point in the evening you know when everybody had a few drinks and my dad would sort of start testifying you know like a Methodist minister. Well let me tell you about the time I met Hank Williams. You know. The story goes Lucindas dad met Hank Williams at one of his concerts not long before Lucinda was born.  They went to a bar afterwards. And Hank asked my dad what he wanted to drink and my dad said something like you know Bourbon and water or something and Hank said Williams you oughta be drinkin' beer cause you got a beer drinkin' soul.  That is a cool thing to be told by Hank Williams.  Yeah. So theyyou know he could seecause my dad the poet and all that you know. Wearing the jacket with the leather elbow patches you know andbut he wasyou know underneath all that he was an Arkansas country boy you know and Hank you know saw that in my dad. And my dad used to love to tell that story. Coming up Lucinda tells the story of saying goodbye to her dad on New Years Day last year.  He died on the same day Hank Williams died. You have been sending in the songs that have been your anthems of change. More than 450 so far. And I have to tell youthey are awesome. The top anthem so far is Landslide. So first thank you Stevie for being there for so many of us. We also got a lot of mentions of the song This Year by the The Mountain Goats. A listener named Beejay said There is no other way to put itit was a clusterfuck of a year. My husband was in Afghanistan I would moved to a lonely new city and a disappointingly tedious new job I had recurring health issues that no one could explain a trainee dentist shattered a tooth into my jaw my house flooded my pets got cancer and I wasperhaps unsurprisinglydiagnosed with depression. And so I listened to this song... The Mountain Goats I am gonna make it through this year If it kills me I am gonna make it through this year If it kills me For Celeste the song is Q.U.E.E.N. by Janelle Monae with Erykah Badu. Janelle Monae Yeah I amma keep singing I amma keep writing songs I am tired of Marvin asking me 'What is going on?' March to the streets 'ecause I am willing and able Categorize me I defy every label And while you are selling dope we are gonna keep selling hope We rising up now you gotta deal you gotta cope Will you be electric sheep Electric ladies will you sleep? Or will you preach? And Jessie Merritt remembers the band Queen getting her through a breakup in her 20s. I will always be grateful for what I learned in the relationship and that feeling in my gut that closed the door did not look back and turned up the radio as I drove away. Queen I want to break free I want to break free I want to break free from your lies You are so self-satisfied I do not need you I got to break free God knows God knows I want to break free So many good songs that we all need every once in a while. So keep submitting your anthems of change. Instead of one playlist were going to make a few and we will start sharing them soon. Imagine what well do with these tunes backing us up.  I have got to break free On the next episode Comedian Michael Ian Black talks about life at 44living in a house he cant afford worrying about his mothers failing health... and paying attention to his waistline. Michael Ian Black Around 40 you go oh something has changed. And what has changed physiologically I couldnt tell you. But I know what the results are. And the results are I know have what we delicately call a paunch.  A small one.  Yeah. And I saw you look down at it. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Lucinda Williams' mother died more than than ten years ago. Her father Miller Williams died at the beginning of last year. But Lucinda knew he was losing him before that from Alzheimer's.  I tell you what the moment that I reallythat shook me you know we were sitting and having wine and relaxing in the late afternoon in the sun room. And I was sitting next to my dad and I forget how the subject came up but he said in a real calm straightforward voice I cannot write poetry anymore. And I said What? And he said I cannot write poetry anymore. Wooooo... and I just... I just lost it. Just like I am doing right now. So thatoh I just sat there and just cried. And that was you know that was reallythat was when I lost him. That was just so intense because that was part of who he was you know? I mean that was his whole identity.  And it is kind ofit is stunning that he was able to recognize that and say that.  Yeah that is -  It is not something that you noticed it was something he was letting go of.  Exactly. Yeah. Because I would not have known otherwise.  Did you feel like that was him trying to say goodbye to you?  Probmaybe I do not know. Yeah. I guess. And then the last time I saw him was in August. My album had just come out not too long before that and I would taken one ofhis poem called Compassion and turned it into a song. My stepmother Jordan arranged to have afor me to play just by myself at the house. Have a little house concert.  I wrote this song from dad's poem called Compassion. And it was not easy.  My dad read. He was still able to read a poem you know. So we have him on film you know reading his poem Compassion and then me singing the song. Miller Williams Have compassion for everyone you meet Even if they do not want it What seems conceit Bad manners Or cynicism Is always a sign Of things no ears have heard No eyes have seen You do not know what wars are going on Down there where the spirit meets the bone  Have compassion for everyone you meet Even if they do not want it What seems conceit Is always a sign Always a sign Always a sign For those you encounter Have compassion Even if they do not want it What seems bad manners Is always a sign Always a sign Always a sign  Has there been anything about mourning your parents that is surprised you?  Um. I do not know. I feel like I have not reallylikeit seems like II mean the grieving process is so strange with my dad it is so different because he and I had such a different relationship than I did with my mother. But her death was a complete surprise and shock. She had gone in the hospital and you know wewith what seemed like just a routine thing. It seems like I cried more when my mother died. I just did notyou know we did notthere were a lot of things I didnt get to say. All I can say is it is justI do not like the aging process. I do not like getting older because of all the loss. It just gets harder and harder.  We gotta stand right by each other Gotta try harder baby I gotta stand right by you And you gotta stand right by me We gotta stand right by each other Gotta try harder baby I gotta stand right by you And you gotta stand right by me I gotta push myself But your gotta push yourself I cannot do it baby all by myself We can make it better baby Make a happier home But you gotta help me I cannot do it alone One new thing thats come into Lucindas life in last few years... is her marriage. She got married at age 56 to her manager Tom Overby. On stage during an encore in Minneapolis.  Tom I give you this ring as a symbol of my vows. With all that I am and all that I have I honor you.  Has losing your parentsdo you feel like that is affected your marriage? Are you feeling it in your marriage?  I thank god everyday that I have Tom. He lost his dad right before mine. His dad had a form of dementia also. And when his dad died you know his parents are Catholic his mother is very you knowI envied her faith. All of the rituals and everything you know the caskets there at the cemetery and the priest has the vial of holy water and hands it to each one of the family members you know and you sprinkle it over the casket andI used to think oh you know that isnone of that is necessary you know. Just dig a hole in the ground or whatever. But I really feltthere was just something really precious about it.  Yeah.  You know. And because his mother was so... you could tell she just believed and she was so genuine. I mean I remember sitting there and Tom's mothereveryone else was sitting and she walked up by herself and walked up to theto Tom's dad laying there and you know and spoke to him. And I just lostI cried then. That is when II just cried like a baby. That was the mostone of the  most moving things I have ever seen. And basically she was saying I will be there. Save a place for me. And you know she meant it.  Someone told me theres a better place than this Where I can go and see my mothers kiss A place so full of love somewhere up above So open up the doors of heaven let me in  We have talked about death but we did not talk about sex or money.  I know I have some questions  Oh no.  How do you think about sex at this point in your life?  God. I tell you what. It is a drag getting older. I said that before and I will say it again. I do not care what everybody says Oh it gets better. Crap. No. It fuckin' sucks. You know what? Everything dries up. It all dries up. So Im just like fuck it. I do not know. I do not know what to do.  Well I appreciate your honesty. Often when I ask pe -  I cannot believe I just said this over theon the fucking radio. Is nothing sacred anymore? I am like who do I think I am you know? Tina Fey. Oh god.  Um.  How unromantic.  Do you expect to make more money this year than last year?  Hell yes.  How are you feeling? Hell yes?  Oh god yes. Yeah.  Why do you say it that way?  It is taking over the sex. No I am just kidding. Because I am gettingI am just more successful. It is amazing. I am definitely an anomaly. I am 62 years old out on the road. Selling out shows. So you know that is some consolation I guess tohaving to deal with this fucking age thing. Thats Lucinda Williams. She turned 63 last month. Her latest album Ghosts of Highway 20 is available February 5. And you can see a list of all of her songs in this episode on our website at deathsexmoney.org Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein Hannah McCarthy and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. Keep sending in the songs that have gotten you through big changes in lifeor helped you realize you need to make a change. If you want to try one from Lucinda I recommend the song Side of the Road. Send your picks to us a deathsexmoneywnyc.org or follow the link on our website at deathsexmoney.org.  This is the most openit sort of reminds me of the Marc Maron. And this has just now gone one step further.  He did not get to menopause.  Exactly. Yeah we did not talk about menopause. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.