Hey its Anna. This episode today is part of our series about getting older right now. And before we get into it I want to let you know that we are doing a live national radio call-in about aging on Wednesday February 3rd from 8-10pm Eastern time. Ill be hosting along with Jo Ann Allen whom you heard hosting our episode Just Ask Us Your Stories about Life After 60. We had to postpone this follow-up special because of all the breaking news out of Washington and we are excited to talk together live about what those of you over 60 are noticing about aging right now. Again thats coming up Wednesday February 3rd on public radio stations across the country or you can listen on the Death Sex  Money Facebook or Twitter pages where well be streaming the whole thing. You can also text the word  AGING to the number 70101 and well send you a reminder of when were about to go live. Beverly Glenn-Copeland I really believe that we are constantly affecting everything around us and it responds to us. So if we can hold or primarily hold a positive feeling about the world about ourselves and hold hope we can change the world. This is Death Sex and Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale.  Welcome the spring the summer rain Softly turned to sing again Welcome the bud the summer blooming flower This is Beverly Glenn-Copeland whose music has been an essential salve for me through these last several months. Glenn is a Canadian musician and singer-songwriter who is been quietly putting out albums since the 1970s. This song Ever New was released by Glenn in 1986 on an album called Keyboard Fantasies. The album went largely unnoticed until 2015 when a Japanese record collector emailed to ask Glenn if he had any more copies.  I would not go so much as to say it was exciting. I would say I was thinking Oh that is great! And we must have some around here somewhere. I did not even remember where they were. My wife said Yes this is where they are and she went and pulled them all out.   Otherwise I would still be looking for them.  And he sold those within a week and a half. And then what happened was all of a sudden within probably a month of him selling those records I started getting calls from record companies. Then at that point that was when my jaw hit the floor. Suddenly in his 70s Glenn's career took off and 2020 was supposed to be the year when all this new attention and opportunity was going to come together. A new documentary about Glenn was headed for film festivals. A new collection of his music was being released and an international tour was planned. Then of course the tour was called off.  It was interesting because I really did not have much time to think about the loss of the touring. I was so busy thinking about the loss of a home. Last year Glenn and his wife were also in the midst of moving. They would already sold their old house. When their projected earnings from the tour went away they could no longer afford the place they planned to buy.  We ended up being homeless. That is how I first learned about Glenn's music. Producer Afi Yellow-Duke told me about a GoFundMe his daughter had started that raised about 75000 for Glenn and his wife. Word had spread quickly among his fans and people in the queer community who wanted to help out Glenn a trans elder.  Almost 3000 people from all over the world donated 25 20 30 whatever they could afford and they were people who we knew were also going through difficult times as well because everybody was going through uncertain times. Glenn and his wife were also given a place to stay. When we talked Glenn was sitting next to his electric piano in a guest house overlooking the Atlantic coast in New Brunswick.  We were offered this place in June when we no longer had a home. It is absolutely stunningly beautiful. Anna Sale Who offered it to you?  Two people married to each other both international lawyers a man and a woman who had made a whole lot of money found out about our situation and offered it to us for nothing until we could until Spring at which point they considered that we would have found another home.  Wow. These are people you did not know previously?  Not at all.  They said We have this home on the coast come stay here. What was that like Glenn when people you did not know said come stay?  It was a point of being stunned actually because my wife and I had been under such stress to essentially not know where we were going to live for five months. They called it paying it forward.  Did that feel comfortable to accept for you?  Oh absolutely.   Good.   Totally. If you cant accept a gift when a gift is being given by the universe you got problems.  Hello?   And I work and I work all day and night  I wonder if I am ever gonna get it right I push and I push to get ahead I know I gotta make my daily bread  I know I do not have time to lose I wonder if I really have time to choose I barely have time to shed a tear I hardly have time to shake the fear  And the body says Remember you gotta breathe The body says Take the time to grieve Before he wrote and performed his own music Glenn studied classical singing and performance. He grew up playing piano in a Quaker family in Philadelphia that had a steinway in the living room. He left to go to school in Montreal where he was one of the first black students to study music at McGill University. After McGill he realized he wanted to take his career in another direction.  I want to start to write music that incorporates the music from all over the world and many other cultures. That is what hit me. What I did was I took the guitar and I did not know anything about anybody else doing this either. I started retuning the strings and every piece that would come to me would have a different tuning on the strings and I would have to retune the thing. I played it with a pic as though it was a drum.  Did it feel do you remember a feeling of fear as you were stepping away from all of those familiar slots?  Not even one ounce of it.  Really?  I do not know. No I just went Oh this is what I am going to do next. I do not get it.  Can you tell me about what is it about you that you think makes it feel like not a big deal to say like they are all these ways that people have done this before but I am just going to try something really different and not feel too worried about it.  I do not think I am too sensitive.  I really did not think about I am doing this because I want to create a career. It was a drive.  How were you supporting yourself with money at that point?  Oh listen I had no money.  When I started doing that I had just finished breaking my foot off of my bone. Literally. I was in a full cast on one leg not walking. The only thing I could afford was one little room that was on a second floor. I had to go up on my cast. I ate peanut butter. That is how I met peanut butter and sardines and it was fine. I felt totally free. I was not afraid of it. It was just like this is what it is. I am free to explore this. I am going to explore this. I look on it now with great amazement because youth is like no the great thing about youth is that it is not afraid of anything and the difficulty about youth is it has no idea what it should be afraid of.   How did you get into children's television?  I had a very dear friend and she had a very good friend and this good friend she was a writer for this show. She got in touch with me and asked me if I would be willing to be on this program called the Mr. Dressup show. She said We would love to have you on this show and we are writing you in as a character but we also would like it if you would write music for this show for this particular episode. I did and I had just the most wonderful time. I was just like Oh goody two shoes. You know I had to get dressed up in all these silly costumes right? And I had to talk to these puppets who were just amazing. And um and then I wrote music for the show. Well afterwards they loved it so much that all the other writers started writing me in. And after a while I became a character who was considered to be one of the neighborhood folks in the show. And um and I probably wrote a hundred songs for them and 20 years passed by.  Wow! That is a large portion of your adult life.  Yes it was.  What was like the thing you wanted to convey to a child who was watching?  I wanted to convey to children that what they were looking at made them feel safe made them feel loved made them feel seen not talking down to them but engaging them in their own imagination.  Did you feel seen and heard and safe when you were growing up?  Yes and no. It depends on what aspect of it. I felt very safe as a child in terms of that my home was a safe place and my parents were very safe from that perspective. Now the ways in which I did not feel safe did not happen until I revealed to my parents that I was a boy in a girl's body. Coming up Glenn talks about how he began to understand his gender identity and how his parents reacted to it.  My parents were Black for God's sakes and they knew what it was like to have to be able to be safe in a society in which you were basically second-class citizens.  Last week we asked you to tell us what it is like to be dating during COVID. Rachel My name is Rachel. I am 26. I am single and looking sometimes. Rachel has been trying to meet people during the pandemic which has been very strange. She felt that acutely when she hit it off with a guy she would met on a dating app recently. Rachel We would had a video date. We would had a walking date and then going to his apartment for the first time in this feeling like I did not even know this person and I was not asking for a one night stand but suddenly we were in this really intimate situation because restaurants were not open movie theaters bars nothing's open. The only place you can go is into someone's private home. Keep sending in your experiences of dating during COVID or of wanting to date but not knowing how. Send in your thoughts if you are single and looking especially if you are not straight or not a woman. Separately Rachel's mention of one night stands got us reminiscing about when you could go home with someone without worrying about getting coronavirus. And as we are coming up on Valentine's Day we thought it would be fun to get nostalgic together. So we want to hear your best one night stand stories. This time we would really like you to send in voice memos. Record it and email it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. No matter how long ago tell us about that magical moment of connection that stands out. I for one a married mom with two little kids would really like to hear them. On the next episode we continue our series about being over 60 right now. I talk with 74 year old writer Norma Elia Cant. She grew up on the US-Mexico border the oldest of 11 siblings and spent a lot of her young adulthood making trade-offs like when she had to leave her college and work at the electric company to support her family. Norma Elia Cant I would cry every night because that is not what I wanted to be doing. I did not want to be working in an office typing up contracts for businesses or to let people have their lights no matter how I justified it as it being an essential job that you know people need their electricity it did not mitigate the feeling of I do not belong here.  This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. From the time he was a child Beverly Glenn-Copeland knew he was different from the people he saw around him. But the words he used to describe his gender identity and sexuality changed over the years. In the 1960s when Glenn was a student at McGill he identified as a lesbian and his parents were alarmed when they found out he was dating women. Beverly Glenn-Copeland Well they were frantic absolutely frantic because first of all the literature coming from the psychiatric community at that time called it all a disease. They were trying to protect me from every perspective but in the protecting of me of course it turned into being you know quite repressive. Anna Sale Did you feel their anxiety and their worry as protection or did it feel?  You mean around this particular issue?  Like how did you experience it? You are you say that you can understand their urge to protect what did that feel like?  Yes. No I I understood it as that they were deeply worried about me. Um and that it was not something that I would be able to talk with them about. So from that perspective it was like um not safe.  This is a part of you they cannot handle. Beverly Yes they cannot handle. But later it turned into a bit of a witch hunt unfortunately and they did some things that were actually quite dangerous to my freedom and my health. I was in danger of being put in a hospital and electroshocked.  How did you stop that from happening?  One time they literally forced me into an automobile overpowered me and they took me to this ordinary doctor. He was not a psychologist or a psychiatrist or anything. I was force-marched into this guy's office and he starts picking up the phone to call the hospital to have me committed. I literally ran out the door and outpaced my parents.  You ran away from them.  Yes I ran away from them.  Do you remember where you went when you stopped running? Where did you end up?  I ran into a telephone booth and put my finger down the list of psychiatrists and my fingers stopped at one. It was within two blocks of where I was. I raced to this guy's office with my parents on my heels. They came in shortly after me but I said I need to speak to this psychiatrist by myself. I told him what was happening. He freaked out. He called my parents into the office and said If you do not cease and desist I will take this person into protective custody.  Oh I could not believe it. Of all the psychiatrists in the world I found one who understood.  How did you come back to a relationship with your mother that felt safe after having to outrun her?  It was extremely interesting. At one point my mom from my perspective became so upset about me and so it became so difficult that I felt that every time I spoke with her that she was actually becoming abusive. I understand what was happening. I do understand but at that time I just said to her I do not think I will ever speak to you again in my life and I hung up the phone. I really did not give my mom a second thought and that is the honest truth of it. Then one day a year later I suddenly went Oh I think I will call my mom. I reached for the phone. Literally the phone rang. It was my mother on the other end. Her words were Oh my darling please forgive me. That was the end of that problem.  Wow. What did it feel like to hear those words from her?  Oh it was like Oh of course I forgive you. Let us just get back to being mother and child. I love you. I have always loved you. Let us just get back on that. We were back on it and she was from that point on a champion for me constantly telling me to live my life and defending me in any way.  I am curious having had that experience and feeling the dangers that you could face because of your lack of emotional protection and also legal protection. Did you feel at risk as you were a professional person as you were working in children's television about who you were? Did you have to hide?  No it did not have to change my life. I just went off and continued living my life. I was well aware of the fact that if it became known in the general public that I was transgendered that it would be a difficulty for the parents who had their children watching The Mr. Dress Up Show. I waited. Once I understood that I was transgender which was in 1990 or whatever to say 1996 1995 I let all my close friends know but I did not discuss it in public until 2003. Since coming out publicly in the early 2000s and having his music rediscovered in 2015 Glenn has reached a whole new younger generation of fans. His backing band is also made up of young musicians who are mostly in their mid-20s.  My great dream is that I could take all seven of them with me wherever I go for which I will need thousands and thousands and thousands and thousands of dollars. I do not know how it is going to happen but it is my prayer.  How has your life been changed by spending all this time with your band?  They became like teachers.  Oh teachers.  Yes teachers. That is what young people are teachers for older people and older people are teachers for young people. They were totally hip to absolutely everything that was going on in the world musically from one pole to the other in every single country. They would sit around discussing it all and blah blah blah. It was like they were speaking Greek. I would say to them like Well could you tell me a little bit more about this? They would go Oh not only tell you and then they would put on music. I go Oh my God listen to that. They were constantly educating me musically. Then of course just the way they were together was they were so at ease with each other. Check this out. They were so at ease that they could sleep all in the same bed together males and females without it being about sex. Just about protection and the need for company like Okay check that out. That is a whole another level of reality.  That felt new like Oh this is a way of being.  Yes. I understood that but to actually see them be able to be like that it was like Okay this is a step in human growth. Good grief. Look at this.  Like seeing them move through the world with fewer hang-ups than you felt like the world's had when you were young.  Yes exactly. Exactly. I cannot tell you how refreshing it was. How absolutely because they were manifesting what I knew was possible. I had never seen it.  I do wonder when you were first touring together with your band did you have moments where you noticed just your age difference in ways that made you feel self-conscious like just needing to move a little slower than them or anything like that?  Oh no. It did not make me feel self-conscious. I played it up for all it was worth.   You know how it is done. I hear you.  Seriously. I have a knee that really should be replaced. Sometimes it will go out and I will be on crutches. I have to travel with crutches in case it goes out and gets stuck in a bent position. I have been going down the steps backwards for many years to lessen the stress on knees that are old. Of course I am not going to be carrying anything going down the stairs backwards so they would lug all this stuff and they treated me as though I was an elder like their grandparents. They were totally caring caretaking in that kind of way and I loved it.  Deep river My home is over Jordan Deep river Lord I want to cross over into camp ground  When you think about what 2021 might look like for you in a time when hopefully maybe some point it will become safe for us to gather again what do you picture?  I think that I will do at least one and I do not expect to do many others but I know that I have to go and thank my audiences around the world. I actually want to do that then you know I am going to have to take my crutches and then doot doot do and nyah nyah nah we will figure out how we could do it in such a way that I am not worn out because I need to go and say thank you. I think that we all have a purpose and it is a purpose that is uniquely ours through whatever our unique gifts are or our skills or whatever because every person is unique and every person is a part of the universal design. The universe does not design anything it does not want and Lord knows I did not design me. On a given day it may look hopeless or you may get depressed or you may go through really feeling just Oh my God I cannot make it. It is like if we can come back to a positive feeling about things we can change the world. I came here to encourage people about that.  Let it go Let it go down It is okay Let it come Let it take all Thoughts away That is Beverly Glenn-Copeland. All the music in this episode came from his latest album a compilation of music from his career called Transmissions The Music of Beverly Glenn-Copeland which is out now. There is a Spotify link to it in our show notes. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production from WNYC Studios in New York. Afi Yellow-Duke produced this episode. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Twitter annasale. The show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Thank you to Lauren McCabe and Malverne New York who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. You can join Lauren and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.  Copyright  2020 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.