Hey its Anna. In our episode last week we told you about how writer Saeed Jones approaches personal reflection around New Yearsnot with resolutions but with determinations. He wrote a new essay about that called We Are a Determined Household. And as we start this new year we wanted to share that with you. Were also collecting your determinations for the coming year. So as you listen think about what you want in 2020 and then record a voice memo and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Happy New Year! And heres Saeed.  At some point every December when I was growing up my mother would set down the newspaper she was reading or mute the episode of Oprah she was watching and look over at me. Saeed have you written your determinations yet? shed say. No mom not yet Id reply knowing she was about to say what she said every year. We dont make resolutions in this house we make determinations. Id watch her bemused even as I felt my teenaged skepticism giving way to her persuasive earnestness. And then shed hit me with the closer shed been refining for years We are a determined household shed say. It got me every time. My mother raised me as a single parent in the suburbs of North Dallas sometimes working two jobs to make ends meet and pay for the heart medication she desperately needed but often had to skimp on. In especially trying times shed wake up two or three hours earlier than usual so that she could chant in front of her Nichiren Buddhist altar for a few hours before going to work. During those threadbare stretches when she got home from work shed sit back down and continue chanting until it was time for dinner. Sometimes Id hear her chanting and softly crying as I got into bed at night. This is why each December when she wrote down her list of determinations on an index card she kept near the altar and then asked about my own I teased her sure but not too hard and not for too long before giving in. When she wasnt around Id peek at her card. Every determination was written using the verb will. As in I will overcome my health challenges. I will travel abroad this year with my son. Each determination would be followed by a sentence explaining why she was so determined. More times than I can bear to admit I was the reason. My mother was determined to win so she could live long enough to see me win. Usually just before the last day of the year Id sit down and write determinations of my own before placing my index card next to hers. When I grew up and moved away shed call or text me every December and eventually Id write down my determinations and keep the card on my desk. We went on this way for as long as we could. A few days after my mothers funeral in 2011 while packing up her apartment I found her last list of determinations some of which she had been writing over and over for years by then. I will overcome my health challenges. I will travel abroad this year with my son. She did not. We did not. But know this for the first quarter of my life for those pivotal transformative years during which I came of age I watched my mother -- a black woman fighting for her life in America fully aware of what she was up against -- summon her determination like clockwork. As an adult Ive come to understand that she was so consistent not in spite of lifes many plot twists but because of them. We greet each new year hoping for the best though  in truth  the best might not be in the cards for us. I watched her proudly embrace the odds and stakes as she announced her intention to win anyway. It was a profound lesson. More than the goals shed write down the act of summoning her determination with clear eyes and at full-volume is what I continue to cherish and honor. I will always be her son. I will always do my best to enact what I learned from her. I will define my life not by fear loss or scarcity but by potential. I will always win in the way that matters most. I know this is true because we win the moment we summon the strength necessary to make a determination. We are a determined household.  Thats Saeed Jones. His mother was Carol Sweet-Jones. Think about your determination for this year...and so we can all get inspired by it record yourself telling us what it is. It can be big or small a concrete thing you want to accomplish or maybe just a way of thinking you want to change. For me Im thinking about how I want to focus on slowing down and being less reactive when I feel frustrated or defensive about not measuring up...since Ive found that being a stretched wife and mother of two has given me ample opportunity to examine these moments. Send a voice memo of your determination to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Well collect them all and share them back with you. And if youre having trouble getting started heres a few tips from Saeed  It should be something simple. Simple but deep. I try to do the I will sentence and then write the why you know so I will take care of my body. Why is this important to me? What is the point? Because really the why is probably more important than the goal itself. Thank you to Saeed for letting us share his essay with you. His memoir How We Fight For Our Lives was one of my favorite books of 2019...and you can sign up for his newsletter for more regular Saeed in your inbox at saeedjones.substack.com. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.