 Theres just like this sense this feeling that they have ways  like theyre going to find out. Thats how I remember feeling is like you can look at me and see that Im having sex. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more Im Anna Sale. Andrea was in the sixth grade when she had her first sex ed talk like many sixth graders. But for her sex ed didnt happen at school. It happened at her church an evangelical congregation in Texas.  It wasnt quite Pentecostal but there was definitely raising hands people dancing in the aisles ribbon dancers all kinds - things like that.  What did you first learn about sex through your church?  That you should not have it until youre married. There would be discussions about it at youth group you know waiting until marriage and what does that mean and you know I - I also attended True Love Waits conferences with my youth group.  Mmhmm. What was that conference like?  It was kind of like a rally about purity. You know and what does it mean to wait until marriage and you get a True Love Waits ring and you sign a pledge saying that you wont have sex until youre married. And I think I was 14 when I went to this.  And there were girls and boys there?  Yeah yeah. There were.  Did it feel like the messaging was the same for the girls as the boys?  I - I think the messaging is always that girls should behave themselves in a certain way. You know dont be alone with a boy. Dont dress in ways that might cause him to stumble. That message is I think burned into my brain.  Stumble is the word.  Yeah stumble. Were responsible for making sure that they dont have impure thoughts. Sexual purity  both abstinence until marriage and purity of thought  thats what Andreas sex ed was all about. When she was a teenager in the early '90s it was the foundation of a movement in evangelical Christianity. There were the rallies and also special rings for sexual purity and bands playing anthems for abstinence.  It was just something thatI you know it was just my life you know? I didnt really know any different. It was really the only community that I knew growing up.  And so as youre a young teenager and your body is changing and youre developing and youre becoming more aware of sex did you feel like have earnest sincere commitment to these ideas? Or did you feel like you were torn in some way?  I think I wanted to have sincere commitment to those ideas. Because I wanted - I wanted to be a good girl you know. I didnt want to disappoint my parents. Um but yes I think I felt torn because as I got older and started dating and having sexual feelings I mean those things feel good.  You know? And I didnt want to deny that. But at the same time I - Im a rule-follower. Ive always been that. Like I couldnt allow myself to feel those things.  When did you have your first experiences of being physical with someone? How old were you?  Um I was 15 16?  And how would you - what were the rules you had? Like when you would kiss someone for example like what was okay and what was crossing the line?  Kissing was okay but anything like under the clothes was not okay. Um but I think the more you are with someone those lines get blurrier and blurrier. So Ill be honest I wasnt really good at stay-  at not crossing the line.  At following the rules you were trying to follow.  Yeah I wasnt very good at following the rules even though I really wanted to be a good girl.   And what would that like take me back to - when you would be in a moment as a teenager where youre trying to do the thing that youve said you were going to do and then youre noticing that it feels good to be with someone. Like what would be the internal monologue in your head?  I think I think I just tried to shut it out mostly. The person that I was with at that age was also pressuring me a lot. And I didnt know how to - I didnt know how to say no. Youre not given the resources like - youre given the message that your body is a temple and your virginity is sacred and without it youre nothing. But like you know I remember being with this guy when I was that age and wanting to do some of it and not wanting to do some of it but feeling really pressured and not knowing how to say no.  Thats interesting because what youve learned how to do is to try to do what people are asking of you.  Yeah. Yeah.  Was this boy also in your church?  Yes.  And would you talk about how you were fudging the lines of what your church was telling you was okay? Or did you not say it out loud?  To like - he and I together?  Yeah.  No. No it was I mean - no. We never talked about it.  Some of the physical encounters that I had with the guy that I dated in high school when I broke up with him he shared that with other people at the school.  You broke up with him and then he told people at your Christian church what you had done. That you had broken the rules.  At the school yeah. People at the school which it was - the school was affiliated with the church I went to um.  And the story was this is what Andrea did not this is what we did together.  Yes. Yeah.  So you became known as a slut.  Yeah.  Sorry thatthat word is that is really blunt but I just  No! Its -   I am just trying to - the way high school can be cruel.  I was going to use whore so - . There arent any good words I think to use in that context? But I was sitting in class one day this is my senior year of high school and a guy friend was sitting behind me and I heard him talking to the guy sitting next to him and I just - all of a sudden I realized what they were talking about. I heard them talking about me and what my boyfriend and I had done together.  What were they saying that you had done?  Uh that we had had oral sex. I just remember my stomach just dropped.  And I felt like I was going to throw up. And I had to - I literally just ran out of the classroom because I couldnt believe it. It was humiliating. The experience was so humiliating that Andrea decided she didnt want to go to church anymore. When she went off to college nearby she dated and eventually decided to have sex. But the messaging about purity stuck with her.  It always felt like this shameful part of me. This shameful thing or this this thing that I was always ashamed of.  Did you know how to have sex safely?  I did but I wasnt.  You didnt use protection?  I wasnt making good choices no. When I did have sex it was at this point in my life whereI hate saying like I had sex because I was just being self-hurtful but it almost kind of was that? I just reached this place where I was thinking like I just dont care anymore. You know? Like Im so tired of always feeling like Im doing something wrong and Im never good enough. If Im gonna get in trouble then I may as well do something worth getting in trouble over.  Did you ever have a pregnancy scare?  I - yes. So there was a time when I realized I had had unprotected sex and I kind of realized where I was in my cycle and realized I - this is not good. I should probably get Plan B which is something that I never had done before. Um you know I never even considered birth control much less getting Plan B which in the world that I grew up in is tantamount to having an abortion. Um. My parents are very anti-abortion. Or pro-life as they would say it. Growing up they were the people marching around the abortion clinics. My dad was arrested for marching around an abortion clinic. And the clinic that I ended up going to unknowingly to get Plan B was the same clinic that I had marched around with my parents as a 12-year-old girl.  You had protested at that particular Planned Parenthood.  Yes. There was this particular house that was right across the street from it that was abandoned. And that was what made me - I remembered that house um and when I saw it I was like oh - I saw that house and I was just like oh my god.  Did you tell the guy you would had sex with? That you were afraid you were pregnant?  Yes.  How did he respond?  He said you need to get Plan B.  And one of the more humiliating parts is that he said that he would pay for it because I didnt have any money. And I went and I paid for it and he never asked me about it again he never paid me back. I didnt have the courage to ask him for the money. I just wanted to move on. Coming up after going to Planned Parenthood Andrea went back to church.  I dont know how else to phrase it other than I had a come to Jesus moment where I just realized like wow. Okay. I need to fix my life. And get back on the right path. And that meant for me that meant going back to church stop having sex you know be a good girl again.  Hey everyone this is Death Sex  Money senior producer Katie Bishop. And if you follow us on Instagram you know that we have been sharing your big workplace transition photos there. We have seen your time cards your commuter knitting projects your selfies on your final day at a job. If you have a picture to share that represents a big shift in your professional life we want to see it! You can email it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org or just put it up on Instagram with the hashtag DSMatwork. Of course the reason weve been thinking about big workplace transitions is because yes Anna had her baby! Her daughter Eve was born on December 21st. And I caught up with her by phone just a few days ago.  So how have the first few weeks been?  Its been really nice! I think the thing that Ive been sort of struck by is like you know youre just looking for little hints about who this little person is. Like I have this sometimes when Eve the baby cries and seems to get particularly frustrated Im like is she more expressive and fiery than June was? Who is this person? Ive really been struck by how little you know about the little baby even when shes here.  What does June think about Eve?  Shes totally into being a big sister and helping. She is also you know taking in the new reality of parents having divided attention and feels less positive about that.  Seems normal.  Yeah.  Has it felt overall easier harder just different stepping away from work this time?  I always have a hard time letting myself not make a to-do list so Ive tried not to focus on work. Ive tried to remind myself that Im doing really important work right now. But I have enjoyed seeing the Instagram photos of peoples work transitions. Im like oh thats really cool! Im really glad thats happening.  They are so cool. I was gonna ask you do you have a photo that you would share?  I mean I think its my slippers which Im wearing right now. The fact that I dont put on shoes and socks until very late in the day when I go out on a walk with June or the baby. Im very much homebound right now and that feels very good and contained. Thats our host Anna Sale. And if you would like to see those slippers just head on over to Instagram. Again we are deathsexmoney there. Anna's on maternity leave for the next few months but do not worry we have got a lot of brand new episodes to share with you including two next week! Our conversations about our sex educations... and miseducations continue with your sex ed fails and your stories about what its like to have a sexually transmitted infection.  Most of the time people feel really alone when they get that diagnosis. They think they are the only one and they are disgusting.  Disgusting.  Yeah. -- This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. After college Andrea moved to Austin where she joined a new church. It was also evangelical and preached against premarital sex. For Andrea having a firm set of rules again felt comforting.  I got re-baptized there. I recommitted my life to the Lord that is - you know as they say - because I just - it was just the only way that I knew to fix myself. She even got a job working full-time in the church administration. Then when she was 26 she met someone at church the man who would become her husband.  And it was just - I fell in love with him. And I wanted to be with him. And it just happened.  Did it feel good? To be together? To have sex?  Yeah.  Yeah it did. Um until it was over. And then there was a lot of shame. And I was really afraid that I would lose my job or I - I just didnt know what would happen. I was really afraid of what would happen if people found out that I was having sex and working at this church because like Im on staff at a church.  Im supposed to really not be sinning.  Did your now-husband did he know you were feeling that sense of being torn? Of being a hypocrite?  Yes. Yes. And I think that he was struggling with it as well. I think maybe not to the degree that I was? But he also grew up in kind of that purity culture and you know he got it he understood that and I think that he struggled with that as well. But for me it was like on this whole other level. We actually came to a decision together to stop having sex because I just - it was too much I was like I cant handle the guilt I dont want to be deceitful. I - you know were not going to do this. And so we did stop having sex and did not have sex until we were married after that point.  How did your bosses at the church find out that you had had pre-marital sex?  So when they found out I was - my husband and I had already been married for three years. But  someone that I trusted that I had told years before. They got really angry with me about something. And sent me a letter an e-mail saying that if I did not tell them that they were going to expose me to the pastor and to my boss.  What did you do after you got that letter?  Well I got - I remember feeling very ill and I just started shaking kind of all over. Um and I went to my boss and I told her that I needed to tell her something. And so I told her. You know that my husband and I had had sex before we got married and -  And at that point you - you are a grown-woman have been married for three years. Youre in your late 20s.  Yes.  And youre confessing to something that you did before you were married. To your boss.  Yes.  Like did it feel ridiculous in some ways that this was part of your job?  No. No. Like I got the letter and I was like well I guess God is telling me what I need to do. You know? And I just - this is what I need to do I need to own up. It felt it felt like the right thing to do.  What were the consequences of your telling your boss that youd had sex with your husband before you were married?  Later that evening they had me sit in front of the church elders which was a panel of four men um to further confess my sin. Um. They put me on what they called a restoration plan which was a plan that they came up with of things that I had to do that I had to agree to do. And then once I had gone through this plan they would then determine you know when I had been made whole with Christ.  It was like we will tell you once you have been redeemed?  Yes. You know I remember that day after I had - had to confess my sin going home and just and my husband made me a hot bath and I just remember laying in the bathtub and just crying. I think I cried for like an hour because I just felt completely humiliated. Theres this part of my mind thats justifying whats going on because yes I sinned and this was wrong and I should be punished. And then theres this other part of my mind thats really wrestling with what Im going through feels incredibly abusive and hurtful? And this is not love. Youre supposed to feel loved and Jesus Christ was love and all of this stuff and I just felt like completely betrayed. Andrea quit her job not long after that and she and her husband eventually moved out of Texas. They dont go to church anymore.  Do you still think of yourself as a rule-follower?  No.  No I dont.  Has that felt unmooring? I mean when you have had a moment of uncertainty and where you previously had a place to go a list of rules. When youve been in a moment where you felt like you needed guidance how has that felt? To not have that anymore?  Yeah. Its been hard sometimes. Um. There are still times where I find myself wanting to pray because I dont know what else to do. I just dont know what else to do. And then realizing but I dont believe any of this anymore. You know like I dont believe that theres a God out there thats going to answer my prayers. Ive got to figure this out. But its just my go-to instinct.  When you have sex now does it feel like how you were taught about sex and how you were taught about goodness and badness with sex does that still feel like a part of your muscle memory?  Yeah its something that I still struggle with. And when you spend so much time and energy shutting that down its not like a switch that you just flip back on. It is not like oh were married now we can have all the sex we want and I can feel super awesome about it! Um and - and Im not saying that I dont enjoy sex at all that its like oh full of shame every time I have sex but theres always this piece that like Im having to overcome. Like this little mental thing in the back of my mind that I have to overcome and its like I just - I want to get to a point where thats not there anymore. And Ill be really honest I dont - at this point Im not sure what that would even look like or feel like or how I would get there. Thats a listener named Andrea. She lives in Portland Oregon with her husband and daughter. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Stephanie Joyce Joanna Solotaroff Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Instagram and Facebook. And you can email us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. So Andrea told me it is still really hard to fully surrender to pleasure  Its not something that I know that I like have ever fully done. Except for one time maybe when I was high.   Isnt marijuana legal now in Oregon?  It is yes.  Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.