Any other subject no one would stand for teaching kids I do not know that like the Earth is flat or pi is exactly three or something like that. It is it is wild how bad my sex education was. This is Death Sex  Money I thought that there was something wrong with me. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... Abstinence-only was the name of the game. And need to talk about more. We do kids an enormous disservice. Im Anna Sale. Last week we released an episode about a listener named Andrea who has spent a lot of her adult life trying to unlearn the things she was taught about sex growing up. And shes not the only one. A lot of you found your sex education lacking. My sex ed fail... Sex ed fail... Sex ed fails. When we asked for your stories you told us about things you wish you hadnt learned That you had a limited number of orgasms in life. You also told us about things you wish you had known sooner I had no concept that there was motion involved. I just thought it was like insert release semen and then you are done. For a lot of you your sex ed fails happened at school I went to a really small non-sectarian private school. A tiny Christian school. Catholic high school. A progressive public school. But parents friends and siblings played a part too. My version of the talk came from My stepdad My sister who is 14 years older than me. My stepmother at the time who took me to the side handed me a bottle of Midol and a copy of The Hollywood Wives and asked me if I had any questions. When my dad gave me my first sex talk It was not so much a talk as was a declarative statement on what I should not do. Theres definitely a place for caution when youre learning about sex to keep yourself physically and emotionally safe. But some of the warnings you got? They were NOT HELPFUL. She always told us things like oh do not kiss boys because then you are going to get pregnant. I was suddenly terrified that I might accidentally give someone the special hug. And obviously at 40 Ive figured out thats not the way it is done. And so let us gather for a collective purging of our sex ed fails. Picture us all around a big bonfire tossing in the dumb things weve carried around with us for years and years. We did not learn anything other than if you engage in sex you know you are going to contract a disease and your parts are going to fall off. You were ever with somebody and you are not sure if they might have an STD like you can even use two condoms. Spoiler alert? That of course is dead wrong. We were taught abstinence. I was never fully taught about - Safe sex or consent or anything. Just dont do it. The teacher had all the girls in one room. She got us a Butterfinger and she gave it to the first girl and she said I want you to just rip open the top of this and pass it to the girl behind you. This really happened. And by the time it got to the end of the rows we had bitten licked eaten after each other. And the lesson was  - ugh I cannot believe this - the lesson was that every time you have sex with someone that is not your husband you essentially are the Butterfinger who is becoming more and more unwanted. Yeah. No actual information and just a lot of shaming and scare tactics. Something that I learned about sex that ended up being really dangerous for me personally - Was learning probably from TV that rape was somebody stalking you out in the evening. I thought that men couldnt get sexually assaulted. I was never taught that rape could be by a partner. I also thought that you couldnt have an erection without giving consent. So we were all pretty confused. I mean these are things that you should learn. I could not figure out for the longest time why women had sex. 'ecause you know what I dont feel like I got taught in sex ed? That women have sexuality. For women's bodies they really just talked about periods and pregnancies and STDs. And so I think I had a lot of sexual experiences that did not have a lot of a lot of pleasure in them. I did not learn how to have great sex until I turned forty. One thing that I learned that I think a lot of us learned about sex that I find incredibly damaging is the narrative of like first base second base third base home. Same sex relationships were never brought up. I had a lot of insecurities about lesbian sex because it felt like it was not the real thing. There was no guidance on what sex would consist of outside of male-female penetration. I had an older brother and I heard him talking about how if you have anal sex you could get bacterial infections in your penis that would cause you to lose it or to have it amputated. So that was great. Something like that from childhood really really sticks with you. I just wish I had known that - You are just kind of in this weird genital-filled playground and you can have a lot of fun and there is not like necessarily an end goal. Unfortunately it was a little bit too late when I learned that. I feel kind of cheated. Like these healthy normal experiences I was having that I associated with shame and guilt I could have avoided had I had better education about it. And now that I am an adult I can say it definitely definitely was a fail. I actually wanted to share a sex ed win. When I was in 7th grade near Seattle Washington I had a teacher named Mrs. Romney who was a pretty old white religious lady that you would expect would have had plenty of fails that I could share. But instead I had the complete opposite experience with her. She was open and candid and sex-positive and answered our hard questions with a thoughtfulness that you do not expect from anybody even these days certainly not 23 years ago. So Mrs. Romney wherever you are I hope you are still alive and still speaking truth to teenagers that they desperately need and are not necessarily getting anywhere else. My name is Beverly Romney and I taught sex ed for fifteen years. I guess I thought everyone else probably was teaching it just like I was teaching it.   It did not feel like you were doing anything remarkable at the time.  I didnt. You know I loved every single day because there was never one discipline problem. The students were so interested.   They were rapt!  They were! I really loved teaching it. Thats Beverly Romney enjoying her retirement after many years of sex ed wins. Thank you to all of you for sharing your stories with us. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.