 Is the word rich something that you would identify with? Vik Unfortunately and I mean its its a mixed thing to say yes to that. Because on the one hand I guess youre supposed to want to be rich. I think maybe once you are rich you maybe start to wonder about all the negative connotations that come with that. This is Opportunity Costs from Death Sex and Money A series all about class and money which we think about a lot And need to talk about more Im Anna Sale. About a month ago we got an email from a college student named Nishant. Hes a junior at Berkeley studying electrical engineering and computer science. And as he gets closer to graduating hes been thinking a lot about his familys class status. Nishant It took me a while to realize how well off my family was and how rare that was or how lucky we are and thats something I guess kind of in hindsight I wish I had realized sooner. Nishant is the oldest of three kids. Hes originally from a large college town in the midwest...he did not want to say exactly where. His mom works as an opthamologist and his dad founded and runs a software company. Nishant told me he first got a sense of how much money his family has when he was around 8 or 9.  I think I was at a summer camp and it was a summer camp that had like a there was like a day camp option and a residential camp option. It was at the University nearby our home. And I remember I saw that the residential camp was 1000 or 1200 a week and I thought oh wow thats a lot of money  and then Dad came to pick me up in a in a sports car and then some of the people in the summer camp were like oh wow like I think they said oh wow youre rich or oh wow thats a really expensive car something like that.  What kind of car was it?  It was a Ferrari. Nishants dad Vik was the one driving the Ferrari. He didnt feel that comfortable with it either.  Well my line is Im just the valet parking this thing. Thats how I tend to get away with it. And recently Nishants noticed that hes trying to get away with hiding their wealth too. That is why he wrote us. He told us in his email that over winter break he was in Chicago with friends  ...and I hadnt told my friends that we actually had a home in Chicago and so I had to kind of dance around the facts of that story.  Fibbing a little bit.  Pretty much yeah. I think I did kind of lie to my friends about that and thats something I feel-- do feel kinda bad about. Some of the ways Nishant talks--and doesnt talk--about their familys wealth he learned from his dad.  When we were younger that Ferrari its red because of course it is and -  Why else is there any other color?  And uh wed actually call it the red car and Dad would say oh Im gonna take the red car out or something like that. And so--  Well that was very very intentional. It wasnt just an oversight.  Yeah.  You know its a way of referring to this thing that has a lot of preconceived notions that come with it.  Yeah I think thats a metaphor for kinda the attitude towards expensive things and talking about wealth. Their family has always been comfortable financially but not always this wealthy. Vik immigrated from India with his parents when he was 14. Like a lot of his extended family he went to medical school but then decided not to do a residency. He founded a software company instead.  I left what was deemed at least in my family and upbringing a stable and assured upper class access by being a practicing physician to sort of try my hand at starting a software company. So I certainly wasnt motivated to do so because I thought thats the way to go make money its just something I found myself drawn to. Probably most people would have thought you know what a silly career decision to so to speak maybe even might mightve heard these words of giving up on a good career and wasting time and taking on potentially debt and risk and uncertainty in the future to try to do this goofy software thing.  Mmhm. Is that something someone said to you or something you heard in your own head?  Yeah I think Mom mightve said that to me. But Viks gamble really paid off. He sold his company to a major global corporation and the family got rich.  We have a a lot of financial security well past anything that is reasonably needed or frankly uh well past anybodys needs to satisfying any series of wants.  Thats in- that you say your available resources exceed what what you could want? Is that what youre saying?  Yeah. You know when you end up having capital that is more than what your monthly needs are and it exceeds what maybe your annual needs are umm you start to go after wants and luxuries.  Nishant how does money work for you right now as a college student?  So my parents pay for tuition and they cover my expenses at school and I work as a student employee for the university because Im a teaching assistant. And Ive also had some internships in the past and Im saving that money. My earnings basically go into savings.  So youre working but its its creating a cushion for yourself -  Yeah.  -because you have youve got the support of your parents? Do you have a do you have a credit card from your parents?  Yes.  What are the rules about that?  Uh I dont um I guess maybe my dad will correct me if Im wrong here but I dont think we have firm we dont have a firm number on budget or you can only spend so much or theres this much a month or something like that. Its more I think my parents trust me to be responsible and that definition of responsible is I guess kinda implied and so it does...its implied basically you know by seeing what my family spends money on when were back home and not being... not being too ridiculous with things.  So what does that mean like if you need to buy a sweater? What whats an appropriate budget for a sweater?  Ive spent a lot of money on sweaters. Um... probably dollar amount under um... 300 dollars? But something my uncle once said that when they were kids I think they used to shop at I dont know Kohls or Macys or like a a department store and always go to the sale section and look for things.  Kohls or Macys? You gotta be kidding me. K-Mart or JC Penneys.  Oh ok. So I guess thats maybe something that I try to do even if Im buying expensive clothes is try to find still good deals on kinda high quality nice things that I can appreciate  And Vik  if I if I learned like the details of your life like how you spend your time what kind of airline seats you sit in does it look modest or can you tell that you have youre wealthy?  Well I probably walk out of a home thats much much larger than average. I probably drive into work in a car thats above average. But thats thats about 10 minutes of experience and then I spend somewhere between 8 and 12 hours of the day sitting in an office thats not an office its a shared workspace with everybody else.  How many homes do you have?  Um I want to say six.  Did you say I want to say because youre not quite sure?  I try not to remember.  How many people know how many homes you own?  Just the family. Well until now. Coming upwhy Vik thinks having this much...isnt always a good thing.  You find yourself having to be less transparent and less honest. You know you aspire to be an honest person and speak truth and then you find that this thing can actually be the very reason that youre finding yourself being less truthful. -- Vik and Nishants family experienced a major class shift from having a lot...to REALLY having a lot. But their story is not the norm. Overall social mobility in the U.S. is declining. A 2016 study found that in the last thirty years its become increasingly likely that youll end your career not far from where started income-wise. The likelihood that youll move up... that is gone down. Thats true at all income levels. But a lot of you did tell us about the discomfort you have felt when you moved up class-wise...regardless of where you were on the income spectrum when that happened. Holly is a 26-year old listener from Salt Lake City. She sent in a voice memo about growing up in a family with 10 kids and not much money. Holly I always knew I was poor. I looked I smelled different than the other kids at school and I always knew I was one of the poorest people. Her husband grew up solidly middle class and together they make more money now than Hollys parents ever hoped to...but she says it doesnt always occur to her that she can actually spend that money. You dont think about buying a better coffee machine. You dont think about buying a better jacket. You work with what you have until that doesnt work anymore and you literally cannot fix it or do anything about it. And then you replace it.  Im always surprised by the things people who live either falsely or truthfully in a middle class life the things they spend money on. And the things I find myself spending money on are still shocking to me. On the next-- and last-- episode of Opportunity Costs I talk with a 73 year old Vietnam Vet whos moved up and down class-wise a lot...and is OK with where he is landed.  Um I I think Im 20 Im socially lower-middle-class economically uh a bit better than that or at least I was now Im retired.  Whats socially lower-middle-class mean?  Means the people I hang with. All my friends are bikers and things like that so yeah I dont uh I dont aspire to move up. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. At Berkeley Nishant is on one of the most economically diverse campuses in the country. It made him curious to find out just where his family fits class-wise. He did some Googling and he confirmed it theyre in the one percent.  I dont know a couple two three years ago I stumbled across one of those calculators thats like what is the one percent in your state. And I just wanted to see kind of what that number was. Id also seen that a lot of people think - far more people think they are in the middle class than are actually in the middle class particularly on the upper end. And then I was kind of wondering also you know is it accurate to say that my family is upper middle class or not and so I figured Id check. I guess Im pretty clear about saying upper class um and not maybe hedging or something.  Mmhm.  I think theres something that feels better about saying oh we live an upper middle class lifestyle but that just might not be accurate.  Vik how have you how do you think about what you want to communicate to your son as he turns the corner nears the end of college graduation - what have you told him about what your wealth is going to mean for his financial stability as an adult?  Im not sure weve talked about it other than indirectly. You know weve met with investment advisors and for a long time they keep saying you know if youre not careful the government will take half of this and Im not even convinced theres anything wrong with that. Um itll get redistributed but yes to the extent we are organizing around it it would be in the context of childcare health and education. Those are the three permitted uses of the excess resources.  Did you know this Nishant?  Um I knew about kinda saving for education um but not the not a broader vision or kinda plan.  Have you wondered?  I have. Um and thats been an interesting thing to think about in terms of my own future goals. The plan for after undergrad for me is to pursue a PhD and then hopefully go into academia um and theres some American dream kind of pressure that each generation you do better than the generation that came before you and you make more money and you have a more financially stable lifestyle and I dont know your house is bigger and you have one more car or something like that. And I think it would be-- I would have to get very very lucky and I would have to focus on making a lot money to be able to accomplish that and that focus is not one that I want to have.  Well you know for us thats the best use of the excess resources is for Nishant to be able to do exactly that. Because I think it would be a severe waste to try to bring another dollar into the family wealth pot as as the reason to go do something. It would be horrible to have the option of how how they want to spend their time be closed to them because they gotta meet this other high financial bar of income.  And you worry that youve created that high bar? That youve created that burden by the amount of money that youve made.  I--yeah you cant avoid it. It goes with the territory. Its one of the tradeoffs. Um it takes active energy to not feel that pressure.  When do you feel that pressure? I imagine-- I mean do you feel when youre socializing with other people whove done quite well with other wealthy people does that sense of competition kick back in?  I think for me it would. If anything I think you know my wife helps make sure that we kind of dont spend our time all there and that environment doesnt bring out the best in me as she puts it. Because it is that competitive spirit that starts to come in and sort of the you know suddenly the Jones are the billionaires next door kind of thing because you worked hard to get next door to them.  Uh huh. And shes pinpointed that  for you it doesnt bring out the best in you. So she wants to help control that social environment.  Yes.  How do you two talk about giving away money?  Well you know I guess Nishant told us You know if this tax reform thing goes through and this serves as an advantage to you every one of those dollars has to be given away right? To both my wife and I. So sometimes we talk about it very explicitly.  Huh and did you think thats a fair principle when your son said that to you?  Totally actually yeah.  Did you know that you were shifting your dad around Nishant?  Uh I certainly have been trying. I had a sense of that yeah.  And my wife-- you know we talk about the notion of giving away money isnt easy either. Thats a... you know some of the coolest things that have happened is how to do that one with grace and for things that maybe matter to you. But maybe it shouldnt be things that matter to you maybe it should be things that are most needy out there. But we we largely have tried to give away most of these things  as anonymous donors for the last 15 some years.  Oh really?  Or 20 years.  Cuz its less complicated?  Um its not just complicated it is a way to think about understanding yourself to say how much of this giving is ego driven to say I wanna be on the platinum sponsor recognition plaque or am I doing it because I actually this issue resonates with me? And so at least for my wife and I giving anonymously is a great simple way of focusing on the real thing. You know people of a certain class its no different than a red car its the biggest giver in the community merit badge.  Nishant how do you think going forward youre going to balance social comfort with um with being honest about about the kind of wealth that you come from?  Hm. Well I would say situations like the the uncomfortable uh the uncomfortable discussion with my friends where I kinda where I did kinda feel like I was lying to friends that doesnt happen all that often. And I try to be pretty pretty honest about that and appreciative pretty much so long as it wouldnt be something--maybe where where honesty wouldnt be something too ridiculous like saying theres a whole other property that I havent told you about.  But in some ways one can go overboard. It shouldnt be an issue and one can overcorrect and be overly self-conscious about this thing which is I think its-- its just stuff. It its literally circumstantial. One shouldnt walk around thinking Oh Im from privilege or I have this or that and I think thats what youre youre kinda saying is it kinda doesnt come up.  Well I think Im trying to--Im trying to avoid people thinking of me that way. I think thats the primary thing is that someone doesnt that someone maybe who doesnt know me that well or something doesnt think of Nishant as that rich kid blank...something. And thats...I think the thing...thats the thing that makes me uncomfortable....  Sure.  ...and thats what I--thats the thing Im maybe trying to avoid.  And Vik its interesting to me that you... youve become wealthy through your own work and through what youve earned and you still seem to have quite an ambivalence about it.  Its hard because I think youre putting your finger on an interesting tension. When you when you think - you know especially the American ethos maybe of the self-made man or self-made woman I think we celebrate that. And I think I along with most people subscribe to this idea. You work hard and you go out there and you know potentially good things happen I think all of that is good and well. You knowI immigrated here and its almost like a fairytale kinda thing. And I was thinking about thisthat you know in fairytales its a little easy because you know when  Cinderella gets ahead so to speak  its always Cinderellas surrounded by mean  step sisters and a mom and an environment that wasnt helping and it was unfair. So when you arrive upon some really awesome destination youre supposed to sorta go Well they deserve it and the other people were mean. And I think the reality is that at least in our case or my case you know you find yourself here but along the way there werent mean people in fact its because of all the people that were around you that you got here. And not everybodys at the same place.  Hm.  And so you youre left wondering about that. Thats Vik and Nishant a father and his son. This series Opportunity Costs is produced in collaboration with Buzzfeed News. All this week you can read personal essays and hear conversations with our listeners about class and money in America today. Our website is deathsexmoney.orgclass. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. The team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to Dan Dzula for his help on this series. Our interns are Catherine Xu and Angely Mercado. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Were deathsexmoney on Facebook Twitter and Instagram--go find us there. Vik still has that Ferrari he drove to Nishants summer camp. But he thinks a little differently about it now.  You dont even realize that you dont need something until you have it.  Wait you dont realize you dont need something until you have it?  Yeah. It is the saddest thing thatyou know a lot of these things for many of us who thought maybe more is more theres a point at which more is not more. And that point isnt some absolute amount its a way of thinking. You know you can have one red car and the second red car does not give you the same joy as the first one. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.