In film school the goal was just make that first feature make a great film that youre proud of. After that happened I had no idea any of the next steps. I was like and then you live in heaven and Playboy models make your coffee in the morning. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need  to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Filmmaker Desiree Akhavan mines the details of her own life especially the most uncomfortable ones. Lets help each other through this. We cant hold each others hands through our own break up thats not how it works. Why did I even bother becoming a lesbian? This scene is from her web series The Slope about -- the tagline says -- superficial homophobic lesbians in Park Slope Brooklyn. Desiree plays Desiree. She made the series with her girlfriend at the time Ingrid Jungermann who plays Ingrid. And then they broke up in real life. And in their series. Sometimes its hard to watch. I mean we break up over the course of this show. We went into this show together and if you watch the episodes you can watch us break up. The last episode is called Miserable Best Friends Who Used To Be Together and I am assuming it was filmed after you would split up? What was that like to film that? It was incredibly painful. Were never going to be best friends who used to be together. Look I just need a little time before I can be your friend again thats all. Okay. Desirees first feature-length movie Appropriate Behavior draws on the rawness of that breakup. She made the movie when she was a film student with a small budget. Then it got into Sundance. The New York Times called it a winning first feature and this week it opens in theaters in twelve cities. It starts with a close-up of Desirees face. Shes riding the subway puffy-eyed and sweaty. Cut to an apartment scene where shes packing a box. Cleaning her hair out of a shower drain.  Then exchanging irritated words with an ex-girlfriend...storming out...walking down the street carrying only a strap-on and a leather harness. Like Desiree the main character in Appropriate Behavior is an Iranian-American bisexual woman about 30 years old. The details are fictional she insists and this time she gave the character she plays a different name -- Shareen. But it all started with that breakup. Okay why dont you tell me what do you need Shareen? I need my girlfriend back. Were you heartbroken when you wrote the script? Yeah. Very much so. The film didnt end up being very literally about that relationship that I was heartbroken over but I was incredibly heartbroken at the time. And I wanted to find a really funny and far more entertaining way to talk about the issues that were not so fun to experience. I want to eat my feelings right now. You know what? I think that is an amazing idea. The movie follows her recovery from heartbreak...and her coming out to her Iranian-American family. There are two parents and a brother just like in Desirees own family. Did you have to have conversations about that this is my art and you may recognize some parts of it but I want you to know that I love you and I am protecting some parts of it? How did you navigate that? Its difficult. First and foremost you need to be honest with yourself about whether or not youre being fair and I think the person that Im the hardest on and have the most sharp negative things to say anything about is myself. The only person whos very much like his character is my brother who is incredibly harsh and mean and I adore him. You are such a dick...well at least Im not a sexually confused narcissist. Can we please go inside? Were constantly making fun of each other. He won this award recently and he texted us I won the Family First Choice Award for pediatric surgeons. And I texted back Im glad youre some family's first choice. Whenever I have an accomplishment hes like whatever at least you dont save lives on a daily basis. What did it look like when you came out to your family? What did it look like? Not great. Im vague about it because theres so little that I keep to myself. I dont really like to go into it but it was really negative and very uncomfortable for years. How old were you when you came out? 24. So its been a process. Yeah its been a process. And it took so long for anyone to wrap their brain around what that meant for my life and for their lives because also there was a real ripple down effect to how other people would find out about it within our community. I still dont know any Iranian gay people. Or out gay people Ill say that distinction. So because youve never seen it its very weird. And the experience of coming out for that specific reason that I had never seen anyone else open about that in my own community felt really strange and it still feels really strange at times. And now my girlfriend and I are welcome everywhere we go to all the big Persian parties. Last night we hung out with my mom and watched The Voice. My mom thought that Gwen Stafani was Debbie Harry it was really funny. She was like She looks amazing. I do not know how she does it. She must have made a pact with the devil. Desiree was born in New York City. Her parents arrived in the U.S. after the Iranian Revolution when the U.S.-backed shah of Iran was overthrown and the country became an Islamic Republic. Being raised by Iranians means that your rules and your mindset is on par with somebody who was raised by people who experienced war. So it made sense that I had this 1950s mentality handed down to me from my parents and I related more to peoples parents when we were griping about rules and things we wanted to rebel against. I didnt have the same safety net or same comfort or same entitlement. I had a sense of entitlement but it was highly at odds with the fact that I knew that so many sacrifices have been made for me to be raised in this country and the horrors that my parents had recently experienced were not distant from us. You went to Horace Mann which is an elite high school in New York City. Were you on scholarship at school or were your parents able to pay for private school? No they sunk in every bit of inheritance that they had taken from Iran and put it into my education and my brother's education. And it worked really well for him. He is a surgeon. It is paying back tenfold for him but I have yet to show any kind of return on that investment. And were you aware of that as a kid? Yeah very much so. This is not to say that they held it over us. My brother and I were very aware of everything very nervous for everyone's finances as little anxious kids. We were not sitting back and relaxing. We were very aware of sacrifices that had been made. What was it like to decide to be an artist? It wasnt a decision though. It was never like this is what Id like to do. I failed everywhere. I worked so hard to be a good normal person. Id stay up so late studying for tests and just did horribly. I felt so guilty that I went to this fancy expensive private school because I was a really terrible student. But I was very good at telling stories very good at writing plays very good at performing and everyone just kinda knew that that was something and this is obnoxious to say but something extraordinary happened on stage for me. And so much mediocrity was happening everywhere else. A level of mediocrity that I cannot explain enough. I remember I had tutor after tutor after tutor and they were like what is wrong with this kid? That was the case that it was not a choice it was just who I was and how I function. I mean my brother is a doctor. Ive said that like 40 times in the past 30 minutes. I have a sister who is a doctor. I know what its like. Well I was gonna say the reason I repeated myself again is because my mother had chronic migraine headaches to this day but they were very bad when we were children. And he never wanted to be in a situation -- Im putting on my intro to psychology cap right now -- but he never wanted to be put in a situation where he couldnt solve the problem and I feel I did that in the opposite way. I felt out of control when events were happening and I didnt get to call the shots and this is what I do to be in control. If my hearts broken then I can gain control of that narrative. Desiree Akhavan learned to tell those stories early making up plays as a kid. I wrote a Friday Night Live sketch show. And I had an advert for something called vomlette an omelette made of vomit. Coming up how that vomlette...led to acting alongside Lena Dunham on HBO. In the last show I asked for your stories about cheating. Responses have poured in. Twelve years ago I cheated on my boyfriend of 10 years. To this day I think I have no idea how much my ex-girlfriend cheated on me. I think he wanted to be with me but his kids were holding him back. She went away for a weekend with a guy but told me that she was with her mother. I found out later that he had gotten a friend of his pregnant. If you would have asked me beforehand how I would you react if you knew your partner had an affair I would have probably said I would walk. So if cheating is something you know about youre not alone. Were still collecting stories. Email me at deathsexmoney at wnyc.org. Let me know if this is something you are dealing with right now. If you can send a recording of your voice telling the story. If you have a smartphone use your voice memo app -- and you can email it right in. deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode I talk with comedian Margaret Cho about answering phone sex calls to support her early comedy career...the different kinds of relationships and wild sexual adventures that followed...and how now at 46 shes been surprised she wants something different. The weirdest thing is I realize now I just want someone to hold my hand. I just want to share a milkshake with somebody. I never had that time where everything is very innocent where you take everything slowly. And I realize I need that now. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Desiree Akhavan is tall with big eyes and dark hair. In person she is really striking. But as a kid in school she says she felt invisible. Unless she was on stage. When I was in 6th grade that is when all the kids were allowed to do a big show and that year it was The Lion The Witch and The Wardrobe and I got cast as the lion. And I remember after that performance my parents and my brother looked at me very differently. They just had no idea that I could sing and perform. It was very weird I had not been looked at with respect before that moment and I remember leaving thinking Oh god Ive got to chase that feeling. Like replaying it over and over in my head. Thats what it is to be special like how I would have felt to be looked at as a beautiful person. Like thats what my mother must feel like when people look at her because shes a very beautiful woman. And after that performance I had this brief shining moment of my family looking at me like that. Its interesting that you dont mention the audience and the applause it was your family. Yeah because you cannot gauge the audience. I dont know maybe theyre drunk maybe they really love the show. You felt like you were making them proud. Yeah. Thats what makes a video she produced before Sundance...such a thrill to watch. It shows Desiree telling her mom over Skype that her first feature movie had made the festival. You did it!... I always knew. I had so much faith in you. Desi...Desi...Desi... And then Lena Dunham calls you up All my brother does is save lives I really kicked his ass on that one. I got Lena Dunham to call me. What was that like? Shocking and exciting overwhelming and not at all what we anticipated but also your perspective changes of what success is and what big is. I take it all with a huge grain of salt. Its really exciting. And really shocking that this very tiny low budget film is being seen and getting to be on Girls and putting one foot in front of the other. It never feels like enough and I just do not take it very seriously. You dont take it seriously because it never feels like enough? I guess yeah. Youre just blindly chasing a goal that you dont know what it is anymore. That call from Lena Dunham -- it was an email actually -- led to an acting gig on the new season of Girls. Do not bother. What? Youre in Iowa...no one locks their bike Desiree plays a tough unimpressed fellow student when Lenas Hannah Horvath shows up at the Iowa Writers Workshop. Are you a first year? Oh no Im in graduate school. Yeah no you dont look like an undergrad at all sorry bro. Your work was immediately compared to Lena Dunhams. What was it like being on set with her? It was incredible. Its hard to talk about it without sounding like a really phony sound bite like were total best friends were growing up together. But when I was on the set of Girls I was so inspired and was like this is how I would like to work. I saw the best qualities of each person on set brought to the table. It was so calm. It was so collaborative and she really is a lovely leader at the helm of that ship. How do you feel like being a woman filmmaker has influenced the way that you make films? I dont know because Ive never been a male filmmaker. It is tricky. The differences between male and female filmmakers I do not like to put them in the artistic realm. I think they happen on the business level. On the business level what do you notice? What do I notice? I think this is a better question to ask me once Ive made a second and third feature. I do notice a huge drop-off that happens after this. And I have no idea if it has to do with the scripts we choose to move forward with and whether or not women are more precious and want to hit a home run with the second feature. And male filmmakers are more loosey-goosey with their overall career trajectories and feel like they have more time. Theres something about this career trajectory thats really intense and I am right now speculating because Im at the very beginning of it but this is where I see the change happening. Not in how someone runs their set if theyre a woman or a man. That is really interesting. Two male filmmakers have told me this year why dont you just make a B minus second film. Shoot it this year and youll be fine. Quit freaking out about it. I dont think I have the luxury of making a B minus second film if I want to keep working. And I have seen male filmmakers make B minus movies and keep working. I do not know. This is hard to say this as a definite statement because I am very naive and inexperienced so what the fuck do I know. But this is what Im thinking. That is what youre afraid of. Whos going to finance the film after that? You go to director jail. Director jail is a place that exists and I dont wanna go there. How do you know about director jail? You hear things. So you are at once saying its been an amazing moment of opportunity and youre taking it all with a grain of salt because you know you could just chase it to the infinite but you also have this fear of losing this moment. The opportunities are incredible but at the same time you have to navigate those. Theres a shelf life to all of it and navigating it requires you to be incredibly strategic and intelligent as well as having talent making films. They are two very different skills. Who spends 300 on a garter belt? It is different to on the one hand confidently line up investors for your film  and then mercilessly skewer your clumsiness in relationships. May I help you? We are just looking. Actually yes Im looking for the grown up underwear of a woman in charge of her sexuality and not afraid of change. Ive got that. The way you describe yourself from not fitting and struggling to please your family feels so at odds with the space you take up in your work and the confidence that that takes. Do you see that? Mmhmm. I think when youre making something you have to shut off a part of yourself. And when youre leading or are a boss you pull this thing that is in you which is blind belief in yourself and your vision. And who is gonna wanna follow someone who kinda sorta hopes it works out well. Its very human to be insecure and its very human to want to please others but when it comes to the work I really shut that part of myself off. I blindly chase my taste and I dont doubt anything when Im in my process. When youre in your process and writing stories with roots in your real life at what point do the real life consequences enter your mind? I dont think about real life because I think the minute you put pen to paper and write down a story it becomes a story and with each draft it takes a leap away from the truth of my life and its no longer this thing thats happened to me but this story Im using to illustrate a larger point. I really cant stress enough how I dont see it as autobiographical. Do you find at the end though that the parts of your emotional life that you were trying to work out -- do you feel in any way healed after youve gone through that process? Thats really tricky because I find that somewhat self-indulgent to want to do this for the sake of catharsis. Ill say this. When I was 16 I was voted the ugliest girl in my school. Ive seen that youve said this before. Who created those ballots? It wasnt ballots. It was the very beginning of the internet. I dont know who created it. I would really love to shake that person's hand because it is given me a lot to chew on. How many years since its been? I dont know. 20 years. I mention that because the first play I wrote that people saw included a whole sequence about that and that was really powerful for me at 16 because it was no longer this thing that happened to me but it became a thing that I made something spectacular with. That I turned into a crazier story that I was able to manipulate it into part of my show which was entirely mine. Whereas before I made that play it was this really sad victimizing moment in my life. So in that way yes I have gotten healing from this. But its not like it healed what happened or made me feel beautiful or made me feel okay with being voted that. It just gave me control and power in a situation that really stripped me of it. And I think a lot of this is about power and by this I mean storytelling. That the events in our lives really disempower you at times and that to shape your own narrative is to me the best approach I can take. Desiree Akhavans movie Appropriate Behavior opens in theaters this week. Its also available on iTunes where you can subscribe to Death Sex  Money too. Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC.  The team includes Katie Bishop  Emily Botein Jenna Weiss-Berman James Ramsay Chris Bannon and Greg Rippin. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale. So is the show deathsexmoney! Sign up for the Death Sex  Money weekly newsletter -- what were working on in the show stories youre sharing with us -- and recommendations of other great audio were listening to. The sign-up is on our website deathsexmoney.org in the right-hand column. And if youre wondering making a movie and getting onto a famous HBO show may lead to a certain kind of fame...but not fortune. We are talking paltry sums like very silly paltry sums. But I have mostly just been racking up debt. It is a way to live. It is an American way. That is how I really prove that we are an American family. A daughter with several hundred thousand dollars of grad school debt. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.