 Okay so this is producer Katie Bishop. I am here in the studio with producer Anabel Bacon.  Hey Katie.  Hey. So we just put out our episode about STIs.  Mmhm.  And we are getting some emails in the inbox.  Yeah! People are responding to this episode.  And we wanted to take a second to talk about one email in particular that came in today.  Yeah. So we got an email from a listener who said that he really was glad to hear the episode loved hearing us talk about sexually transmitted infections. But this guy was a little bit frustrated because he wished that we had talked more explicitly about what a disclosure conversation actually sounds like. He said You need to get back into this episode. You need to talk about how people break that taboo. How do they do it? What should you say? What are the tactics? How to break the news to a partner? I do not think he is wrong.  Yeah because in the episode we talk a lot about people disclosing telling their partners but we did not actually talk about the words that they used when they did it.  No and those are really hard conversations.  And in the process of talking about this email from a listener that we got today we remembered something else that we would gotten in our inbox.  Yes. Back in the summer we got this fantastic note from this woman who wanted to be called Hannah. And she had recently found out that she was diagnosed with HSV-2 which is genital herpes. And when Hannah wrote us this email she was still trying to figure out what does this mean for my sex life? How much is gonna change? How am I going to have these conversations where I tell my partners that I have herpes? So Hannah did this incredible thing. She wrote out an entire note to us and this was totally hypothetical -- she would never sent it to a partner. But it was to help her figure out what would it sound like if I said what I wanted to say to my partners about my STI?  And then she recorded it for us. Dear sir or madam My name is Hannah and if you are reading this email it means that you are considering having sex with me. And I with you. Congrats! Sex with me has been previously been described as fun hot and awesome. Before we go any further heres something you need to know I have herpes. HSV2. Yup that is the genital kind. Now you may be thinking Well there goes that one. And she has such a nice ass too. Here's the thing though herpes is not a big deal. The only way it affects my life is needing to send you this email and dealing with the social stigma surrounding it. If you have read this far without locking your doors bathing in bleach and deleting my number I like you even more already. Here are some useful facts for you to know - HSV2 is a relatively minor skin condition. Having sex with me is really fucking fun. - About 1 in 8 Americans have HSV2. - Most people who have it do not ever get a symptom and do not know they have it. - I have never had an outbreak. - Once you have it the virus lives inside of you forever. Spooky! - I can take a medication called Valtrex that reduces the chances of my transmission even further. - If you have a penis we are definitely using condoms. Condoms do not completely prevent transmission but they do lower the risk to about 2. - If you have a vagina sorry but the chances of you contracting it are higher. I will bring the dental dams! Yes I could give you herpes. But you could also get herpes from someone who does not now they have it because most people who have it do not know they do. Please see the infographic below for more information on transmission rates. Please see me in my bedroom for more information on my favorite kinks. Anyway that is the full deal. Take whatever time you need and let me know if you still want to get some of this. Sincerely Hannah  I love that email so much.  It is really amazing to hear somebody just spell it out all out like that.  Yeah and with a sense that this is okay we can have these conversations and it does not have to be the end of the world.  Listening to this email from Hannah it just made us realize this is such an important exercise for people who have STIs to say these things out loud. And also for people who do not have STIs to hear it.  So inspired by Hannah's email and that first email we got that asked us to share more explicit conversations about disclosure we have an assignment for you.  This weekend before Monday we want you to take out your phone open up your voice memo app and record yourself as if you are talking to a partner about your STI. If you have had this conversation in your real life before use the words that you used then. And if you have not had it yet but you would like to have some practice just say what you would like to say out loud.  We are going to take all of the voice memos that you send us and we are going to share them with you very soon. Do not worry we will keep you anonymous.  So again send in your voice memos by the end of the weekend. The email address is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.