Hey this is Anna. A note about this episode we first put it out in 2016 after we set up recording equipment in a Planned Parenthood clinic in Brooklyn and asked people what brought you in today? Youll notice a lot of the Planned Parenthood patients we talked to were there for basic reproductive health care--not abortions. Since we put out this episode theres been a big change in how Planned Parenthood pays for that care. The Trump administration banned clinics from receiving Title X federal funding--money that covers things like STI treatment cancer screenings and contraception for low-income patients--if those clinics also provide abortion counseling with a few narrow exceptions. In response Planned Parenthood stopped taking those funds altogether. Roe versus Wade was decided 47 years ago this month.and Americans remain evenly split on abortion rights. In a 2018 Gallup survey 48 percent of Americans identified as pro-choice 48 percent as pro-life. How that divide on abortion plays out in our politics has become familiar and predictable. Behind that public debate though are private stories that we hear a lot less frequently. Here again are some of them...from Planned Parenthood patients that we met at that clinic in Brooklyn.  Jihan Perez Usually when you press the number six on the elevator you get like the side-eye from people. Like Planned Parenthood equals abortion baby killers like I dont know what people think goes on in here. This is Death Sex and Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. The clinics in a nondescript old office building in downtown Brooklyn. Next to a drugstore. A Starbucks is across the street. You enter a dusty lobby go up six floors in a small elevator...and arrive at the Brooklyn Planned Parenthood clinic. There is the almost like the airport security that you have to walk through. This man is here for an STD test after a partner tested positive for chlamydia. He asked us not to use his name. Put your metal objects and anything in your pockets in the tray and then walk through. I did not necessarily expect it but as soon as I saw it I was like Oh yeah that is right that makes sense. Particularly after a gunman entered a Planned Parenthood in Colorado last year. He killed three people and injured several more. After security the waiting room in Brooklyn looks like a typical doctors office. Depending on the time of day the lobbys chairs can get packed with patients. You know I think I might be the oldest person in that room.  And how old are you if you dont mind - 52. And still sexually active. Thank you.  Yeah! You should...  Yeah. And still making dumb mistakes. Thats probably the worst part of it. Over a number of days this winter and spring we collected interviews at this Planned Parenthood clinic in Brooklyn. Its one of five in New York City and one of more than 600 clinics nationwide. What happens inside Planned Parenthood clinics has long been at the center of a raging political debate in the US. And recently the scrutiny has been particularly fierce. Federal funding for Planned Parenthood has nearly caused two government shutdowns. And about a dozen states have cut Medicaid funding for Planned Parenthood in the past year. But for as loud as the debate about Planned Parenthood has gotten we dont often hear from patients who use their services. So we wanted to collect some of their stories. I interviewed people who volunteered to talk with me while they waited for their appointments at this Brooklyn clinic. I talked to some staff members too. The patients came in for a number of reasonsSTD checks annual exams birth control pills. No one was seeking an abortion on the day I talked to them. But for the people I met abortion was often an important part of their history with Planned Parenthood. Treasure Ive been coming here basically my whole adult sexual life since I was 16 and now Im 38. This patient asked for me to call her Treasureshe also didnt want to use her real name. She was here for a Pap smear and a check-up. Treasure grew up in Brooklyn. She still leaves here. Her mom had her when she was 15 and her dad was incarcerated when she was growing up. Treasure says Planned Parenthood is where she learned about sex.  Why did you first come here when you were 16?  Everybody was just talking about sex or whatever and my mother used to talk about sex too but shed be like Oh you gotta get yourself checked out! You dont want to be having sex! You dont know whats wrong with you. These people is dirty. And I didnt know what she really mean by that you know People is dirty. So I just came here. And you know they explained sex to me. Theres diseases. And the outbreaks. You know just to be careful. Use condoms. Use birth control. Everybodys so nice. They answerno matter what question it is you may think its dumb no question is too dumb and too silly.  Were you sexually active when you first came here at 16?  Yeah Im not gonna lie. I was having sex. One boyfriend and thats it!   Have you ever been pregnant?  Yes I have. Yes I have.  Do you have kids or did you choose not to have kids?  No I do not have any kids. I always chose abortion. I always chose abortion cause I always felt I wasnt ready. I never really had a stable partner 'til now. Its just hard to have kids in New York and you a single woman.  And how old were you when you had your first abortion?  I think I was 19. To this day I still think about the kids I abort. And it hurts me but I knew I wasnt in a place to take care of them. Through her mid-20s Treasure didnt regularly use contraception. After her first abortion at Planned Parenthood Treasure had a second abortion then a third and a fourth. One in a hospital and two at another women's health clinic.  When youre young sometimes - like they say Young dumb full of cum. So youre just like Oh my god its not going to happen to me! I didnt use condoms. I was having all these abortions. I started like losing a piece of me. And I didnt want that to happen. I did not want to keep having abortions. I didnt want to keep just killing babies. I felt like that is not it is not we are not gonna do this. And that is when I really got grounded with Planned Parenthood. Because I said you know Please help me. Im having all these abortions. And I dont want to keep having them you know? And thats when a counselor spoke to me. And she was like You know what? We have different things. So that is when I started trying the Depo and thats when I started just coming in every three months. Getting my shots done. And it was like - it was cool. It was cool you know. I felt like I was on the right track with handling my life. Like I want to have a kid when Im ready.  Are you on contraception now?  No Im not.  And are you trying to have a kid? Are you trying to get pregnant?  Right now Im finally trying to have a kid. Finally. Finally! Congratulations to me. Im finally trying to have a kid. Finally after all these years I feel like Im in a place you know? I finished school. I have a nice job. I feel like I can take care. Im not going to be the best parent. Im not rich! But Im going to make sure they eat and  and have a roof over their head. And give them lots and lots of love.   What are the hard days like for you? Helene Gross The hard days are I guess if I see patients that really seem to be stuck in their lives and making unfortunate decisions for themselves and theyre unhappy.  What do you mean by that?  Well women who keep having a lot of unwanted pregnancies and um seem to not really think ahead about protecting themselves from it. Or maybe theyre in relationships with men who might even force them to do things but the patient isnt telling me those things. Helene Grosse is a midwife and nurse practitioner at this Planned Parenthood clinic. She graduated high school in 1973 the same year as Roe v. Wade. Shes worked here for more than ten years.  Have you been a patient at Planned Parenthood?  I havent been a patient at Planned Parenthood. But I have terminated a pregnancy a long time ago. And I have no regrets.  Do you feel comfortable telling me about that?  Sure. It was in the mid-'80s. And I remember feeling nauseous when Live Aid was on. I actually remember when I got the results of the pregnancy test because it felt like somebody slapped me in the face. I was just so shocked because I just  I think because I had never been pregnant before and it just sort of didnt seem possible. And I just knew I didnt want children. I went to my regular gynecologist and I had the termination there.  How do you remember feeling afterward?  Relieved. Relieved and tired.  Do you tell your patients that youve had an abortion?  Sometimes I do when it seems to fit the situation. I guess especially if I feel like I want them to know that Im not judging them.  Over and over again patients told me that coming to this clinic feels different than other doctors offices. More comfortable less judgmental. But still when you walk through the door... Sarah Everyone turns and looks at you which is fine but you know people are like What are you in for? I met Sarah at this clinic as she waited for her appointment for an annual exam.  Everyones like are you knocked up?  Have you ever been pregnant?  I have yeah.  Do you have any children?  Nope. Sarah is 32 and she told me shes had two abortions. Her second was three years ago at Planned Parenthood. Her first was at another clinic in New York. The other place I went to was...not fun. I mean it is not fun anyway but it was way worse than being at Planned Parenthood.  What was different?  Um it was the staff. And the price. They charged me a lot more at the other one. Sarah remembers paying several hundred dollars for her abortion at the other clinic. She had insurance that helped her cover her second one at Planned Parenthood. She says in addition to the better price she also remembers a different feeling.  Here it was just very reassuring. And also I kind of bonded with the other people in the waiting room. It was this one young girl and an older lady that was married that had children. She just you know - it is all different kinds of people. And she was really nervous. And I think I was like - I tried to calm her down. 'ecause this was the second time for me. And I was like It is fine it will be over before you know it. Like it is terrible and it is painful and you will have you know lots of different emotions about it. But it will be over in a - you will be fine. You will be okay. And you will get through it and you will survive. I have done it and a lot of other people have done it. So.  I love that idea of like a little conversation in a waiting room that is about something so deep and personal.  Yeah yeah. And no we had - we all - I saw them later as I was leaving and I do not know if we high-fived or hugged or something. We were like We can do this so. Coming up I hear about the protesters who gather outside this clinic regularly. Mary Im here because we are praying against the killing of babies. And I hear about the Planned Parenthood volunteers who stand right beside them to greet patients. -- Last week inspired by writer Saeed Jones and his mom Carol we asked you to send us your New Years Determinations. You told us about the concrete things you want to make happen in  I have a determination to find the job that fits me To play the piano more To get the promotion Ive been working towards for almost 10 years ...and its not just the things you want to do...its how you want to do them. I will not negotiate with my negative thoughts anymore I will remember my worth in relationships in my time in what I want to do in life I recently learned how to make cheesecake. And it was a lot easier than I thought. So I thought well probably there are a lot of things Ive been wanting to do that are easier than I thought. So I have dubbed the year 2020 the year of being curious. And I am going to try new things! One new thing WERE determined to do as a team in 2020? Give you EVEN MORE Death Sex  Money. You may have noticed in the last few months we have been putting more episodes into our feed...about twice as many as we used to. Most of those extra episodes are brand new -- but well also share some of  our favorite shows from the archives with you...like this one. It gives us a chance to introduce them to people who just started listening to the show...plus we love hearing them again too. On the next episode...your stories about friendship and race. Race has always played a part in my friendships Like I dont choose my friends because theyre white but my friends happen to be white Its easy to accidentally racially segregate Ive always felt like theres this wall Your white friend can easily make one comment and it feels like a trapdoor has opened up from underneath Even now we hardly talk we hardly see each other And Im thrust back into the realities of living in a racist America. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. The abortion rate in the United States is declining. Still about 30 percent of American women will have an abortion by the time theyre 45 years old according to the Guttmacher Institute. But the stigma surrounding abortion is very real. A recent study of women whod had abortions found that more than half felt like they needed to keep it a secret from close friends and family. And a third said they were concerned about what other people thought about their decision to have an abortion.  Um can I have you introduce yourself? Tell me your first and last name? Shani Fintoni Sure! My first name's Shani... Shani Fintoni came into this Planned Parenthood clinic to get a lump in her breast checked out. She says she felt the stigma surrounding abortion 13 years ago. She was 28 shed recently broken up with her boyfriend and she found out she was pregnant.  Um well I was coming out of a long-term relationship. You know how you do those three months of Well still keep sleeping together to make the pain less. No? And then it happened then. After her positive pregnancy test Shani went to her regular gynecologist in Manhattan to get an abortion.  I had to sit in a waiting room with expectant moms. Visibly pregnant. Wanting to be pregnant. Big giant engagement rings. Love moms! I have four godchildren. Children are fantastic. But there is just that thing that theres something slightly Whats.... Either Whats wrong with you? or Youre definitely different from me. And its not - its not the funnest.  When you told the doctor you wanted to terminate your pregnancy do you remember using the word abortion?  I dont think anybody used the word abortion. No. Nobody used it. It was so bizarre. The whole thing was just bizarre. It was like noI dont have plans of continuing this pregnancy. 'ecause thats basically how he posed the question So whats the - you know should we set you up for a follow-up appointment three months duh duh duh prenatal meds and I was like Woah woah woah. No. And um no no one used the word abortion at all.  When you think back on that time when you were 28 and choosing to get an abortion how do you think about it now?  I am happy - I am happy and just grateful that it was an option for me. Um you do the math for a while. To check in I think. I think you know check in make sure youre not a bad person. Like emotional cutting would be the term. The date was a date for me for a while for sure. And then I was fine until probably around like 36 37 definitely 38. You know youve now reached the age where this decisions real. Youve made plans to not have children. But I never regretted having the abortion. The only thing that I would cry about after later in those years was at thinking I was never going to find a man that would be okay with the fact that I didnt want to have children. Or that you find a man at 38 cause they say that statistically thats impossible. Shanis 41 now and she got married just over a year ago. She and her husband are both peace with not having kids. In fact Shanis last appointment at Planned Parenthood before the visit where I met her was to get an IUD. There are plenty of mothers who come to Planned Parenthood. Jihan Perez is one of them.  I have three girls.  How old are they?  Ten twelve six. Jihan comes to this clinic every three months for her Depo shot. She told me for her birth control should be called uterus control. She has endometriosis and being on birth control helps ease the symptoms.  I get really painful cramps and I just cant deal with that. Like my world shuts down. Like I dont eat I dont drink I dont get off the bed. Unless its to go change like a soaked pad or something. Like I dontitsyeah it immobilizes you so. Yeah I couldnt do that anymore.  Have you had your shot yet today?  Not as yet.  And how do you pay for it?  Um well fortunately I dont make enough money so I fit into the sliding scale and I have insur- um Medicaid and it helps me out so yeah.  And then do you have to pay some cash?  I dont.  Its all covered?  Yeah.  Has it always been that way when youve been getting shots?  Um no. At one point I was paying for it when I was working full-time. But now that Im back in school yeah. Im a student. Im poor. Half of all Planned Parenthood patients are on Medicaid like Jihan. According to its annual report Planned Parenthood received more than 500 million dollars in federal and state money last year from Medicaid and family planning grants. Jihan started getting Depo shots after her third daughter was born. Reliable contraception is an added benefit.  I actually got pregnant because I was irresponsible with the pills. So yeah.  Did you have a moment where you thought Do I wanna have this kid?  I did. I did. I had a lot of moments like that. And I dont ag- I dontI dont touch the abortion topic too much because I went to Catholic school. But I dont believe everything I read either so. I think its a personal decision so.  And for you it felt right to become a mom.  Yeah I had to do it. At this clinic in Brooklyn there are regular protesters who oppose abortion. They gather at least once a week usually on Saturdays beside the buildings entrance on the street. Mary We are here to pray. Were not here to persecute anyone were not here to cast any blame or any judgments were just here to pray. This protester named Mary is a middle-aged Catholic woman from Brooklyn. On the day met her she stood alongside two men. They all held rosary beads. Mary said they recite prayers like the Our Father and Hail Mary as women walk into the clinic.  90 to 95 percent of the women I see go into this clinic are African American and I think thats a genocide. I was talking to one black woman who told me she was in her 40s she said she and every one of her friends has had an abortion. That to me is a tragedy. Thats a major major tragedy. How many people have we lost because of that? Stationed right beside Mary and her fellow protesters were two Planned Parenthood volunteers wearing pink vests. They welcomed patients walking into the building. Rhea We are glorified door greeters. We stand outside of the clinic open door smile a lot as people come in. I talked with one of these volunteers. Her name is Rhea.  This particular group is nottheyre better than other protesters. I mean I hadthere was a guy who used to yell sort of racist things. As people were coming in the clinic.  Like what?  Dont let them take your black baby.  And if someone is if someone is walking up to the building appears flustered upset by seeing or hearing the protesters what do you do?  Usually they are confused. I get a lot of confused looks like What is going on? Like the squint like Huh what is going on? - and we just smile at them. We smile and we say Oh you know Welcome come on in we grab the door for them. I think usually just that initial smile breaks whatever discomfort they are feeling but I know that sense of discomfort. I have had that personally coming into the clinic for myself.  Have you ever had an abortion?  I have. At Planned Parenthood.  Do you want to tell me about it?  Well I am happy that I did it. I wouldve not -- I dont -- I dont have kids. I wouldnt -- I dont really -- I dont really tell anyone ever.  Why not?  I dont know. I should. Because thats stupid. Its really dumb. One in three women have an abortion. And for all the time that Ive been involved in Planned Parenthood I never really talk about it.  It feels private.  It is private. I mean it is not like I had a root canal. But I do not know - mostly - I mean honestly mostly because mostly because people make you feel bad about it. Like you are a bad person. They make you feel like you did something wrong. Mostly I mean really the driving reason was because I dontI did not want to be a single mom. Um my mom is a single mom and she gave up everything for me. She left me in Trinidad as an infant. She was a nanny for twins for some otherfor another family while she left her child. She came back she was able to bring me over. You know that was really hard. I see how hard my mom worked. Like she sent me to private school for my whole life. I know that it took a lot out of her. I dont think that I could have done that as a single parent. Like I would not have been able to do that.  Yeah and you had a veryyou had observed the reality of what it is to raise a kid on your own. Very up close.  Yeah for sure.  Do you remember an interaction with anyone at the clinic when you had your abortion that sticks out?  The truth is is that if you go and youre making a big decision in your life and youre in your head and youre thinking about different things and youre wondering if this is the right choice and youre there and youve made the appointment and youve been thinking and now youre like crossing the line.... Somebody being a jerk to you could totally just melt you down. Justjust tear you down and make you feel awful. Or somebody with a smile and somebody who holds your hand because I know that someone held my hand because I do remember that. Could just make you feel calm and make you feel good. At a time where maybe you dont feel good. Thats a Planned Parenthood volunteer and patient in Brooklyn named Rhea. Since I visited the clinic Shani Fintoni has gotten good news about the lump in her breastit looks to be a benign cyst but the doctors where she was referred are still watching closely. The man in the waiting room got a clean STD test back. I am glad that I got myself checked out and even happier with the results he wrote me in an email later. And Treasure says she and her partner are still trying but shes not pregnant yet. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein Cayce Means and Andrew Dunn. Our interns are Carson Frame and Brandy Gonzalez. And special thanks to Destry Sibley and Anna Hyatt for their help on this episode. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And at the end of a long day at the clinic we did one last interview with Dina a nurse practitioner. She would had a packed schedule of patients but still made time for herself.  I actually had my IUD inserted today.  Today?!  Yeah. So I um the plan was always to do it at the end of the day but of course lunch was when we had all this time so everyones like Youre still here? I guess youre - and youre doing okay? And Im like Yeah Im fine Im kind of like hyper-aware of my uterus but otherwise Im fine. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.