 I mean I was mad at God. I was mad at his heredity. I was mad at what did - I think the night before he died we went and had Greek. So there was probably a lot of like you know tzatziki happening. I was mad at everything and everybody and it felt so much better just to say I am angry about this. I am not just sad about it. I am pissed. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot. .and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. The Christmas after Leslie Gray Streeters husband died she bought herself a ring.  A uh ruby that is surrounded by diamonds and it is a ring that I bought  technically I bought physically but Scott really bought it with our insurance money. And this was like the last gift he was gonna give me. Scott Zervitz was Leslies husband. He was 44 when he died suddenly from a heart attack five years ago.  I had lost the stone of my um my actual engagement ring earlier that year when I was running. And there is so much going on he is like we have to replace it immediately. And I was like no no we just 'ecause we were trying to buy a house maybe in a year and we had the baby. And I was like it is not important and just wait 'til Christmas. And he was dead by Christmas. So I thought to use the money in that wayit was not I did not use all of it obviouslybut to use some of it that way to do something I knew he wanted to do um felt right to me. And it felt like it is like you know people in movies are like you know He would want me to have an affair with a 23-year-old pool boy because he would want me to be happy! It was not that thing but it was like I knew he was on record saying I want I want to buy you this. So he technically he did.  You did not want to pool boy you wanted a ruby.  I wanted a ruby I would not mindI do not have a pool so that would I would have to goit would be rude to like find someone else with a pool. Leslie is an entertainment writer. She writes for the Palm Beach Post in Florida. Her sense of humor comes through in the TV and movie reviews she writes and in her new book called Black Widow. Its a funny raw honest account of all the different ways grief has shown up since her husband died.  One of the reasons that I wanted to write the book was our inability to talk about the ongoing parts of grief. Like for instance any movies about widows. Like Hallmark? It is like it is the five years after you have gotten over your - its the sad widower who is the town janitor or whatever the carpenter and then he is ready and he meets the woman who comes into Apple Valley or whatever and they fall in lovethey have papered over the sad part of it.  Yeah.  Now he is ready to date! They did not get the like when you literally wake up and you forget what tense you are in? Or like um I could not even see my phone was dead. I would say like. My battery has lost charge. I could not say the word dead. Leslie and Scotts love story began when they were both in their late 30s.  Where were you in your love life at that point?  Sad Carrie Bradshaw.  Aw  Leslie and Scott had met years earlier as teenagers. They went to the same high school outside of Baltimore. When her graduating class started organizing their 20 year reunion Scott reached out to Leslie on Facebook. They agreed to meet up for coffee.  And I was like eh this is just coffee. Its a thing. And he came and he had really thick glasses and he took his glasses off and I went Oh he is cute! And I was like why do I care he is cute? This is just coffee. But um he was funny and he was very gracious. And then an hour and a half had gone by. We would never stopped talking.  So when you noticed that you realized that he you thought he was cute like was it um did Scott sort of fit the profile of of uh the kind of guy that you thought you were going to end up with?  Nope. Well he did and he did not he fit the profile. I have always kinda liked like sort of bigger dudes so and he was a bigger dude. I never really thought about bald guys before. Um I thought that I was gonna marry or kind of hoped sorta whatever that I was gonna marry someone who shared my religion. Um but he had the things that that mattered that he loved his family. We would we used to say we could have fun sitting in a box if we were trapped in a box we could would have fun 'ecause we would never run out of things to talk about. We both watched Days of Our Lives growing up and our first date we sat on the beach in Fort Lauderdale and kissed and talked about villains on Days of Our Lives. You know um I not only loved him I liked him you know um and he was someone that I wanted to be friends with not just - I was very much in love with him but also you know we liked hanging out.  You grew up in a in a Black Baptist church in Baltimore. Did it give you pause that Scott was Jewish?  Kind of. Only because it was very it was very apparent very quickly that he was super serious about this and that I was going to have to make a decision about how important that was to me. Um and I was you know went to church every Sunday and that kind of thing. And I thought I am 38 years old I am going to have to decide. And I went Yep. It was not even a question.  Oh really? You are like I am going to have to decide. And when you pause to decide -  I went yep. It was like it was not even like - it was like the end of the sentence I had figured it out.  Huh. And what was it like telling him about how um how your faith had made you choose to make some decisions about what you wanted your sex life to be like? What was that conversation like?   It was so - um it is the kind of thing that like you dread having to tell someone that you really like. It was our first official date and it was fantastic and we were kissing in the car. And he said something like you know The first time that we make love we should go someplace very very special. And I was like first of all that is cheesy. Second of all. And like the defense came down in my brain. I was like listen listen you should know that I am not planning to have sex before I am married and we are probably never going to get married so we are probably never going to have sex. And he went Okay. And I was like excuse me? And he was like okay.  Were you - before you reconnected with Scott were you at peace with the idea that you might not get married might not have sex?   At peace? No. I guess I was kind of like something's gonna happen right? And I had hoped that I would not like be the kind of person that got married just so I could do that and make everyone happy and then divorce two months later?  Yeah. Did you pray about that?  Yes frequently. Frequently. And it came in a package that I did not expect. Um but I think that is how things happen right? You know? The person that I was supposed to be with showed up. And I am I am happy. I mean obviously I wish that we had more time together in all of those ways in every way. And I wish we would had more time to be sexual with each other. Leslie and Scott got married after theyd been dating for about a year. They wanted to become parents but after a few years of trying Leslie hadnt gotten pregnant so they decided to foster a baby boy Brooks with hopes of eventually adopting him. Things were falling into place. But then in July of 2015 Scott suddenly felt sick in the middle of the night. Something was seriously wrong.  I turned the light on the light was behind my head and his head was shaking and I thought oh I do not I did not know what was happening. 'ecause like shock makes things happen both very quickly and very slowly. And um I do not think I realized for a couple seconds how seri - that something very serious was happening.  Yeah.  And I remember yelling what is wrong what is happening what is happening? And he passed out. And I called 911 and I have no idea how long it took but um I was still in that just before something really tragic happens state where you think you can control things. And everyone else sees like a crazy frantic person and you think you are holding it together and you are not. Um and so I called a friend and her husband uh they came over and he stayed with the baby along with one of my neighbors. And we went to the hospital.  When do you remember realizing that Scott was gone?  Um. When we got to the hospital and the clerk said Oh Mrs. Zervitz um please wait in that room. And I was like aw no. 'ecause they did not it was not like - I did not hear something frantically happening. We were in the ER. I did not hear like you know people running around and yelling stat! It was too quiet and I thought no they are not trying to save him. Something has happened. And they put us in what I referred to as the bad news room.  Hmm.  So when the doctor came in and there was a doctor and some nurses and stuff and nobody was smiling and I thought okay. So he told us. Um you know we tried to do this and unfortunately we were able unable to save him. And I remember hearing myself saying the words So he is gone then. And I also remember thinking because this is my pop culture reporter's shock wrapped around I wonder if I sound - is that what you should say? Is that a normal thing to say?  So you were feeling this odd like awareness of how you were performing.  Yes. You know are you the person that like breaks down crying? Which I am not. Or um do you like start cussing at people or you just go Well thank you very much? Coming up Leslie takes on all the logistics of death and being a single mom while also figuring out how to just be.  This thing we put on the grieving particularly widows that you are supposed to be sad enough but not so sad that you harsh the next party they invite you to? I remember thinking you know what? I am the widow now and I do not have to I do not have to care what people think of me. I do not have to care of how people think that I am grieving.  Weve talked a lot about grief and loss here on Death Sex  Money. And about how different it looks for everyone. I almost felt betrayed by God. I was so hurt. Usually the sadness overcomes - overcomes the anger. You know its you get angry for a second but that just turns into sadness. I felt a lot of pressure to reassure everybody that its going to be okay. So thats the mode that I snapped into. Now youve got to be this plate for everybody elses feelings about your dead husband. You dont get around to your feelings until maybe a year or two after the funeral. Those are excerpts from conversations that weve had about the loss of a child a parent a sibling a spouse. And we know that a lot of you are grieving right now. Some of you alone. So we put together a playlist of some of our episodes that focus on grief and loss. Its on our website - you can find a link to it in our show notes. And something else weve been thinking about here at the show is childcare. A lot of us are trying to make good choices with incomplete information. And the stakes are very very high. Nobody has all the answers...but we want to know whats on your mind So if youre a child care provider tell us How has your work changed because of the pandemic? Is it working for you? If youre someone with children Hows your child care changed because of the pandemic?  And is it working for YOU? And we want to hear from everyone Whats the hardest conversation youve had about child care in the last few months? Record a voice memo or send us an email...to deathsexmoneywnyc.org. I think well have a lot to talk about together.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. For Leslie Gray Streeter part of what made the sudden death of her husband Scott so devastating was that raising their child together... was better than Leslie had even hoped for.  I knew that he was going to be a good father but I did not realize for instance that I was going to be the person carrying the baby bag 'ecause he always wanted to hold that baby.  Hmm.  He was hands on like literally. Most of the pictures are Brooks under the age of two are with Scott.  How old was Brooks when Scott died?  He was let us see. Scott died the very end of July and Brooks's his birthday's in September so he was almost two.  Before Scott died had you talked about what would happen if one of you died?  Yes actually which is weird. Because after he died I would have conversations with people and say well he would want this for the funeral and people looked at me like how do you know this? Why have you thought of this? It is because we had had so much death in our lives. Both of us in the five years six years that we were together five years that we were married we both lost a parent. Had both lost a grandparent. So we had been to funerals together and had had discussions just like like if you go to a wedding you go hey what would you want your song to be? And you go to a funeral and you would say well what would you want to be? I said so what kind of funeral do you want? He goes I want a Jewish funeral. I want a plain plain pine box. I do not want to be like stuck on ice for a long time. Um I want it to be fun. I was like your funeral would not - and it was fun but I was like who would be having fun at your funeral? I would be too sad. And he was like no just have it like me.  What was it like for you as Scott's wife um to need guides uh who were not your closest family and closest friends um to help you plan a Jewish funeral? What was that like?  It was so...lovely. Um I wanted to do something for him. 'ecause this was the last thing you can do you know in that way that is specifically for him. So asking for help which is not always easy for me. I knew this was not my um my thing. Scott's cousins you know and just one of his coworkers who told me about you know the minyan for the um the Kaddish. Kiddish? I never pronounce that right. They were all around to make sure  like I had no idea of where you get yarmulkes and they found yarmulkes. I had no idea like -  Huh.  - you know how you did certain things and they they were there to do it. And like I said it was all of us doing something for Scott that would have been important to him. And that meant something to me that made me closer I am now closer to that side of the family because of that.  When you were alone after Scott died Um. What did that feel like when you got to just just be by yourself and also feel that Scott was not there?  It was relief and torture at the same time because I really wanted I needed to be alone with your thoughts but your thought is And now my husband's still dead. He is not here. He is not going to be here. He is not going to come in on that side of the bed. You know I still sleep on my side of the bed five years later.  You do.  I do.  And when you think about the last five years like when you when you think of um if you had a a dark period or a period that felt the darkest like when in time did it happen for you?  It was right after it is like I ate and drank and cried and just watched stupid television shows and just in any way  and I could not completely commit to that because once again I had a small child so I could not even like -  You could not fully fall apart.  I couldnt completely commit to my darkness. Who has time to be dark all the time? The baby needs changed you know? But um we had so many plans like he was starting a job. Or just having to be never about things like he is never going to have that job because he is dead.  Yeah.  But um I think in those moments of my mother who was a miracle um allowed me to to do that and there would be times where I would just go I need to go be in my room. And she would go I know. I get it. It is okay.  I mean she she it occurs to me that she she also was a fairly recent widow. Your father died three years before Scott did. Um did you all talk about what it was like to be widows together?  We did and it is a thing that - and she said to me I am so sorry that you understand this. Because I got it. I mean even though she my dad had been married you know 40-something years you know when when he died and we had been married five and a half. Um so we talked about it and we talked about like just the having to do the practical stuff while your heart's breaking you know and like how you do that. And like when my dad died I did not crowd her. You know I was like I am here if you need me I am here if you need me to drive you someplace I am here if you need me to do something. And when Scott died same thing. I was in the house. And it is like she is like I am over here if you need me if you need me to hang out with baby you need me to go make popcorn. You know whatever we can do this. Um and just knowing - when people say I know how you feel. And they do not no one does. Um and having someone who had been through it um was really crucial I think to not feeling alone and not feeling weird about it. As Leslie continued to grieve she was still going through the adoption process. One of the things she had to decide was what Brooks last name would be without Scott.  He wanted Brooks's name not to be hyphenated. But when Scott died I knew that just for so many reasons I needed him to have my name. But he had to have Zervitz in it. I was not going to write Scott out of it. I could not he is his child you know? So I hyphenated it and I knew that he was not that he would not have wanted to he did not want to have it hyphenated. But you know I am making the decisions now and he died on me. So it is my turn now. You know. And I do that sometimes. I am like well you know if you wanted to make this this this and you should not have died on me. And not in like a blame way but it is like what are you going to do? I cannot do anything about it. My therapist told me that um it was okay to be mad at him for dying whether or not it is rational because nothing about this is logical or makes sense. That you - and that was really being given permission to do that was really important to me um. Even though I know that he never in a million years would he have chosen not to be with us and it is really not fair that he is not. He is not. So . And I am angry about it. Because my life is not what it is supposed to be. My life sucks. But it cannot completely suck 'ecause I got a I did not have a full staff of nannies to like raise my kid while I like you know luxuriated at some place at a spa and was sad. I had to keep it moving. And that kind of helped me keep it moving 'ecause I had to get up 'ecause the kid still needed to eat.  How do you understand your son's relationship with Scott now? How does he think of his dad?  It is interesting. Um I mean he is six now and there are times when he does not want to  some sometimes he will want to talk about it. Like sometimes he would meet people and go Hi my dad died.  When he was how old?  Like four you know five maybe.  It felt like a central fact.  It is a central fact because when you start to go to new schools people ask where is your dad?  Yeah.  I try to keep him present. There are pictures. I do not want it to ever be a shrine you know? I do not want it to be - like - I mean he will figure out how he feels organically and then we will deal with that but I do not to be a person that keeps him as this perfect person that you have to like worship. Any of that thing. I  just want him to know that Scott was a human and he loved him more than he loved breathing more than he loved air. And that is important for me that he knows that.  When when did you start going on dates?  Um I think my first official I think I think I went back on Match which was a disaster. Um a year later?  A year later. And I I am curious when you when you decided to do that when you decided to say like I am just gonna - we are just going to see. Um what did it feel like you were you were like inviting into your life? What did you what did you want to bring into your life that was not there by dating?  Um well. Once you have been in love and been loved fiercely like I was  and my marriage did not end because either of us chose it.  Yeah.  So my healing was not the same as my the healing of my friends who have been divorced. Where they are dealing with the very real and awful ends of this thing where you love this person and now you cannot be together anymore. So I missed being in love I think everyone misses being in love but I was like I literally had it last week. Okay. Now it is been three months. Now its been six months whatever. Um I think I thought that I would find someone  which is hilarious that I would find someone and like getting married really soon or like a year or two. It is like it was it took me a thousand years to find the first one. It is not like  and now I am like that much older. It is like yeah it is super easy to just find dudes who just want to marry a single mom! It is not. I feel like the Ron Howard as the narrator on Arrested Development. Narrator It was not it was not. Um but I knew that there would be no more knuckleheads. There would be  I was very upfront when I was dating online in the very from the very beginning that I had a child. Widowhood I am much better at going not a thing. Move on. Not a thing move on. Um I knew that I was not I remember when Scott died. I thought well now am I gonna be am I like a casual sex person now? No I am not.  You are not. You are not.  I am not. Um it is just it is it is too much logistics and I have not done that. It is like -  Wait what kind of logistics?  Like I do not want to get a babysitter to go do that.  Yeah.  And I do not even know you. You are not worth a babysitter yet dude. And I I am not in a hurry to do it because one of the lovely things about having been loved the way that I was loved is that I think that for awhile when you are looking for that you just want validation that you are lovable. You know? That someone loves you enough to want to be with you that way? And now I know that. I know that I am worthy of being loved and able to be loved and that I can be in those relationships. So I do not need to be with someone to know that. I do not need the validation of another person to tell me that right now because I know that about myself. Thats Leslie Gray Streeter. Her new book is called Black Widow. Since we talked Leslie has decided to move with her son back to Baltimore  where shes originally from and where she and Scott first met. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im usually based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Katie Bishop produced this episode. The rest of our team is Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thanks to Ayo Osobamiro for her work on this episode. And thanks to Joy Shioshita in El Cerrito California...who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Joy and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on twitter instagram and Facebook. Leslie told me while theres a lot she doesnt know about how life is going to unfold she does know where shes going to end her days. In a grave plot right next to Scott.  I paid it off with the last half of my book advance.  Oh you did?  Yes. How cool is that?  That is really cool. Congratulations. You have got your little spot of land.  I got my little spot of land. Got my paperwork and everything. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.