 I think I had this misconception in my mid-30s when I started thinking that I did want to have kids I was like Oh well it will be fine. Like I will just do IVF. Like if I have to I will just do IVF and - as though that were you know this sure thing. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. Writer Doree Shafrir spent her 20s and 30s working her way up in journalism to impressive jobs at Rolling Stone and BuzzFeed. But in a lot of ways she felt left behind like adulthood wasnt clicking into place for her the way shed expected. She writes about this in a new memoir with an excellent title Thanks for Waiting The Joy  of Being a Late Bloomer.  I feel like I only really started thinking about that term in my mid to late-30s but I do feel like throughout my life there were certain things where I was like Oh I am older!  Or like I have not done this thing yet that I feel like I should have done.  How much do you think was related to some idea of a biological clock?  I think it was somewhat related for sure. I think I thought about it less in terms of like Oh my clock is ticking and more like Oh wait like I should be doing these things too. I want kids right?  Um...  So it was more like a fear a sense of being left behind by your peer group?  Yeah. I recently said to someone that my book is about having life FOMO.    And I think that that is really what it felt like. It was it was the fear of missing out on all these milestones that to me it felt like everyone around me was reaching.  And for you what were those milestones when you would think like really bluntly like what were the shame-y thoughts you had about the milestones you ought to be reaching?  It was getting married it was having a kid it was buying a house it was being in a place with my career that I felt confident and happy and fulfilled. Those were kind of the four pillars and it really seemed impossible for a while that I was going to reach any of them and so I had to kind of reframe how I was thinking about the rest of my life. Doree did that reframing while making it the focus of her work in not one but two podcasts she now hosts. One called Forever35 is about taking care of yourself and being cool for women like yours truly in middle age. The second podcast she started with her husband about their efforts to get pregnant. Its called Matt and Dorees Eggcellent Adventure An IVF Journey. In her book and on their podcast Doree has been remarkably candid about their infertility treatments which can be such a frustrating and isolating experience. And thats what I wanted to focus on with her. Doree met her now-husband Matt on Tinder when she was in her mid-30s. They married when she was 38.  I felt like I would finally met someone who I could envision raising a child with and being a great dad. And I was really ambivalent about having children for quite some time. Throughout my 20s I I did not say I did not want kids but it was not a future that I you know fantasized about or necessarily saw myself doing. And I did not see myself as very mothering or motherly. And I worried I think that I would not be motherly that I just did not have that in me. And it was not really until when my nephew was born and I remember just being so crazy about him. And the same thing happened when my sister had her child and I kind of saw a side of myself come out that I had not really seen before. And that was when I was really like Okay this is really something that I want. But at the same time it was also another kind of reminder that I did not have a child. My husband and I we would been trying to get pregnant for a few months we would gotten married a few months earlier and nothing was happening. And I had to kind of hold both of those feelings at once right? Like being really happy for her and so thrilled and so excited that this new person was in the world and then also kind of feeling sorry for myself and letting myself feel that.  And how did you let yourself feel that? I think one of the things that is so... can be so tricky when we are in a moment in life when we want to be happy for someone we love particularly a very close friend or a sibling but it also points out the ways in which we feel some you know deficiencies in what we want our lives to look like and how to do both of those at the same time. Like was your do you think your sister was aware of those mixed feelings you were having?  I think she was to an extent because she knew that we were trying to get pregnant um and we had you know we talked about it. But I had had practice holding both of these feelings at once. I distinctly remember feeling that way at my sister's wedding. She got married when I was 34 and she was 27. Um and I felt like I was here I was you know the older sister in her mid-30s single going to her younger sister's wedding. And I think what I felt was I I remember saying to myself like You cannot let this weekend be about you you know? You have to be happy for her. You have to just you know put on the game face and power through even if what I was perceiving was oh oh people were feeling sorry for me. And again I do not know if that is true but that was what was going through my mind. And so having to hold both of those things was something that I feel like I was had gotten some practice in um  by that time.  Did you like the outfit that you wore to her wedding?   Um I was a bridesmaid. She had us wear matching bridesmaids' dresses. They were purple a lovely jewel-tone purple. But you know it it was this strapless dress. It was not something that I would have picked out for myself I will put it that way. I did not hate it. I did not get into it and feel like Oh my God. This is like horrible but I it was not what I would have necessarily picked to wear. The rest of her bridesmaids they were her friends from growing up and college mostly if I remember correctly. And all very lovely people but all very petite.  And I am not especially tall. I am like 5'6 but they were all very small and very thin and um I felt really awkward and and big next to them in a way that made me uncomfortable. I felt like Barney.  You know this kind of like big purple blob. When Doree was single in her 30s she had considered freezing her eggs but eventually decided not to. So when she and Matt still hadnt gotten pregnant after six months of trying because of Dorees age her OBGYN suggested they see a specialist.  She told me that my husband would have to get a semen analysis um in addition to all the tests that I was doing.  So you had to come home and say Sweetie you need to do a semen analysis?  Yes but you know I think he was expecting it. I mean I know he was expecting it because... as we had been trying to get pregnant and you know month after month it was not working he kept saying I know the problem is me. I know the problem is me. I know I have bad sperm. And I was like How do you know that? Have you ever had a semen analysis? He was like No but I just know. So when I told him Okay you have to take a semen analysis he was like expecting it um and very kind of pessimistic about it. But then when they called him with the results it turned out he did have a low sperm count. So he was right.  When you were just having those first conversations or when that would first come up with your husband about his sperm count and then when you got the results like... did you know how to talk to your husband about sperm counts in a way that felt okay?  So my husband has been a podcaster for a very long time and is remarkably open about  It is a really funny way to start the answer to that question.   Well because he is he is he is not like a politics podcaster he talks about personal things on his podcast. And so in a way I think he is justI think especially when we met he was definitely a more open person than I was about this stuff and was just kind of fine talking about it. And so I never felt awkward talking with him about his sperm count but it was it was interesting in those early days because I still had a lot of confidence in the medical establishment. And I thought Okay well our only problem is that Matt has a low sperm count. Like that is easily dealt with. I will be pregnant in no time! And it did not really work out that way. But at the time I remember just thinking like Ugh. Like if he did not have bad sperm like we would just be we would be able to just have have kids you know having sex! We would be able to have free kids!  That is the other thing when you are when you are doing IVF it starts to seem completely bizarre that people just have sex and get pregnant.  Yeah. So when you are doing those early tests and you are beginning to have conversations with doctors how did you begindid did you have conversations between the two of you about how much intervention you were willing to do physically and pay for?  So we were told when we got Matt's results that ourbasically our only option to get pregnant was IVF. And neither of us had insurance that covered IVF. But again I think we thought it would work right away so we... thought Okay this is going to be a big financial hit but we are going to do it. And I mean these were kind of very eye-popping numbers like over 20000. And we did not have that money which did not feel great going into a lot of debt to pay for IVF. But it felt like our only option and again it felt like the clock was ticking because now the biological clock was really becoming present in my life. I was 39 and you know egg quality starts to go down very quickly after that um and the numbers of eggs start to go down very quickly. And so we knew Okay it is kind of now or never. We gotta get going. And it just felt like there was this urgency to it that was stressful.  That you almost like did not even have time to spend to think about the decision. It was like Are we doing this or not? 'ecause we have gotta go.  Exactly yes. Once you are on the IVF train it starts moving very quickly out of the station. Like I was told Oh you have a polyp. You have to have your polyp removed that is surgery. So okay got it gotta arrange that surgery gotta find someone who is going to do it. Oh insurance will pay for - great! I will you know you are just consumed by everything. And then it was you know it was getting the medications and doing the shots. And everything just felt like we were not in control of what was happening. We were just kind of going.  What do you remember as the first moment once you were on as you say the IVF train when you were like Whoa this is not the kind of quick intervention that I thought it was going to be? Like when did that first hit you?  It was when we got the genetic testing results for our first round of embryos. So the way it works is you do these shots for about two weeks and then your eggs get essentially harvested. And that a in the US at least they put you under for that so that is like a surgery. And then they get fertilized with sperm and then they grow in the lab for five to six days. And on day five or six they either turn into what is called blastocysts or they do not. And if they turn into blastocysts then they are considered potentially viable. And at our clinic at least for women over 38 they recommended that you send that you get them biopsied and tested for genetic abnormalities for chromosomal abnormalities. And so that first round we had ended up with four blastocysts. And so I just thought Okay we will get four blastocysts. Like why would they be abnormal? And then they came back with only one was normal. And that is when I was like Wait a second one? Just one? Like I had had I forget exactly how many but I had had I think about 15 eggs retrieved. And then at the very end to get one I just thought Oh my God what? And at the time I did not know that you know a lot of people do not get any. But in my mind I had just again naively assumed that... this would be fine! I would get multiple embryos and get pregnant and ride off into the sunset.  So I think this first round of - this first egg retrieval when I only got one normal embryo was a real wake-up call in that regard too. Doree and Matt transferred that one embryo that didnt have any chromosomal abnormalities. But it didnt implant. Doree didnt get pregnant.  I I got a lot of people saying like Oh I know I know it will work. I know you will get pregnant soon. And I was like How do you know that? How could you know that? Like that is not that does not make me feel better. Um and then you know I also got a lot of people who liked to tell me what I called miracle baby stories.    So you know Oh I have my cousin's friend. She was doing IVF for five years and then they decided to just stop because they could not take it anymore and then she got pregnant! And you are always like Okay great. Great story.  And They tell you these stories with this eager look in their eye of like Oh well you know this will give her hope but it just made me feel worse actually.  Did anyone say anything that was surprisingly comforting?  I think the people who were just like I am really sorry. I am here if you want to talk about it were the best responses. It actually taught me a lot about how to engage with people who were going through difficult things. I was I was grieving in a way and you know sometimes I did want to talk about it. And other times I really just did not. Coming up Doree does finally gets pregnant. But not before racking up a lot of debt.  It was so overwhelming that a lot of times I just did not want to know how much how in debt we were like I did not want to add it all up because it was so much money. And it felt - I I was ashamed that I wanted to keep going. -- We have heard from many listeners over years about dealing with infertility. Many of you pointed out it is right in our sweet spot theres death theres sex and oh it takes money. The average IVF cycle including medication embryo transfers and one egg retrieval can rise to about 25000. And thats just for one cycle. IVF insurance coverage in the U.S. is uneven. Fewer than 20 states in the US have laws mandating some kind of private insurance coverage for fertility treatments and as of last year no state's Medicaid programs covered IVF so it is often not available for people without money to pay out of pocket. And of course IVF is just one reason becoming a parent can be expensive emotionally draining or feel out of reach. Others of you might have needed other interventions because of your gender identity or because youre unpartnered or youre in a gay relationship. If youve had to jump through medical or legal hoops to start a family we want to hear from you. And tell us the moment you realized that becoming a parent was going to be more difficult than you expected. Write a note or record a voice memo and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode  You just want to get out of that feeling of grief when it is overwhelming and you feel stuck. And I think for many many years I tried to move through versions of those stages. The Kubler-Ross stages of grief are often presented like a road map through loss. But early on Radiolab producer Rachael Cusick realized her grief after losing her mom did not work that way. Look out next Friday for our collaboration with Radiolabwhen Rachael talks with her grandmother about their shared grief together.  Like it was always in the roomlossbut I do not know how often we talked about the word grief. Grandma do you remember ever like having a conversation about it?  We we did not really talk about grief. We did not. And and um you know that is probably a mistake but we it was just there. It was just so present. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. When Doree and Matt started the IVF process they were still paying off their wedding. They knew IVF would be expensive but as they went through round after round and discovered that Doree needed surgery on her uterus going deeper and deeper into debt felt like their only option.  It was like once you kind of got one thing sorted something else that you had never even known was a possibility cropped up. Like I did not know that I like had a bad uterus.  You know no one had even told me that that was a thing. It felt like we were I was Sisyphus pushing the rock up the hill and we were just never going to get to a point where the rock would be fully up the hill.  As these goalposts are shifting how did you get billed?  We got billed for like every appointment and it was not covered by insurance. So we were just charging everything to credit cards and we started getting very adept at the 0 interest credit card game. So we would open new credit cards and transfer you know huge balances to these other cards so that we could pay them off over time. Um  Who was in charge of that in your relationship? Who who did the hunt for the 0 interest rate?  It was mostly me but Matt would also-- if he got an offer for a 0 card he would be like Oh I just got an offer for an American Airlines card you know or whatever. Should we apply for it? I would be like Yes! But I was mostly handling... mostly handling the transfers themselves.  In your family um and in your husband's family was asking for help an option?  No. Um it it was not an option. My parents did at one point about I do not know a year or so into the process they did give us 2000 um but that was the only help that we got from them.  Did they ask how much money you were spending?  They did not.   Hey everybody welcome to Matt  Doree's Eggcellent Adventure I am Matt.  I am Doree.  Um leave your Apple Podcast reviews!  Wow you really just went right into it... And then after two and a half years five egg retrieval three embryo transfers and 98 episodes of their weekly podcast Doree finally got pregnant.   My phone rings and Dr. Kelly Beck  DKB.  says Congratulations!  What?  I was like What? What? What? I was like No! Wait are you serious? Are you serious?  When you announced that you were pregnant in August of 2018 was it a scary thing to say out loud publicly?  Oh totally. I mean I - we transferred our our last genetically normal embryo. I was 41. It felt like our you know last shot really. Um and I was very pessimistic up to the pregnancy test. I was like There is no way this worked which really pissed Matt off. He was like Do not talk like that. And I was like Who cares? If I am negative about it that is not going to affect anything. You know I was really kind of down on this whole power of positive thinking thing. I was like That does not matter. Who cares? Uh I was very pessimistic about it because I think when I had allowed myself to be hopeful to be optimistic I had just been disappointed. And so being optimistic did not even feel like an option anymore. I had I felt I was like I had to protect myself. And so I was really nervous about talking about it even though I had to because we had the podcast. So everyone was expecting the news. But I was so nervous about miscarriage like obsessively nervous about it and I was constantly looking up like What are the statistics for miscarriage at five weeks? What about six weeks? What about for women over 35? What about for women over 40? What about for women who have done IVF? When does it go down? Like I just got consumed by this. And you know I could not stop reading like stories of people who had missed miscarriages you know when you do not know that you have had a miscarriage and you go to the doctor and there is no heartbeat which is so devastating. I mean it is all devastating um but I was like Oh that is going to happen to me. I was really nervous I think until about 24 25 weeks which was when I was like Okay if I have the baby now it would be in the NICU for a long time but it would it would probably survive. But until then it just felt like every doctor's appointment every time that we you know that we checked anything I was I was bracing myself for bad news.  Did you enjoy parts of being pregnant?  I enjoyed parts. I was really sick my first trimester. So um that was very difficult. But then in my second trimester after I started feeling better probably uh let us say two to three weeks into my second trimester I started feeling better. And then I started feeling great. Like I started feeling really good and I felt like Oh! I am getting that pregnancy glow that everyone talks about. Like I am liking being pregnant which I was not really expecting. And then I had a kind of traumatic birth. I had to be induced on my due date because my amniotic fluid was low... but the baby had not dropped at all. I was like I was not dilated and they tried to get things moving and nothing happened like really nothing happened. And this went on for two days. And then finally my doctor was like We have to do um a C-section. So we did a C-section which was... hard. And I was shaking the whole time which I did not know was going to happen and... then I kind of passed out right after from the drugs that they gave me. And then my milk did not really come in and I was in so much pain and I could not pee. Like it just was this sort of cascade of physical things. And then I had this baby who I was so happy to have and so excited for and you know just in awe of but I was also like Wait what just happened? I think I was kind of in shock and I also felt really overwhelmed like I do not know what to do. And I felt like the fact that my birth had been so chaotic that... we had kind of like gotten off on the wrong foot in a way. So that was tough.  Do you still feel like that? Getting off on the wrong foot with your son?  You know I do not I have not thought about it in a while. But yeah I mean those memories of those first few hours and that the couple of days in the hospital after I had him are not like pleasant memories. Like I remember being in recovery after the C-section and they put him on me for like skin to skin and they were trying to get him to nurse. And he was kind of like scrabbling around my breast and they were like Oh you have flat nipples so he cannot really get a latch. I was like Who knew that was a thing that I would have to think about? I did not know I had flat nipples.  So yeah it did it did feel like there kept being these things where I was like Oh that is another thing that is like preventing me from kind of bonding with my child in the way that I thought I would.  Hm. When you had your child and all of a sudden there is this human that you are parents to um did part of you feel like you were emotionally exhausted from the IVF and pregnancy process that depleted you in ways that you were sort of mad about as you were becoming parents?  Definitely. I still resented the fact that I had done IVF and felt like I would you know always be labeled an IVF mom.  By whom?  Who knows? The world you know the faceless masses. This was this was again this was just in my head of like Oh this is me now. I will never be able to like move past having done IVF. And you know to some extent actually I think that was true in a way in terms of what I was just talking about with like being so scared of miscarriage. I am sure people that do not do IVF are also very scared of miscarriage. But for me it felt like so many things had gone wrong with IVF that like of course they would go wrong during my pregnancy also.  Are you trying for a second child?  Sort of? So we... the the round of IVF that we did where we got Henry we also got an embryo that we were told had a deletion on the arm of one chromosome. And we were told like basically we do not know what this means. It could be something that self-corrects it could be meaningless or you know it could be a birth defect like we just do not know. So I recently had a conversation with a genetic counselor about this embryo and she told me it was... that the nature of the deletion was such that I would either have a healthy birth or it just would not implant. And so I thought Okay well let us just go for it. So we did the embryo transfer and it did not work. And now you know I feel like we are at this crossroads where it is like How badly do I want to have a second child? I think this is what IVF does in general. It makes you it makes you really ask yourself like how badly do I want this? Because you have to want it pretty badly to put yourself through everything that you have to go through in IVF. And I think if I could have a free sex baby I would take one but that is not in the cards. And I want to just you know my son is two I want to be able to enjoy him and enjoy his childhood and be a present mom and not just be so fixated on the idea of having a second kid that I like neglect my only child.  How much money have you paid do you think altogether?  I think it is probably been around 100000.  How much of that is paid off?  It is all paid off now.  Congratulations!  We paid it all off. Thank you.  That is incredible.   Yeah thank you. We started working a um we started working with a financial coach a couple of years ago because we were in so much debt and I was like I do not know how we get out of this and he really helped us um figure out how to do that. So thank you Dylan.   Does Dylan have one hot tip that you can pass on to all of us?  Oh man. I think one thing that I have learned from Dylan is make things as like low touch as possible. If you are paying off debt decide how much you are going to pay each month and make that payment automatic. And if you are saving make that savings automatic and just try to do as much as you can that you do not have to think about it which probably sounds obvious to a lot of people but like was not that obvious to us  um but it definitely helped us.  You mentioned before that that going through IVF um and all its various stages kind of made you adopt a very pessimistic view of of uh bothlike a skepticism about the power of positive thinking. I am... do you feel like that has... has that carried over into other parts of your life and how you think about what you are allowed to envision for your career or for your family or for your future or have you found things that have been comforting that have pushed back that sense of just... uh just feeling out of control?  So I had not ever really thought about it until you just asked me this but I actually think the opposite is true in most other aspects of my life because I feel more in control of them. Whereas with IVF I felt so totally out of control that it felt like it did not matter what I did. It it was not in my control. Like as long as I if I followed my doctor's instructions and did everything within my power beyond that there was nothing I could do. Whereas I feel like in most other aspects of my life there is usually something that is within my power to change. And I think that was... that has been one of the most important and difficult lessons of IVF. Is you know and I realized this is again like something that people learn in AA. This is a truism that people have to acknowledge that there are you know that we have to accept the things we cannot change. And that was really hard for me um but I had to I had to learn to do it. But um I think it is... I do not know. I hesitate to say like Well this is what I learned from IVF but I do think it has made me a little bit better at when I am faced with situations that are out of my control or the results of which are out of my control I am able to accept them better. That is Doree Shafrir. Her new book is called Thanks for Waiting The Joy  of Being a Late Bloomer. Check out her podcasts Forever35 which she hosts with journalist and friend Kate Spencer and Matt and Dorees Eggcellent Adventure which is still putting out new episodes. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. This episode was produced by Afi Yellow-Duke. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein Yasmeen Khan and Andrew Dunn. Our interns are Mardy Harding and Kristie Song. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Instagram annasalepics that is P-I-C-S and the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Thank you to Samantha Wood in Narragansett Rhode Island who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Samantha and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Doree told me that she has now achieved three of those four pillars of adulthood marriage kid job. But she still wonders if she will ever own a home.  It almost feels more important now now that I have a child because it represents this kind of stability to me. And I want to feel settled in a way that I do not totally feel right now. And I think ultimately that has been a theme of my adulthood my late bloomer-dom um has been has been trying Where do I fit in the world? Where am I going to feel stability and how is that going to happen? And I think I have mostly figured that out but not totally and you know I think maybe we do not ever totally figure it out. I think that is the conclusion I am coming to. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.