Ronnine Bartley I guess we are gonna have to go to counseling you know what I mean? I am definitely gonna seek or we are gonna try to seek someone to counsel us through the process of having someone incarcerated for 27 years and you are married to that person while in prison. You know that is a lot. It is deep. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Last week we re-ran my conversation with Lawrence Bartley who was convicted of murder as a teenager in 1992. Hes still in prison for that crime. And while there hes become a father and gotten married to his wife Ronnine. I met Ronnine after that episode first came out and weve kept in touch.  Hi Anna! Anna Sale Hi!  How are you?  How are you?  I am good. Shes the one that told me Lawrence is going before the parole board for the first time next month and I asked her if we could come by to hear how shes preparing for that. She was sitting outside waiting for us when we arrived talking on her cell phone.  Lawrence wants to say hi real quick.  This is Lawrence?  Yes!  Lawrence? You there? Hey! How are you doing? Waiting. Yeah. While Lawrence waits Ronnine is living in Queens with their sons Lawrence III whos now nine and Lawson whos four.  Okay come on in ladies.  Okay Lawr I will talk to you in a little while. Ronnine and her boys share a house with Lawrence's father. She still calls him Mr. Bartley because she first met him when she was a young teenager. When she and Lawrence first dated.  Even when we were like together at 13 and 14 years old when we had no business being together we always talked about being married. And I guess it happened! After years apart Ronnine and Lawrence got back together and married inside Sing Sing Prison in 200614 years into Lawrences sentence. Theyre in their mid-40s now and talk on the phone every day. Ronnine juggles weekend visits with raising two kids and working full-time as a dean of discipline in a New York City school. But everything could change if the parole board lets Lawrence come home.  Its gonna be a transition to say the least. We have never spent more than what is it72 hours together? I am excited. But - a little I am not really worried. I think it will work. Like my friends always askmy married friendsare like Are you? Girl are you ready? Because it is gonna be different I am telling you now. Are you sure you are ready? But I am not worried. I am just - maybe a little - I have a little anxiety about it a little bit. Because I do not know how we are gonna clash. Because we do not really clash.  Because you have not had time to clash.  Because we really have not had time to clash. I mean the cleaning is gonna be an issue. I know that. He is a neat freak and I am like all over the place. Maybe that is gonna be one of the things we are gonna have to worry about.  So how are you talking about his parole hearing right now?  We talk about it. It is full of excitement. But I try not to talk about it too much. Because I do not wanna jinx it so to speak. I do not wannaI am not really prepared for if he does not get released in August. Like I am not really prepared - I tell myself I am prepared but I do not think I am really prepared for it. So we just talk positive thoughts. And I do not want to give him any negative energy about my feelings. He did express to me the other day he said I will be really hurt. I will be - I am not gonna lie. I will pick myself up afterwards he said but I will be crushed if it does not - if it does not happen. So. I mean we are gonna live through it if it does but we just try to focus on what he is going to do when he comes home like what is it going to be like when he is here as opposed to if it does not work out.  How are you talking to your boys about the parole hearing right now?  Um. Lawrence is very naive. So he does not really...  Little Lawrence.  Little Lawrence. The third. I do not think he - I think he knows that his father's incarcerated. I think his dad and I want to tell ourselves that he does not really know. If he knows he does not know to like - I do not think it is registering there even though he is nine. I do not think it is like registering with him. But he knows that dad's coming home soon. Like dad's coming to live with us. Lawson the little one the little rascal he has no clue about it. I think after the parole hearing and once we know that he is going to be released then we will start to have the conversation of Dad is definitely coming home on this date or whatever.  How are you preparing - like are you involved with preparing his case or his argument for parole?  He is working with these lovely young ladies they are helping him prepare his parole packet. It is already prepared basically. He is waiting for all of the letters from us which I already submitted a letter. But I had to do some fixing to make it sound more personalized.  You were all business?  I was all business. My point was that I did not wanna seem too subjective and not um and not have sympathy for the victims that were involved in the case. You do not want to push too much because it is like well you are pushing a little bit too much for someone who did something really really bad you know? So I feel like I am a little stuck for sticking up for my husband. But I guess it is supposed to be subjective because he is my husband! So Im working on that now. So that is how I am helping him. He said it looks pretty good it looks pretty good.  If Lawrence is released do you know if you will support as a family with the re-entry process?  You know. There are a lot of re-entry programs out there. But the re-entry programs that are out there are not set up for people who have a family to come to. That - I guess they would consider us not struggling. Let me just put it that way. They would not consider us like really struggling. Well your wife is making almost six figures a year. I mean what more re-entry can we - how else can we help you out? I would love for some type of re-entry program that focuses on the dynamic of the relationship.  That is what I was gonna ask about.  Yeah because what do you do? How many people really make it when you know when the husband comes home. I mean. A lot of people who are released we know they are not with each other anymore.  Really?  Mmhm. There is been a few that are not with the wife or the girlfriend or whatever you have it. They are not together. Some do they make it? Yes. Some make it. But I think the ones who make it are the ones who are more stabilized. I think the ones who make are the ones who have more of a realistic expectation so to speak. You are not going to just snap your fingers and then everything is gonna happen. It is - it is a process.  Do you and Lawrence talk about what he might do?  Lawrence is gonna do about 40 or 50 different things until two or three stick. Um he definitely wants to pursue real estate.  Huh.  And he already checked out the licensing and everything like that. Being that he is a convicted felon he can get the license.  Do you feel like he feels pressure to earn?  Absolutely that is all he talks about. All he talks about is dealing - I mean taking care of his family. He has to make up for so much lost time you know what I mean? And he definitely wants to provide for us and I am definitely willing to accept it.  Do you worry that he is putting too much pressure on himself right in the middle of this transition?  Um. No. Lawrence is like - he is just different. I just call him different. He is different. He is accomplished so much being incarcerated that it is unacceptable for him to fail. Like it is something that we - we have high expectations. And we just cannot fail at anything. So he has conviction. I think he is mature enough to handle - and I think he is realistic in the sense of what it is that he is going to - he knows he is going to have doors shut in his face all the time. It is just gonna happen. It is a fact. But as far as him feeling pressure pressure motivates him. It gives him the motivation to do what people think that he cannot do. Coming up all the tiny details Ronnine is wondering about should Lawrence get out. Including what he might wear if he does not have to wear a prison uniform.  Well one thing that is definitely out is skinny jeans.    Lawrence will not be caught in skinny jeans.  I want to tell you about a new podcast thats produced inside a prison. At San Quentin in California inmates Antwan Williams and Earlonne Woods are hosting a new show called Ear Hustle made with the help of a radio producer on the outside. Theyre telling stories about the relationships inside prisons between roommatesor celliesand even about pets in prison. Roach The first critter I had in prison was a moth. And I only had it for a day because I had a cellie who came back and killed it when I went to the yard and left it on the floor. And yes this show is produced from the same prison where our previous guest Mandi Hauwert works as a guard. The show is called Ear Hustle brought to you by Radiotopia. The Death Sex  Money team will also be talking about our favorite podcasts and the making of our recent series about student debt at an event next week in New York City. Were joining The New York Times Podcast Club the evening of Monday July 24. Producer Katie Bishop and composer and sound designer Andrew Dunn will there. You can watch the whole thing on Facebook Live. Look for info on our Facebook page. Ill be joining that event via Skype because I am working for a bit from Wyoming this summer. So listeners in Wyoming and Montana tell me where you are. I want to find a place for some of us to meet up sometime the last week of July. If youre up for the idea email me and tell me where you live and Ill make a plan. Our email is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode comedian Jeff Garlin. He talks about filming Curb Your Enthusiasm as he was recovering from a stroke. And how he thinks about sex in his 50s.  I am hesitating because...I do not have much sex. HA HA HA HA! And I did not in my 40s either! And to me sex is so magical and so special. Sex is the one thing more than any others that makes you feel human. Human man! So I feel human in other ways.   This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Ronnine and Lawrence got married before they decided to have kids. Starting a family was a decision they made together. But obviously a lot of parenting has fallen solely on Ronnine.  I do not know if you remember from the interview that you had with him. I consider myself half a single parent. So you know I make the decisions bottom line. I mean do I consult with him? Absolutely. You know that makes the relationship work. That makes him feel involved but...I am the boss. Like in my head I am the boss! I like to make him believe when I am speaking to him that you know he is the boss. But at the end of the day you know I am making all of these adult decisions.  Do you think he will be a different kind of parent when he is parenting on a daily basis?  I think that it is going to be better. He is in for a big surprise because I am letting go. I am letting go in the sense of all of the little things that the mommies do like I am not taking them to birthday parties. He is gonna have to figure that out. Lawrence is a phenomenal dad. Like my kids look so forward to spending time with their dad. Just yesterday when we wereI was saying Are you guys...I was trying to go on a visit by myself but they both like jumped out of bed and was like I am going I am coming I am going to dad's! I think that he will be able to - he will be able to be more involved his presence is going to make it even better.  When you think about what you are most excited to do with Lawrence right after he gets out what do you picture?  Okay so what I would like to do is spend the night away from home. But I do not know if parole is gonna allow for that because they have a curfew. So I do not know if we can spend the night. But one of my greatest desires is so simple. To sleep and wake up without being interrupted. Because when we go on the conjugal visits he has to wake up at like - they do it at 10 they have to do the count at 10 oclock. And then at 5 oclock in the morning. And we try to stay up so we can  optimize on our time. So I just wanna sleep next to him. And not have a time to wake up. Thats the all weve come up with so far. It changes every other week it changes.  Are there parts of him being in your physical space that you are nervous about?  Yeah. I am very self-conscious about my body. I am so - I do not know if every woman goes through this or not? You know being in my 40s I just feel like I have lost that it factor. You know I do not like being the overweight 40-something-year-old mom. But just walking around the house and having him look at meI want him to desire you know like what he is seeing. And of course he is never gonna say he does not. He is trained like that he knows better than that. But I never want him to feel unattracted to me. You know I want to - we did not get that time. We did not get the sexy time together on the outside. So I want to keep it sexy until like my 90s. So I am hoping that by the time he comes home that I will have  that I will have it together.  When do you allow yourself to think about the possibility that he might not come home?  I do not. I do not. It is something that I refuse to think about. I know I mean it is probably not the brightest thing to do. To not prepare yourself mentally for it. But I do not. I believe in a higher power. I believe that he deserves at this point to come home. It can happen. It is out of his hands no matter what he does or shows. At the end of the day it is up to the people who are on that board.  Do you have a sense ofdo you know what Lawrence is afraid of? About coming home?  I think he is fearful of people thinking that he is the same Lawrence that he was when he was 16. You know I run into people every now and again that know him. And sometimes I get the sense that they think that he is this popular street guy that has what we call street credibility. But he is so not that person. I would say that I am more street than Lawrence now. I think that is his greatest fear that he does not want the reputation that he had going in when he comes out. Thats Ronnine Bartley. After Lawrence has his interview with the parole board next month it will be a few days before he finds out whether he is being released. Hell get a letter hand-delivered to his cell.  Either way you get a letter either way. So you have to open that letter. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop  Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Special thanks to Stephanie Joyce for her help on this episode. Our interns are Mankaprr Conteh and Kent McDonald. The Reverend John DeLore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale. The show is deathsexmoney. And we have a weekly newsletter and you should get it. If you are not already subscribe by going to deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. While we were at Ronnines house her boys were at school. But Ronnine told us her oldest little Lawrence was really bummed that he missed us.  He was like So you are doing an interview. What is it about? I was like Oh it is just about me and your dad and the family. You know probably talk about you guys. And he said Well I wanna be there! I said Well you cannot be there. Well I can just listen from upstairs I do not have to be INVOLVED. I can just listen from upstairs. I said No you are going to school. Get outta here. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.