 You think everyone does this. This is just sort of one of those first rites of passage of parenthood that you have go through. So it never of course crossed my mind that anything could go terribly wrong. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale.  I remember when we were pregnant with Karl we had a total sense of innocence about everything. And then I remember when Karl was born I um I was taking a whole bunch of pictures at that time. Because I thought How is it that everything looks so beautiful?  I was totally high! And its been really hard to get as excited this time. This is Lee Towndrow. He and his partner Amber Scorah live in Brooklyn.  I think we feel a little bit like um I do not want to say cynical but um...  I feel like theres a loss of meaning.  Yeah.  Like Karls - everything about the pregnancy and your first child it just infuses your life with so much meaning and that I think is the hardest part. It just - life feels sort of meaningless like if that - if your greatest treasure can be taken away for no reason that you can understand. 'ecause ultimately the only thing - when I boil it down what I can come down to why Karl died it was just - Lee always says its just like we were the unlucky ones. There is no - its just like really - sometimes some random thing goes wrong and you dont know why and you cant explain it. I met Amber and Lee at their apartment last February. At the time Amber and I were both about six months pregnant. Amber gave birth to her first child Karl in 2015. Anna Sale Whats Karls full name?  Karl Ives Scorah Towndrow. Its a big long name for a little baby.  What do you think of when you think about when he arrived and those first days of learning how to be a mom?  When Karl was born when they put him on my chest the very first thing he did was he craned his neck upand I didnt even know newborns could lift their heads like that yetand he looked right into my eyes twice. And I just - I remember feeling stunned.  I remember having this feeling where I wanted to almost consume his body. Like I wanted to lean down and hug him and just be able to absorb him into my body.  It was the most connected I would ever felt to another human being. And as Karl got a little bit older there was these moments where sometimes he would catch my eye and stare at me and he would lock eyes and then - it was almost to the point that he would look at me so long and with so much love in his eyes that Id almost start to blush or - it felt like better than the best lovers gaze that went on way too long in a movie. But this was like your child and he is just looking at you because you knew that sort of you were his everything and I could tell that he felt really safe with me and that also made me feel really happy. After Karl was born Amber took three months of paid maternity leave from her job. But as the time drew nearer to return to work she didnt feel ready to go back. Lee was working freelance and they couldnt afford for him to stop working. And Amber couldnt quit her job because their family depended on her health insurance. She asked the head of her HR at work about her options. There werent many.  The only suggestion he said he could give me was to take all my vacation days that I had accrued and that that would be allowed before I had to go back. So I did that. Karl was just shy of four months old when Amber and Lee dropped him off for the first time at a daycare center close to Amber's work in lower Manhattan.  And of course it felt really surreal and strange to leave him but once I took him out of the baby carrier one of the day care assistantsone of the Spanish-speaking ladiescame over and went up to his face and smiled and said Hola! And Karl just gave this big radiant smile so I thought - I felt really reassured. I thought Oh hes gonna have a little adventure here and Ill be back before he knows it. Um I went to work. I got there around just after 30 I think. And the whole morning consisted of just nothing. I mean obviously it kills me now 'ecause it just seems so fruitless and ridiculous. But you know its your first day back at work after months off and the computer doesnt work and youre calling the IT support and then by the time it got close to noon I had told the daycare operator I would come back between 12 and 30. And so I waited until like 10 and then I just couldnt - I couldnt wait anymore. I was too excited to go see him. When I got to the daycare I thought it was strange but the door was - the downstairs door was open cause it was on the second floor. I thought Why would the door be open when theres children inside? And so then I went around the corner still having no idea that anything was wrong and I just saw Karl laying on the change table and the daycare owner was performing CPR on him. I just - like I remember - its such a PTSD kind of thing. Like I replay that moment over and over in my mind. But even to this day I try to like reconnect what I thought I would be seeing with what I saw and I cant ever really wrap my mind around how I could have seen that. I mean theres just no words to kind of explain the turmoil - the mental turmoil of that. Amber ran over and tried to help the daycare owner perform CPR. Karls lips were blue. The EMTs arrived soon after. They took Karl and Amber to the hospital. Lee met them there.  I think they - they tried to resuscitate him for about two hours.  Even though they were trying to revive him they let me hold onto his foot. Like...um but they tried for so long and like I just knew that theres - theyre just doing it for us basically at this point so that we knew that they tried.  What time was it?  I do not even know...I have no idea of concept of time.  The whole...We were at the hospital a total of about eight or nine hours. Um most of that time was spent...uh we sat with Karl after he was pronounced dead. And so that was most of the time that...um. I cannot even really remember.  When you were sitting with him after he would been pronounced dead what did you do?  Um I just...I held him like for all that time. Basically we took turns holding him. And it is like a weird thing because it felt like...I felt like as long as I can hold him I can handle this or something. So we just kept holding him. But I have to say I appreciate the hospital staff so much because they did not rush us. They were really supportive. Whatever we needed they gave. And um the nurses like at the end when we - before we left one of the nurses was going off shift so she came to say goodbye. And I just...I showed her a picture that I had taken of Karl that morning. Just in his diaper before we had left for the daycare. And I mean he just looks like the happiest jolliest picture of a healthy baby. And um I just said Oh I just wanted to show you a picture of Karl so that you know like how he really looks. And then she got tears and started to cry too. Um it was really a really kind moment.  What do you understand now about what happened to Karl?  I dont understand much. I have like the last you know months and months and months my mind - I dont think theres probably a minute in the day where Im not thinking about some aspect or some - trying to understand or trying to figure out or blaming myself or feeling guilty or mourning over what Karl lost. But yeah for all of the obsessing and using all of the powers of my mind my brain to think about this all day long I cant understand to this day how he - why he died. It makes no sense to me. You feel like there is this direct correlation between you leaving them and them dying. Like how could you not feel that way when it was the first time that you had left them? Um and as a mother I started to go through every scenario thinking...My mind would just race. 'ecause you are mind is racing and you need an answer. As a human being you need an answer for death. At least you need to...Even if you cannot understand death you need to understand why a death occurred. After several weeks of waiting the medical examiners report came back. It said that the cause of Karls death was undetermined. Amber says the daycare provider told her that Karl wasnt distressed before he died. Hed been put down for a nap. A daycare worker who later checked on him found that he wasnt breathing. Police did find that the daycare center wasnt licensed and that the daycare provider was not certified in CPR although shed claimed to be. The daycare center was closed down permanently a day after Karl died. Coming up Lee and Amber talk about the days and weeks following Karls death and about making the decision to have another baby.  I find myself continuing to think like Oh okay well just get through this period and then well have Karl again. And then I realize like no no. Were not going to have Karl again. And my mind keeps processing that information over and over again.  Hey everyone this is Katie Bishop producer of Death Sex  Money. As you may or may not know Anna is out on maternity leave at the moment -- but she will be checking in again in the coming weeks so tune in for that. Last summer around this time we put out our episode about siblingsand the very complicated feelings that we have about them. If you havent heard that episode you can find it in our podcast feed or at deathsexmoney.org. Weve been reaching out to some of the people who we featured in that episode to find out whats happened in their livesand in their sibling relationshipsin the past year. One of those people is Alix Sugarman. Anna talked with Alix and her twin sister Katie in the episode. And then weeks after the episode came out...Katie died unexpectedly.  If you want to know what its like to have the worst day of your life and the best day of your like separated by about 11 months thats pretty much what this year has been like for me. Alix got married in June. She sent in this update a few days ago.  Planning a wedding while grieving is in retrospect probably a pretty bad idea because the planning process was kind of nightmarish and I think that planning a wedding while youre grieving kind of offers this really confusing outlet for all the pain that comes with grief. But when we got to the actual wedding there was so much joy and so much beauty and so much love. And it felt really healing to have that much joy kind of heaped on us and heaped on our family. You can hear more updates on the siblings that we featured in our episode by signing up for our newsletterwell include those in next Wednesdays edition. Sign up at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. On our next episode  When I want it badly enough I canyou know like really steel myself and just be like Dont freak out just stay still kiss them. Just do it! When we first interviewed writer Katie Heaney two years ago Katie was really freaked out about dating. When we talked with her again more recentlya lot had changed.  I remember being on the subway and looking around at all the guys. And being like I dont want to date any of you. --  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. On the night that Karl died Amber and Lee didnt go back to their apartment. Their friends got them a hotel room. They stayed there and then moved to another friends apartment for several weeks.  It was particularly difficult to just imagine re-entering the house. And it just felt like a weird sort of museum frozen in time like the sheets that Karl slept on or like the you know - his bib with puke on it. Like everything to me was just - I could not bear the thought of it.  And I made a couple of trips back to the apartment to - to get things to just try to I think water plants and I dont know hold things down.  Did you make the baby things less conspicuous before you came back?  No. Well yes and no. There was some things that I - yeah. Some baby things I put away. I mean Amber and I talked about what things we wanted to leave out.  I kind of wanted - I didnt - I was scared to go back but then I also wanted everything to stay intact. I know - Ive met other people since this happened that had a baby die and I know a lot of them kept the babys room exactly how it was. And I think that before this had happened I probably would have found that maybe surprising or maybe thought that was strange. But now I can understand exactly why people do that. Because its all you have of them. Like you have no...Of course you have all your memories but its the one physical manifestation that you have of them.  When you think about your relationship in the weeks and then months after Karl died were you mirroring each others emotions or were you feeling different things at different points in your grief?  We were feeling different things at different points.  Yeah I mean I think everyone grieves differently and then I think a mother will grieve differently than a father. I mean at the very beginning one of the really difficult things as a woman and being - having been living with - like Karl was like an appendage and like even just breastfeeding. And like suddenly your babys not there and your bodys still producing milk. Like I felt like my body had been torn apart. Like something had been torn off of me. Even physically. But for Lee the grief I think was just as intense but in different ways.  For me it was like um - the first week or two was total shock and adrenaline. Like I just thought I have to try to get things back in order. So I was just trying to kind of take care of all of the practical issues. In those first few weeks after their son's death Amber and Lee were also dealing with a lot of media attention. As the daycare center was being investigated the story was everywhere from Gawker to The Daily Mail.  Like it felt like the whole city knew that our baby had died in a matter of a day or so. And all of a sudden I felt like my personal life had just been blown wide open. And so I wanted to try - just try to kind of - I felt a lot of pressure to reassure everybody that its going to be okay. So thats the mode that I snapped into. And I went back to work really fast because - 'ecause I was terrified that I would have some kind of scarlet letter. And I remember kind of feeling like I had to just postpone grief. And it was really hard. And we had - luckily we had two - we each started seeing a grief counselor right after and that was so helpful because it allowed...At least I can say in my case it allowed me an outlet to talk about these things that I was going through. And so for me the grieving almost happened like in January. Like I just didnt really see any friends or do anything and I just felt so depressed and awful.  You just ran out of energy.  Yeah. Yeah.  When did you have a conversation about trying to get pregnant again?  I mean it was days after Karl died.  I was like I have to have another baby. I mean at the beginning it was just like I would do anything to have Karl back at that point and then you are like I cant control anything about this situation but the only thing I can control is that maybe I can have another child.  I hadnt really thought about how when you lose a child so young how it makes perfect rational sense that your impulse is to get pregnant again to have another newborn.  Yeah.  Is that something that you...Like is that something that grief counselors know about? Like have talked with you about? Is that a phenomenon that happens?  From as far as the other women I know that have lost children right now two of the women that I knew that lost children at the same time as me are also pregnant now. And all of us have gone through the exact same emotions. Like wanting a baby really badly getting pregnant and then being like - putting on the brakes and being like Oh my goodness like I dont even know if I should be doing this. And like crying all the time because the pregnancy hormones intensify the feelings of grief. Which I guess I should have known but I did not really think about. And then initially I think because you do not know this child yet you cannot help but feel...I keep just thinking I want Karl back. And then knowing its not Karl. And then feeling guilty that I seem to only want this one child. Of course I know logically...when the baby - when the baby comes out and you meet them its not gonna - youre going to love them just as much. Everyone knows that. But um. I do not know how you describe the emotions of grief. I mean theyre just like this blanket that just smothers you. But what I have heard from women who have been through this and then went on to have other children they all said that it never ever fills the hole that you have from losing the one that you did lose. But a little bit of the sadness is taken away. Because at least you have a baby to hold at the beginning. Like even if it is just that that is something.  Do you know the sex of the baby?  Yeah. Its a girl.  How did it feel to find that out?  Um that was hard because both Lee and I I think wanted a boy. There is just this longing to somehow have something of what was lost.   Like Amber I think we thought Oh well have another baby and itll be like we have Karl back! Or sort of like some aspect of his essence. And so then I thought Maybe its good that shes a girl and then its very clear that its a completely distinct thing.  Do you think youll handle parental leave differently with this birth?  Um yeah I mean - well one thing is that the work situation has changed a little bit for me. Im the one with healthcare now so I have it for the whole family. And yeah I definitely want to try to make sure that at least for a year Amber can be taking care of Karl.  Karl...  Sorry. With the baby. Its hard. Yeah I mean its one of the main things that we talk about all the time is how are we going to handle this differently.  Have you thought about how youll tell your daughter about your son?  Yeah Ive thought about that but I think that - I kind of feel like nothing will change from how we are now because Lee and I just talk about Karl all the time. And even with my friends I talk about Karl and memories. Or like just whatever Im thinking about about Karl. So I cant imagine it being any different with her. And shell know what happened. Um but I dont think that itll be something we hide from her or shield her from. 'ecause I kind of think that thats unfair. I mean its a really sad thing but its part of her family history and part of just what becomes a life - her own life story. Of course I want her to think of Karl as her big brother. That is Amber Scorah and her partner Lee Towndrow. Karl's little sister was born in June. Her name is Sevi. She has a full head of dark hair just like Karl. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our interns are Carson Frame and Brandy Gonzalez. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. If youve experienced the loss of an infant or pregnancy and are looking for help visit nationalshare.org. Its an organization that supports and connects those who are grieving the loss of pregnancies and young children. Since Karls death Amber and Lee have become advocates for paid parental leave. According to the US Department of Laboronly 12 percent of people working in the private sector currently have access to it. Amber says that although she WAS part of that small percentageshe still feels very connected to the issue.  Obviously ours is a worst case scenario. Its a nightmare for any parent. And its not going to happen to most parents. But if a parent doesnt feel ready the parent should not be forced to drop their kid off at a daycare and go to work at such a young age. At least I wouldnt be wondering what happened or not knowing what Karl went through in the last minutes of his life. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.