 This transcript contains some adult language. I am bad with money. I earn more than him. I think I make good money but I really dont know. We keep a running tally. Yeah bottom line is my husband and I are avid savers. But Im constantly questioning if what I make is enough. And I decided I could not stick it out with somebody who was financially irresponsible. This is Death Sex and Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Hi Anna. This is some information for your upcoming podcast on the topic of money and relationships I asked for your stories about love and money. You sent in a lot -- about bad decisions practical fixes and lingering questions. I just sort of got out of a relationship that was perfect and wonderful in every way I felt. And then when the idea of a prenup came our relationship just fell apart. Tiffany Harris is 28. She lives in DC. Her message started was a simple plea -- Can we talk about prenups? I was engaged to this guy a really wonderful guy we met while we were living and working in Israel. And we were talking about the wedding and planning and setting dates. Looking at rings. I bought a dress. And then he sent me a Facebook message that said something like oh and Im sending you this document that my parents want and Im gonna need you to sign it before we get married. I just said something like this is getting less and less romantic by the day. Why did he want you to sign a prenup? Well first he presented it as something his parents wanted and then it became something that he wanted. You know sign it or we have to break up. How long were you together? About three years. And how would you describe what was the impasse about a prenup? Hes someone whos supported almost one hundred percent by his parents. And I think what they say really dictates a lot of what he can do or what he feels like he can do. And I guess for me I was thinking about it today and I remember my moms side of the family came from money and when my grandfather died there was an inheritance that my family fought over. And I was only 5 at the time but it was just disgusting. You know Im 28 now and I still havent met my uncle because theyre total enemies over this. And I was just really like turned off by what I felt was a kind of obsession with money. But then again you know in the end I was ready to concede because I felt like you know its hard enough to meet someone just to have that connection. Thats not something that comes along every day. It seemed really silly to sacrifice it over this and if I love him and its meant to be then we wouldnt get divorced. And I was totally ready to concede I just wanted a few things changed in the prenup. But it just ended like that. Do you think though that the prenup prompted you to talk about things that would have quickly become issues in a marriage? Maybe not quickly. I dont know ifI kind of think that if we would have been together longer and married longer without all of that we would have developed a stronger bond and better communication skills to get over those things. So it sounds like youre mourning the relationship. You wish you still had it in your life. I am Im very very sad about that. And I really miss him too. Do you have the kind of relationship with your parents where you talk to them about this? No I didnt reallybecause I didnt want my family to hate him. Oh you were protecting him. Yeah exactly like evenits so embarrassing but I still havent told a few people at my work because I was just like so embarrassed. You tell people youre getting married and then its like theyre asking about it and youre just like yeah its still happening. I mean I havent taken it that far but like yeah. And youre 27? I just turned 28. 28 is a fantastic year. I loved being 28! Im more partial to like 22. I dont know hopefully its knowledge instead of like scarification or something thats gonna make me unstable and untrusting in my next relationship. Sometimes I feel this new wisdom is good and sometimes Im like oh it just makes me like bitter or hopefully not. So Tiffany doesnt want to be bitter...but she also doesnt want to be surprised again. Sandra Cordova doesnt want surprises either. Dating at this age is so different than when youre in your 20s. You really have to be open for being honest about whats going on with your bodies. Sandra and her boyfriend are in their 50s. Theyve been together three years and are in love but theyre not getting married. Because it doesnt make financial sense. Sandra is divorced with grown children. She owns her house and her own business in Longmont Colorado outside Boulder. Her boyfriend lives in Denver where he works from the house he owns. While we like to think that were going to healthy forever and we work very hard at it the reality is what we see in our parents generation is dementia strokes Alzheimers in either one of our families. And what Ive seen for instance is my aunt who had been chronically ill she had a partner and they never married because if they had all of his assets that hed worked through for his lifetime would have been taken up for her medical expenses. So long as they did never marry Medicaid covered what her basic needs were for healthcare. Were such practical people and sadly the romance and the idea of the marriage and all this has to be weighed against the practicalities of the laws in the healthcare and the long term healthcare issues in the United States. If it werent for money and if it werent for having to deal with the legalities and financial considerations would you want to marry your boyfriend? Yes. Weve already made a commitment to each other where we have verbally expressed to each other that we really do want to be with each other til the end of time. Whatever that means for the two of us. Hes a great partner and he tells me that Im a great partner for him. And life is a lot of fun. Everything I could envision it being at this point in my life with him. And going forward with him too. But how to navigate the finances? My mother has developing dementia now and my dad is looking at the finances and none of us are wealthy people. But my dad has looked into what it would take if it comes to mom having the kind of care that he cannot provide at home. And keep in mind hes 78 years old. Hes very healthy and as strong as can be but hes still 78 years old. And as mom advances with her dementia because this is not going to get better will she need that long term care? And if she does my dads entire assets will be wiped out in two years. So how do my boyfriend and I prepare for that as we get older. Yeah so youre in this relationship and trying to figure out what you want together and making decisions for you two as a couple and in the same moment youre watching your father and your mothers dementia and seeing what happens as you age. And looking at my children and saying what we want for you is to marry somebody. And raise children together. And have that full experience of life. And at the same time saying well we dont know that we can get married. Where did you meet your boyfriend? We met on a motorcycle ride. Yes! I have a motorcycle he has a motorcycle. That is hot. Ive been riding motorcycles my whole life I grew up working in a Honda shop. It was actually through a meet-up group it was a motorcycle ride and there was supposed to be six people who showed up. Greg showed up and I showed up and it was just the two of us. So we just rode motorcylces went for lunch went hiking the next day and the next day he called me and asked me out on a date. And I told him no Im really not dating right now Id just gotten out of another relationship and he talked me into it. He said you know I know I should come back in six months but someone else will probably snag you before then. He said lets start at the very beginning. How about dinner and a movie. How do you turn that down right? Ohisnt that story about paying for long-term care and Medicaid eligibility so romantic? I love those two. Medicaid has a lot of different rules when it comes to asset limits and married couples. So Sandras next step is to meet with a financial advisor for some help in figuring all this out. Eric Burton and Martha Mills thought theyd figured it out. They used to have a simple system. Separate checking accounts with a joint account for joint expenses.  We took the portion of our incomes that was our bills and we just split that proportionally. Then they had a baby. Martha stayed at home. Now the only money coming in is from Erics job as an industrial mechanic at a Champagne Illinois pharmaceutical factory. Sometimes moneys tight. Martha do you still have that separate checking account that used to be your spending money?  I do and I think it has about 16 dollars in it. The way we kind of do it now and this was a really big adjustment too is me getting used to not actually having any sort of financial contribution to our family to our household. I have my own credit card but even the bill for that comes out of what Eric makes. But its at least kind of what I spend not be something that he sees. Not that  Which drives me crazy though. Because I track all of our expenses. I budget things and say oh we spent 200 dollars in one month going out we cant do that but then theres just the mystery Marthas credit card. Im like well I dont know where to budget this you bought gas with that but I cant put that into gas. So it does drive me crazy. But I think we meet how often do we meet and discuss budget? Id say quarterly? That sounds more formal than it is but every now and then. Who calls those meetings? I have a guess who calls those meetings.  I totally do. But we just sit down and go over things and theres there arent things that we do extra.  No. Well its funny too when I I think it was the first Mothers Day we had after Alba was born Eric basically had to force me into the car and to the mall to buy new clothes for myself because not contributing financially I got into this kind of weird headspace where I would refuse to buy things for myself. And Im a runner too and I was in pain running and he had to kind of force me to go and buy new running shoes because I didnt feel comfortable yet. So he had to take you to the mall to get  Yes.  I forgot about how rough that used to be. And I still kind of have to roll my eyes and just be like just go get some pants! Eric earns just about what it takes to cover their familys expenses -- about 60 thousand dollars a year. Lola Davidsons engagement ring costs more than that. It was I think it was a 3.4 carat. I dont remember all the V-S. I knew at the time. I knew it cost 65 thousand dollars. Wow so more than the average American salary on your hand. Yeah when you say it like that. But that diamond was not forever. Coming up her story about what happens when you lose your relationship and with it all the money that was supporting you. In this episode weve been talking money in the throes of long-term relationships. On the next show we turn to dating and the art of the pick-up.from a man whos done a lot of it. I am going to find a way to get closer to you. Get into your area kinda get into your space. Not too close where I am creeping you out or anything like that but close enough. And what I will try to do is pick up on if you are having a conversation with the bartender or maybe whatever you are ordering or something like that and then I just find my way in like that. Dating columnist Jozen Cummings spills the secrets of his game...and why he decided he was done playing the field. This is Death Sex  Money. Im Anna Sale. About thirteen years ago Lola Davidson was working a day job in LA with dreams of an acting career. She fell in love with a very wealthy man. And he loved her back. When we were together he lavished me with gifts and I never paid for a meal and we would go to the mall on the weekends and he would just buy me stuff. What kinds of things would he buy you? Shoes and purses and while we were looking at Rolexes he always wanted a Rolex and I was like you deserve a Rolex. You work hard.  And we ended up walking out of the store with both of us having matching Rolexes. When we moved in together he had the idea of me quitting my day job and focusing on my fumbling acting career. So wait wait hes not only paying for a lot of things when you go out and then he suggests that you quit working. Yes. Which I thought was a genius idea! Sure! I wasnt paying for rent. He bought me a car. So I had a BMW. I felt safe and provided for. Do you remember any moments of ambivalence or mixed feelings of like wow hes really paying for everything? I think when we got the condo the real estate lady was like oh what do you two do for a living and I remember saying some obnoxious thing like living the dream! And her response was As it should be. They make the money and us women spend the money. Now if somebody said that I would just be like are you fucking kidding me? But at that time in my life it felt more like approval. And then the relationship started to unravel a bit. Yeah  had some old demons that came back. When I say old demons I mean cocaine. You know money started to go really fast and he asked me to get a job to contribute and to cut down on my spending. And I didnt really care for that idea as much. So that was it. He found somebody new and wanted me out of the house immediately. So what did you do how did you pay for a new place? Well he did let me keep my ring which I sold. And I lived off of that for a little while. So you really know how much money it was worth. Yeah! I sold my plasma once. I got a crappy apartment in Hollywood that I managed so I would have free rent. I began being a personal assistant for some people in Beverly Hills. But that still wouldnt pay my bills so I got a job at my favorite gym on the weekends and then I had a friend of mine who was making salad dressing that she was selling at farmers markets and then all of a sudden a retail store called for her and she needed help with more production so I would help her make salad dressing at a restaurant. From the hours of 10 pm til like 2 am. So I was working 7 days a week. How old were you? I was at that time gosh 34. Were you terrified? I well first off I thought at any moment  was gonna call and this was all going to end. And then I wasnt terrified about my future I was more terrified about my present. Like survival. Yeah. Like survival. Thinking back on that relationship now its been a few years what did you learn? I learned that when everything you have is provided for you by someone  then its real easy for everything you are to be provided by that someone. And so when that someone is gone youre left wondering who you are. I didnt know who I was. And I think thats one of the reasons why it was such a hit on me. Because my identity was so wrapped up in him and that lifestyle this money that wasnt mine. Lola still goes out on auditions but pays her bills with a full-time personal assistant job. I own my own life now she told me. So its easy to be naive about the financial entanglements in love...until you get burned. Or when a breakup comes with a stack of paperwork. Ill never forget sitting at the dining room table with my soon-to-be ex-husband...going over bank statements. Our split was very sad but amicable. And were young -- without kids much money or much debt -- so we did the dividing ourselves. A lawyer told to start by going back to the date we got married. So there we were shuffling papers and scrolling back through statements...to our wedding day. A day that had been about love and commitment and partnership for the future was now part of a financial calculation. So we added it up what wed saved and spent and built over three and a half years on our desktop calculator divided by two. I was on my own again. Its a jolt you dont easily forget. In a previous relationship I had co-signed on a car and paid the price for that continually for 5 years thereafter. Laurie Kriesel-Roth lives in Seattle. When she met her wife Christa she was in her 40s Christa was in her 30s. And at first Christa says it was hard for her Laurie to share.  I think we were still using the blue book where we had columns of what we were supposed  What was mine and what was yours?  Separate and joint. And when you say blue book was this like pen to paper tracking dollar amounts?  Yeah. It was a blue just like a regular school notebook where you open up the metal part and you put the paper with the holes in it.  It was a 3-ring binder baby.  Yeah it was a three ring binder. Thats what it was.  And Lori was a project manager so she was all about putting her MBA to work on this. She was really into the blue book.  It made me feel good.  And I was more fiscally conservative than Laurie I remember when we were just dating she went out and bought a brand new Harley Davidson and we were not discussing finances. All I could see was like ugh youre gonna have payments for forever! So youre quietly judging her while shes talking about her new purchase.  Yeah. Because in the back of my head Im saying ugh if we stay together then thats gonna be my payment too!  Yeah but at the same time werent you totally like ah thats so hot.  Thats right.  Yes yes! You were. Laurie you initially wrote me you said prior to being married I had neverall capsnever shared my money and always kept it separate. And then you said that changed the day you got married. What changed for you?  I guess I really felt likeand I guess the was all romantic drivel kind of stuffbut I really felt like there was this entity that was us. And that entity included everything. All her stuff all my stuff and it just didnt bother me anymore. Plus I mean I trust her one hundred percent. So I dont feel liketheres no fear. Wheres the blue book now?  You know thats a good question. I think when we movedthis is what I remember Krista you keep me honest here but it was covered with dust and we took out all the pages we shredded 'em.  I dont even remember.  Yeah I remember. I remember shredding them. You remember shredding it.  Yeah becauseand looking at it and just sort of shaking my head and thinking wow that used to be really important to me. So money is so hard in our love lives because its about that essential relationship challenge of taking care of each other while we take care of ourselves.  But you reminded me its all easier to talk about when you can laugh at the same time. Death Sex and Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Emily Botein James Ramsay Jessica Miller Henry Molofsky Chris Bannon Bill ONeill and Jim Briggs. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Listener Chris Dixon sent in one of the other pieces we used -- along with his story about the spreadsheet he and his wife used to track their spending and saving that became a major source of competition between them. A list of all the music on this episode is on our website at deathsexmoney.org -- along with more love and money stories you shared. Were on Facebook. Im on twitter annasale. If you like the show subscribe on iTunes and write us review. Thanks again for all your stories. Rob Durham from Kokomo Indiana is gonna take us out My husband and I get stressed out at times especially when were broke but for the most part we seize those moments to work together instead of against each other. After all when two people are in love they will work. One way or another. Death sex or money am I right? Im Anna Sale. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.