ARCHIVAL CLIP ELISABETH K If you feel like screaming you scream. If you feel like crying you cry. Do not try to follow a textbook or have somebody else tell you what to do. Trust yourself your own natural emotions. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. That voice you heard at the top there was psychiatrist Elisabeth Kbler-Ross in an interview with Oprah back in 1980. And her words Dont try to follow a textbook when it comes to dealing with loss might sound a little odd coming from the woman whos best known for writing the literal textbook on grief. Its a 1969 book called On Death and Dying.  And in it she shared these conversations that she would been having with dying people. Literal transcripts of these interviews. This is my colleague Rachael Cusick. She works for the show Radiolab. And for the past year or so Rachael has been working on a piece all about Elisabeth Kbler-Ross and her most famous legacy the five stages of grief. Youve probably heard them beforedenial anger bargaining depression acceptance. But as we hear in Rachaels Radiolab piece these stages of grief really evolved over the years. They actually started out as the five stages of dying which Elisabeth Kbler-Ross wrote about in her book.  I think there was a great attempt to deny the reality of death in this country. Before On Death and Dying came out few people in the medical profession were talking about death openly. Dr. Kbler-Ross travelled the world talking about it giving sold out lectures and interviews as Rachael describes in her Radiolab piece.  She would not stand behind the podium.  She chose to sit on the lecture table swinging her legs back and forth.  and she would just  talk.   At one point she was recalling a discussion with somebody and she said And what do you think he was saying when I heard that? And a young guy sitting close to me answered the question. He said he was afraid.   He was afraid.   Just the level of connection that she could generate.  This is where we get to the stages like THE five stages. Because during these speeches this is actually where ...   Elisabeth would talk about these five stages she had seen her dying patients go through.   Denial anger bargaining depression and acceptance.    She sort of used them to organize her talks.  She said back in the '60s there was no common language. There was nothing they could talk about. So she said by creating five stages is something simple that any layman or any family member can remember. People definitely remembered them. And over the years these stages were eventually applied to grief. But the stages have their limitations. Rachael knows this personally how frustrating it can be when your grief is not moving through a prescribed set of milestones. Rachaels mother Sue died when she was a child. She wrote about that loss in a Modern Love essay in The New York Times last fall. All I remember is my grandmother appearing in front of our home in her turtle-green Chrysler Rachael wrote. She always seemed to exude a sense that the show must go on. I was really moved by Rachaels essay when I read it so we asked Rachael if I could talk with her together with her grandmother about grief.  I hope it goes well. I am a little apprehensive. Anyway.  She says she does not want to be a flop.  Rachaels grandmother Marilyn helped raise Rachael and her four siblings. Shes 85 now and recently got some bad news about her own health.  I had renal cancer and it is metastasized. It is in the bones. I am being treated with immunotherapy. It is not a great diagnosis.  I am just assuming this grandma so correct me if I am wrong but I think you were probably most afraid to tell me because of how hard I would take it.  Oh absolutely because I know more than any of the children she - Rachael - counts on me. Not counts on me. She just wants me to be present. Wants me to be here.  How old were you when your mom died? Rachael I was six.  And Rachael you were the youngest of the bunch.  Yeah.  And Marilyn when you think back on those first years after Sue's death and what you wanted to do to show up for these five kids after their mother's death how did you think about it?  When Sue became ill I left my job to go help her during that last illness. I did not think of that. There was not a decision to make. That is what I needed to do. Then after she was gone it was more - I thought How are these children going to survive? How are they going to be raised in a really good way? Their mother was the most incredible mother. She was a real mother earth. The fact that I kept telling people that  their mother had died and they would get so upset but I guess I was explaining why I was that presence that was there. And you know their father was there and their father was very much a part of everything. I just thought that that was the most important thing I could do. Not necessarily that that is what I wanted to do because I had stayed home with my own children and then had a job that I liked but that is - I really could not give it a lot of thought.  Your grandmother just alluded to this but Rachael how did you experience how she would explain her presence when you all were in public that your mom was not there? What do you remember?  Yeah. I just remember going to Kohl's or ShopRite and we just spent so much time with her. I was like her little sidekick in so many ways and it was just a matter of time before she just starts talking and whispering to the people that you are talking to at the store and you just hear her say it I am just the grandma. Their mother died. It was always in a whisper.   Oh. Just explaining why they did not have this wonderful mother with them. Anyway that sounds a little silly but anyway.  I do not think it sounds silly.  And so it was just - at first it was a little embarrassing but I never was embarrassed to be - I think I never sensed the gap between us in a way. That was just my normal. I never felt the need to tell strangers who she was.  Do you remember talking about grief together with your grandmother when you were little?  I do not really think we ever used grief in words that I could remember. I think she was always very - it was always in the room loss but I do not know how often we talked about the word grief. Grandma do you remember ever having a conversation about it?  We did not really talk about grief. We did not. That is probably a mistake. But it was just there. It was just so present.  We did not say Wow we are going through grief. But I do think I would call her in moments where I was having a hard time like in college. We talked around the grief and the pain but never really about this exact source of all of it all the time.  I just do not think there is anything more devastating than losing your - I mean I thought the worst thing that could happen is to lose a child. I lost a son too early on. But I think to lose your mother when you are a child is the worst thing that can happen.  How old were you when you lost your son?  When I lost my son I was probably 43.  When you were grieving his death did people talk to you about the stages of grief? Is that something that you heard?  I did know about Kbler-Ross and all of that. The stages of grief and I didin preparation for this I did look that up because I thought did I? You do go through all those different stages but I do not know. Come down to the acceptance of the death of my children I do not think you ever accept that. I do not think with my son my son took his life so there was no bargaining. With Sue you do bargain. Why cannot this be me instead of Sue or whatever? There is a lot of guilt involved inas a parent your whole job is to have this child grow up as a normal human being. If you do not do that you have failed in your job. Then to have that happen two times is unbelievable. Except with my Sue there was something I could do for her and I could help her family. In a way I sort of redeemed this in my own head. I do not know. Should not be saying all this. Anyway I am saying it.  It is interesting. I never heard you frame it that way.  I think about when I first experienced grief it is so all life-changing. That is how I felt with my son. It is just devastating that your whole life isit is almost like your life is over your life has changed and never will be okay again.  Rachael for you did people talk to you about the stages of grief when they were trying to be helpful?  I never think we got a pamphlet or anything. It was always in the room and I almost think that was the first way I learned about grief because it was the only time in movies and TV shows or music even where you heard the word grief and then it was attached to some direction afterwards. Then I think because it is everywhere and you are not hearing it anywhere else that becomes the thing that I would return to. Not because people were forcing it on me just because it is literally the only map that I had in a lot of ways.  Did you ever come up against the limits of the map or feel frustrated with the map?  Yes totally. Especially because I think you just want to get out of that feeling of grief when it is overwhelming and you feel stuck and I think for many many years I tried to move through versions of those stages never to return again. I think after many years of just feeling like I kept doing this tilt a whirl of these stages and never getting out of it I instead of being angry at those things I got veryI would beat myself up for being stuck in this feeling of grief for so long. I did not get angry at them. I was very upset with myself.  Like this paradigm had made you feel like a failure.  Yes. I always felt like my grief was really messy and showed publicly and I always struggled with eating and it was all of these things that I was really ashamed of. I think when theres this structure like the stages and youre not fitting into it theres just some feeling about like you are failing. Even if some of those words fit into your experience I think there is just a lonesomeness that comes from thinking that that is how you have to feel. Then I think as I got a little bit older and finally started therapy I just recognized that those feelings might not ever go away. They might get a little bit betterI might be able to manage them when they come up but they never go away. That is when I got really angry at the stages themselves.  When was that shift that you mentioned? How old were you?  I think I was maybe 23. Not until like a year or two ago.  This is new.  Yes it is definitely new.  One thing that I wonder Marilyn for you what Rachael said about how isolating grief can feel I am struck by for you these really deep losses you experienced within familyyou experienced alongside other people you love who also were losing these people that they loved. How do you think about grief? Do you think of it as a solitary experience? Has it been helpful to think about grief as something that is shared with the people who are left?  I think it is shared. I know when my son died my whole thought was to protect my two daughters. The whole thing was that their lives was going to be okay and because that is a terrible lossthen my husband and I had a difficulty in dealing with the loss of our son and that was very hard. That was very difficult to share because you feel guilty yourself and then I think the other person feels as though you blame them or whatever. It just changes your whole life this grief.  One thing you said that I do think it is really hard when you get into that place of having to put your grief right next to other people's. I think our family often is like Well you lost a mother that is even harder than losing a daughter. I always felt like oh I lost her when I was so young and you older kids had it worse because you remember her more and feeling like your grief is less worthy than another person's or less important at the moment like a triage of grief. It is definitely really hard I have felt as I grew up. Even hearing you say like Oh you lost a mother that is even harder. That just makes me sad because that is not fair in a way to you. Coming up I talk more with Rachael and Marilyn about their shared grief and how they are talking together about Marilyn's illness.  Until I got this last illness I was extremely well and I did not really think too much about aging. I thought I still have 20 good years believe it or not.  The last what 10 years ever since I was older in high school she then was able to step back a little bit more and have more of her own life. So I never looked at her as like she is aging. I think that is why it was a shock when she got the diagnosis because it was like she was in her prime in my eyes.   You all have been sending in your experiences with infertility and discovering that becoming a parent could be a lot harder than you thought. Some of you realized this early on  When I was 16 I was diagnosed with acute ovarian failure and I was told that I would probably never be able to get pregnant naturally. For others of you it was a realization that came with time.  I always thought that you fall in love you get married and have a baby and that is just the way that your life works. So I have fallen in love. I am getting married but turns out it is a lot harder to have a baby when you both have vaginas. For many of you like our guest from last week Doree Shafrir it is a long haul with plenty of obstacles. Our listener Lorenas wife went through six intrauterine insemination or IUI procedures to conceive their first child. Now Lorena is trying to get pregnant herself. IUI is covered by their insurance but after four failed IUI procedures of her own Lorena wonders if they should try IVF...which they would have to pay for out of pocket.  What your guest said on that last episode could not ring more true that it is wild to think that people can just have sex and have a baby because once you are going through this process it is like oh my gosh it is so hard to make one. We want to keep hearing stories from you about what youve been up against when it comes to having kids. Weve mostly heard from women so far -- men and non-binary people wed love to hear from you too. On the next episode We meet a couple dealing with a gambling addiction that led to a financial and mental health crisis.  It did not fit into my narrative for my life or how it could go. That I would have a husband who would gamble-- like that just did not even occur to me as a possibility you know?  I didnt make a decision that was based on valuing our relationship or marriage or the time wed spent together. I made a decision out of pain and shame. Financial therapist Amanda Clayman joins us again for another set of sessions.  Our money sort of creates something that we need to deal with or something that we need to talk about. And in dealing with it and talking about the financial issue we end up getting to talk about all of these other really important issues as well. Look out for our Financial Therapy series in our podcast feed starting August 4th.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. Rachael Cusick lives in New York City and visits her grandma Marilyn Ryland at her home in New Jersey every month or so.  I went out to visit her a couple of weeks ago and it is like my grandma is one of the few people in life that I actually let take care of me because of our relationship like that. I do not feel guilty taking that from her and I feel guilty taking it from other people.  What is one way she took care of you when you were visiting recently that you remember?  She made these things calledwhat are they called? Fools grandma?  We call them strawberry fools but it was berries with whipped cream and put them in pretty parfait glasses.  She sets the table and you wake up and she has the coffee pot ready to go. You get to come down in your pajamas and just the way that you would if you are going to go back home or something. That is what going to visit her feels like still even though she is like now I feel like she should not be the one making me strawberry fools these days.  Marilyn's health is stable at the moment but after she had cancer surgery last year she needed a lot of help. Rachael moved in with Marilyn for about a month to take care of her.  I think that was the best month that I have spent with you.  Oh it was awful.  She hated it she was so upset when I had to put Vaseline on her feet. She was like I am so sorry but I loved it. I think because one I get to see this side of her as an adult. There were so many moments where I realized how funny she is and as a kid when she is making sure the world does not come crashing down you do not get to be the funny one. I got to see her as an adult her sense of humor in this way I did not get to. It is a lot of one-on-one time. I had spent maybe a couple of days or a week with her one-on-one but not a month and some that was special. Then I think also just I have this really complicated relationship with caretaking. I think because I take so much care of myself that I am really afraid of being a parent and not having a mother I am really afraid of feeling trapped by this idea of caretaking and I think being there and so wanting to be there for her and take care of her and never did it feel like burdensome to know that that was possible was a really special experience for me. It was hard there were definitely moments where I could just see she was in so much pain or there were days that it was really tough but she was also in a moment back when I was with her that she had this spirit about her that made a lot of the hard stuff really fun in moments.  She would walk around with her little likeshe could not bend down from the surgery so she would use picker-upper sticks. She would not ask for help all the time and I was like Grandma do not bend down. I will come get it that is why I am here. I would just hear the thing like clipping across the house.  She is trying to pick up a rag and I look up and she is like I am going fishing for rags.  Just little things like that. I just think they were so delightful and I would not have gotten to see that if I was not there.  Marilyn you mentioned that you looked back at the Kbler-Ross stages and - to see what felt familiar or resonant. Did they feel like feelings you have had about your diagnosis and your illness?  I thought about that and I do not think so and maybe it is because of my age. I know when I first found out about the renal cancer and decided on the surgery and the surgery was very risky and I thought I am going to do this and if it does not work it is okay. It is okay for me to be gone. I think there was an acceptance. Now I was not gone so I cannot say that I am accepting it because I may be really upset later or maybe angry and so I do not know. There is always through your whole life you are bargaining or I have bargained through my whole life so anyway.  What does that mean?  What bargaining?  What do you mean you have bargained through your whole life?  Well I guess you are bargaining with God so you know why do not you do this for this or whatever just like when your mom was sick or when Stevie died I would have much rather been dead than have my child die but you do not have that choice. Then you realize you do not have that choice and you have got to accept it. Anyway.  If somebody is listening to this who is newly experiencing loss of someone they loved a lot and they have heard about the stages of grief and they have heard about what feelings they might run into as they grieve this person who is gonewhat would you say to them about the utility of those stages and how much to pay attention to them?  You go ahead.  I think they are just so narrow. If you are so new to grief and you have never towed into this world start there but never stop there. Never feel like you have to go into any of those boxes or all of them because of how lonesome grief is already. Grief does not need to make sense and it does not need to be neat. It might be very ugly and it definitely does not fit into five boxes that move along smoothly. I think totally taking that off the table even though all the pain will still be there just feel whatever you have to feel.  I always wondered what it was like for me to be working on this story while you were sick. I do not know if you have any thoughts about it. I remember one day the nurse came to your house and I had the On Death and Dying book and she gave me this look like holy shit you are really just out there doing it.  I wonder like what you feel about it. Is it weird? Is it comforting? What does that feel like for you?  No I thought it was something you needed to do. I just thought this was your way of dealing with this and that is a smart waythat is an intelligent way to delve into it and see what it is all about. So I just thought that was a comfort to you perhaps and that however it worked out it would be okay.  Yeah. That is Marilyn Ryland and Rachael Cusick. And now I want to share with you a little more of Rachaels Radiolab episode that she was working on while taking care of her grandma. Its called The Queen of Dying and its available in full in the Radiolab podcast feed. In this part we hear what happened as Rachael read On Death and Dying after a lifetime of grappling with Elisabeth Kbler-Rosss so-called five stages of grief. Here's Rachael.  If you actually read the book On Death And Dying  which I did I just had to take my retainer out for reading this. I would read it every night before bed. There is how many chapters? Oh my god I am so bad with Roman numerals 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12. 12 chapters only five stages. The stages really just serve as chapter headers. She starts each chapter with these poems. When you get to those pages it is really hard to find which is all these beautiful transcripts one singular emotion. These means will last for different periods of time. She says you could go through all the stages and then repeat some replace each other or exist at a time side by side or not experience any of them at all. This book is not a five-stage shaped life raft. What does the preface say? I have worked with dying patients for the past two and a half years. This book will tell all about the beginning of this experiment. The first page literally says It is not meant to be a textbook on how to manage dying patients nor is it intended as a complete study of the psychology of dying. It is simply an account of a new and challenging opportunity to refocus on the patient as a human being. This is the goal of the book. That is it. I am simply telling the stories of my patients. The real substance of this book. It is hopes that it will encourage others not to shy away from the hopelessly sick but to get closer to them. The ocean of color and texture that the stages are tucked inside is not escaping grief it is standing in it and not running away.  If we do not come if we do not pat on the back and say Do not cry it is not so bad. It is bad to leave everything and everybody you love. If we help them be angry and help them be sad and let them express it and cry and not say You are a man it is not manly to cry. I think this is terrible.  Everything that you are feeling is okay. None of it should fit into these boxes. The best thing that we can do for each other as human beings is to just sit there and listen to it as it is coming up.  Just be you. If you feel like screaming you scream. If you feel like crying you cry. Do not try to follow a textbook or have somebody else tell you what to do. Trust yourself your own natural emotions.  When I read it I shot up in bed. I just sat up because I was like Oh my God this is it. That is Rachael Cusick. You can hear her entire Radiolab piece about Elizabeth Kbler-Ross a woman with an incredible life storyand death storywherever you get your podcasts. Theres also a link in our show notes along with a link to Rachaels Modern Love essay from The New York Times. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Katie Bishop produced this episode. The rest of our team includes Afi Yellow-Duke Yasmeen Khan Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our interns are Mardy Harding and Kristie Song. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Instagram annasalepics thats P-I-C-S and you can find the show on Facebook Twitter and Instagram deathsexmoney. Sign up for our weekly newsletter at deathsexmoney.org. Thanks to Leia Lefay in Irvington New York for being a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Leia and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. And special thanks again to Rachael and her grandma Marilyn.  I really think life is good. Life is wonderful. Then I think if people knew all of these things these tragedies that happened in my life they must think I am crazy. Anyway but life is good. That is what I had to say. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.