 I always say my my career is just uh a bunch of upward failures. You know?  Wait tell me about that. Why do you say that?  You know because to me like because I failed a lot you know I made a lot of wrong decisions. I just I never let my failures end it. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. By the time he was 17 Bobby Berk had been out of his parents' house for a few years. Home was a duplex in Springfield Missouri. And his roommates were getting him into trouble.  I got a receiving stolen property charge because they had taken some yard gnomes and -    Yeah - stolen some yard gnomes and put them in our yard and the lease was in my name. And so I got in trouble for that. Yeah.  What was the punishment for stolen yard gnomes?  Um it is on my record. Yeah. I got some community service and some fines that I could not afford. I think it was probably like 200 bucks but you know that is was - should have - might as well been 2 million to me back then. Bobby is now one of the stars of the Netflix show Queer Eye. Hes the shows interior design expert known for putting his head down and getting a home completely redone in just a week...no gnomes to speak of. Bobby grew up in a religious family in Missouri. He was not out to his parents and they often clashed.  You know my mother and I butted heads a lot. She is definitely a control freak. She is definitely a worrier. Um and that worrying personality and the controlling personality really culminated in okay your bedtime at 15 years old is still 30 at night. You cannot go out with the youth group after church like something could happen. Like I had no life at all like I was not allowed to go to friends' houses because she did not know their parents you know. It was it was a very controlled environment and that is - I did not flourish in that. And I did not like that. And one night a fight occurred and it got a little crazy and I just I decided to crawl out the window of my bedroom and shimmy down the gutter and leave.  Crazy in what way?  Um it just you know it was a very religious family and there was always that you know line in the Bible Spare the rod and spoil the child. And you know unfortunately that is the way a lot of religious families think they need to be because that is what God tells you to do you know beat the devil out of the kid. Um and I just I was not down for that anymore. So I left.  Did you have in your mind that you were not coming back?   Yeah I do not I do not know. I do not I do not think you know any time other than that moment was really in my thought process. You know I was just thinking about getting the hell out at that moment. Um I do not know if it was - I think actually maybe it was 'ecause you know my the line my parents used to always use to me was If you do not like it there is the door.  Hmm.  You know If you do not like our rules there is the door. If you do not like this there is the door. And that was said that night you know If you do not like it there is the door! And I am like well okay. You know I am calling your bluff. Bye you know there is the window.  Where did you go?  Um I had a friend's mother who was kind - you know she was great. She she was kind of like that safety blanket for a lot of kids. And so I called her up and she came and got me and gave me a place to stay while I tried to figure out what I was going to do.  And how long did you stay with that family?  Um I stayed with her just for um a few months. Um I stayed with her while I finished out my sophomore year of high school. Yeah 'ecause she was about an hour and 15 minutes each way drive to - back to my high school.  Huh. So you were still going to the same high school you just were not living at home.  Correct. Yeah.  And and did you have any conversation with your parents during that time?  No no. At that time no that uh it was not until the next school year when I went to enroll in Kickapoo High you know where Brad Pitt went in Springfield Missouri uh that I actually had to have the conversation with my parents because I was underage. So I legally could not enroll myself in school. Uh I had to get their permission and they did not want to get it to me. They tried to use that as a way to force me to come home. And so I then got myself emancipated so they did not have a choice. And in the end I ended up only being able to go to school for about a month and a half before I realized that I could not afford to eat and pay rent and go to school.  When you were deciding that you needed to leave school like what do you remember the sets of feelings being? Was it like exciting that you were like -  No no. Leaving school was one of the hardest decisions I ever made. Um 'ecause to me like school was so important you know I I remember like knowing those kids in high school that dropped out and just thinking God you - you have just ruined your life. You know that is just so trashy that you are dropping out of school and to do nothing like just to sit at home and do nothing just because you do not like school. Um so no it was not an easy decision. It was not an exciting decision. It was actually something that I did not talk about for years. I actually for a very very long time lied about it. I never told anyone I dropped out of school. I used to lie and say I went to college. I would lie about it for employment applications and people because I was horribly ashamed that I had dropped out of school because education was very important to me.  When did you stop lying about it?  Um I would say it was not until I became a success in business that I stopped lying about it. 'ecause I did not - you know I knew that I I judged myself for it. Until I had become successful I was a perfect example of what happens when you drop out of school you know? Until I proved otherwise I lied about it. It was thenafter he dropped out of high schoolthat Bobby moved to Springfield totally on his own.  In the beginning when I first moved there I lived in my car. Um I lived in people's basements on their sofas you know couch surfing. Um at one point I was working three jobs. I worked the graveyard shift at a gas station um that got robbed all the time.  Oh.  And I would work until about six seven in the morning and I would go home I would sleep for three hours. Then I would go work my shift at The Body Shop. And then after that I would usually work an evening shift at the Gap. And then sometimes I would even work a fourth job and I would - at the time I was working at Applebee's as well. So I would go work a late night dinner shift and then I would go back to the gas station and I would work my graveyard shift and do it all over again.  Did - at that point in your life in Springfield did you feel like you found a community an LGBT community?  Um yeah. You know there was a a nice little community there there was a couple of gay bars you know I got heavily involved in the drag community there. Um you know in small towns often drag is like the heart of the gay community. And it was definitely the case there as well. I do not know if you watch Drag Race -  Yes.  But one of the top girls Crystal Methyd? She is from Springfield Missouri.  Oh!   Yeah. Yep. My hometown girl. Um so it yeah I for awhile I did drag 'ecause you know I would do anything for money back then 'ecause I needed it. So yeah there was there was a good little gay community there.  What was the club called where you performed?  Martha's Vineyard.  Oh that is just lovely.  And then there was another one called Xanadu.  And what did you have a particular song that you really did well?  Um I am A Bitch.    I would wear I would wear a red little like power suit and I would be like that like powerful executive woman. Looking back like I always loved portraying the the woman that I was in a very powerful boss bitch kind of way.  Yeah.  Yeah like my outfits were not you know the little string bikini or the corsets. It was like you know Hillary Clinton power suit.   Coming up Bobby takes the boss bitch show to New York City.  You know you find the free places to go you know my friends and I we always started going out early 'ecause the open bars would start at like seven so you would go out and you would go to the open bar and you would drink as much as you could before the open bar stopped. It was a blast.  Last week we asked you how youre thinking about childcare right now whether youve got kids of your own or if caring for them is your job. And so far weve heard from a lot of you on both sides. Olivia in Colorado has worked in early childhood education for 18 years. She runs a Headstart program in the Boulder area thats been closed for in-person learning since March. Its the only free full-time program available in Olivias community.  And all I can think about are the kids and families that qualify for Headstart services. And I just Im devastated. They received funding from the CARES Act which provided enough for them to continue to pay their staff during closure. But now Olivias thinking ahead to the fall and how to reopen safely while also keeping her employees healthy.  You need staff in classrooms. But you also need to minimize the number of adults that are at a work location. So who carries the brunt of this essential services work? We really want to hear from both parents and childcare providers. How is child care working for you right now? And what sorts of hard conversations are you having about it? Record a voice memo or send an email to deathsexmoneywnyc.org.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. When Bobby Berk was 18 he moved to Denver and in with a boyfriend. It was the late '90s. And by this point he and his parents were talking and Bobbys sexuality was a point of friction between them. So when his mom decided to visit Colorado and stay with him and his boyfriend...Bobby panicked.  And I had said to him before she got there you know I I really want to have a good visit with her and I do not want any drama. So I told him to go stay with his mom while she was there because I just I did not want any fights. So I was going to change you know who we were to accommodate her. Um but then when she got there that evening you know he went to grab his bag to go to his mom's and she is like you know where are you going? And he is like Oh I am going to go stay at my mom's. And she is like No no no. Do not do anything different now that you would not do if I was not here! And I was just like what? Who is this woman? And then like the next morning you know the apartment we lived in the only bathroom was like in the bedroom. And so she like knocked on the door she is like Are you boys decent? And I am like what what? Like who is this woman? You know? Um and so that was kind of a definitely a turning point in our relationship. I think they started to see that you know being gay was not this crazy thing. It was just you know my relationships were more healthy and lasting longer than my - my sister and her ex husband. Um and so I think they that first relationship of mine and first longterm relationship 'ecause we were together for a few years kind of helped them come to terms with me being gay.  And did you say to your mom like can you catch me up what is going on here? Or was it all unspoken?  Uh it was all unspoken.  In your early twenties when you moved to New York City what prompted that move?  Um initially it was for love. I had met somebody um and it just seemed like it was meant to be. I actually met him online and he actually he lived in New Jersey. So I was moving not to New York but to New Jersey. And thank goodness we actually broke up before I ended up moving there because otherwise I would have ended up you know out in New Jersey instead of Manhattan and who knows what could have happened. Um so yeah. I ended up deciding to move to New York anyways even though it was not moving there for him I decided to move there for me.  How did you support yourself in New York City?  I - originally my plan was that I would just get a job as a server um just to start but then I got there and I quickly realized that in New York if you do not have New York City server experience no one will hire you. So it took me about three months to get my first job there and it was um a a visual design management position at Restoration Hardware.  Was sort of design and thinking about physical spaces was that something that you knew you had a talent for?  No. I mean growing up I was the one always moving the furniture around the house and my bedroom and redesigning my bedroom. But it was not again like without that education it was not even a thought of mine that oh this is something I could do because you know I just assumed that I had to have that degree to be able to do this. So it it never really you know I I did not go work at Restoration Hardware 'ecause I I wanted a design career. I went there because I - I had retail management experience and you know I liked design so it was a fun place to work. You know I was not folding clothes. I was you know getting able to put together furniture and design like I liked but no it was not I did not get the job there because of design. I just got the job there because it was one of the only jobs I could get at the time.  How did you meet your husband?  It was Gay.com. Um it was it was kind of like an old like AOL chat room type website. Um there was no there were no smartphones. There were no apps. Um you know it was it was not easy. It was uh very different back then.  Did you know about yourself at that time in your life that you liked to be in relationship?  Um I definitely was not looking for a relationship when I met him. You know I was in the relationship I was in before I moved to New York and then within a month or so of moving to New York I met somebody that I ended up being in about a year relationship with and it was not a good relationship. And so I was I was actually not looking to date anybody. I was just looking to be single.  What in those early months of being with your husband do you remember sticking out about what was what was special about what you two had?  Um he was just very sweet you know genuinely a caring sweet loving person. And that was not something I had you know really found especially not in New York. Um you know everybody kind of always wanted something or had an ulterior motive and and he did not. You know and he went out of his way to give to me you know I was always kind of the giver in the relationship but you know he would he was going to med school at the time at Mount Sinai all the way uptown at like 96th Street. And I was I lived on 17th Street and he would leave med school and come all the way downtown to like stay the night at my apartment and then get up at 30 5 in the morning to go all the way back uptown even though his apartment was like a few blocks away from the hospital. So he was the one that really yeah. Without his without him we well without him we would not be together obviously but you know he definitely was the one that made it work in the beginning.  Yeah.  'ecause again I was not looking for a relationship so I would not I would not have worked that hard.  Did it feel okay to have somebody trying to show up and kind of take care of you after you being on your own for so many years?  Yeah it was nice. Although I mean when I say - I am still the always the nurturer in the relationship. I would say he would have he would have gotten hit by a car years ago if it was not for me. Im not even joking. That boy is always off in cloud nine. He is always thinking of something else. There have been many a times where I have had to grab his hand to keep him from walking out in front of a car. To this day he is still like that. Bobby and his husband Dewey got married in 2012. By then Bobby had built his own successful design business in New York which eventually moved to LA. But it wasnt until 2017 when he was cast on the Queer Eye reboot that things felt like they were really changing in a big way.  I mean it is it is only been in the last few years that I have ever not worried about money and stressed about money you know? And I still do not take it for granted. You know I still I still allow it to stress me out sometimes. But you know it is just on a different scale now.  When you noticed that when you noticed that you could not be all the time worrying about money um was there something nice that you bought for yourself?  Yeah we bought our first home uh about - going on two years ago now.  And what was that like for you who is - for somebody who is like spent your - so much of your adult life thinking about physical spaces and what makes them feel nourishing and cozy?  It was just it was just amazing to me that I was able to buy a home. I mean I never thought that I would be able to buy a home. Definitely not the home that we bought you know and since then we have I have bought another home you know. And to this day I will sometimes walk through and just be like I cannot believe this is mine. To this day. You know 'ecause I I never I never thought that this would be an option for me. And even even when my businesses were successful even when my husband was a successful doctor we tried to buy a house and could not because you know I worked for myself mortgage - banks do not like giving mortgages to self employed people. My husband as a surgeon was a self employed surgeon at multiple different practices. So we were not able to get a mortgage. I was not able to get a mortgage until you know two years ago. And even then it was not an easy process. Um so yeah I was it is it is still shocking to me.  When did you get rejected from a mortgage? Did you like try and apply and not get - not get through?  Yeah. Even in even in like 2018 in the beginning of 2018 we had been rejected.  It must have felt really good to get that mortgage.   Yes. I mean honestly until uh I even even up until like pulling into the closing I just assumed something was going to go wrong and it was not going to happen. Um yeah I I remember I I found this house while we were filming in Kansas City like on the Redfin app. I would be I would be sitting in the trailer while we were filming just looking at houses. Um and at that point honestly I had I was just looking at them because it was just such an obsessive dream but I had given up on the fact that I would be able to get one I am like I had been told no and rejected for so long that I am like eh you know even to up until closing I assumed it was something was going to fall through and it was not going to happen.  Do you feel a an awareness of a class difference with the family you grew up with now when you go home?  Um no 'ecause I I still do not. I do not know. I still think of myself as poor.  Really?  You know I grew up that way. Yeah. I mean I luckily I do not have the the stresses that I know come along with being poor because you know I had those honestly up until you know two years ago. Um but yeah I do not know. I do not I do not think of myself - I do not want to think of myself as you know wealthy. I do not yeah. I would prefer to not I think that creates a lot of attitude that I never want to have.  Hm. And poor is that a word that you have used for yourself?  Um I mean I do not now but oh absolutely. Yeah. I mean I was dirt poor you know. Growing up we never went hungry. You know I do remember some times as a child that there would we would get some help from the food pantry because you know my my dad would get laid off of a job or something but you know there were some times where we were we were pretty poor you know but my parents they always took care of us.  And can you tell me more about like I do not want to think of myself as wealthy because I do not like the way that might change me? Like what what what are you afraid of that that would mean?  Um I do not know. I just you know I meet a lot of wealthy people and I do not really care for them.    And do not get me wrong. There are a lot of amazingly wonderful generous loving wealthy people out there. But I I you know I I have seen very firsthand money change people um and fame change people. And I never I always want to make sure that I consciously do not allow that to happen to me.  Mmhm. Yeah. I do not care for them. I like that a lot.   You know I just I find that a lot of times their world revolves around money you know and I do not want my world to revolve around money. Thats Bobby Berk. Seasons one through five of Queer Eye are on Netflix now. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im usually based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. This episode was produced by Anabel Bacon and Katie Bishop. The rest of the team is Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Instagram and Facebook. And thanks to Mia Garritsen in Utah who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Mia and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Even though Bobby never got his degree...he did get into a college yearbook.  I dated the editor of the yearbook at the University of Denver. And for three for three years I am actually in the University of Denver's yearbook as a student.   Oh my gosh.  Um yeah if you if you pull up the University of Denver's yearbook I am in there as a student in the yearbook every year. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.