Hi. This is Anna and before we start I need to share some sad news with you. In our siblings episode you met Alix Sugarman and her twin Katie who had cerebral palsy and was quadriplegic. Alix got in touch to tell us that her sister Katie died early this month. Katie had a heart attack she was taken to the hospital and put on life support but her condition continued to deteriorate. Katie was an organ donor and her body -- which she could feel so confined by -- helped save the lives of five people including two children the family was told. It was a privilege to meet Katie and to capture her honesty and acerbic sense of humor on tape. Ive heard from many of you who connected to some part of their story as sisters. And Alix told me that hearing from you now might help. So if you have a reflection to share email us a note or send a voice memo to deathsexmoneywnyc.org and we will share it with Alix and her family. Rest in peace Katie. Now heres the latest episode.   I used to clean before I would song write. It was sort of like a way of ordering my inner world. But life doesnt work that way. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Joy Williams is most famous for being half of the Civil Wars -- the folk rock duo known for their spare ballads and timeless roots music. But when she was 18 Joy had a different sound. Her first album had that early-2000s pop sheen and it was all all about God.  I have got the love of my Lordand I should Trust when I do not understand'ecause even when it seems that it is all badIt is All Good   I was like full on in that. Joys first four albums were Contemporary Christian music.  You know you can find that on YouTube and it' s-- You know for me its almost like if you were to have a high school yearbook...like video taped...like if everybody had that that is what this feels like to me. You know it is like you look back and you go'Oh my g-- What was I doing with my hair? And like. Wh-- really? Really though? That sparkle tank top? Joy grew up at Christian family camps. Her dad ran a religious retreat center in California.  There were you know group dinners offered and hiking trails and rock climbing and ropes courses. And I worked at the daycare when the kids would come for all the family camps. I would work like 12 hours a day. You know. It was a very peaceful place to grow up. Joy's dad had been an executive at a technology company before she was born but he felt pulled back to the church.  My dad left like a seven-figure job to go clean toilets and lead dining room prayers at camps. Joy started singing at those camps and by her late teens and early 20s she was touring the country as a Christian artist scoring 1 singles on Billboards Christian charts and living in Nashville to be closer to her record label. Thats where she met her husband at an Italian restaurant. Her friends encouraged her to flirt with the charming waiter she tried to demure.  I think I was suspicious that somehow this would not be an opportunity but rather some sort of like temptation.  Temptation like a temptation...sex?  Oh just any kind of temptation.  Ok.  At that point it was like making out was a temptation. Like I was-- You know. There was-- Pure as the driven snow would have kinda been the moniker at that point in time when we met. And um...So he brought appetizers out to us for free which was very charming and then he told me that he would been interning and going to college and I had just come off of a tour and was pretty flushed considering my age. So at the end of the dinner I gave him a really big-- I gave him like a 120 tip because he was super cute. What I did not know is that when I went to the bathroom my girlfriends wrote my number on the back of my receipt and made it look like it was from me. So when I left...  You are giving him a wad of cash with your phone number...   I know! I am like God I may as well have just given him like a like For a good time call this number and like a room key. I was like-- I was mortified when I found out what they would done. So I was like Oh dear God. Like Please do not...please do not call me. He did call her. And they married quickly.  I was actually 21 and Nate was a week shy of 23 when we got married. Nate was interning at a record company. He slowly moved up in the music business while Joys started questioning whether Christian music was a good fit.  Over time I started going Why? And Really? Some of that restrictive language and-- I felt like sometimes it was more about a culture than it was about actual like personal journey. And so personally for me I just felt like there was-- I had more questions. And so I felt like the questions needed to be dealt with um outside of making music. She started earning money by selling magazine advertisements and writing commercial jingles.  I actually wrote the new theme song for Oscar Meyer.  How does it go?  Um  It does not get better than this. Thank you Oscar Meyer. Then in 2008 Joy met a musician named John Paul White at a country music songwriting workshop.  And it was um...it was like meeting somebody that I had known for a really long time.   ...Please forgive me father As not going back to Barton HollowDevil gonna follow me e'er I goWill not do me no good washing in the riverCannot no preacher man save my soul Together they formed the band The Civil Wars. Joys husband Nate became their manager. Their first album went gold. They won four Grammys in three years.  It was a very powerful creative connection that John Paul and I had.   Or that unmarked hundred grand?   When you connect with someone creatively who is a man when you are both married...Did it if feel dangerous?  Yeah it did. And Nate and I talked about that a lot. Not in the sense in you know it-- Something cannot cause you harm unless you allow it to you know. But it was more about How do we stay connected as a couple in order for that to not be something that get in the way or gets in the middle. And that was something that we worked really hard on in our marriage throughout the existence of the Civil Wars. And I think that-- A lot of...a lot of times that is what people I think are gravitated to on top of the music itself was this sort of fascination of But their not married but there is this...there is this creative connect that is very strong. And um...And it was very strong. Until it was not. In the midst of all of their commercial and critical success tensions between Joy and John Paul were escalating. And in 2012 the Civil Wars abruptly cancelled all their shows in the middle of a European tour. On their Facebook page the band cited Internal discord and irreconcilable differences of ambition.   ...your mouth is poison your mouth is wine  I wanted one thing and he didnt want that. Um and a professional difference of opinion can feel very personal. That tension between a personal and professional relationship is something Joy and John Paul played up in the The Civil Wars music.   I dont love you but I always will  The video for this song Poison  Wine is ALL about longing with very sexy and very close shots of them looking at each other.  ...I always willI always will.  When you look at old music videos of the Civil Wars and how it captured the chemistry that you two had together how does it feel now?   I am sad because we do not speak anymore. And yeah I feel like I am looking at a ghost in a way. And I think rumors rumors rumors so many rumors were...were you know circulated...  Rumors of like romantic entanglements that blew up?  Umm huh. Umm huh. Um you know when I-- Again there were...there were tensions. It...it...it was not clear at times and um I think that is when you have to be so careful and that is when you have to ask yourself what is it that you truly want in life and make decisions out of that. Um but that being said that means that you can...you can lose. Saying yes to something means saying no to something else. Saying no to something means saying yes to something else. You have to weigh...you have to weigh those questions very deeply. And um...that happened for me.  I want to pause and just say you know I am...I am divorced and I know what it is to be asked to talk about a break up when you are the only one narrating and you are very aware that there is another side to it...  Yeah. Yeah. I do want to be sensitive to that. I did not go you know I did not go through a relational divorce but I went through a creative divorce. But it is difficult place to be in trying to move forward in the public eye when there is a sense of entitlement that people have about something that is nuanced way less dramatic than I think people would like to think and difficult when I am the only one sitting in this chair.  How was your marriage in that moment?  Rough. So rough. Um bedraggled. When the family business of you know of The Civil Wars when it collapsed it collapsed on multiple fronts for me and for Nate and...And we almost gave up. We almost quit on each other. Um we didnt make any grand declarations that we would stay together. We kind of took that off the table. Um I went to you know a therapist on my own and then Nate and I went to couples therapy and it was huge. It was huge for us. It was like...it was like Oh. You start doing reverse algebra and your realize This is how we got to this place. I was so busy trying to be perfect. You were so busy trying to hold it all together and be strong. And isnt it interesting what happens when we only try and give each other the best versions of ourselves.  What is it like now? What is your marriage like now?  God. I am so much more in love with the man sitting across the dining room table than I have ever been. And I think I am more loving towards myself. And...Man we...I mean god do we know each other's ins and outs. The Civil War's very public breakup was just one strain on Joy and Nate's marriage at the time. Coming up what happened when Joy leaned she was pregnant just when she got news that her father had terminal cancer.  I remember my dad asking if he could touch my pregnant belly and us having to ask the doctors if it was okay because he would had chemo. But he got to meet my son.  The Death Sex  Money team just traveled to New Orleans to talk with people about the upcoming 10 year anniversary of Hurricane Katrina next month. On the next episode you will meet some of them and hear their stories. Person  When it gets hot I tend to have more dreams. And you are thinking to yourself 'I gotta make sure I have a tank full of gas.' I have to have these things in place in case I need to evacuate. Person  I will never forget the debriefing session that I had with a volunteer psychatrist. And I will never forget bawling my eyes out at the end of that. Person  Definitely in like the two years after the storm I was lashing out at all things at all times but not knowing why. Like I was just really distr-- Like we used to go to New Orleans East and like light cars on fire because you could do that. Person  The money was plentiful. You know a lot was happening after Katrina. I mean money slinging everywhere. You know everybody has FEMA checks girl. Person  I could not leave my parents. I was not leaving the city. I did not know what opportunities were here. It was really just a...a...a situation of you know blaze your own trail or leave. Were working on this now. Its all coming to you the week of August 17th.  --  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. When Joy Williams and her husband Nate found out she was pregnant with their son Miles they kept it very quiet at first.  Nate and I had lost two other children prior to that so I was very...I was very protective of the pregnancy with Miles. Like we did not tell anybody about it until I was almost six months. We announced it on the Grammy-- the red carpet.  Wow. So you have-- You would had two previous miscarriages and then you announce a six month pregnancy on the red carpet of the Grammys?  Yeah. Um there is always more than meets the eye is not there Anna?  So as all this is happening in your professional life and public life you are losing your father.  Mmm hmm.  Yeah. Um. Id experienced loss you know um...in a way of you know being pregnant but I didnt know what it would feel like to be pregnant and hear The cancers back. It was almost too much. You know? Like the band...I mean the band being under strain being pregnant and I was-- I had horrible...I had horrible um -- I can laugh about it now -- I had horrible morning sickness which was not morning sickness it was twenty four hours a day. I could not stand up without projectile or having the inclination to do so. And I found out...Nate and I found out we were pregnant 2 days into what was like a fifty-city tour. So I learned how to not projectile on stage. Which is really funny when you talk to other female musicians. They are like You too?! Me too!  We are bad asses women by the way...  Do you just hold it? What do you do?  You literally have this instinct of like This cannot happen. This will not happen. I did not have it...It is not like I even had a band. I could not be like hey you take a long drum solo. I am gonna go find a bucket. It was like John Paul and me on stage. So you just literally go-- You learned in between phases to swallow accordingly um...But yeah there is was just a-- There was-- I just felt like there was so much happening at the same time that it was all I could do to stay present. And when we were off the road I would go fly...and Nate and I would go fly and see my dad. My husband Nate would give my dad haircuts in the hospital. We would read to each other. We would sit. There was just so much sitting in that moment. It is like you are-- There is so much birth analogy in relation to death. All the waiting. And the When is this going to happen? and How is this going to go? And...um I am so scared. But I want...but I want him-- I want my dad to be out of pain. Um and then they-- he...he lost his power of speech. And all he could do is blink. And so I...I started singing him the songs that I would been writing. And um...and we made a joke of like Blink twice if you like it and blink once if you do not.  What song did he really like?  He uh...He loved a song I wrote called Welcome Home and um...From This Valley which was a song that John Paul and I wrote. And uh...And I would sing that to him. I sang that...I sang that to him many times.  Oh will not you take me from this valleyTo that mountain high aboveOh I will pray pray pray till I see your smiling faceI will pray pray to the one that I love   You know it ended up being part of the memorial service. I miss him. Yeah. And my parents and I do not agree or did not agree on everything but that was also what made our relationship really rich and still does with my mom. Being with my dad through the process of his passing through as I like to say really did I do not know...While it untethered me I feel like it also rooted me back in a way to the things that matter the most to me.   Oh will not you take me from this valleyTo that mountain high aboveOh I will pray pray pray till I see your smiling faceI will pray pray to the one that I love Oh I will pray pray pray till I see your smiling faceI will pray pray to the one that I love  Musician Joy Williams. Her solo album Venus was released last month. Death Sex and Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein James Ramsay Rachel Aronoff Benjamin Franklin and Joe Plourde. Special thanks to Daniel Guillemette for his help with this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. The next time you hear from me during the week of August 17 Ill be married...Very exciting. You can keep in touch until then by signing up for our weekly newsletter--that is at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. And you can also email us anytime at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. One last lesson from Joy Williams father If youre going to baptize your daughter in the Pacific Ocean just make sure you keep your eyes on the waves coming in.  The joke that we have always had was my dad's voice like went up an octave from the Pacific Ocean water that had just crept ever so slightly up. So it was like I baptize you in the name of the fahhhhhther and the son and the...  And then I laughed and we laughed and we fell in the water and that was like my favorite. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.