 Farming was not profitable. It was hard. There wasnt any opportunity to make enough money to build a house or something like that. Something drew my generation away from the small communities. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot And need to talk about more. Im Sarah Smarsh in for Anna Sale.  Sarah.  Hey. And this is my dad Nick.  Are you woke up now?  Yes are you?  Uh yeah? Im calling him from my home in Wichita Kansas about thirty miles from the wheat farms we grew up on. He lives in Wichita now too but spends 49 weeks out of the year on the road as a traveling construction worker.  Yeah Im in my room at the Travelers Inn in South Haven Mississippi looking out my window. He drives all over the country in his 2007 Ford F150 pickup with a crack in the windshield and a hole in the driver-side floor mat. Last year he drove 26000 miles for work. His truck is always stuffed with tools a duffel bag a cooler a coffee-maker and can opener piles of receipts for tax purposes and his lucky rock. Also he tells me a copy of the  book I wrote Right now hes down south for several months renovating and building  Wendys restaurants.  Are you still splitting a room?  Yes I am. The guy he splits it with is a coworker named Gem as in G-E-M who came to the U.S. from the Philippines. Theyve roomed together on jobs like this off and on for several years to save money and pocket a bit of the modest per diem they get from their employer.  Is his rice cooker in there?  Oh yeah he brought all kinds of new gadgets. Hes got his skillet in here sitting on top of a one-burner electric burner. hes got his oil sitting there. Heres something called uh whats this? Sriracha? My dad grew up on a Kansas farm and Im the fifth generation of our family born to that same area of land. We have deep roots in that place yet both of us have ended up with lives that involve a lot of travel. Im a journalist and I wrote a book called Heartland A Memoir of Working Hard and Being Broke in the Richest Country on Earth. Since it came out last September my life has been a flurry of book-tour stops and speaking events at universities literary festivals  professional conferences on poverty or rural issues. Often I talk about my dads life to give people an idea of what hardcore labor looks like and to remind them that Im not writing about the working class as an outside observer who quote-unquote got out. He and I have very different lives but I still reside in southern Kansas just down the road from my dad and most of my family. The world we are from runs deep in both of us.  Im going to take 21st streetdo you think?  Thats what we should take. When I was a kid the 30-mile drive to Wichita was about the longest trip wed make. We lived on a piece of prairie land where my dad built a house for us--my parents my brother Matt and me--just a couple miles down the dirt road from the farmhouse where dad grew up in the 60s and 70s. He worked in the wheatfields like the rest of our family often taking construction jobs in Wichita to make ends meet. It took me an hour on a school bus full of rural kids to get to my small-town elementary school. It was a sort of isolation thats becoming more rare.  Its wild how much shorter the drive is from what feels like the edge of Wichita to  where we grew upwith the um  It used to seem like a long journey. During my childhood small family farms were being sold off at an alarming rate--going tits up my dad would say--and when my parents divorced in 1989 there was no viable way for us to stay in the country. I ended up moving to my grandparents farm where I lived until I finished high school. But that one went under too when I was a sophomore in college. And ultimately most of my family  ended up in Wichita...and were still there.  Now by the way  remember that building? A few months ago when my dad and I were both home at the same time we and I took a drive out to where I grew up.  Thats where we watched the Chiefs lose 25 years ago.  1993 94 some like that the last time they were in the AFC championship game. The road we follow west out of Wichita is lined with memories and its also lined with buildings my dad helped construct.  were coming up on a um a barnand they had dad and my uncles build this barn so Its always made me feel proud that I can point to physical structures all over Wichita and the surrounding countryside and say my dad built that.  I also worked on that hospital  Not like a developer who puts up the money and has the audacity to call himself a builder. Noas in he built it with his hands.  Id take these guys when we were working and Ill walk them over to the South side of the hospital and Id say You see that barn? I helped build that in about 1969. Once I was living in Texas for a short time and had a speaking gig back home. It was one of the first times an event organizer booked a nice hotel room for me big jacuzzi three rooms fancy bathroom full kitchen.  What blew my mind though is that I remembered when it was a burned-out factorybecause my dad worked on the renovation. All around me was his work. I didnt feel guilty because Dad raised me to take what I can get. But I felt damn grateful both for a job in which I get paid for my mind rather than for breaking my back and for a life that has shown me both sides.   I havent been in here since a kid. Out in the country across the road from the tiny Catholic church where we used to go to Mass--where my dads dad rebuilt the steeple and oversaw repair work when my dad was young--theres a tiny grocery store that like so many others in rural areas is no longer a grocery store. Now its a little restaurant run by a woman named Carol.  She bring a spoon? No spoon.  No spoon. ...Dad tells me that she moved back here from some big city to set up shop.  You sit in this place where this woman is making a go at running a little restaurant on a two-lane blacktop. Theres 15 people in here right now and itsthats booming. You know so much about your childhood was at a pivotal moment in terms of agriculture and corporations come in with chemicals and different kinds of equipment. My childhood in the '80s was at a moment when that all came to a head and so many people finally went under. Like thats a pretty quick shift I feel like for a local culture to transform. Like youre sitting here now asnot an old manlike youre 63 and youve seen that amount of change likelike what do youwhat do you think is the future of this place? These places that we descend from?  If I could predict the future Id probably be able to pick the winner of the Super Bowl and make a lot of money so I dont know what the future is.  Let me ask you this. Whats your biggest dread for it?  I dont know if theres going to be a person come in take Carols place. She had a taste of big city. She intentionally took this on so that she could be a part of keeping a small community alive. And shes actually helped in kind of giving it some rebirth. You might say so I dont know if theres going to be another Carol after this Carol. I dont know Imaybe maybe not.   Can I tell you a story real quick? when the cover of my book was being designed one of the versions was to have a real slick brand new John Deere combine on the cover and I said well I dont know whos family that book would be about but it aint mine becauseto people who havent been in farming communitiesto them farming is farming its sort of one big blob of the same thing but when youre living it a Massey Harris is different from a John Deere in terms of money.  Well its stepping out of the past and into the future. Dad didnt want to do that.  Too much money. Or was it also  No he had the money.  Or was it that...  No. He wanted to do it the hard way.  Oh. Tell me more about that.  Well theres an easy way and theres a hard way. And if you do it the hard way you feel like youmaybe you earned it maybe you feel like you build up some character.  Sacrifice. You know what I think about this sometimes. Because I even had it in my head as a kid going to Mass every Sunday. I would do things like I would pray by myself even when I was a teenager at night I would find like the hardest piece of the floorlike I would kneel on the wood rather than on the rug.  Because its kind of likeI mean not to psychoanalyze your Dad but if every Sunday you see somebody hanging on a cross and you learn to associate that with ascending to something better than you have this idea of sacrifice sort of baked into you.  Exactly. That was one thing that was like ingrained into me is that we all have a cross to bear. I dont know if youve ever heard that but itswe all have a cross to bear so you pick up your cross and you carry it.  Do you think youre different from your Dad in how you look at the world?  No. Are you different than me? No. My dads voice sounds strained in this recording compared to his usual wild and funny demeanorlike what he needs to express first to someone hearing this is a sort of grief. He and I have been having introspective conversations my whole life but he knew this was a rare chance for the world to hear his voice and what he needed to say was that hes been sacrificing his body his whole life so that better-off people could eat bread and have nice roofs over their heads. I wish you could hear him peaceful on my front porch on a Sunday night sounding like a freestyle poet telling stories from his construction work on the road. The further he gets into a case of Bud Light the more his creative his curses get. His progressive political ideas get more revolutionary and his quirky observations get more hilarious. So when hes drinking and laughing on my porch for all the sacrifice in his DNA I sense that an easier life would suit him just fine.  Back in the car we pass the land that my family farmed for generations.  I loved it when I was out there I loved it.  I dont know.  I like hearing that you loved it because I think a lot of times when people who havent been in that world write about it. And the only headlines you ever see are about misery and collapse. Theres sort of like this pity or condescension toward that life. Why would you want it? Why dont you get out? Why dont you leave?What would you say to those folks?  Well uh you might ask them if theyve ever smelled alfalfa hay when its first freshly cut and its laying on the ground. Its pretty awesome just nature. Quietness. When I basically had to come here to Wichita to stay employed it has taken me forever and Im still not liking stop lights. Stop lights are a real bummer.   Werent many of those where we came from.  No. If you saw a stop sign its like forget it. Just look both ways and keep going.    Lets see I saw you a week ago?  Mmmm yeah. Memorial Weekend yeah.  And then you drovewhat is it nine hours?  MmmmI cant ever make it in nine hours. Um it took 10. During the 2008 economic crisis my dad got laid off from the general contractor where hed worked for almost 20 years. He had to cash in his 401K to buy groceries and pay the mortgage. When that ran out his house was foreclosed on and he filed for bankruptcy. Construction work had dried up when the housing bubble burst and he had to take crappy jobs for too little pay--at one point working for an abusive contractor who shorted him on his paychecks at a moment when he had no recourse to fight it. Hes spent the past decade battling back from that dark period at an age when a lot of folks are looking toward retirement.  At one point you talked about retiring this coming fall when you turn 64. But it seems like you kind of ruled that out or what?  Uh yeah I have ruled that out a little bit. I know that number one I got make it through summer here and uh see how I feel. But Im pretty sure I can handle it. But kind of depends on you kind of depends on Matt depends on you know how Im feeling I know its going to be a going to be a um itll be a challenge to overcome not having the routine of getting out and going on a job site. Thats actually my biggest fear.  Really? Its not the money part its the change of life?  Correct. Correct. Its going to be something Im going to need to figure out how Im going to transition.  you know you you look at it as beneficial in some ways the routine and the physical nature of it. But Im assuming it also gets harder as you get older. Is it do you have any concern about that?  Yes. I know um my times coming up. I justits its harder its been getting hard for the last year but thats why I had that little physical or whatever that exam. I havent been to a doctor for well I dont know probably since what 80 80 88 I think? 87? To me I have to block have to block pain out. Ive got to block it out. I think thats part of my upbringing that Im able to do that but I dont want to crash you know what Im saying? I dont want  to just fall to pieces if I just stop this routine. Ive got to transition into something. Physical and mental. Well hey listen Gem just got back from doing something. Im going to visit with him for a while.  Okay. Alrighty. Well tell Gem I say hi.  All right. Love you. Thats my dad Nick Smarsh. Hes planning to work overtime for the rest of this summer to pay off his truck and put away a little bit of money. When he does quote-unquote retire and start drawing social security hell have to get a parttime job. He hopes it will be in a quiet place with heating and air conditioning. At his suggestion we recently filed an online application for him--for a job at our public library. You can follow me on Twitter SarahSmarsh--that is s-m-a-r-s-h. Ive got a new podcast coming soon-- about rural places and the people fighting for them--called The Homecomers. If you want to hear more of my dads voice or more about  the place were from check out my book Heartland A Memoir of Working Hard and Being Broke in the Richest Country on Earth. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Emily Nadal. Thanks to Fletcher Powell for his help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. If youre not already subscribed to Death Sex  Money get off your rear-end. I recommend starting with their series on social class called Opportunity Costs. Its five interviews with people around the country about how theyve experienced class in their own lives.  Check out all the episodes at deathsexmoney.orgclass. When my dad thinks about taking off his construction-zone hardhat for the last time whenever that happens he knows that theres one benefit of sorts that hes going to lose.  Thats the only thing I get out of this is I get my exercise. Athletic hobbies take  time energy and money that working class folks dont have. So his new idea is downright transgressive.  Ive got to replace that with whether its cycling or what the hell but its gonna take a push But I got to find something that motivates me.  If I am gonna get my cycle do my bicycling. Then I got to do mysomebodys going to have to pay me to cycle. So I guess I know what Im getting him for a retirement present. Im Sarah Smarsh and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.  