Note the transcript below contains some curse words. Lucy Sexton I really didnt want to be doing it alone. I was open to who else might be around to support it. But I felt like really parenting where its just you and the kid thats very tough. This is... Death Sex  Money the show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. In one way Lucy Sextons story is not so unusual. Life whizzes past. A woman is 30 then in her mid-30s and then in her late 30s. And then if kids are going to happen its really time. There are limits though to what you can control. I was married when I was you know 27. And then in my mid-30s I was like Okay so lets have a kid. And then he didnt really want to. And then in my late 30s that marriage broke up. And I was like shee EERGH. You know? I really wanted a family I really wanted a kid. And now Im in my late 30s and without a partner and a way to have a child. But what Lucy did have was a willingness to break the rules. Shes a performance artist and a dancer. In the 1980s she was a fixture on the downtown New York scene. Pyramid host These are real women not chicks with dicks. As part of a duo called Dancenoise she performed in black-box theaters and night clubs. This is a show in the mid-80s at The Pyramid a center of club dance art culture in New Yorks East Village. Pyramid host Internationally renowned performing artists  lets give a big pyramid welcome to Dancenoise! Lucy and her dance partner take the stage dressed as gift-wrapped packages -- which they tore through in short order...By the end of the 5-minute act theyre down to bras on top and fur chaps on the bottom. In the 1980s the downtown New York scene was this mix of punk rockers and drag queens filmmakers and painters all making art together and hanging out in the same places. The Pyramid was where the Red Hot Chili Peppers and RuPaul played their first shows. Madonna and Andy Warhol hosted an AIDS fundraiser there in the early days of the epidemic. Lucy's art picked up on all of these influences. Her performances are political irreverent sometimes absurd... Dancenoise with Madonna Like A Prayer And often involves getting naked on stage sometimes even rubbing brown paint on her body that looked like... SHIT! So yes Lucy Sextons art is not afraid to flout conventions. She brought the same attitude to becoming a mom. Shes up-ended traditional family structures but in the process shes become a parent thats raising her family in a lot of the same ways that her Irish Catholic parents raised her. It all began when her friend Stephen agreed to help. Stephen was a very close friend of mine for many many years. And it started as a real desire of mine to have a kid and him coming along on that and helping me. Stephen is Stephen Daldry a British director famous for movies like Billy Elliot and The Hours. Hes also gay. So there was that. And then It was hard to get pregnant. It took us three years from when we first said were going to have a baby to actually having a baby. Including lots of medical help and all those other things too. And your own psychic journey of how much am I going to push this can my body do it and should we do it. So the upside of having to really work at it is that youre really asking yourself is this really what I want how much is it worth how much do I want to push it and for me the answer was just  I know its really what I want it may not be able to physically happen for me because Im older but I want to know I gave it my best shot. I really put all my attention there. I didnt just drift into my 40s and sort of go oh I guess that didnt happen and always be sort of what if about it. So you made the momentous decision with a long-time time friend to have a child together. Youve got the plan and then it was another 3 years of figuring out how to conceive. Correct. And it also caused our relationship to grow. We were trying to have a kid together. We wound up getting married. We really wanted a family together. So that went from being sort of Yeah were friends and I know you want this Lucy so Ill help you out to really both of us being a unit. Stephen and Lucy got married in October of 2001. But at first they kept it all secret. Not because Stephen's gay but because Lucy had not been able to get pregnant yet. She says she was already feeling enough pressure without adding a big public wedding party announcing they were trying  and so far failing  to start a family. So for Stephen and Lucy strict labels have never really fit. Stephen has always said yes Im gay yes Im married whatever. Why marry? Why marriage? For a number of reasons. As I say It became an emotional journey for us and we became much closer. A physical journey we became much closer physically. And then its also health insurance. Health insurance. So pragmatic. Maybe too pragmatic for something like marriage and family. But also totally responsible. The kind of thing Lucy's parents could totally get behind. You know my parents were very glad that me and Stephen were going to get married. Because of that  because there would be some legal and financial protections. That really is somebody making a commitment and it is not all 'loosy-goosy everything will all work out okay.' So they are clear-eyed about  and they were clear-eyed with us about however you want to define your marriage this is what it means. You are being serious and this is for real. Again she was raised Catholic and now goes to an Episcopal church every Sunday with her family...which has taken some explaining to her daughter. Are we Catholic? And well Im like Nonie and Grandpa are Catholic and I grew up Catholic but we go to an Episcopal church. 'I want to be Catholic!' Okay. And when you think about marriage does it have a dimension of the sacred for you? Its really interesting. Absolutely for one is the answer. I was really devastated when my first marriage broke up and I absolutely was no this is it. There were lots of problems in the marriage but I didnt ever think that that meant we shouldnt be together. So I do have a very big emotional commitment to the idea of marriage. Similarly with this. I would absolutely say there is a lifetime commitment to it a deep love commitment to it a sacred commitment to it theres nothing more sacred I think than making a commitment to raise children together. And that is a primal deep human activity. And the more we can surround it with sacred support the better. Its almost sort of the most conservative definition of marriage which is to reproduce and procreate together. Yeah that structure is there for a reason and I feel like we should be able to take advantage of those structures and use them to create the lives we want to create. It never felt like it was something that sat on top of me and defined me. I always felt like we were using it for what we wanted to use it for. Are you a different sort of wife in this marriage than you were in your first marriage? Sure. Basically the most important difference being that the first marriage started from a romantic place and this did not. So the purpose and intent is to build a family based in love and thats the most important thing. So theres a certain freedom. Your identities dont mesh in the same way. He can do what he does. I can do what I do. We both have careers in the arts which take us all over the place and were both a very good team about supporting each other with that. I dont mean to make it sound cold but I think its a great working unit. Thats how it feels. You mention that Stephen says 'Yes Im gay. Yes Im married.' Yes to everything. In your life do you have romance? Im not going to talk about that. . I think yeah just dont want to you know  kids no matter how unorthodox the way youre raising them. They want mommy and daddy to love each other and be a regular mommy and daddy and they get to a certain age and thats just what they want. And the thing Ive always been able to say is but we do love each other. We do love each other more than anything else in the world. There is a deep love there. And its a family unit there and were in the same house and you know they havent had a great deal of having to navigate our other relationships and I think thats easier for them. And intentional on your part. On my part it is yes. And that is all Lucy would really say about the mechanics of her marriage to Stephen. She is a little protective  there is the British tabloids who have written gossipy coverage of them from time to time. But it is also how Lucy thinks about her family. You can tell when you talk to her  it is all about being a parent. Wife is one thing  mom is really the role. That is the main role I would say that I feel as an identity that is keeping this family together. So Lucy Sexton married a friend have a kid and raise a family together  not because of romantic love. It is unusual. But whats normal in American families is changing fast. In 2011 41 percent of American kids were born to an unmarried moms. More than a third of LGBT Americans are parents according to the Williams Institute. And the average age for a woman to have her first child is steadily creeping upwards. For Lucy becoming a mom in her early 40s meant years of difficulty conceiving but also a lot less ambivalence about the tradeoffs of motherhood. I have younger friends who are artists and then have kids and then it becomes a conflict of Im not doing my work as much am I considered an artist? Im just a mom now. And I dont have any of that. When I wanted to be a mom that was really what I wanted to do so I didnt have any existential conflict about it. But Lucy hasnt been doing it alone. Coming up the other adults who are helping Lucy her raise her kids. We heard from a lot of you about dealing with distance in your relationships inspired by the Death Sex  Money interview with musicians Jason Isbell and Amanda Shires. Theres 3  million married couples out there doing it  a rate thats doubled since 1990. I talked about that on the public radio show The Takeaway and you responded with your stories of long-distance relationships. We see each other in person about 50 of the year Karen Moller wrote in from San Francisco and otherwise connect daily via Skype Facebook and texting. We have been together for 12 plus years now and just recently got married however we do not plan to change our jobs or living places anytime soon. Rebecca from New York called in  she commutes during the week to Chicago for the money It is not easy but my husband and my children have accommodated and it is gotten us through a very difficult recessionary time. But for Marine in San Francisco she got burned We were both young and naive and I believed that the time apart would help us grow stronger. But he just found someone else to get closer to. For me when you have to do it Im partial to watching movies together over Skype. If you have to be apart from a love and havent tried it  trust me. Its a great date. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Lucy Sexton grew up in Brooklyn in a big Irish Catholic family. She was one of six kids. For her family meant noise and lots of people and siblings. And shes lived with other adults in a Manhattan loft with cheap rent for decades even during her first marriage. So as a mom she knew she needed other adults around. I think its very very hard to live in a nuclear family. Its very hard to have it be just mom and dad or mom and mom or dad and dad but two people raising a family together and trying to keep a romantic relationship together and not having other adults living in the house with you. I know it sounds crazy but I really do think its an awful lot to take on. Shes kinda right right? The other thing is she didnt want her daughter to be an only child. And so the next decision how to create siblings. I very much wanted we both did  wanted another kid. And I grew up in a big Irish Catholic family. And I couldnt imagine having an only child. It was not possible physically. We tried but it had not been possible. So a friend not a good friend but someone I knew through a good friend wound up  she had had a child was basically a single mom and was at loose ends at how is this going to work I want this baby but what am I going to do here and I said to her 'Why dont you move in because I live in a big loft with lots of other people there was space opening up in the loft. Why dont you move in with the baby well raise them together. And at the beginning I said We dont really know each other that well if it doesnt work out then then we live together when the kids were young its not so traumatic for them. As it has turned out its turned out exactly how I wanted which is that we have raised the girls as sisters. It has been a really good family extended family unit. And the kids are a year apart. So I travel lots of times with my two daughters. And refer to each other as my daughters etcetera and they refer to each as sisters. Theyre both quite clear theres mommy and other mommy for both of them. As your daughters gotten older as your daughters have gotten older whats your conversation about family like? How do you explain what family is? One interesting thing is that you do have to be conscious and intentional about who you are telling them is family. Because we have lots of grown-ups who also have other relationships and then I also live in the loft with other roommates and in one sense theyre all part of an extended family and have been and its been incredibly valuable. On the other hand they need to know whos never leaving. Who are you going to live with for the rest of your life no matter what. The two moms and the two dads are both very involved. But they need to know that this unit  that their sister is not going away. That this unit is not going away. We have all made a commitment to raising them within this structure as loose or different as it is. So its great to have loving adults around and those loving adults are incredibly important to them but its also important that they are clear. I was divorced and when I brought my next boyfriend home my sister kept introducing him as uncle to my niece and nephew and subsequently its been very confusing for the kids and it was initially an attempt to embrace him but it was a little premature I think. Right. I also went through a divorce and I have nieces and nephews that had an uncle that then went away. But thats a reality. It was their uncle I was married to him he did intend to be their uncle for the rest of their lives so you cant protect them from that happening. But you do want to be conscious that the relationship where youre hoping itll last for the rest of your life. It may not but you can at least say that to the kid. So when they make an investment you know that youll also try to protect that investment even if that relationship breaks up. So your oldest daughter is 10 now. Are there things that she says back to you that have sort of surprised you about the ways shes incorporated all of this? The only slight surprise was how much she  this was only a couple of years ago now when she was 8 or 9 and still lobbying for and still feels why isnt it a normal family  considering that she has not known that. Her school friends  very few of them are in what she is saying is a normal family but still there is a lobby for that no matter what. What do you say? I try to talk about the stability thats inherent in our situation. I think for me its way more stable because the primary piece of it is not a romantic situation. She takes what she want to take of it and hold onto  Yeah but I still want this  Okay. You still want this thats okay. Thats all right. Who have been the people youve asked for advice? I dont know  me and the other mom have done some counseling. I guess my sisters really just because my first concern is always how to present this to the kids. Are you the most unconventional of your siblings in terms of the families that theyve built? Probably the most unconventional but still theres an unmarried couple with two kids and they havent married yet. They didnt live together for a while. God. People have crazy lives people have lives. My sister had a baby and a toddler when her husband died so she was a single mom for a while and then she married somebody else that also had kids so they have the blended family thing. So we may not think of them as unconventional but theyre big things to navigate. And you just dont know how life is going to go. So you keep making it up as you go along. So in that sense I dont feel like Im that weird in my family. I feels like everyone has had to make it up as they went along. Even though its not perhaps as from the outside doesnt look as wacky as mine looks. And its a funny thing and maybe its just the way I was raised but I have always felt in myself an utter conventionality in terms of I had a nice stable upbringing. I dont come from a dysfunctional household. Its really important to me to have friends and family and Ive always invested in that. And my family has always gone with me on the ride  my crazy story is always that Im performing at the Pyramid nightclub at the East Village in various states of undress and Im in my early 20s and my dad stops by on the way home from work and stands in the back at the bar with his briefcase. And watches the show and thats very good and continues on. Not to say hes been comfortable with everything I do but hes been supportive of it and sees whys she doing it whats she trying to make a point about and took it seriously. So it never felt like a break from my parents to be doing what I was doing. So for me this is of a piece that then I would grow up and be a mom that would be really important to me and that I wouldnt see it as something that had to be in conflict with going out and performing you know. So Lucy learned all the rules growing up Catholic in Brooklyn. As an artist she toys with which rules to mock and break. It is helped her see what is convention for convention's sake and what actually nurtures the most precious things in life. How do you talk to your daughters about what love is? The big question that the kids ask is who do you love more? My mother gave the best answer. 'How much love to give each kid? I think had something like that kind of question. And she said it doesnt work that way. Its not a pie that you cut up and give a certain amount of love. You give all your love to each of your children. But each relationship is unique. I have one relationship with my biological daughter I have another relationship with my non-biological daughter. And theyre both incredibly profound relationships and theyre particular to those children too. Because those children are different. The way they are in the world is different. The things they require is different and the way they relate to me is different. There is a uniqueness that they should also take confidence from  that Im being loved in a unique way because of who I am and how I fit in with my mom or my other mom. Those are things that I try to reinforce so that they both feel seen feel known and feel loved. Thats the whole job. Right? Thats the job of us as human beings in the world. And certainly thats the job of us as a parent I would think. Make sure your kids feels known and seen and loved. Thats Lucy Sexton. We spoke in Manhattan just a few blocks from the loft where she is lived for 25 years. Her folks still live right across the river in Brooklyn. We have a classic performance of Lucys DanceNoise duo at New Yorks Pyramid Club. It is posted on our website at deathsexmoney.org. And Lucy's not alone in figuring out ways to raise children and have a family. Fertility challenges LGBT families dealing with the law multiple parents after divorce and remarriages. Were collecting stories about all this on our website at deathsexmoney.org  tell us how youve built family in your life  as parents without kids with your friends  and the surprising improvisations you have made along the way. Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Emily Botein James Ramsay Henry Molofsky Chris Bannon Bill ONeill Jason Isaac Pejk Malinovski and Jim Briggs. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Thanks also to Amy Pearl. We want to know what stories about death sex and money you want to hear. Tell us by writing us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Were also on Facebook. And Im on twitter annasale. If you liked this episode share it with all your friends on Facebook and subscribe on iTunes. In the next episode  I think that when a woman is older sex is better. Partly because she doesnt give a fuzzy rats ass anymore. Shes not out there on the marketplace anymore she knows her body she knows what she wants shes less afraid to ask for it if it doesnt work out so what? Im Anna Sale. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.