 I will have to figure this out for myself and - either if I hurt myself I do not hurt myself. It is up to me to really figure out cause I am at I feel like I am at the age where I just I want to explore things you know just check out how far I can really go you know? This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Miguel Llapa is 18 and just finished his senior year at Frank Sinatra School of the Arts a public high school in Queens New York. But Miguel wasnt in that building much in the last year because of the pandemic. Hes spent most of his time in his bedroom in Harlem where I reached him over Zoom.  Behind me I have my drum set and my snare drum along with my practice pad then some timbales over to my left with my uh dirty clothes.    Oh! And then my marimba is downstairs. Miguel is a percussionist and the marimba is his favorite. This is him playing at a recent recital. He says he loves the warm sound.  The marimba is a 6 and a half foot wide instrumentkind of like a giant xylophone with resonator pipes underneaththat he plays with four mallets.  Physically speaking I am pretty small. Um but when I am on when I am on a set when I am on an instrument it does not really feel that way. I feel grander. I feel more myself when I am playing it. I do not feel like the little guy anymore.  It lets you fill up a lot of space.  Yeah and I can take up a lot of space. Miguel was born with a set of health issues that affect his lung capacity and ability to breathe.  I was born with what we call congenital scoliosis. It is just being born with um an abnormality in the spine. So I was born with multiple curvatures as well as missing eight ribs on my right side. Um as well as a pectus excavatum which is a pit in the chest. I was born with 52 percent lung capacity. So Ive never known how it feels to have 100 percent. Now Im at 25 percent.  Do you feel like your - is your condition something that is visible to someone who is meeting you?  No. It is not visible. I just look like a really short Hispanic kid. I hear all the short jokes you know especially being in a Latin family. Yeah you are going to hear it. So yeah its not visible to the naked eye.  Are there movements that are more difficult for you than others?  Um I guess so. Like it is hard for me to bend over at times. I cannot fully bend over because of like my spine is so rigid. At school I have what we call a para-professional like a personal aid to help me out with my books and stuff because I cant carry such heavy loads. She helps me out and do that. Uh I love my para shes amazing. Shoutout to her cause shes helped me through a lot too. I just never liked feeling dependent. Its more like I wanted to prove to myself I can do it. I know I need it. The fact that I know I need it hurts. I do not like the fact that I need it because of the way I am. Miguel has always felt this tension between accepting the help he needs and craving independencebut it has ratcheting up as he thinks about leaving for school at Ithaca College in New York several hours away from home. He says hes ready for more space from his family his two little brothers who are 3 and 11 his dad who works two jobs as a super in apartment buildings and his mom whos managed his care his entire life.  I love my family you know? I love their support through everything but I reached a reached in like a point in my life where I am like really kind of just want to test the waters on my own without having any like influences around me I guess. And how to how to do that on my own. My dad's very very like that. He is always - he is always let me test the water first you know? And then when I go and ask for help he is always there.  How did you come to appreciate thatlike have there been instances where you felt like people werent letting you do that?  Well to be honest I started appreciating it more recently you know because as I got older I started to feel like more dependent when I wanted to be more independent. Because I have what I have with um my condition and everything. I just felt like because I was I was always in and out of the hospital you know I I always had someone with me. I always had someone accompany me which I love. I appreciate my mom was with me through thick and thin. She was there every appointment every surgery. And I can never thank her enough for that. But after some time you know I started to grow to feel like I wanted to test things out on my own. 'ecause I I always felt someone was with me.  Are there birds in the background?  Oh yeah. I am sorry.  That is okay!  Those are those are my brother's birds. Theyre so loud.  What kind of birds?  Uh they are parakeets.  I feel like I want to hang out in your house Miguel. There is a lot going on. A marimba in the living room parakeets...   There is there is always a lot going on which is why I am really eager to go to college.  I am curious Miguel do you have a sense - do you think your parents are ready for you to go away to school?  My dad yes. My mom I am dont know. Im not so sure. Because she is been with me through everything. She seen me at my worst. But she is more she worries for me you know that is just because she loves me.  I guess my my worry is pushing himself to the point that he would hurt himself like in in trying to figure things out. Um and then me not being close by in case that does happen. How do I help them through? This is Raquel Cepeda-Llapa Miguels mom. Doctors told her when Miguel was born that he probably wouldnt live past age two. She remembers a particularly hard year when Miguel was 10 in 4th grade.  I said something's not right with him. He is he is you know struggling academically he is struggling to keep up both physically he is complaining of shortness of breath. And that was the first time that a surgeon kind of put something in in front of me. He put like all his x-rays in front of me and I saw the progression of how bad his spine got and how much it was impacting his lungs. And for me that was just so overwhelming because I would never knew all of this was happening throughout the years. And I guess that kind of really yeah it really it really I was really devastated because of how did I not know this? You know I was trying to do all the right things. I thought I understood. And even at that time I remember in fourth grade he said - there was one night that he said he goes I am tired. But you are so brave you know you just have to you know keep going. He goes No mom I am really tired. I am tired of being brave. I am tired. I just want the angels to take me because I am just I cannot do this anymore.  That was really tough. And I do not want to be I do not want to get to that place ever.  I-I totally forgot about that until she said it.  Do you remember it since she said it?  It was an afternoon.  You were in your bed. No. In my bed.  No in your bed.  I went to cry in your room.  I was trying to keep it together but as soon as I left and I closed the doorugh. Coming up Miguel explains why hes ready to advocate for himself and take care of his body. While admitting it doesnt always come that easily for him.  Do you delay asking for help sometimes when you need help?  Yes definitely. Um I tend to keep a lot of that to myself because I do not like to I guess internally I feel vulnerable when I do and I do not really like feeling that way. No one does. Right? 'ecause I I felt like I had been a lot of my life and I do not want to be anymore.   Oh I am sorry. I think that is my little brother right now.  Oh the three-year-old?  I think so. Give me one minute.   -- If you listened to our Game Changer series last fall about how the pandemic was affecting the lives and livelihoods of athletes you heard my conversation with BMX freestyle rider Chelsea Wolfe. I have some exciting news to share. Chelsea recently found out that she is headed to the Olympics. Ive qualified to represent the United States as the alternate rider Chelsea wrote on Instagram. Chelsea is making history because shes the first ever openly trans athlete to go to the Olympics with Team USA. We talked about what that would mean to her and to other trans athletes in our conversation last year.  It would have helped me a lot if I could have seen somebody doing what I am doing now to show me that I can be a trans woman and an athlete I can ride BMX Freestyle and be trans. The two do not have to be mutually exclusive and I do not have to feel ashamed for who I am or like I will not have a place in this world. If you missed our Game Changer series last Septemberwhich also featured a professional baseball player considering quitting the game and an NFL player with asthma who still decided to play despite the COVID riskweve linked to that series in our show notes. And were taking the week off next week so I want to pass along another listening recommendation to you all for the podcast Aria Code. Our colleagues at New York Public Radios classical music station make it and even if you arent an opera fan or even a classical music person its worth listening to because the stories they tell are so interesting. Stick around at the end of this episode to hear a little bit of one of the most recent Aria Code episodes which ties together a Stravinsky aria and the story of Johnny Cashs first marriage. -- This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. Miguel Llapa has had more than 25 surgeries in his life. They started when he was just a baby and continued through middle school. And thats meant missing a lot of classroom time over the years. But he hasnt needed a surgery since he was 14.  I can actually feel like a normal kid for once. 'ecause it is always interfered with my school. I never had a full year of school until recently you know these past two three years whatever. It definitely did take a huge weight off my back.  And what do you mean by that?  Because I thought I would be um Id be waiting for my next surgery and my next appointment you know all of that plays into my head. I have been just so done with all of it. I mean I was not supposed to live until two. Um and I am 18 you know so all of this stuff I did not expect to have. When I started playing percussion I did not really have like a group of friends to really like talk about music with. Now I am able to rant to friends and we can just talk days about music. I have that group of people you know and a community that is open open to to me - who I am how I am and very accepting of what I have become.  What do you rant about with your friends?  Oh. Um we could literally - we would be like arguing about each other's playlists. Like No your playlist is trash. Oh oh no this song is better. Wait - did you hear the sound in this song? Like geeky music stuff. He shared some of his playlists with meand I can confirmthey are not trash. One song he particularly likes is this one It Runs Through Me by Tom Misch with De La Soul.   It is like a cool bossanova groove. It starts very low-key with that nice kind of like passions and nice voyage by yourself. It is pretty cool.  When you picture what it is going to be like to be a college student and what might be different socially. Like are there are there things that you picture that you are like that will be interesting and different and new? Like -  Yeah.  What are they?  Like like Ithaca is a very um it is got a lot of cool nature stuff. So um I am excited for that like meeting new friends being able to go on like cool cool hikes or whatever meeting new people. I am excited to get into the studios. Like I am actually really really really excited for that. I heard Ithaca had a cool party scene so that might be interesting.   Sorry.  Party scene? Like I am picturing like red plastic cups and like a keg. Is that what you are picturing?  Maybe. Maybe it is like the movies I do not know but I am excited to find out you know?  I got teased for that the other day.  Really?  When we went to Ithaca here I am I am being asked you know how do you feel about him going to college? And you know especially now that you have not gone to see it? I was like oh no we went to see it. I wanted him to feel what it was like. I heard that it was on a hill and I just I needed to know that he was going to physically feel okay to kind of just move around. I just do not know what to expect. And so this couple kind of started laughing look at each other started laughing so hard. They were like you worry about the hill? Are you really worried about the hill? How about all the conversations that you are going to have to have with him about the party if there is a drinking if there is a this and I am like and I am like ah.   You have been thinking about the hill. It hadnt occurred to you all the other trouble he might get in?  I was trying to avoid that just now.  I am like please I do not I cannot handle anymore right now. He is like well It is coming. Whether you like it or ready or not!  When you notice yourself worrying about him and wondering if he is pushing himself beyond what is um what you would prefer he do physically? Where do you put that worry?   Sorry.  That is okay. That is okay.  It is hard. It is hard to I mean I try to stay strong and not show him but. Yeah. I mean at least here I can see him. I know without him telling me I can see. And I can kind of help in my own indirect way I guess. Um but just especially this year I guess it is even harder because our relationship has kind of changed this year. You know I used to hear like parents kind of you know Oh they are going through their teens and you know it is to be expected that you know a little rebellious side of them and I have never really had that with him. I almost was like you know okay. I guess I felt a little lucky or fortunate that you know we had not hit that that point I guess.  Until now.  And we have always been open and you know even when we had our disagreements we talk it out and but there was that communication. I am sorry but I guess this year um I do not know. I feel like he is he wants to protect me. You know?  It is just not a good cycle you know after some time. Yeah. I personally feel like I I do need some time away for myself.  And what I heard you saying Raquel was even when Miguel like does not want you to be protective when he is in your house you can still monitor how he is doing and you do not need to just trust what he is willing to tell you - is that - ?  Like he does not have to he does not have to I can see it. Like even if I mean even a meal like he does not like for me to put it out there but even just a meal he can just be frustrated with just not being able to to finish a meal being hungry feeling short of breath and in pain needing to have a pillow underneath his arm because he is in pain. He does not have to tell me that but I can see it and I can kind of tell like all right he needs his space his moment.  And I guess thats my dilemma. It is like I got to learn how to get back on my own feet in my own way without having you know maybe mom would be around to help me out.  Like I do not want you to feel like you have to do this on -  No I want to do it on my own.  Yes you do it on your own but this is going to be the first time. I have I have had to fight with your doctors your surgeons to get you the proper care that you need. Sometimes I have had to kind of remind you like did you forget this what this was like?  And sometimes I am kind of fed up with that too. I am like mom come on.  Yeah you do not wanna hear it!   Yeah. I do not want to hear it. Sometimes I have to as the stubborn teenager that I am but I just I really do not want to.  When you get to school will you have any kind of assistance like an aide who helps you with any tasks?  No no.  You will be all on your own.  Yeah I am trying to steer as much away from that as possible actually.  You do not want any assistance.  Me personally I do not. I think you can see mom kinda like holding back a little bit.   I mean I I know that is one of the things like in high school he was kind of like you know I do not think he really ever voiced it as I do not want a para with me. He was kinda just like all right. You know? Kind of -  Going along with it.  Yeah going along with it. Um maybe not feeling too crazy about the experience of trying to be more social and have friends and then have someone to kind of you know follow you around.  It just kind of felt like having a second mom follow me in school. Um and I did not like that.  I am sorry.  No no I do not mean to say that to be mean. I am saying like in college it is a different it is a different ball game. I do not want I do not want another mom to be helping me out with the ballgame.  I want to not just focus on the conflict that you all have had over the last year. I wonder Raquel like when you - when you think about Miguel finishing high school and where he is at this point in life like what have you been thinking about as far as this milestone that he is achieving?  Goodness. I mean I am really proud of him. He is um ugh gosh.  And maybe through some of this bickering I do not tell you but I am really proud of you for everything that you accomplished all your goals that you have set forth for you. I want to see those things happen for you.  One of the things that I loved hearing Miguel explain to me was about what it feels like when he is playing the marimba. This big instrument. I wonder Raquel what is it like for you when you watch him play music?  She is always hearing me um practicing and my mess ups. So like she usually tends to hear all my drills and routines. So it is not necessarily music. It is just like noise.  Well that is now. But when I did not even know I mean he had mentioned the marimba to me when he was in high school that there was a teacher um that was teaching him this. And it was not until you had like your the audition I was outside the room in tears.  'ecause it was just so moving. It was so beautiful to hear him and just to see him just play.  Do you know what you played? What was it?  Uh I played what was it? It was called Rain Dance by Alice Gomez. It is like one of the first four mallet solos you learn on marimba.  I was like wow. Um yeah I was really really touched. It was really beautiful to hear you. Thats Raquel Cepeda-Llapa and her son Miguel Llapa and again this song is Rain Dance by Alice Gomez performed here by Garrett Arney. Before Miguel goes to college in the fall he is heading to a summer music camp at the renowned Interlochen Center for the Arts in Michigan. Itll be one of the only times that hes been on a plane for something that is not a doctors appointment and hell be going alone. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. This episode was produced by Yasmeen Khan. The rest of our team includes Katie Bishop Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our interns are Mardy Harding and Kristie Song. Thanks to Jaclyn Okin-Barney for her help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Instagram annasalepics P-I-C-S and the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Thank you to Therese Okraku in Seattle Washington who is a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Therese and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Really if this show and community have been helpful to you please become a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money as we end our fiscal year at the end of June. You can do that at deathsexmoney.orgdonate or by texting DSM to 70101.  Its interesting to me that you have some instruments that you can play in private and then the one that you most like to play you have to play where people can in your family can watch you.  Yeah it is funny. 'ecause I have a three-year-old like pulling on my shirt Miguel Miguel come play with me. Or in the middle of practice he is like Miguel are you practicing? You know he does a lot of that stuff. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. And now I want to share an excerpt from the podcast Aria Code with you. Aria Code is made by our colleagues at New York Public Radios classical music station WQXR and its hosted by the incredible musician Rhiannon Giddens. And heres the thing about this podcast and opera in general... its FULL of Death Sex  Money. The excerpt Im about to share with you is from their deep dive on the aria No Word from Tom from the opera The Rakes Progress by Igor Stravinsky. The opera tells the story of Tom Rakewell a young man who unexpectedly inherits a lot of money and goes off to London to claim it abandoning the woman who loves him Anne Trulove. And in this episode we hear how a similar story played out in the real-life marriage of Johnny Cash and his first wife Vivian Liberto. Here youll hear from Michael Bragg at the San Francisco Opera museum curator Jo Tinworth soprano Dawn Upshaw and Johnny Cash and Vivian Libertos youngest daughter Tara Cash.  My father went to -- he was touring in Mexico and he somehow got a hold of a lot of pills. And he came back and flew into El Paso with a guitar case filled with amphetamines and barbiturates. And they were onto him. They knew he was coming through with drugs and they arrested him took him to jail. And that was a very very devastating time for my mother this devout Catholic. She ended up going to El Paso and going to court with him and she did not really understand addiction. It was just incredibly painful to her. It was a dark time.  Scene Four is called The Arrest and you have Tom on the left-hand side coming out of a sedan chair and what he is actually doing is hiding from the bailiffs. He is in debt. His fine clothes mean nothing anymore. He is run through all that money already. He is about to be taken away and put into prison and out comes Sarah Young -- Anne Trulove. She is become a milliner. She is working to support their child and you can tell this from the box of ribbons that is falling to the ground as she thrusts herself forward offering Tom her purse probably her life savings so that he is not arrested for debt. She is almost presented as an angel of mercy coming to relieve him from the complete pickle he is got himself into. However as we will see later in the series he does not take the opportunity to be with her and to reform his life.  So after we get this beautiful sort of aria we get a high note.  She sings this beautiful high B. When the soprano sings the high note or the tenor sings the high note or any opera singer sings a high note it is like Okay we are at the end of thisright? But he tricks us and there is a hold in the music. Then it continues unaccompanied.  A colder moon a colder moon upon a colder heart and then the orchestra comes in. And so at that moment we understand that there is going to be more she is not done saying what she needs to say.  At some point the Carter family the First Family of country music started working with my dad on his show. It was Mother Maybell Carter and her three daughters Helen Anita and June. And my father you know listened to them as a little boy you know when they had a radio in the house that they had to conserve the batteries at night and he was allowed to listen for an hour a night. And here was June Carter and she was young and fun and feisty and funny. And my mother was at home with the children and sad and missing him. And I think it was just too much temptation so it was it was a heartbreaking time for my mother. She desperately wanted him back desperately. And you know a lot of times it -- he did not come home. His heart was leaving and hers was breaking. Second Recit  And then we hear a voice and it is her father.  Anne Anne! He is calling for her. Shes suddenly sort of I feel brought back to reality a little bit.  And we get My father! Can I desert him and his devotion for a love who has deserted me?  And it is that moment she realizes that she needs to leave and go to Tom.  She says No my father has strength of purpose. So she already knows that her father does not need her help While Tom is weak and needs the comfort of a helping hand. Her hand. And so she beautifully says so so innocently and so sincerely I understand the man that I love and he needs my help. Thats the podcast Aria Code from their episode Stravinskys The Rakes Progress. Go listen to the rest of this excellent episode and the rest of season three of Aria Code wherever you get your podcasts. Copyright  2021 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record.