Hey its Anna. A few months ago we shared stories from essential workers with youwhat they were seeing on the job how they were feeling what they were doing to cope. Including from this listener Sharron.  I am a CNA who works at a hospital in Virginia and I am on the front lines taking care of COVID-19 patients. Sharron is 40 years old. She lives in northern Virginia where shes a single mom. Her daughters 13. She suffers from chronic asthma and she told us then she was worried about going in to work every day.  If I were to get the virus I... there is not a good outlook for me. So just getting things in order is the only thing that is keeping me sane is knowing that if I am not here I have done everything possible to help the next person take care of my kid. Since then weve heard from a lot of you wondering how Sharron is doing. Weve been thinking about her too. So I called her up last week to find out whats happened since she sent in that voice memo. Sharron Oh! Yeah that voicemail. That was that was a rough one. Anna What happened after you sent that to us? Sharron Um after I sent that I realized that I needed to take a leave from work because I understood that my mental was not right at that time. And so to go to the hospital where you are feeling overwhelmed overworked and where you already leave feeling drowned I could not I could not take it much more. So I had to take a leave. Anna Hm. When did your leave start? Sharron Um I would say second week of April-ish around there. Yeah. Anna And um what kind of leave was it? What did you tell your your boss? Sharron Um I just I told my boss just what I am telling you. She uh I have been working at my job for three years. Um and she understands first of all she knows my health issues because since I worked at the hospital I had an asthma attack at work and had to take off you know different days because of um my breathing issues. So she knows that part. She also knows that I am a single mom that I am the only caretaker. And then there was an incident where there was a woman who ended up being positive for e we took care of her as if she was not for over a couple days. And I was just like listen I cannot do this. Anna Wow. That was a patient that you cared for? Sharron Oh yeah. That everyone on the floor cared for. And we are working with people thinking that everything's fine. And then you know days later it is like Oh we we I think we have to send them upstairs. And so I just could not do it anymore. Anna Yeah. Sharron At the time. Yeah. Anna Have you been back to work since? Sharron Ugh. I was supposed to go back to this week actually but I had some health issues while I was on my leave and I had a couple doctor's appointments this week. So I am starting back next week but even that is scary because basically they are getting more uh COVID patients. So instead of keeping them on one floor they are starting to bring them down to my regular floor. And they are mixing in patients who are you know a 90-year-old person with a UTI with a COVID-positive patient with a COVID-possible-positive patient with a person who is having a surgery today all in one. So you are a CNA and you are you are going in one positive room coming out and going in this... it is... so it is it is scary just to think about that even going back now at first it was contained to one area now it seems like it is not so. Anna That is scary. Sharron Yeah. Yeah. So. Anna Do you need to go back to work next week financially? Sharron Oh yeah. I do not have anything left. I actually did just get um some food stamps that were nice. The state in Virginia they had some thing work with I think it is all students who if you if you have children and in um public school in Virginia they signed something where they gave everyone a few hundred dollars of food stamps. So that was nice. But yes money I have I have to pay my bills. I got to go back to work. I cannot be out anymore. Anna And this is a personal question so you can decide whether or not you want to answer it but I am curious like what what is your hourly wage? Sharron I make about 16.40-something. Anna And um you said you had some doctor's appointments this week. Um is it related to your asthma or what are you what kind of health problems are you having right now? Sharron No I um I thought I had uh... they thought maybe something was wrong with my gallbladder. It is actually ended up finding out I have a few ulcers. Anna And do you believe that that is stress-related? Sharron Of course . Of course like I mean I think people do not realize sometimes you know this COVID thing is - for a CNA for someone in my position when someone is actively dying a CNA not only does compression and and and keeps track of what is going on and is an integral role there. When everyone else leaves and cries and gets to kind of process or maybe step away we then have to go back and take off all the equipment and wash that person up and verify who they are and tag them and bag them and then put them on a gurney and wheel them down to the morgue and put them in. And so that happening as rapidly as it was for a while is a lot for people to deal with. But also as CNAs you are dealing with you know you might have 15 patients. And your first room is a 28-year-old mom who has three-year-old twins who is dying of stomach cancer and you go in there and you take the twins come on let us go get popsicles. And you try to get her mom and her husband out the room and tell them Go ahead for a walk I got the kids for a little bit. I got a little break. You know then you go into the next room and it is a 19-year-old detoxing yelling at her mom and you are trying to give her a little inspiration and telling her Do not talk to your mom like that! Come on we gotta do better. Then you go into the next room and it is a 90-year-old grandpa and his wife that he is been married to for 46 years is dying. And you tell him Hey Pop! I am here today. I have got her. Do not worry! I am going to clean her up nice do her hair. And then you go into the next room and it is all day long. You got to change up and make people smile. And it takes a lot of energy out of you. So it is just it is it is a lot. It is a lot. Anna Yeah yeah. It sounds like it. Relentless. Sharron Drowning. I call I say drowning. Sometimes sometimes you leave work. You just feel like you just drowned like and then you got to come home and say my daughter like Hey girl what is up? How is school? Let me see your homework you know and cooking whatever is onto the next thing you gotta do so. Anna What has it been like for you in these weeks when you have not been going into work where all of a sudden your life has slowed down and it is not as relentless. What have you noticed? Sharron Um some peace sort of? I mean obviously now the world is in turmoil so I do not know if you would say it is went down. It at first it was it was a nice uh downtime sort of but even then um you know you have to get these kids you know get your kids together and... how how am I paying for groceries now that we are home more and I am not working and I am really on a tight budget. Or you know there is other kids in my area whose parents are off for 12 hours. So I am saying hey what you all doing? You know come over here come sit on my porch. And you know you are looking out for other people's children and... just kind of but I did get to it was nice to just relax with my daughter for a while and just um... it was hard to explaining to her why I needed the time off but she understood and it was a small little break that we got before... um things started getting um out of control in the country that it was a little bit of peacefulness. Anna So what I hear you describing is like your time away from work has not necessarily been time off. 'ecause you are taking care of people in the neighborhood as well as your daughter. Sharron Right. Anna Um and you described it a bit of quiet before what happened in the country. Are you talking about all the protests and and demonstrations? Sharron All of the protests yes. George Breonna Ahmad. All of it all of it yes. Anna Yeah. Has have you participated in any protests? Sharron I havent. Because I am not on social media I guess I did not hear about the small little protest that was in my area until after which I was kind of upset about but I when I lived in Philadelphia my daughter and I both participated when Freddie Gray um passed away and Trayvon Martin. So I usually am a protester but it is kind of super far for me to get to a protest and I feel like they are getting a little bit more peaceful now. So maybe I would like to go and bring my daughter because she does remember. We have pictures and she remembers being out there protesting and she wants to go. You know it is hard. It is it is a difficult decision. Anna Yeah. Has watching the news and taking in the protests and thinking about what the conversation is in the country right now about justice and injustice um has it made you think differently about your work? Sharron Um I think yes and no I think. Um. The racism that goes on in healthcare it is very prevalent when you work there. You can see it every day from how different people are treated from the doctors from the nurses. Um but also it is made me want to stay. It is scared me to make me want to change but also to make me want to stay because I can be a change. Um but you know you are it is. I do not know I am really torn. I am very torn. I I always want have wanted to work in healthcare. I love helping people. That is definitely who I am but it is hard when it comes at the price of you know your um mental health which has never really been an issue for me or I at least never thought it was. And now it is like I am all over the place. And um so just very uncertain. And so that is uh damaging in itself because when you feel stable uh for most of your life and now it is sort of like what the hell is going on? Um am I going to completely leave what I do? Am I going to stay? And I do not know. Anna Yeah. Sharron And the under compensation of it also that you feel like you are working like uh just working yourself crazy to barely be able to make it still. I mean when I first started uh a long time ago um in my I uh in Connecticut I went to a high school where they offered a CNA program for three credits. So I could graduate a little bit early I just took the CNA course not thinking I would actually ever use it. And then I think I was making 11 an hour at like 19 or 20. And that was great in 19 in 2000 you know what I mean? 2000 for a 20-year-old. And you know some even went up to like 13 if I worked on the weekends or shift differential. And now to only be a few dollars ahead of that but having a whole other person and a whole life it is just you know it is it is not easy. Anna Yeah. Have you felt angry recently? Sharron Uh I do not know when there has not been a time that I have not have not been angry recently it seems like. Uh just angry with our the progress that has not happened in the world. Also my best friend his anniversary of the police killing him yesterday. Anna Oh. Your best friend was killed by law enforcement? Sharron Yeah. They just reacted to a black man and shot him. He was actually shot in the back and um so yeah so angry. Yes. Just wondering when are things going to change? Angry for having to have these repeated conversations with my daughter angry for not having the answers for her? Um angry... that I do not know what I can do to help. I am broke and I am still donating 10 here 5 here 8 here just because I uh you just feel compelled to even though I have nothing but I feel like I gotta do something. Um angry that it might not be enough once again. Anna It is insufficient but I I want to say I am sorry for your loss. Sharron Yeah it was that that broke me down. That was that is something that is hard to deal with every year on his birthday and you know the day he died but um it is he was such a dynamic person that I am thankful that I got all the years I did with him. Just a good like I am fat. And so I would not go shopping with my friends mainly like you know I would buy accessories or something but him I would be like come on I got to go in Lane Bryant real quick you know? Anna Oh. Sharron And he would be like okay what size do you wear? Like you know he was just uh he did not really like he was that was my friend. So he did not really care. Like Just tell me what size you are and come on so we can get out of here! or whatever. So that something I remember specifically about him. Anna I love that. Sharron Yeah. I know I know. Coming up how Sharron is getting ready to go back into work at the hospital.  We recently asked you all what you need to say right now during this time of protest and reckoning with police brutality and the impacts of structural racism. We put out an episode featuring some of what you told us called This Has Been A Long Time Coming. If you missed it go back and take a listen. The episode mostly featured voices of black listeners and we got a lot of responses to it. A listener named Sandra who is black told us Every single one of the speakers mentioned every single one of the feelings that course through me. A listener named Tony who self identifies as a 56-year-old conservative white dude wrote in about thinking through what he would do if he saw a police officer harming someone. Before seeing the killing of George Floyd Tony said he likely wouldnt have physically intervened. Id decided to be a good witness he wrote adding Well thats obviously out the window now. Thats not good enough any more and Im still trying to figure things out. And Rachael a listener in Montreal shared some thoughts with us too. Rachael Over the years Ive had to learn to kind of keep a lid on how Im feeling with regards to race relations. Theres like this way that peoples eyes kind of glaze over when I realize Im like talking too much about it. And now overnight my inbox is full of messages from people close and not so close asking me how Im doing in light of the recent events and to be honest it really annoys me. They are like a day late and a dollar short in my opinion. On the next episode I talk with people affected by a different aspect of the criminal justice system prisons. Including a woman whose husband is currently incarcerated in New York. She tells me what its like to wait for his calls right now. Dana I do not let go of my phone. It could be at any moment. There is no set time. There are no rules. So I live with my phone. Everywhere I go. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Anna How do you think you will feel when you head out the door to go back to work next week? Sharron Whew. Well I have an hour commute to my job so... Anna Thats a lot of thinking time. Sharron Too much too much thinking time. Um yeah I know I am going to cry. I know I am going to tense up. Um and then I know I am going to see my first patient and get right back on autopilot mode and make it be all about them. Cause that is what I am there for really is to heal them and get them back home safely and healthy. So walking in will be uh hard but as soon as I see my first patient it will be back to go mode. Anna It seems to me I do not work in healthcare it seems we are in such a strange moment in terms of how the greater public is thinking about the risk level right now. Sharron Right. Anna Do you feel like going back to work in June that you are at lower risk of coronavirus infection than you were in April? Or do you feel like you are worried that people are becoming less vigilant? Sharron Yes. I am worried that people are becoming less vigilant. I actually sometimes I think to myself I wish I would have stayed at work a little bit because people were actually social distancing in the early part. And for the CNAs that still work there that I talk to they are still like girl it is getting worse. Like the doctors when you see doctors saying well let us just have uh a voice conference or a FaceTime conference with the patients who are in the hospital 'ecause they do not want to go into the rooms. It is like... but but the aides still - Anna But you do. Sharron Of course! If they need a shower we have to give them a shower. If they need water we have to give them water. So I I do not know though I am not there but it does not seem like it has gotten better. Anna When you when you sent that message in late March you talked about the what you wanted to make sure um was written down for your daughter in case something happened to you. Sharron Yeah. I have stopped writing as many letters but I still find myself uh jotting down different things. Like you know um we had a really good funny conversation the other day in the car and before I went to bed I just jotted down about the conversation and how you know every day shes shocking me and blah blah blah. Just I wrote something sweet to her just in case. You never know. My my asthma is not going anywhere. My my uh health conditions are not going anywhere so still worried about getting COVID. You I mean you just it is it is it is uh it is rough for me with my asthma. It is still it is still high risk for me specifically. Anna Does your daughter know you are doing that? Sharron No. She would no she is very sensitive. So she would uh she would be it would I could not I would not do that to her. She does not need to she you know black children deal with enough. That is just something else she does not need to deal with. Anna You want to protect her from what you are afraid of. Sharron Oh of course. I did not even really want to talk to her about uh everything that was kind of going on because we live in such a rural area. You know I felt I could um keep her from it for a little bit but she is on TikTok or one of those - Snapchat or something and she actually seen um the police with his knee on the neck. And then wanted to find out what that was about and researched it herself and I heard her crying and I am like what are you doing? And she is like I just watched that guy die! And I was just like oh my god. And I told her please do not watch things like that. That is not the kind of trauma you need to hold in you. And if you wanted to ask questions just ask me. And I would have told her but I would rather have not had her watch it. Um yeah but she um you know she she is a kid in America. Anna Will she be home alone when you go back to work? Sharron Yeah. Mhmm. Yep. Anna Is she looking forward to that? Sharron  No she will FaceTime me 32 times a day for no reason. Mom I just bumped my head as I was walking down the stairs. I am at work. You cannot just FaceTime me for random things! Anna And I am curious like when you think - you you you said just to go back you said you know you are sort of in this stew this mix of sort of wondering about if you are doing the right work if this is the thing you want to do. And um when you think about like yeah when you think about like a year from now or a couple of years from now what would feel really good to be getting up in the morning and doing what do you picture? Sharron Uh it would feel good to get up and be going to school to be improving my life. I know that um for a lot of people and then in this time that we live in school you know people can make millions without attending school but I definitely want to stay in some form of healthcare. And in order to do that I have to go to school. Um and so it would be good to in the next year or two to be getting up and maybe in completion of some sort of class that I want to take or which I am uncertain of too. I always wanted to be a nurse forever. And now I am thinking I do not know that is what I want to do. Some of the happiest people at my hospital are um the people the two ladies who do um... anyways they scan your brain. Um so so neuro imaging techs? Anna Uh-huh. Sharron Something like that. Um they are probably the happiest people in my hospital though. Their work is definitely challenging but I think they get to go in and help and kind of leave the situation. Anna Hm. What would that do you know what that would involve? To get that training? Sharron Uh yes that would involve me going back to school getting um my associates'. You know I have not looked deeply into what I want because mmm - I would like to change that also right? Because they say uh dream dream and it should come true right? So I want to look into it more. So maybe those things will happen for me but for me I try not to because of just makes the situation worse. If I cannot do it I feel like if I know exactly what I have to do but I still cannot do it then it makes it harder than kind of being like I do not know. I do not know how to get to the get from A to Z instead of knowing and then being like I cannot pay for it. So doesnt matter if I can go or not if I cannot pay for it then yeah. Then I just cannot do it so. Anna It sounds like though Sharron that you very much you kinda know what you want. Um but what I hear you saying is like it is you are not sure it is good for you to say it out loud 'ecause you are not sure you can make it you are not sure it can happen. Sharron Yeah. Anna Yeah. I really love talking to you. Sharron  I like talking to you too ugh! Yeah. It is it is a lot. It is it is it is nice to talk sometimes. Just get the stuff out you know? But you also do not want to burden other people. Everyone is going through so much stuff. Just it is you know so many people are going through so much that um you know I find myself with my friends um being like Hey is everyone okay? Just checking in. You know we will all say yeah yeah everyone's good but it is kind of surface. And we just kinda let it go a little bit which is weird for my friend group. But um I I think it is kind of I have I have really good white girlfriends in my friend group too. And I do not think that they would ever say anything weird about the situation but I am kind of staying away also so that just in case I do not have to look at them a different way. Which is not good but I do not think it would ever happen but at the same time... Anna Oh it might. Sharron I know but...ugh! My gosh I know. I know. Anna I hear what you are saying. I hear what you are saying that like everybody is dealing with a lot right now and it can be hard to to make space to talk about what you are going through without feeling like you are burdening others. Sharron And I do not kind of want to listen to them either. Like I am not gonna lie! Anna I hear that! You do not want another taxing conversation? I got it. Sharron Let me not lie. It is just me. Listen I kind of do not want to hear your problems right now either! Like I cannot take another I cannot take it! Like so I just you know I am good. Anna I know. Well here's let me ask you this. Um I am picturing I am picturing what it is going to be like when you get back in your car at the end of your first shift back. Sharron Whew. Anna When you have that hour drive and you have that time by yourself. Um I wonder if we could just talk about what might what kind of music you might turn on what you think you will do when you are driving home when you have that space and you do not have to think about what you need and you can just think about what you need. Sharron Um I will definitely I am a grown-ass woman who loves hip-hop and rap. And so you know I will turn on something loud and something with lots of curse words. Anna Yeah like what like tell me what what is the song like when you really need it? Sharron You know what? I will turn on The Lox Jadakiss probably We Gonna Make It. Anna Hmm. Sharron That is my song that I go to. When I moved from Connecticut to Philadelphia with like a hundred dollars in my pocket me and my friend We gon' make it we gon' make it. So that is what I usually play when I need to make it. And um and I will blast that probably like six times on my way home and then I will put on some Mary J. and smooth it out a little bit.  And just maybe buy a bottle on the way home from work a bottle of something and get home. And that first night I am definitely probably having a drink and uh and just and and I get in my car first before any music before anything. And I say thank you Father for letting me get through this day. Thank you for um you know hopefully no one died that day I might thank him for that. Um thank you for letting me release. Thank you for letting me get in this car. Thank you for about to getting me home safely. And then the music startsquickly.  Quickly. Thats Sharron a certified nursing assistant in Virginia. Her first day back was on Monday a 12-hour shift and she did listen to Jadakiss on her way home. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.