Back in March we brought you an interview about heroin and overcoming addiction. But as we reported that story it took an unexpected turnand we promised you an update. If you havent listened to the episode its called Falling in Lovewith Heroin. You can find it on our website deathsexmoney.org. In the episode I talked with two people that we called Mike and Susannethose arent their real names. Theyd been together since they were teenagers and got married 8 years ago. Mike and Susanne were both addicted to heroin for five years. During that time they also had three kids. And then after several attempts at getting clean they stopped using with the help of methadone. When we recorded the interview...theyd been clean for almost a decade. Anna Sale Do you ever get urges now? Mike Nah. Maybe occasionally but not - not with any frequency. Susanne I dont. I dont look back at that time with fondness at all.  Has it been harder to rebuild than you thought it was going to be?  Yes. After I interviewed Mike and Suzanne we found out about pending criminal charges against Mike. They werent drug chargesbut for sexual abuse of a minor. Prosecutors alleged that he touched and sent sexual texts to a pre-teen girl. In May Mike plead guilty to one charge that he sent sexual texts to a pre-teen girl.  We reached out to Susanne  Hello? ...to ask about whats happened since we spoke earlier this year.  He was initially facing 4 charges and 3 of them were dropped. And now hes facing a maximum of 18 months in county jail. But they did it because the victim had been suicidal and they were trying to give him a generous enough plea deal so that she didnt have to testify in front of him.  And whats the status of your relationship with Mike right now?  Um yeah were not together anymore.  When did that happen?  Um shortly after she tried to commit suicide. It kind of became real I guess. I was in denial for a really long time. I didnt want to face the fact that I could be with somebody for that long and go through so much with that person and still not know something that big. But after that I couldnt deny how much he must have hurt her for her to do something like that.  How do you feel about no longer being in a relationship together?  Um I feel terrified. Like very very very afraid. Im not sure how to handle things on my own. Im not used to sleeping by myself Im not used to remembering when to pay the bills  I forget everything. Ive always had him to fall back on and I always knew that he understood what I was going through because he was going through the same thing but now I dont know anybody that knows what Im going through. AndI mean there are groups of people like groups of women whove left abusive husbands and stuff like that but I dont feel like thats how our story played out. I feel like I wasnt abused but I should have known that I was married to someone that had the ability to abuse somebody.  Does it feel like youre restarting in a similar way like when you finally got clean?  Yeah it does. I feel like back at that point where Im really afraid of what the future holds like even more than when I was on drugs.  And how are you making it financially?  Um child support. And savings. And 401Ks and retirement funds and yeah. Like honestly I stopped looking for a job because Im like incredibly depressed right now and there are mornings that I wake up and Im mad that I woke up.  Oh Susanne.  And I know its really selfish because I have children still but theres a huge part of me that thinks that theyd be better off if they could move on with their lives and that he could go away and I could go away and they could forget that anything bad ever happened But I know thats not how it works.  Yeah. Youre their mom. Are you at all afraid that youll be enticed to use again?  Um actually like I never ever thought about using until like a month ago that was the very first time. And there was an evening I actually like went online and I looked around trying to figure out what neighborhood Id have to go to. But at the end I decided that I was just being self destructive and it was pointless. And I would end up hurting more than just myself and I think thats who I wanted to hurt. But my yeah my self destruction would have ripples across my entire family.  I have to say hearing talking to you it sounds like youre pretty alone right now.  I am very alone. I cry myself to sleep every night and sometimes I cry so hard I feel like I cant breathe.And I dont want to talk to anybody. Like even if I had the money to go to a counselor I wouldnt know what to say.  I find that surprising because youre so I feel like youre so clear about explaining what youre going through as we talk.  I know it seems easier because Im not facing you I guess. I dont know.  Do you feel stronger because you were able to leave the relationship?  No. I feel weak that I didnt leave to begin with. I should have left it a long time ago. I should have left like as soon as I found out. Like I feel like I was really weak because I didnt do that. Thats a woman who were calling Susanne. At the end of our conversation I asked her what she thought could be helpful for her right now. She said she didnt know. But I imagine that in our audience there are other people who have been through similar situations of leaving relationshipsfeeling guilt for waiting too longand starting over. If you have a message for Susanne send it to us and well pass it on to her. Our email address is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.