Anna Sale Hey its Anna. This week were sharing an episode of a new podcast called The Experiment with you produced by our colleagues at WNYC Studios and The Atlantic Magazine. Its a show about America and its good. One recent episode have looked at the high rates of deaths among Filipino American health care workers from w that connects to US immigration policy. Another included a long interview with a historiana white guy from Virginiawho was in his 40s when he re-considered what hed be taught about Confederate general Robert E. Lee and southern gentlemen. And I think listeners of Death Sex  Money will especially appreciate this episode. Its about a man in Indiana who got an email that he couldve ignored but he didnt. Its a story about faith and duty...and the death penalty. My colleague Julia Longoria hosts The Experiment. Here she is. Julia Longoria Alvin I dont think Ive ever said your last name out loud. How do I say it? Alvin Melathe Its Melathe. Longoria Melathe. Am I doing that right? Melathe Mhm. Longoria So Alvin Melathe why are we here today? Melathe Why   Why are you using my government name like that?   Longoria Alvin Melathe is a producer at The Experiment. And we started talking about something hes been thinking about for a while now. Melathe So this summer in July I saw that the federal government had executed someone. Longoria Hmm. Melathe And I remember reading about it in the news at the time and being a little surprised by it because you know there are states that do executions regularly but the federal government hasnt actually executed someone in 17 years. The last time was in 2003. There were none in the 70s and the 80s and the 90s. Like its just not a thing that we do very often. Longoria Huh. I didnt fully realize it had been that long. Melathe Yeah I hadnt either. And I think I was like actually trying to make sense of how to feel about it. And then two days later they executed someone else.  Melathe And then a day after they executed someone else. And then two more in the next month. And then two more the month after that. And I just couldnt stop thinking about the fact that the federal government says they do this on our behalf.  Melathe Its just a weird thing to have the government kill someone on your behalf. Like war and the death penalty right? Its like the two times that someone does violence in your name.  Melathe I just felt really far away from it  Uh and I wanted to try to get closer to itor at least try and understand exactly whats being done in my name. So I started reading about each of the executions.  Melathe And one of the things I found out was all these killings were happening in the same room in the U.S. penitentiary in Terre Haute Indiana. And at each of the executions there would be the person being executed and the prison officialsyou know one with a stethoscope declare the time of death. But the eighth execution was for a man named Orlando Hall. He was a Black man from Arkansas who was found guilty of murder by an all-white jury. And for him there was one other person in the room. He wasnt a prison official. He had nothing to do with the case. He was just a civilian. And so I called him. Yusuf Ahmed Nur My name is Yusuf Ahmed Nur. I am a professor at the Business School Indiana University Kokomo. And I teach uh strategic management and international business. Melathe Hes a business professor? Longoria What was a business professor doing in a death chamber? Melathe He answered an email  to be Orlandos spiritual adviser. I didnt know about this at first but in the U.S. weve decided that the First Amendment gives people on the death row the right to a spiritual adviser from whatever religion they belong to. And so Yusuf who wasnt paid to be there just sort of stepped into this whole thing. He volunteered to do it actually. And I think I wanted to know what kind of person does thatand what he saw. Nur I never thought Im an emotional person but every time I remember and I talk about my experience in the death chamber  I become emotional. Every time I talk about it I feel emotional about it. Melathe Yeah. Nur Yeah. Melathe Well if theres a point where it just feels like you need to take a little break thats completely okay. Nur Yeah itsits going to be just a pause. Ill be quiet maybe for a few seconds. Melathe Thats okay. Nur  Yeah.  Longoria This week a conversation with a man who got very close to the death penalty in the United States. Producer Alvin Melathe brings us the story of a man who couldnt look away. Im Julia Longoria. This is The Experiment a show about our unfinished country.  Nur You know Im of nomadic background. I was born in the nomadic area of Somalia. Melathe Yusuf Ahmed Nur grew up in Mogadishu the capital of Somalia. Nur It was one of the quietest town right on the Indian Ocean. I grew up swimming. Just warm weather humid but absolutely gorgeous. I loved it. Melathe Outside of the water though Yusuf said he had a pretty unhappy childhood.  Both of his parents died when he was five years old. He was raised by an aunt in a country that was under a military dictatorship. He spent a lot of time by himself. One of the only ways he found to escape was through books. Nur There are so many things that are unexplained things. Reading makes you  It broadens your mind. It broadens your horizon. It makes you think about things. Melathe He got a membership to the American library to practice his English and he started reading all these books about the U.S. Nur I read almost everything uh about the United States. You know Uncle Toms Cabin. I remember reading Roots. The Autobiography of Malcolm X Margaret Mitchells  Gone with the Wind. To Kill A Mockingbird. And so I guess they were popular at the time. And uh I absolutely did not get it.  I totally missed the message and the nuances becausecoming from Somalia with you know nothing like that exists. Somalia is very homogeneous. The concept of Blackit doesnt exist in Africa you know?  This color that Americans are so fixated on  doesnt exist. People dont think theyre Black there. The first time you hear that youre Black is here in America when people describe you. And then you look aroundAre they talking about me? You know something like that.  And so you dont  It doesnt register with you. Melathe In some ways Yusuf has always been an observer of the U.S.on the outside looking in. He first came here in 1986 to do an MBA program. He never actually intended to stay. Nur It was purely accidental. I was going to go back but then things were getting worse. Melathe Back in Somalia Yusufs friends were starting to agitate for democracy. The military dictatorship there arrested a lot of them even threatened some with execution. Yusuf thought that if he went back hed be in the same boat. So he applied for political asylum in the U.S. and got it. He got married to a white woman from the South and suddenly found himself with two American kids. Nur What really surprised me was that  I have two sons. They dont take the kind of risks that I take. Uhto give you an example mymy son and I went to get a motorcycle. Uh hehes trying to get me into motorcycle riding. So we went to a town thats about two hours drive from here. And uh he wanted to pee. And you know I ride bikes and if I need to pee I just stop and go behind a tree. I dont give a second thought at all you know? But he was very careful.  Nur He was thinking I dont know how people will react to me if they see me there. Andand my son could easily pass for an Arab. You know hes mixed. He would blend in. He doesnt stand out as you know Black. So it really surprised me that his attitude about what he can do and how worried he is about how people would view him and how they would react. And we went back and forth and back and forth. And  it never really crossed my mind that he developed that kind of attitude. And its because he was brought up here! Hes hearing everything you know all the racial issues and all the racial ramifications. That kind of attitude of taking risks and not worrying about how people will react to or what they would say and just  It may be part of the Somali character I dont know. But I still have that Somali attitude. And I find its really strange the kind of risksquote-unquote risksthat I take. Melathe Throughout his career Yusuf ended up teaching all over the country. But no matter where he went in the U.S. he always made it a point to find a mosque. Nur I have always beensince I came here Ive always been involved in the Muslim communities. Wherever I go IIve always been very active. Melathe Hed gone to Muslim elementary and high schools. Hed grown up reading the Quran. So when he finally landed in Bloomington Indiana he did what he always did. He got involved with his local mosque. Nur Im one of the elders. And Im also involved in the multi-faith movement in Bloomington. We do a lot of interfaith things with them. And so thea minister of the Unitarian Universalist church emailed us about Orlando. Melathe And what did the email say? Nur It said that theres a man who was in death row and he needs a Muslim person to be his uh counselorhis spiritual counselor. Melathe The execution was slated to happen in a few weeks at the U.S. penitentiary in Terre Haute just an hours drive from Bloomington. They needed someone familiar with Islam to counsel the man. But the mosque in Bloomington is all volunteer. Theres no paid clergy who would be the sort of default be the person to do this. Nur So its kind of a very democratic religion in that respect. So after maybe a week I didnt see any response to that. So I asked if anybody responded to that email and they said No nobody has responded. Melathe So Yusuf Googled the man on death row. His name was Orlando Hall. In 1995 Orlando was convicted of the kidnapping rape and murder of a 16-year old named Lisa Rene. He and another man drove Lisa from her home in the back of a car. They poured gasoline over her and then they buried her alive. Orlando was 23 at the time. When Yusuf got the email Orlando had been on death row for more than 20 years. Melathe When you had gotten the email originally and read it what was your feeling? Was your feeling Someone else is going to do this? Nur Yeah. II was thinking that  somebody would do it but deep down I knew that  You know in general things that are unpleasant it usually falls on me.  So I decided to do it the moment I realized that nobody else was going to do it. Melathe Why not just let the email go? Nur You know you have a fellow human being who is on death row and they are going to kill him. And so it wasit was  I didnt really think about it. Its just like This guy needs help and hes seeking somebody to talk to and thats the least you can do. It entails some sacrifice but its not a  Compared to what hes going through what Im going to do is a piece of cake. Melathe So Yusuf decided to meet Orlando. He drove about an hour to Terre Haute went in  Nur And I was accompanied by this prison official who took me through multiple heavy metal doors through an elevator and finally to the visitation room where I was on one side of the room and hes on the other side of the room and were separated by a glass wall. Melathe So what do you first say to Orlando? Nur Well you know greetingMuslim greetingsPeace be with you inin Arabic. That was our first exchange. As-salaamu brother. Alaykum-salaam.  . The allocated time is from nine till three. And I spent those six hours with him that first time. Nur But one thing that I wanted to know waswhatever he didthat he was uh contrite that he was sorry that he was regretful and so weits one of the first things that we talked about. And it was very clear to me that he regretted what he didor the role he played in the killing of that young woman. Whether he was guilty or not I decided that that part was not my job. That was not my role. Right away I could see that he was already you know reconciled to his fate. He was not nervous. He was ready. Part of Islamic teaching is that everybodys going to die. Its not about how you die. Its everybody has a time and a day and an hour where they die and you just accept it. And so he was reconciled despite the fact that he didnt believe that he should die. Melathe And what kind of questions did he have for you? Nur We talked about Islam in general. He studied thoroughly Islam. He knew a lot. He brought his books. He brought a copy of the Quran in English. And so we talked about you know religious concepts religious philosophy. We talked about the death penalty in Islam. And so we also talked about the political side of American executions and the fact that the rate of executions is much higher and the rate of incarceration in America is much higher. You know more African-Americans are incarcerated percentage-wise than whites. And you know he even mentioned the fact that this string of executionsthey started with a white guy. And he said you know Who do they think they are fooling? They started with a white guy just to show that theyre not targeting African-Americans. But he said theyre not fooling anybody. Two-thirds of the people there in death row in Terre Haute he said were nonwhite.  Melathe Yusuf met with Orlando two more times. And through his lawyer Orlando asked Yusuf for one final favor if Yusuf would be in the room with him when the execution happened. Nur And I said I dont want to do that. I really dont want to be there. But if he wants me to be there I am going to be there. Thats the least I can do.  Melathe The day of the execution Yusuf made the long drive to Terre Haute through the changing leaves on State Road 46. He met with Orlando first thing in the morning and they went over last rights. And then he waited. Later that night a guard brought him into the execution room. Nur The victim is lying down on the gurney right in the middle of the room closer to thethe wall. The opposite wallone of the long wallsthe opposite wall is where the windows are. Glass windows. And so I could see the windows that are the media and the family room. And Orlando could see them because the gurneythe torso partis raised a little bit. So you can see that he can see them uh while lying down there strapped to the gurney. Melathe And where are you standing? Nur Im standing right beside him. And on each side of the gurney are the executioners one on each side. And by the time we got there he was already strapped on the gurney. He was covered with what looked like a uh hospital blanket. Its like it wasit was deliberately designed to make it look like a benign surgical operation in a hospital. And uh so I was not allowed to approach him before they started releasing the poison. I have to standkeep a distance from the gurney. Orlando and Im talking and I wouldyou know Ive already explained to him what we will be doingthe last rites that we would recite. And heon his ownI mean he started doing it on his own. I really didnt have to help him in any way. He just started reciting on his own. And he kept reciting even after they started releasing the poison. He was reciting uh the prayers that he knew in Arabic.                               Melathe How did you know when he was gone? Nur He stopped reciting. And then uh within seconds his mouth opened wide like he started yawning. And later on II read yawning thats an indication that theyrethey cant breathe. Theyre trying to breathe but they cant. So its like drowning. And so he yawned a number of timesat least three timesand then he was gone.  Nur The time that you are waiting thats the most difficult time. Thats when you start thinking. Thats when it hits you. Uh its quiet. Nobodys saying anything. Everybodys waiting. Waiting for the doctor to come and pronounce him dead. Thats when youit hits you how surreal it is. How absurd it is. Melathe Back when Yusuf first took the assignmentto counsel Orlandoit felt simple to him. Instinctual even. He saw a fellow human being in need and he decided he would help. But that moment after Orlando died the whole thing stopped feeling so simple. Nur Im in this room and I am participating in the killing of a fellow human being justjust a few hours ago was healthy. They assign you a role to play in this execution. Thats when all of these thoughts crowd into your mind.  Melathe The aftermath after the break.   Sale Hey its Anna just popping in to say that its not too late to sign up for our first ever Pick Up The Phone And Call Day this Friday March 26. Were encouraging all of you to think about who you will pick up the phone and call this Friday. Maybe its someone youve fallen out of touch with or someone whos been through a lot this past year. Text call day to 70101 and well send you some helpful tips and a reminder on the holiday. And if you cant think of anyone to call well send you some ideas too. Next week were taking a break in the feed. If youre behind on your Death Sex  Money listening I encourage you to go back and do some digging in our archives. Definitely do not miss our recent episode about a Texas strip club your stories about life after 60 and our producer Afi Yellow Dukes conversations with listeners about being in immigrant families in the U.S. right now. Well be back the week after next with poet and essayist Claudia Rankine who talks about her cancer diagnosis and its impact on her relationship with her husband. Claudia Rankine I think my initial reaction to the cancer diagnosis and the treatment was um to wanna flee. You know the fantasy is that you could do it a different way. Experience something else. So it is almost like I had a midlife crisis but instead of it being brought on by middle age it was brought up by illness.   Melathe A little before midnight on November 19th the United States executed Orlando Hall. Yusuf was standing right beside him. Nur And you know its all of these thoughts that crowd your mind. Melathe Yusuf looked around the room. Once Orlando was gone it was just him and the executioners. Nur You just  How surreal it is like we are the high priests of this sacrifice. That were sacrificing  It you know itit makes you go back thinking about you know whenwhen people used to sacrifice humans to their gods. Its like that that we are the high priests and we are sacrificing this human being to satisfy some kind of anot you know religious rite but a secular rite. Melathe Did you feel like one of those high priests too? Nur Yeah exactly. Thats  You know it hits me that I am participating in this and I am playing a role that they assigned me to kind of legitimize what theyre doing or furnish this religious spiritual side where they are providing the secular side of the sacrifice. When youre left to your thoughts you say Ah see thats exactly how they planned it. But then I will correct myself and say The only reason Im there is becauseif it were not for him wanting me to be there I wouldnt be there. And by the way thats when it hit me why he wanted me to be there because in that room I was the only friend he had. The other people there came to kill him. I was the only one he could look and say You know that person doesnt intend any evil towards me.  Melathe What were you like thinking on your drive back? Nur Oh before I went home I was uh  I did not expect it to affect me the way it did.  It was really traumatic. And I was really angry. I was very angry. I was angry at the wholethe whole system that brought us to that point. Its the system that allows them to do that. Its the system that segregates people. Its the system  Thatthats what you need to tackle is the system that allows that to happen time and time again. And those who perpetuate it and those who support it and those who benefit from it. Uh and you have to address that if you want this to change. Despite the trauma and the anger and  Uh IIm glad I did it. Melathe I mean I think I was just trying to think about your choices hereyour decision to opt in. Cause youre not actually doing the executing but it does strike me that you made a choice here to involve yourself in something you didnt have to. Nur Well you know you cannot solve a problem if you run away from it. You know thats what I tell my children because theyre disgusted with the system here. My sonthat I told you we went to get the motorcycleshe talks about all the time I want to move out of here. I want to you know move to Canada or New Zealand or  And I said to him Look during theall the struggle African-Americans struggling here. All of the people who were killed during the Civil Rights movement. Look how much they accomplished those who stayed put those who worked hard. Some of the rights we enjoy here is because of their sacrifice. You were born here you belong here andand things are going to get better. I have lived here in Bloomingtonforget about anywhere elselonger than I lived anywhere else. So although I would enjoy being back in Somalia my children here and my grandchildren are here. Im not going anywhere. Ill contribute to theto the struggle as much as I can.  Melathe Not long after Orlando was killed Yusuf got another call. There was another Muslim man on death row named Dustin Higgs. Dustin it turned out needed a spiritual adviser too. Nur I just felt obligated you know? Uh this guy whos going to be executed he wants you to be there. Thats the least you can do. What else can you do? You cant say no. I mean how can you say no?  Melathe On January 16th 2021 Yusuf was present at the execution of Dustin Higgs. Dustin was the 13th and final person executed by the Trump administration. Nur Yes I guess its human nature to become inured to things. We can get used to almost anything. You know like those guys whose job is to execute people. They get used to it. So uh  I hope I never get used to it. But I wouldnt change what I did. I wouldI would do it again. I hope I never do it again. I hope that it was  Dustin would make history and be the last person executed by the United States government.  Nur Lets hope lets hope.  Sale That was Yusuf Ahmed Nur talking with Alvin Melathe for the podcast The Experiment. A majority of Americans support the death penalty though opposition to it is increasing. According to a 2020 Gallup poll 55 percent of Americans support capital punishment for someone convicted of murder. 43 percent oppose it the highest levels since 1966. Capital punishment is currently authorized in 28 statesfive states have actually abolished it since 2009. Thats not counting Nebraska where the legislature abolished it in 2015 but voters re-authorized it on a statewide ballot vote a year later. This episode was produced by Alvin Melathe along with Gabrielle Berbey and Julia Longoria with editing by Matt Collette and Katherine Wells. Fact-check by William Brennan. Sound design by David Herman. Music by Tasty Morsels and Nelson Nance. Special thanks to Najib Aminy. The Experiment team also includes Natalia Ramirez Tracie Hunte and Emily Botein who is also a member of the Death Sex  Money team. The rest of the Death Sex  Money team includes Yasmeen Khan Afi Yellow-Duke Andrew Dunn and Katie Bishop who also helped out with this episode. Our intern is Emily Tafur. And if you like what you heard in today's episode make sure that you head on over to The Experiment in your podcast player and hit subscribe. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. 