 When I asked for help my mom dropped everything. And so when my mom had said that they were having trouble and they needed help I figured it would be better for us to just be here and make a life here. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... And need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. Just a year ago the Minnesota-based band Communist Daughter was on the road. They were promoting their second full-length album stopping at clubs radio stations and festivals across the country. But driving from gig to gig their lead singer Johnny Solomon was worried. A few months earlier he would gone to visit his mom and her husband outside San Diego. His wife Molly came too. She also sings in the band.  It was just...it became more and more evident that they really did need somebody close by.  She said like half crying that yeah that they needed help.  Did your mom specifically say what do you think about spending more time out here being here full-time for a period?  It did not - it did not come off that nicely...  Yeah she is like It is time. --  Do you guys want some coffee? Do you want some donuts? We met Johnny and Molly not on the road but at the two-bedroom bungalow in California that they now share with Johnny's mom Nancy and her husband Hugh. Hugh has dementia and Nancy has a degenerative nerve disease that is similar to multiple sclerosis. Johnny and Molly have become their live-in caregivers.  Like we are living in a guest room out of suitcases still.  So your clothes are not in drawers?  No. Well we created um  We have done what we could out of you know.  We have taken like my dresser right now is I took out all of Nancy's files in her  so it is like a file cabinet made out of like a wicker though. And so yeah that is my ...  It does not feel like...  We tour so much or we did tour so much that you know we are used to living out of small spaces and suitcases. Johnny sent us an email shortly after they moved to California last summer. He wrote It put our career our music my whole existence into a no man's land. My wife and I made our money touring but now we cannot really tour. My band and manager are all trying to figure out how the music goes on or if it does.  And I recognize this CD.  Yeah!  Mom has to have CDs!  We sat in their open living room where Johnny's mom Nancy has a big recliner that rotates around so she can keep watch on what is going on throughout the house. Molly and Johnny and I squeezed in around her.  I feel like we are like having a huddle right here. Because we are all gathered around...  I know just act natural!  Now we should all put our arms around... Nancy told me her illness makes it hard for her to move around much.  It takes all my energy. So I do not...I cannot do as much. So. It is been - it is been a very difficult because I was a very active person.  Growing up she was the alpha female. You know. I mean she is still the boss. She just now sits in her throne the whole time.    Well I kind of manipulate them.   That is something that Molly had to get used to. Mom has this way of like um bossing you around. But in a way that you can tell that she cares but it will be like Move that box sit right there move that chair over here. You know and it is like she cares. But it comes out as mom is in charge.  Having four kids did it. Having four kids did it Nancy said. Nancy is tall and broad-shouldered like her son. She is a psychiatrist one of the only women in her medical school class. She still works part-time at a local mental health clinic where she used to work full-time before her symptoms got worse. She was getting ready for a shift when I visited but generally her schedule is less busy these days.  Like Fridays she has her hair appointment. But then you know we come back and she is mostly here in this chair. So we are kind of running around and when she needs something fetching something.  And we keep one person in the house because I have fallen before. If I fall I cannot get up. Johnny told me that of all his siblings he was in the best position to come out to help. But he was not always someone that Nancy could rely on.  I think Mom has seen a huge change in me as a person in the last few years.  There has been a change. A very comfortable change. Throughout his 20s and early 30sas Johnny's music career was taking off and he was running a promising new restaurant near Minneapolishe struggled with substance abuse and undiagnosed mental illness. It tested his relationships with everyone in his life including his mom.  She was always still - like loved me no matter what I did. And um 'ecause I was a meth addict I was - alcohol and meth. And you know people see they see it from the outside but it is it is impossible to explain it from the inside of what it does to your soul what it does to every part of you. Where I mean I could lie all the time I could do - just this this dark part of me was just all of me. And I did really terrible things to the people I loved.  And one time when he was here -  I had a moment -  - he was on and you had a moment and he was yelling at me and disrespectful.  Yeah I was cussing at everybody. And yeah Molly was here for that too.  And when you when you say you were using meth like were you - is it something you would buy? Were you ever making it?  Um I always bought it um. There was a period for about two years I was using it everyday and um I would buy it and smoke it or eat it or snort it but then uh yeah I was spending I do not know 6 700 dollars a week maybe on it? Um.  Did you have that money?   I found that money I mean. I uh at the time I had a restaurant which probably would have done really well 'ecause it was good food.  You got top 10 best new restaurants Midwest Living Magazine!  So when you say you found that money was it money that should have gone to other things? Or money that you got from other people?  Money that should have gone for other things. It was like in the budget of the restaurant to make sure I had you know about 600 bucks a week that I would take out in cash. Yeah I mean. Yeah it is very unpleasant to think about. This was in 2010 when the band was promoting their first record and starting to have a lot of success. Johnny was falling apart. That became clear one night when the band was playing a big show in Minneapolis.  I got on stage and I was a disaster. I was - I mean it was it was rough.  It was embarrassing. I mean and I was I was high and drunk and I mean I was heavy. I was  sores on my face. Yeah. And to the point where like you know I think most people knew there was something wrong with me um and I ended up I would called my mom. And I was like I cannot wait any longer. You know this is I am like I am at the bottom and if it gets any lower it is going to get way worse.  Why was it your mom that you called?  Um I do not know. Maybe 'ecause that is the last person that would take my call. And I would asked her for help so many times and she would never said no. Um even though so many people in my life had started saying no. And I just knew that I knew what - when I called her I knew what I was asking for and I knew she was the one who was you know she would know when I was serious. And so she knew that I was asking for help for real.  If he did not get help it was over. That was in his voice.  Yeah I had nothing left. And I suddenly could not write songs anymore. And that is when I realized like oh like God's gonna take everything away from me unless I do something. So that is when I called my mom.  As a physician we always sent our physicians when they got into trouble to Hazelden. It was just something we did. And we were very we thought they did a good job. So I insisted that he had to go to Hazelden. And he did.  Did you help him pay for that? Did you pay for the treatment?   Yes.  Yes.  It is Death Sex  Money mom. So we gotta talk about all of them.  Oh yes. It took most of my retirement. It was - not all of it but it took a big -  It was an investment.  Yes. It was a wonderful investment. Johnny went to rehab at a Hazelden Betty Ford treatment center in Minnesota for 45 days. Coming up I talk with Johnny and Molly about how his sobriety changed the dynamics of their band and made him surprisingly suited for caregiving.  People who know me know that I love things that only old people should love.  I am a big fan of the Golden Girls and Murder She Wrote and going to bed early.  We keep hearing from you about our series about class called Opportunity Costs and all the feelings those episodes are bringing up for you. We are thinking about ways to keep that conversation going and last week Frederick McKindra an Emerging Writer Fellow at Buzzfeed asked us this Come across any good reading lists spotlighting books on class in America? Should one exist maybe? We passed that idea on to you over Twitter and in our newsletter and you all have a lot of ideas. Several of you have recommended the novel An American Marriage by Tayari Jones. I recommended a collection of essays and stories called Tales of Two Americas.  Frederick suggested Barbara Ehrenreich's book Fear of Falling. And a listener named Elizabeth added the book Sleeping Giant How the New Working Class Will Transform America. To add a book to our recommended reading on class send us an email at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. We will share this reading list on class in next week's newsletter so if you are not signed up already go to deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter to subscribe. On the next episode veteran-turned-comedian Thom Tran talks about being shot four days into his deployment in Iraq...and catching the whole thing on camera.  I said I am gonna videotape this for my dad to show him you know what Iraq looks like so the video camera just rolled. and on the tape you hear my interpreter say This is a bad place. And no sooner that he said that bullets start flying and on the tape you hear crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack crack.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. While Johnny Solomon was in rehab seven years ago his band Communist Daughter got their first major nationwide exposure. Grey's Anatomy used some of their music in an episode including this song Soundtrack to the End.  So did you you actually saw Grey's Anatomy and heard your song playing  in treatment? Were you in like a group room?  That was exactly what...  Yeah. You have to ask to use the TV or to have the room basically.  I am like we have to watch Grey's Anatomy and everyone gets to vote on what they are gonna watch and it was neat too because when you are in treatment you are with all these different people from all these different walks of life and there is a little bit of like I am a musician! Oh who are you? And it is like You have probably never heard of me... but now you have heard of me! Look I am on Grey's Anatomy! While he was in rehab Johnny was also diagnosed as bipolar. His mom Nancya psychiatristknew that was in their family history but she did not think Johnny was affected.  I did not think it was in my genes. Or did not think about it. So you know this is sad. But - if they are on medication they are just as normal as everybody else.  Do you find yourself like doing clinical check-ins of Johnny? Do you sort of like...  Yes she does.  I try not to. I think it always because of my training I cannot say I do not.  She asks me a lot about how much I sleep.  That is probably true. I have to say uh...  It is totally fine.  I have all through my training when I am meeting with couples and things like that a lot of times I have told them okay 18 your children are their own. They are no longer yours and you have to let them go. And you do kind of cry about it because you have spent all this time. But they have to have that choice. So I was so fortunate when one decided that I was a close part of his life. It was time for Nancy to leave to see patients at the clinic. Johnny helped her out the door...  Are you going to your room?  Oh my cane.  I have got your cane. Johnny is 39 now. Molly his wife is 32. It is not clear how long they will have to live out here in southern California. And that is caused a lot of uncertainty at a time when they really want to be planning for their future.  I mean it could be like a year of our life it could be ten years of our life.  What was the conversation like between you two when you werewhen it was first brought up about the possibility of moving out here full time?  Uhm honestly I was - I was pretty hesitant to get on the bandwagon there um 'ecause all my you know my my whole family lives in Minnesota and we are pretty close. And all my friends. And also it was coming up on the time where we were starting to talk about kids and my whole thing was like I cannot be away from my mom when I you know that was something that was like really important to me. I do not know. Also my parents they are a lot younger um than John's. Um so I just was not really thinking about that yet. Johnny though has been looking for a change for awhile. Since getting sober life as a touring musician has been harder.  I start getting really I get really angry I get really short. I get I feel really lonely even though we are you know I am surrounded by people the whole time. It is really hard to describe and you know sometimes the thing that is tough is that I am sober and I am bipolar and I have to be surrounded by drunk you know fun-loving party you know rolling through every town and it is like the last thing I wanna do and the last thing that is good for me.  Well it sounds like such a contrast to your routine now.  Yes I love routine I love it cause when things get out of control then I start to really lose control. And we had always - when we were on tour we would always stop and stay in San Diego and it felt like this real - it felt like this magical place where for two weeks out of our very hectic and sometimes very stressful life we got to spend two weeks in San Diego having you know like eating oranges off the tree.  It was like a vacation. Yeah.  And so to me it was always like would not this be great if we just moved to San Diego for a little bit? It would be like this huge life shift where we would have to decide what we were doing with our life.  You know it strikes me that like figuring out different ways to make money at you know sort of an earlier - like having a kind of like in your thirties is this music thing gonna work out do I need to make money in another way you all have an extreme version of that? But I guess I imagine you have peers who have gone through similar sort of like is this gonna happen or is this not do we need to come up with a different plan?  Yeah and you know I think you know our idea of success when you are in your twenties you just think things will figure themselves out. If I do what I love things will figure themselves out and and now in my thirties my late thirties it is like oh well yeah. Everyone knew you cannot make money in music like everyone knows that! And so I am at this age now where it is like if I do not figure something else out what else am I gonna do? You know like am I gonna be the guy who learned to play you know Irish folk tunes so I could you know do it Wednesdays at the local Irish pub or something? You know like but I do not know so like I luckily I have started to like what I thought would feel like kind of soul-sucking by looking somewhere else starts to feel actually kind of freeing. Molly and Johnny are living rent free now as they figure out what is next. Johnny's started taking online grad school classes to become a substance abuse counselor. Molly told me she was applying for pharmacy tech jobs. Their band Communist Daughter is still officially together. But they told me it feels like it is on hiatus. Most of their time is spent taking care of Johnny's mom and her husband. And they know that will only escalate especially as Nancy's illness progresses.  It is the thing with my mom where it is funny how like 90 percent of the time like when I wake up in the morning and I look at my day it looks like I do not have anything to do but as soon as you step out of that door it could be like oh you know mom has to go to a doctor now or you know like suddenly something happened with the bank and I have gotta run there and so you even though you have all this like you think you are gonna have free time you know you kind of have to be your schedule has to be kinda open.  Is she able to move in and out of the bathroom on her own?  It is hard it is really hard. It like wears her out so much um so it is probably gonna get to that point pretty soon and we are not sure um...  We have talked about maybe having somebody come in you know once a week or for bathing.  But I do you know sometimes I have to help her put on articles of clothing or you know put on well pretty much every her jewelry I have to put that on. She cannot reach up high and her hands shake so...  And then there is you know just the things of like Mom you cannot walk around you cannot. You know you are going to fall over you are going to knock things over. So you end up having these conversations where it is like you cannot no! Like I am going to pour your soy sauce. And she is like you know a very smart very -  you know she was the boss for so long and now I am telling her she cannot pour her own soy sauce because.  It is funny how those roles get reversed...and it is been a learning experience getting older.  I think being out here is interesting it forces Molly's had to you know be vocal about certain things especially with my mom's way of dealing with things.  Yeah it actually has been good. 'ecause it is like making me a stronger person making me more  Give me an example. Can you think of something?  Um. I am a very like I will go out of my way to do something nice kind of a person. That sounds so weird saying that out loud but there have been times when you know I do not finish my breakfast or it gets cold 'ecause I have to you know help her do something that actually is not very important and it can totally wait. Like I have learned to be like Actually I am eating my breakfast right now. So is it okay if I throw away the newspaper for you later?  She is so bossy about the way she says things.  Would you mind setting that on the counter next to you? Or you know.  I love that thinking about that being like I get to say Can I please finish my breakfast?  Like talking yourself into that.  Yeah. She is gotten a lot better though because you have pointed out those things to her so often.  It is weird now because it is becoming more of like uh I feel more like a parent where I catch myself being I do not know well I know what kind of parent maybe I will be? I will be the like -  Really. It is like a little glimpse into that?  Yeah and it is like not the good things. It is the things that are like oh this is going to really fluster me.  Do you feel like you have found a community at all here Molly? Yet?  Hm not - no I have not but I kind of um...I am kind of enjoying it in a way like just having a lot of free time or at least like John says you expect to have free time um it is funny how that changes throughout the day. But um I do not know it is just such a different it is such a difference out here you know you do not have a community and you do not have friends and you do not have...  We have some friends that we have made through being on tour that like the musicians and some people came to some shows. Ms Yeah but we have not hung out with them still...well once.  Yeah but they are in we are up here like in this kind of retirement little area and you know it is like a 40 minute drive to go hang out with them and we would but it is also I gotta be back here every night to make dinner and you know you cannot miss your shows. We watch a lot of TV right now.  What have been your strategies to have privacy as a couple?   Well we have decided that once a month we will have like a date night where we -  Once a month.  Once a month and we will go away to like a hotel or something.  And then every once in a while they will go out to eat dinner I think even if they do not want to they will go out you know once every couple weeks. Which is still then like we are looking at once every two weeks. But you know we talked about like this is a time in our life where we wanna talk about starting a family and so it becomes like how are we going to do that here? You do not wanna be changing diapers on both sides of things.  Hm.  It is this weird conver- morbid conversation that you have to have where you have to be like well will they die before we you know get pregnant so then we could go back to Minnesota? And that is like such a weird thing to be like to be like well we do not hope that.  But it is like could we make it work if you know if Molly gets pregnant out here? Would she resent me and you know like uh I do not know. It is just a lot of conversations where when it came down to it it was just like this is what felt like we had to do. Because if we did not do it what is the other option? That is Johnny and Molly Solomon and the Communist Daughter song Speed of Sound. Since I visited Nancy's health has continued to decline. She is now not able to work at all. Johnny's doing an internship at the mental health clinic where his mom used to work. And Molly has a job working at a local pharmacy. They have decided to put off trying to get pregnant for at least a year. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. I am based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our interns are Catherine Xu and Angely Mercado. Thanks to Will Huntsberry for his help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Twitter annasale and you can find the show on Facebook Twitter and Instagram deathsexmoney. Johnny and Molly did tell me that they are doing some writing for a new Communist Daughter album. But when it comes out doing any publicity for it...might be a challenge.  We gave an interview where they wanted to do it a Skype interview? And we set it up outside because it was so beautiful but Hugh kept walking  back and forth behind us picking up dog poop.  I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.