 Hey its Anabel Bacon one of the producers here at Death Sex  Money.  Last month we asked you to tell us your stories about being laid off. And we heard from a lot of you...including a listener named Stephanie. Stephanie Hey there DSM team. Stephanies 24 and works as an occupational therapist and she sent us an email about her dad Steve. He was laid off two years ago. Stephanie My dad is in IT work. However with decades of managerial experience nearing retirement age and no formal computer science degree prospective job interviews have been few and far between. At first my dad was hopeful to quickly get a new job but as the time passes I can tell he is losing hope. Stephanie and her dad have always been really close. And as hes been looking for work theyve talked about his job search together a lot. So this week were trying something a little different. Stephanie Hey dad. Steve Hi peanut. Since Annas out we asked them if theyd be willing to continue their conversation about work...and let us record it. Steve was at their family home in Ohio. Stephanie called him from North Carolina where she lives. Stephanie If we were just sitting at home just having this conversation where do you think we would be in the house? Steve Probably in our living room or maybe down in my office Stephanie Yeah I would say the living room or I would be sitting on the counter in the kitchen and you would be cooking something. Because we all know mom can burn water. Steve That is very true. But theyre getting ready to sell that house because Stephanies mom has been the only earner in the family for the past couple of years and the financial strain of living on a single paycheck is starting to really hit. Stephanies pitched in to help pay bills a couple of times. But back when Steve first lost his job she was just graduating from college and starting to look for work herself. So for a while they were in the same boat. Stephanie How did it feel when we were both applying for jobs? Steve It felt very weird thinking that OK here's my daughter she is starting out she is finished school and she is applying jobs and here I am. And now we are both out there in the market competing against everybody else trying to find a job. And it was just not a position that I ever thought I would actually be in where we were both out looking for work at the same time. So its been a struggle because I am 61. A lot of people do not want to look at me. Stephanie What is the spectrum of jobs that you have applied for skilled or unskilled? Steve Oh I have applied for director of I.T. infrastructure or vice president of I.T. And I have applied for working at the deli at our local Kroger's or being a cashier at Lowe's. So it makes it really depressing to sit here and look at things I know I can do and can do well but know that people know how old I am and they are not going to even let me move outside of H.R.  Stephanie Through this whole situation I guess I would be lying if I said I did not feel some sort of guilt. It is nothing that you have ever said or done but like looking back and thinking about you know going to private school and how much that cost you know K through high school and swimming...that is not a cheap sport. And moving away for a job...I would be lying if I did not say that I do feel somewhat I guess a little bit guilty about having all these experiences. How that might have freed up money to not have you guys in that situation right now. Steve Well you should not feel guilty because number one it was never anything that you had a choice in it was what your mom and I wanted to do and we had the money to do it. And you know you had to find a job where you could find a job and yes it took you away you are still you know you need to. You need to start your life and have your life be the best it can be. So you have got nothing to feel guilty about and you should not feel guilty. Stephanie I know I should not but it does not that does not change it. You know? Just acknowledging that. Steve I know. How has the last two years affected you and how has it changed you? Stephanie Well I think it is definitely stressed the importance of setting myself up for financial success. I do not really think I have always been super conscious of how much stuff costs. But another thing that the last two years has kind of taught me is I cannot control everything. And by God I really wish I could. And sometimes I just need to give up what I must. And the only thing I can do is just pray about it and change my own actions what I do have control over. So for example you know the decisions that I have made to get a two bedroom apartment on the off chance that your downsizing could mean you move here to North Carolina as a just in case backup plan. So I am going to be there for you guys. Just like if the situation were reversed. You would do the same thing for me. Steve Well that is that is true. I am very proud of you and the way the way you are but at the same time it makes me feel bad and sad that I have put you in a position where you feel like you need to help take care of your mom and me. It does make me feel like I am...I am letting you and your mom down. Because I am not doing the thing that a husband and father is supposed to do. And that is provide for their family. Stephanie Well. I cannot change the way you feel. Steve Nope. No you cannot. Stephanie I cannot. I wish I could but I cannot. Steve You cannot. And again it is...it is something that is part of my DNA part of my upbringing. And whether it is right or wrong it is the way I am. And I know that is an ancient old-fashioned way of thinking but I am an ancient old-fashioned guy. Stephanie Dad you describing yourself as ancient I do not think it is going to help you on any job interviews  Steve Well in an interview I would not refer to myself as ancient. Stephanie Okay! Good. Thanks to Stephanie and Steve for having this conversation....if you want to tell your own story of being laid off you can go to deathsexmoney.orglaidoff. Weve also built a really cool text tool where you can get advice from other listeners who have lost a job. To see that just text the words LAID OFF to 70101.Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.