Before we begin I want to tell you this is not the episode we initially thought we were making. After I recorded this interview we learned about criminal allegations against one of the people in this show. We followed up with them and with others involved... and it changed the way I heard this interview. Ultimately we decided to release this episode because even though it is unresolved and disturbing it is real. Looking away doesnt make it go away. We fact-checked the dates and details in this story but have changed the names of the people in this episode.  I wanted a boring life. That was all I wanted. I just wanted a boring life. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale.  Hey Im Anna. Susanne lives with her husband Mike in a modest ranch house in an affluent neighborhood. They havent lived here longits been just a few years since they moved hundreds of miles from where they grew up in Texas. Susanne likes the areas good schools. Mike doesnt like their high rent 2000 a month. Shes 30 hes 32. They say its been almost ten years since theyve used heroin.  But it didnt get big like it is now until way later.  We were heroin hipsters I guess. We did it before it was cool. Today heroin use has exploded in the U.S. Its more than doubled among young people in the last decade according to the CDC. And a lot more people are dying. Overdose deaths from heroin nearly quadrupled between 2002 and 2013. Its become a familiar narrative experimentation then dependence then criminal behavior to get more drugs. Then repeated efforts to get sober the haunting risk of relapse. Mike knows stories like this can be frustrating to hear.  If I would had looked at it from an outside perspective then I shouldve said hey this is probably not the best way to move forward with my life. But yeah theres some things thatre more important I guess. Like heroin addiction. Mike and Susanne went through their heroin addiction together. And when they got clean they did that together too. But nearly ten years later their lives show heroins long-term effects diminished earnings and slim job prospects lost time and lots of frayed relationships.  Both of our parents will sometimes bring up things that we did back then. And not - I dont think they do it in a spiteful way. Not in a you know way to throw it back in our faces. But more in a you know like I cant fully trust you just yet way. When Susanne met Mike she was just 16 years old... a junior in high school.  He was kind of my boss I guess. They worked together at a call center for Dominos Pizza.  I know you wouldnt think that a pizza place would have a call center. But that one did.  My job was to like go around and help all the new people. And so thats how I started trying to talk to her. Whenever like I looked over at her cube from my cube she like looked away all bashful and when she looked up I was still staring at her so I did the same thing. It went back and forth like that for a little while too so it was kinda cute.  Average teenager stuff. Mike was 18 when they met working 40 hours a week at the call center and enrolled in his first year of community college. He was in the honors program. But he also liked to party.  You know junior high was probably mostly drinking smoking pot on the weekends. And then high school we intermixed a lot more drugs. Whatever we could get our hands on pretty much.  What was it about being high that you liked?  I dont know. It was just something to do. I guess it was probably just the circle of friends that I ran around with. And I know like the tendency towards more and harder drugs was always like - I guess the group of my friends always said you know Anything worth doing is worth doing well so go all out. By the time he met Susanne Mike had already started using heroin.  I had no idea though. I never knew anybody on drugs so I was not really sure what I was looking at I guess.  How did you learn do you remember?  Um he told me that he was on something a few times beforehand. But he never really said what. But one night we were sitting in his room and he had some and he put it on his coffee table and that was actually the first time Id ever done it too.  Like a - like a line of heroin?  Um they come in little capsules. So he just you know poured some out on the coffee table and asked if I wanted to do some. And I was really conflicted cause I had never done anything before. I had never smoked pot or anything at all. And I kinda had this voice in my head that was like You know its heroin you can ruin your life this way. But I dont want to be mean but I felt like pressured into doing it. So I did. And then I fell in love I guess.  What do you remember about the first time you did it?  Oh my gosh it was the best feeling. I hated my life so much but that made me feel so good and so confident. It kinda made it feel like I was invincible but nothing really mattered if that makes any sense. Growing up Susanne says she was depressed sometimes suicidal. She didnt get along with her mom and when Susanne was 13 her mom married a guy Susanne couldnt stand.  He was such a jerk. And my mom - she let him take advantage of her. She was really - uh - docile compared to him I guess. Mike and the drugs felt like an escape. Within a few months of dating Susanne moved out of her house and in with Mikes family. Even though they would already had a scare.  I ODed at one point. The last thing I remember was taking the syringe out of my arm before the shot was even done and I set it down on the table and the next thing I remember was being in the ambulance. And they came and gave me Narcan and you know.  And you were high at the time.  Yes I was.  She was looking away doing something else and when she looked back then I was all blue so she decided - you know she tried to wake me up on her own and then she couldnt so she went and got my mom and they called the ambulance - called 911 to come get me.  Did your mom know that you were using heroin before this?  She found out that night. But no before that she didnt know. When the paramedics came the cops came too. They found heroin under Mikes bed and eventually arrested him but he mostly stayed out of jail. He and Susanne kept working at the call center and spent most of their money on drugs.  I dont think I left that job until I was 21 or 22. I think I spent six years there total.  Where would you get your needles?  Pharmacy.  Walmart used to give em to you.  What would you say?  You could just tell em the truth honestly. If you got the right pharmacist wed just go in and be like Hey Im a drug addict we need some needles.  When did you realize that you were addicted to heroin?  I think I did before he did actually. Because I felt more of a need to do it more often than he did. Like he did it for fun but I kind of immediately started doing it to mask other problems that I had in my life. At first it was not physical but it got that way pretty quickly though.  How quickly did that happen for you?  I guess maybe six months after I started doing it. It didnt take long at all.  When you realized you were addicted to heroin - did it make you angry?  Um kind of. It actually still kind of does if Im honest with myself. But I like - I feel like I should blame him because I hadnt you know been exposed to anything like that before. But at the same time I feel like that was kind of inevitable. Like I wouldve started doing something eventually whether it was with him or someone else.  Did you ever have a moment where you felt guilty?  Probably not at the time because at the time I didnt see like Hey she is doing this for a different reason. I just figured Im doing it for fun shes doing it for fun. And thats just what we do. And then by the time we were actually like physically addicted and needed to use every day then it was too late we were just fucked so. I know in hindsight I feel guilty. But at the time it never occurred to me. Then Susanne found out she was pregnant.  Was it a planned pregnancy?  No not at all.  How did you both feel when you realized you were pregnant?  Um I was upset but he was like terrified though. I think he was really mad at me.  I dont think I was mad. I was definitely surprised and taken aback and didnt know what to do.  Were you still in high school?  I shouldve been. But I wasnt. I dropped out and got my GED. Once I started kind of ramping up my addiction I stopped going to school.  Did you use during that first pregnancy?  No I didnt. I didnt even drink caffeine. I was really really careful.  I quit for that too so. Well - I mean I did use like a week or two maybe out of the pregnancy I used. And I know that was like our plan kinda going forward is that we werent gonna do drugs. But after our daughter was born we had gotten our own apartment I dont know where somewhere in there we decided that we were going to start doing drugs again.  And you started using both of you?  Yes. After she was born you know we were 17 and 19 we were really really really immature. And she was kind of a fussy baby. And it was overwhelming. I mean its hard to be a parent especially at that age.  So do you think you were sort of self-medicating?  Yes. I was on a lot of pain medication when I got out of the hospital and I think that kind of made things easier. Made listening to her cry and waking up over and over again. It was not quite so hard that way. So when I ran out of the pain meds I just went back to what I knew which was heroin.  When you think about parenting with an infant when you were 17 and you were high was it - did you know what you were doing?  I um - thats actually when we gave up custody of her.  I would say thats - we did realize that. And thats why we gave her away.  Yeah - because I know its kind of messed up but we felt like we had to make a choice. And I knew that being around something like that was not something I wanted my daughter around. So in kind of a selfish way I sent her to my moms house but at the time I kind of rationalized it by saying you know If shes with us shes a lot worse off cause were not gonna quit.  How do you think about that now?  I regret it. A lot. I wish I could go back.  Yeah there wouldve been a lot of stuff different if we wouldve you know ended our addiction then and just become a family. Their infant daughter went to live with Susannes relatives where shes lived since. Coming up how Susanne and Mike finally stopped using and why its been so hard to pick up the pieces.  Everybody has kind of grown up around you and youre stuck at that point of when you started. Like we hadnt done anything with our lives.  You mean everyone elses lives had continued on and you had -  Ours hadnt. When Mike overdosed in his bedroom with Susanne at first it did not feel like that big of a deal.  It didnt feel like it was a brush with death I guess. Probably wasnt until afterwards that I realized Hey that probably was pretty close to dying. Weve been asking for your stories about near-death experiences and how those experiences have shaped you. One listener Jeff in California told us about a bad car accident in Dayton Ohio he was driving. His friend who was a passenger was killed.  To get me out of the car they had to use the jaws of life to - to cut the roof of the car off. And one of the things they did was put a white sheet over me to kind of protect me from you know flying metal. And I kind of remember almost laughing about the - just the morbid nature of that white sheet over me while I was still alive. Jeffs injuries were severe. But he recovered. He says the accident was a turning point for him. A lot of you told us that being close to death made you want to live bigger take more chances. But a listener in Louisiana who watched as her friend was run over by a trailer said that being so close to death made her appreciate how dangerous life can be.  And I wouldnt say that it made me risk-averse but I am more responsible it really makes me look for possible bad things that could happen in a situation. Keep sending us your stories of near-death experiences. You can write an email or record a voice memo and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. On the next episode Danny Oquendo. A few years ago his 14-year-old autistic brother Avonte disappeared from his school in New York City. His body was found a few months later. Soon after that Danny became a father.  Im not super religious. But you think God what he - giveth and he taketh right? And he takes something away and he gives you something special as well in that same year. Um so it was a rollercoaster. From the saddest time in my life to one of the happiest. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale.  You would just start aching all over. You felt like you wanted to jump out of your skin. After Susanne and Mike gave up custody of their daughter they were both shooting up multiple times a day. Their bodies craved heroin. When they werent high they felt it.  Insomnia diarrhea um...  Its like the flu plus food poisoning plus ebola.  Yeah more insomnia plus - oh tremors and twitching. I remember -  Uncontrollable.  Yeah I remember one time when I was in jail I was laying on my bed trying to sleep and the guys that were in my cell were making fun of me saying that I was dreaming about driving Nascars because my legs just kept twitching. After violating his probation Mike landed in prison in a drug treatment program. And Susanne was incarcerated on possession charges too but not before she found out she was pregnant a second time with a son.  And I ended up going to jail and I actually had him in jail. So I went from the jail to the hospital in shackles it was terrible.  What was it like to deliver a baby when youre in shackles?  They um since I had a C-Section they had to take em off. But its hard because there is not - you dont have any family around you. Youre all alone. The guard that went with me was really nice though. She was really understanding. But any time a guy guard took me though they were really rigid.  When you thought about your heroin addiction when you were nine months pregnant serving time - how did you think about it?  I thought that was it. I was so sure that I was finished. Like I really truly believed that I had stopped doing heroin and that there was no way I was going to go back. And I told myself that for a really long time. But I guess the draw was too strong. The draw to heroin and back to Mike. When Susanne was released from prison Mike was already out and using again. Their son was living with family. And before long Susanne started shooting up too.  Actually I dont remember how she ended up getting started again. I mean Im sure I played a role in it.  I remember it.  What do you remember?  One day we went out and we were kind of driving around and we ended up in the neighborhood that we used to buy drugs at.  The two of you together?  Yes. He had some excuse. And we went to talk to this lady that we had known while we were using and that is when we started - or thats when I started using again.  There comes a point where the addiction comes first and then like everything else is secondary and that includes like our relationship. It was well just both be a team of addicts instead of single addicts.  And did you like having her back on your team?  Im sure I did. For the next two years Mike and Susanne say they were more or less homeless sleeping in their car crashing at friends houses.  You know. Neither one of us could hold down a job at that time. We supported our addiction by stealing clothes and selling em or returning em or...  Panhandling too.  Yeah. whatever we could do to get money to support our addiction and you know thats what we did.  I had grandparents that I spent a lot of time with. Even after I had started stealing from them they still would let me stay there.  You stole from your grandparents?  I stole from everybody.  How would you do that?  Um wed take - wed mostly just take stuff and pawn it. So.  I mean I did the same thing to my parents too. So Id take stuff that I could sell or like they had a paint bucket full of change that they were saving up that wed pretty much cleaned out most of that.  Is it hard to talk about that?  Um its - Im very ashamed of it.  Yeah it is. Theres still a lot of shame associated with - at least stealing from people. I mean like I never felt ashamed of being a heroin addict. Maybe I should have. But I do feel ashamed of like stealing from family. Their heroin habit also strained their relationship. At one point Susanne says she overdosed in the backseat of a car while Mike was driving because she was mad.  We were arguing about something. And that was just her vindictive way at the time. She was like Oh you want to be a dick? Ill show you! So when she was quiet for a minute I had already put two and two together in my head so.  I really showed him.  I pulled over told my friend to drive while I gave her mouth to mouth. And she didnt need to go to the hospital to get Narcan. I mean she came out of it on her own.  Did you take too much on purpose?  Probably. At that time Im really really serious I did not care whether I lived or died. It did not make one difference to me. I mean Im actually surprised that either one of us are alive right now.  You said that with a laugh but thats a pretty serious thing to have - to be able to say.  I know. I either kind of look back and laugh about it or you know cry about it. When Mike and Susanne finally did quit he was 23 she was 21. Theyd been doing heroin regularly for 5 years.  It wasnt fun anymore.  Like a lot of people always say Oh you guys quit doing heroin? Was it hard? And I always tell em like towards the end it was harder to be an addict than it was to quit. So once the opportunity presented itself you know we jumped right on. A friend of theirs had started going to a methadone clinic. Their friends mom would pick them on up on the way to the clinic too. Taking methadone eased their symptoms of withdrawal. Then about a month into treatment Susanne found out she was pregnant again. Her doctor told her that even though methadone is an opiate it would be safest for the pregnancy if she kept taking it.  He actually told me that if I did quit there was a good chance Id miscarry.  Yeah I mean the doctor said Far from quitting youll actually have to increase your methadone dosage while youre pregnant. He will be born addicted to methadone but you know they can wean him off.  What was it like to watch your newborn in withdrawal?  They made it sound like he wasnt going to have that bad of symptoms. But it was - it was - I mean he acted like it was painful to be touched. He cried a lot. He kind of shook. Its something that you dont want to see your baby go through.  When you found out you were pregnant when you are just starting to get clean and know you have so much work to do to rebuild your life did you discuss terminating the pregnancy?  No.  No we didnt.  Is - is that because of a philosophical or religious belief or it just didnt seem like something that was an option for you two?  I think it was just optimism that hey were finally getting our lives back on track. Like we didnt - we didnt get clean because she was pregnant. We just found out she was pregnant shortly after we got clean. So at that time - I mean I know I was looking at it like hey we can finally move on with our lives. I was excited about hey well actually have this baby and be able to raise him. Hes not going to go live with this person or that person like hell be with us and we can finally raise our baby and have our family together.  It made you feel hopeful.  Yeah. Im overly optimistic all the time but. Thats how I thought about it. Susanne and Mike got married while she was pregnant the third time ... and they say they havent used since.  Do you ever get urges now?  Nah. Maybe occasionally but not - not with any frequency. Id say like once or twice a year I might spend thirty seconds thinking about it.  I dont. I dont look back at that time with fondness at all.  Do you ever miss the feeling of numbness?  Not as much anymore. I think now Ive kind of loved too much to want to not feel that love anymore.  Has it been harder to rebuild than you thought it was going to be?  Yes. I didnt expect - I mean just so many little things. Like my grandma she would hide her things when Id go over there. My mom she would always keep her purse on her. And it was things that I didnt notice when I was getting high. But afterwards it was kind of hurtful because I had realized how much they had grown to distrust me. But at the same time I knew they had a reason to. And for me I had pinned so many of my problems on my addiction. In a really naive way I thought that once I quit my life would kind of fall back into place. But it didnt and I think - I didnt expect that. I thought everything was going to be all right. Susanne and Mike have had custody of their youngest son since he was born. They say he is healthy and hasnt shown any long-term health effects from the methadone exposure. Their older son has lived with them for the past four years. Susannes a stay at home mom. She says shes had trouble finding work. Both she and Mike have felonies on their records. They moved away from Texas to follow Mikes work repairing cell phone towers.  Theres really only a few places where ex-felons can make a decent good living. You can work on cell phone towers. You can work in the oil fields. I guess probably fishermen if you live close to the coast. So it is - I mean I have - The last year that I climbed towers I think I made 66000 that year. And I only worked nine months. So I mean there is - its a really good living.  And are you still doing that?  Except I got laid off two months ago.  Oh Im sorry.  Hopefully Im starting a new job doing the same thing Monday.  Oh really? What do you mean hopefully?  I mean I just got a text saying that theyre still waiting on some stuff from my background check to get cleared up. But Ive gone through all the application and offer and my projected start date right now is Monday.  You got a text while we were sitting here?  Yeah.  Does that worry you? Because your background is checkered.  Yeah. So... Im not exactly sure how theyre going to deal with that. I know - Ive been talking to the background check people. Fingers crossed that theyre not going to have a problem with my criminal history. Mike never did start that new job. He says theyre living off of savings and his 400 a week in unemployment. We ran our own background check to confirm their stories. They both have drug charges that align with the timeline they told me. Susanne got arrested for theft four times too. And thats when we learned that Mike is facing new criminal charges. Theyre not drug-related but for sexual abuse of a minor. Prosecutors say in the past two years he touched and sent sexual texts to a pre-teen girl. Finding this out was a disturbing shock. It made me reconsider everything theyd told me. Because I was rooting for them - and their relationship - after we talked. Their story of getting sober together after so many years of enabling each other's addictionsit gave me hope. But now I wondered if their hard-fought stability after so many years of chaos... was all an illusion. Let me be clearMike has not been convicted. He goes to trial in April if hes found guilty he faces years in prison. His pending criminal charges are public record but the identity of his alleged victim is not. When I found this out I called Mike and Susanne to ask about the charges against Mike.  I mean I guess if you have to say something then I would deny it. When Susanne took the phone she was less clear.  Im not really um I dont know. I dont know what to think honestly. She apologized for not telling us earlier about the charges. And she says its made her rethink their entire story too.  You know we went through all that stuff and I thought that kind of made us invincible. But now that all this is happening Im having to reevaluate all that. And its - it is hard. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein Hannah McCarthy and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter  annasale the show is  deathsexmoney. If you or someone you know is struggling with heroin addiction you can call the National Helpline for confidential free information about substance abuse. Their number is 800-662-HELP. And if you need support assistance or information about sexual abuse call the National Sexual Assault Hotline. Their number is 800-656-HOPE.  Do you think there were times when you shouldnt have been together?  Um yes I do.  There were definitely times when we wouldve been better off separate.  I actually look back on that a lot and I wonder if I wouldve gotten clean sooner. Because it seems like a lot of my relapses kind of happened after he had already relapsed. I dont want to blame him but.  Do you have a little bit of resentment?  No I dont. I think I - I think I probably did at one point in time. But now I kind of - I think what I did you know it was all my own fault. I couldve said no. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.