 To this day people talk about Dr. Brzezinski and Dr. Kissinger. But very rarely does anybody call me Dr. Albright. But I do have a better title Secretary of State or just plain Madeleine which is what I like. I like being called Madeleine. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. When I talked to Dr. Madeline Albright a few weeks ago she was at home alone Facetiming me from her book-lined library. Itd been five weeks since she left the house.  Has this been the longest period of time in your adult life when you have been physically mostly on your own?  Uh yes absolutely. Because um I am an extrovert and I seek out people uh and I am trying to learn to be an introvert and I am not doing very well. So this is not my normal way of operating.  Like what does it mean to not be doing very well? How does it how has it felt to be to feel confined at home for you as an extrovert?  I do love people and extroverts get their energy from people. And uh the truth is even though I have done an awful lot of Zooming it is different because you do not get the vibes. Madeleine Albright has had a long career of getting the vibes. Thats what diplomats do. She was of course the first woman secretary of state in the U.S. back in the Clinton administration. That was more than 20 years ago now when she was in her early 60s. Since then she is started a consulting firm then an investment firm taught at Georgetown and written books. Her latest is called Hell and Other Destinations. It is a surprisingly personal reflection on what was happening in her private life as she built her public career...and on all she is done since her stint as Secretary of State ended.  People ask me how I want to be remembered and I say I do not want to be remembered. I am still here.  Mmhm. For you in your eighties what is great about being in your eighties?  Um nothing.  Really?   No. I I find it very hard. Um I think that the only thing is that it does give you a certain perspective about um what uh life is like and I think that you can kind of um. Uh maybe get respect from people for your age. I I would prefer it is not my favorite activity being 80.  Yeah.  Uh because I always have been kind of 10 years older than everybody 'ecause it took me long to get started. Secretary Albright did not expect to get a late start to her career. She was planning to work in journalism when she graduated from Wellesley the private womens college in 1959.  Our commencement speaker was Neil McElroy who was then secretary of defense because his daughter was in our class. And even though we remember the speech slightly differently we all heard the following which is your main responsibility is to get married and raise interesting children. Um and kind of the fact that we did not walk out is a little you know uh telling about the time. Secretary Albright did get married just three days after that graduation ceremony. And despite her intentions she quickly found that her husbands careerwhich was also in newspaperstook precedence over her own.  He had a job with the Chicago Sun-Times and we were having dinner with his managing editor. And he looked at me and he said So what are you going to do honey? And I said I am going to work on a newspaper. And he said I do not think so. You cannot work on a paper uh the same paper as your husband because of labor regulations. And even though there were three other papers in Chicago at the time and he said and you would not want to compete with your husband so go find something else. So everything all of a sudden was different than I had thought. Um I did get a job which I liked at Encyclopedia Britannica. Uh and then later I got pregnant and we moved to New York. And so all of a sudden there was a very different picture. Um and I did find among my papers something that I wrote is that I felt obsolete. That all of a sudden these things that I thought I was going to be able to do I could not do.  I was struck by that in your book you you include an excerpt from that essay from 1961. It is the year your twins were born. And the sentence is Two years after finishing with college I am obsolete. Um. And I was struck that you wrote that you remembered it as a as a as a happy time and then you found this essay. Um do you remember the circumstances when you sat down and wrote that essay?  Well I do actually because it was interesting. Uh my former husband's aunt was a woman called Alicia Patterson who um had started Newsday and she was also asked to kind of do a series to to determine where women saw themselves at a particular time and she is the one that asked me to kind of think about what I was doing. I would see her fairly frequently. And I think I was trying to explain myself to her. I mean I did have you cannot imagine what it was like. I was not prepared for twins. Wow was it a lot of work. Um and then uh they had to wear bracelets so I could figure out who was who. And um you know and constant it took them each an hour to eat and they had to eat every three hours. And so there were various kind of frustrations and yet happiness and then trying to figure out what I was going to do next. So a combination. And I will tell you one of the things that did happen is I had to leave them in the hospital 'ecause they were premature. Um and I had always wanted to learn Russian. Uh and they were offering Russian at Hofstra University uh for eight hours a day for eight weeks. And I had to leave my twins in the hospital. So I took Russian and it made me think that I wanted to go back to school. So I was going through a number of different thoughts at the time.  I have never had twins. I have had two babies. Uh but I I am - I just want to underscore and underline that that while your children while you are while your new little babies were in the hospital after being six weeks premature you are postpartum you decide to take a Russian language class.  I watched a lot of Netflix. I was not -  Well I did watch I watched TV a lot while I was trying to make these children eat. So . But it was a combination of things. But um I have to tell you how different things were at that time. There were no such things as sonograms. So uh and I was fat. And I walked to the uh obstetrician and they would say You are fat. You cannot eat. So I went on a diet with this drink called Metrecal and drank a lot of coffee. When you think about that. And then I would go to the doctor and they would say I hear at least two heartbeats. So it was all very confusing.  So taking the Russian language course was a way for you to just be in control of something.  Right. And it was I was trying to figure out what I would do next having been - obviously journalism was not gonna work. So very early I kind of ran into some of the issues that come up for women as we want to be more involved in various issues around the world.  I also want to ask you you you have written about the stillbirth that you experienced between the births of your twins and your youngest daughter. Um at the time when you lost that child in childbirth was that something that you could grieve openly?  Um. I think that people knew and I did you know. And I was trying to figure out - it was a very peculiar time in terms of again and let me just say and it is very hard I think for people especially women to put yourself back to something um that was in a different era. I had um what I was told at that time again that I was fat that uh they uh they could by then there were some kind of sonograms and they could see that there was some problem. Uh and uh I went to see a doctor and I was I was told that there was probably something mentally wrong with the child. And so I went to see a doctor and I did think about um having an abortion. But I was told it was too late to have an abortion. So I was you know spent quite a lot of time kind of thinking what would happen if I did have this child and so I did the grieving earlier.  How uh how far along were you when you when you lost the pregnancy?  Well at about uh you know eight and a half months quite a long time.  Oh wow. Um how do you think about that now? How much do you think about that?  Well I think about it in terms of. Uh first of all I do have three fantastic daughters. Um I got pregnant with my youngest daughter after that. Um and um I think about the uh sadness in so many different ways. I think about it in terms of the the difficulty of choices that had to be made or could not be made or um what one knew about how you can have any control over your life. Before Secretary Albrights youngest daughter was born she went back to graduate school. She didnt finish her PhD until 1975 when her twins were teenagers and her youngest was in elementary school.  I was trying to figure out how to manage everything. And by the way I have always had help you know I had somebody that that worked for me that was kind of a general housekeeper. And so I have always had help. I do not pretend not to have had help. And so my hardship was organizing my time. And so that is when I got into the habit of getting up at five in the morning. To do the work on my PhD the research um or the writing of it the research I had to do uh in the library um early in the morning before the children got up. But I have always had help and I have never pretended to be able to do stuff by myself.  I want to move ahead to to when you were you were in your mid forties um and you got divorced and it was not your choice to get divorced. What do you remember in those first weeks and months feeling when you were realizing that you were going to be an unmarried woman again?  I there is no way to describe how stunned I was about all this. I had met my husband when I was in college. Um he was going through a lot of changes to do with his career. But I was completely and totally stunned when he decided. He just flat out said uh I am going to leave you. I am in love with somebody else. And and so it was the biggest shock that I think I have ever had. Totally unexpected. Uh and I felt um dumped. I mean I was dumped. And so um I think the question then was and and by the way I never was alone after I uh on the college on getting married um I actually was at Wellesley in my dorm room uh with friends until I got married and then I got married. And so I would never been alone. And I had gotten used to always we doing this or making decisions based on what my husband or children wanted. And all of a sudden I was supposed to have an independent life. Uh the children were pretty grown up. Um and just my youngest daughter was at home. And so uh it was very strange. Uh and it really taught me to become independent traveling by myself and trying to sort out how in my mid-forties to become a very different kind of person.  Do you remember anything from that time of like doing something that you would previously done with someone else that you were doing for the first time? And. And the nerves around that?  Well traveling abroad traveling abroad you know or actually and these are silly things like going to a restaurant and sitting there by yourself um or um. Uh the having to make a decision um that only had to do with you. I mean it was easier in some ways to make a decision where you have to consider others and then you make excuses about why you did not do something.  Mmhmm.   Um but I really do think the main thing was uh travel by myself.  Mmhm. And did you feel um you said you said I was dumped like you said that so frankly um did you how did you deal with the embarrassment of having the marriage end that way?  Um I um I did not think well I did not go around saying I was dumped. I think people knew I was dumped. Um and uh I did not think I had to explain it you know. Um I did - the part that is very hard for me to deal with at the moment is that I never would have become who I became if I had still been married. And it is not that a married woman cannot be secretary of state because we have had that. Uh it is mostly that I developed a set of skills uh and a uh determination um during that the '80s that made it possible for me to participate in a lot of different things. Um that then put me - by the way it never occurred to me that I would be secretary of state. Uh that was not part of anything that I thought was possible. Um and but I did in fact develop a way of operating of being able to say if I was asked to do something Yes I can do it and I can get it done on time. Um and a number of different things. So the '80s turned out in so many ways to be um determinative of who I became.  Was there a time where um you sort of looked up and realized like whoa this is really liberating. There is a relief here to not having to also be a wife along with doing all of these other things that I want to do.  No actually I do not think I ever did that. Because I liked being a wife there is no question. Uh I definitely liked being married and but I I did find it invigorating in ways of being able to to spend time on some of the other issues that I really cared about. So um I it is interesting because um I can talk about it looking back I cannot truly um give you exactly the kind of sentiments that I had. Probably a little up and down. Coming up Secretary Albright talks about all that happened in her life and career after that divorce and the coping skills she is using today that she learned from her parents when her family lived in London during World War II.  They could not control the bombs. They could only control their mood. And I cannot control the virus. I can only control my mood. And so I keep thinking okay it is not going to help if you think that you do not want to be here by yourself. Just do something.  Last week we shared a message with you from our listener Lindsay. Shes a nurse practitioner working in an ICU in New Jersey whos caring for COVID-19 patients. And she is struggling to give her patients what she considers to be a good death during this time. Many of you responded to Lindsays message. One listener Amy whose father is 92 and is hospitalized with  I wish for my father to have a 'good death' during this pandemic by being gifted small moments of being seen by others who dont know him but are tasked with caring for him. She added Little gestures may help him feel that his life matters up to the end. One listener Niamh from Ireland whose grandfather died from COVID without any family around him wrote I can tell you now that weeks on from his death having any record however small of the last few days or weeks of his life would be so comforting. And Lily sent this message in for Lindsay from Australia  The fact that you value giving these patients a good death is something that you should be very proud of yourself for. You are valuing life and more importantly you are valuing a good life. And I want to thank you for it. Were thinking a lot about the rituals we have around death and how we can honor and remember the people weve lost during this pandemic particularly as we cant gather together. So were collecting your memories and stories about your family friends and acquaintances who have died during this time. What is something about that person that you will never forget? What did you learn from them? What is a funny story about them you would like to remember? Record a voice memo and send it to this special inbox rememberingwnyc.org.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Secretary Madeleine Albright was nine years old when her family arrived in the United States in 1948 on a ship that docked at Ellis Island. Her father was a high-ranking diplomat from Czechoslovakia. They moved around during and after World War II. She arrived in the U.S. as a refugee.  All I ever uh through my parents and my life have thought about is foreign policy. There is no question about that. And that came with uh who I who I was growing up. My parents coming to America and all of that. And so I felt very strongly about um America's role in the world. It never occurred to me that I would get to sit behind a sign that said the United States. She got that opportunity when Bill Clinton became president. He named her U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations in 1993 after shed worked in Washington for more than a decade on Capitol Hill and in the White House. Then her name started being floated for Secretary of State in Clintons second term.  I talk about this as the period of great mentioning. So my name came up and uh the first uh comment was somebody said well a woman cannot be secretary of state because Arab leaders will not deal with a woman. And so what happened was the Arab ambassadors at the UN said well we have had no problems dealing with Ambassador Albright. We would not have any problems dealing with Secretary Albright.  And was that a campaign like did you have supporters of yours reach out and say can you say this to the press? Just so it is clear.  No. I mean I tried not to have a campaign frankly. It is possible that other people did on my behalf but I did not want to have a campaign.  Why not?  Well because I um it was not my style. There is no way I can describe to you how I thought it would not happen. So because then somebody at the White House and I never want to know who said yeah Madeleine's on the list but she is second tier.  Said that to the press.  Yeah. And so I do not know who it is. I do not want to know who it is but um. Secretary - at that time First Lady Clinton - and President Clinton and I would sometimes travel to foreign countries. And he said uh during this period um of when people - who was going to be secretary of state that Hillary would come to him and say why would not you name Madeleine? She um is closest to your views expresses them better than anybody else and besides it would make your mother happy. So that is the official story.  I want to ask you about the the the way in which you thought about how you did the job of being Secretary of State of the United States of America um being the first woman in that role. Um in particular I want to ask you about um how did you think about where to stand your ground and not change your mind whether publicly or in a meeting because it would be undermining your authority. Authority you needed to make sure you know you needed to make sure you were not going to be pushed around. Um but also sometimes you have to change your mind because you change your mind? So how did you think about sort of threading that needle?  Well let me just say that I made a big point when I was teaching in the '80s having been the only woman in the room before that of um and being and I I whenever I talk to any woman this rings true is you are in a meeting and you think to yourself um I am going to say something. And then you think no I will not say it it will sound stupid. And then some man says it and everybody thinks it is brilliant and you are mad at yourself for not saying anything. And so I invented a term of active listening and made it my mantra that women had to learn to interrupt. And if you are going to interrupt you have to know what you are talking about and have a strong voice. So when I went to Georgetown to teach I decided to tell my students what this was - and I had coed classes - that nobody could raise their hands and they had to interrupt. My classes were a bit of a zoo. But -  Huh.  I get to the UN and um the Security Council has 15 members on it and I am the only woman. And I am sitting there in one of an informal meeting not that big fancy room. And I think to myself on my first day there are 14 men sitting there looking at me. And I think hm maybe I will see if they like me and I will not say anything. And then I saw the sign United States in front of me and I thought if I do not speak today the voice of the United States will not be heard.  Do you have a particular interrupting style? Like do you say Hang on let me just let me just stop you there. Or like what is your what is the style that you developed as an interrupter?  Well it depends I mean at the UN at the UN um you have to raise your hand and you know you put up your placard. But the thing that I developed as a style once I was secretary of state I would travel abroad. Uh and um there is a certain way you do diplomacy. It is all kind of you know um warm and friendly when you come in no matter where you are. Um a lot of chatty about the weather and all kinds of things. And then you have what you are supposed to say. Uh and uh I if I were not getting anywhere I would say this I have come a long way and so I must be frank.  Ah.  And and I did always say uh what I thought. I did. Having done a lot of kind of diplomatic schmoozing ahead of time and knowing who I was talking to but I did. That was my method of interrupting.  I like that you can like visualize the colon after that sentence I must be frank... And you are like this is when you need to listen to me 'ecause I am telling you something important.  Exactly. Yeah.  Yeah. Um I like that. Um I was struck in your book you write about a conversation with the writer Gabriel Garcia Marquez um that you thought back on when you were writing your memoirs. And he said do not be angry. And it is advice you say you you you tried to take to not sort of have your memoirs be sour grapes. Um uh but I I wanted to sort of ask you if how - do you think there is a time whether in your personal life or in your career where anger was really useful to you?  Um. The truth is yes. But um and I I uh but let me go back on something. Can you imagine being friends with Gabriel Garcia Marquez?  No. When you just dropped that in I was like impressive!    I mean it was so great and you have to visualize this. I had met him at a state dinner and we started talking and then I had gone down to Cartagena. And I um was a real a groupie uh because I have all his books and uh and he was describing uh Love in the Time of Cholera which takes place in Cartagena. And he was leading me around telling me where everything was. And I I just it was just incredible. And that is when we had this conversation. But I have um there are times that anger is important. And and I think one of the times very specifically was to do with Serbia. Um my father was the Czechoslovak ambassador to Yugoslavia. And I go to meet Milosevic and he is doing the schmoozy part and then saying starting giving me the history of the Serbs. And I finally said um I know the history of the Serbs. You do not have to tell me the history of the Serbs. And I did get pretty angry there. Uh but I think that um one has to to the extent that one can be measured. Um overly being angry does not get you anywhere. Um you need to be firm but just flat out anger is not useful.  Did you have a period of anger after your divorce?  Um yes I did. Definitely. But angry is not my my main way of operating frankly.  How do you get out of it?  Well you decide that it is not getting you anywhere um that it just twists you around and this goes back to something that I said earlier. The only thing that one is in control of basically is one's mood. I am convinced of that. So anger is not might motivate you but it is not a good permanent condition.  Im curious in your life now does ambition feel different in your eighties? Is it does it feel like a different sort of fuel than it did when you were in your thirties and needing to prove yourself?  Um I um it is interesting. You are asking difficult questions in terms of um I was not sure I needed to uh I think I have always wanted to prove myself. I mean partially and you are gonna think I am crazy when I say this. I always wanted to please my father. I am the perfect daughter. Um you know and I was the oldest and um tried to always uh do whatever he w - I mean I he wrote a book on India and Pakistan over Kashmir and I did help to do the research for it. Uh he was interested in um how - things to do with Czechoslovakia. Um and he really was somebody that made a huge difference in my life. I did want to satisfy. And one of the things that does bother me at the moment um is that my book is trying to show how I have used my years after coming out of office um and doing a whole bunch of different things. And it did take me a long time to find my voice and I am not going to be quiet now. The part that I am finding hard all of a sudden is that because I am in my eighties and because of what is going on with the virus all of a sudden I am beginning to feel obsolete again. Uh and all of a sudden it is kind of strange that one's age uh in my case which I have been trying to fight against has become um a determinative factor. So Oh there is - and I and I thought about you know do I feel the way I did when I wrote that thing in '61 whether I feel obsolete again.  Mmhmm. It is interesting to me that it is been in the last you know five weeks that you have felt that that that it was the virus that said um life is different now. In terms of age.  Well because I have made it a point of uh kind of um uh um you know proving that um there are advantages in terms of one's knowledge um capabilities and um that one can use uh various periods of life in different ways. And so uh I have uh been uh I think you would agree fairly active and -  I would agree.   And that it is kind of come together. So um you know uh I have been fighting gravity. Thats what Ive been doing.  Thats former Secretary of State Madeleine Albright. Her new book is called Hell and Other Destinations. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im usually based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Thank you to Ayo Osobamiro for her help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. And there on Instagram you can see the special decorations my in-laws and daughters put up in this walk-in closet Im recording in when they heard I was interviewing Madeleine Albright in here. Thank you to Frank and Catherine Middleton for this wonderful closet. Our email address is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And SIGN UP for our newsletter! You can subscribe at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. And thank you to all of you who donated and became sustaining members of Death Sex  Money recently. We made our goal of 200 new sustaining members. Appu Byju in Auckland New Zealand is one of them. Its not too late to join Appu and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. Secretary Albright told me shes spending some of her quarantine time cleaning out her papers. Some of them will go to the Library of Congress but a lot of them are just things shes printed off of the internet for research.  Just junk frankly. I am trying to get things organized. Because my daughters have said to me if you leave all these papers when you are dead we will kill you. So I am trying to sort through those things. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.