Death Sex  Money interview with Jason Isbell and Amanda Shires  This transcript includes some curse words. Jason I had to go through a series of trials  Herculean trials before she would actually say that we were  that I was her boyfriend. It wasnt like we were playing the field it was just like she just didnt know she could trust me. Amanda Its hard to trust somebody whos out carousing every night you know? Even though he left awesome voicemails. This is... Death Sex and Money. Its the show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Jason Isbell and Amanda Shires have been married for a year hes been sober for two. Jasons a musician  he got his start with the Southern rock band DriveBy Truckers after playing in bars as a teenager when he was growing up in Muscle Shoals Alabama. Jason and Amanda both put out solo albums last year and Jasons album called Southeastern hit it really big. A lot of the songs deal with his addiction and getting sober and how their love helped him through it. Now Jasons gotten a lot of media attention through all this but I wanted to talk to both him and Amanda about what its been like to go through this as a couple. Because even when theres really good and exciting change in a relationship it can take some adjusting. Jason and Amanda showed up in matching black leather jackets. She wore a lowcut brown lace shirt under hers. For Jason it was a black buttondown. His hair was slicked back hair...very Johnny Cash. They looked like they fit together. How would you describe this first year of marriage that youve had together? Jason I think we did a great job we got along for a large part of it and we dont have the same arguments at the end of the first year that we had at the beginning of the first year. And I think thats important. I think for anything to be successful your problems have to become different problems over time. What did you argue about when you first married that now youre sort of over? Jason Trust. Trust we didnt know each other very well. And I was a philanderer in a past life so it was hard for her to trust me. That I was actually going to stick around and wasnt gonna make a fool of her. I wasnt an easy person to trust because I hadnt been sober very long. I felt like hadnt been a grownup very long at that point. But I was determined. Would you put it the same way? Amanda Yeah I would say trust too cus he pretended like he put his trust more than he did. I think. All this technology and stuff its easy to develop a new relationship if you wanted to with somebody else. But we got over that. Jason Yeah it was scary for me. Im probably more than a little bit neurotic about certain personal things and one of them is the fact that it really is so easyI mean years ago if somebody called there was one phone in the house and there was all these songs about nobody calling and hanging up as soon as the wife asks who it is. And there arent those songs anymore because you can get in touch with that nobody so quickly and so easily. And that did terrify me. And also it was probably something that I had superimposedwhats the word for your own concern that you put on somebody? Amanda Projecting. Jason Projecting yeah I was probably doing that in a way too. Because I had been such a dog for so long I probably just sort of expected everybody would be that way but thats not the case. MUSIC  Different Days Projecting Amanda broke into say. I love that moment because it shows how they work as a couple. Jason talks a lot more than Amanda does but when she breaks in its really telling. You get the sense that shes the one thats drawn a lot of the lines in their relationship. What prompted rehab? Amanda He needed help and he told me one night after we were drinking that he wanted to quit drinking. I was like alright! He wasnt the person who could just stop drinking. I remember him trying a couple days in a row. Or a day in a row trying not to drink after he woke up. There are physical signs you know like shaking and all the things like that. A few nights later he said the same thing. He was upset he said I cant do it by myself. Well alright you dont get to just say over and over that this is what youre gonna do. So I texted a couple of his friends and in the night while I was looking up rehab things and numbers and I emailed his manager about it to help sort of facilitate going to rehab. And the last night before because I think he knew he was going to go to rehab he wanted to do every drug drink every thing drink the moonshine all the late night stuff it was crazy. It started out like a cool night you know and ended up being the worst night ever ever ever ever. At that point I was not having any more to do with him. Because I was so mad the next morning. MUSIC  Bulletproof Amanda Then he was in rehab and he was writing letters because they dont let you talk on the phone. He said nice and sweet things like wait to see the progress and all this kind of stuff. Drew pictures. And I was swayed to see the progress. But when he went to rehab you were angry from that last night. Amanda Oh hell yeah. During that period was it your impression that your relationship was in jeopardy? Jason I knew it was in jeopardy but Id been after her for a long time. A long time. And I never allowed failure to be an option really. Im competitive in a lot of things too many things really and in that particular area I just had set in my mind this is gonna work out whatever I have to do whatever I have to say this is gonna work out. So as nervous as I was and as scared as I was that she might not be there when I got out I still was looking for a way to make it work out. And focusing a lot of energy on that. And some part of me thought it would be alright. But I didnt know for sure. Amanda Early on I didnt understand his drinking problem you know early on its like Im good at going out partying getting drunk occasionally whatever. But after a while I realized it was a real problem. And for the rest of my life I didnt want to invest in somebody that Jason That might not be around for very long. Amanda That or how sad it would be to watch somebody with so much talent just throw it all away. Were you sober before you moved in together? Jason Yeah I got sober right before that. Because when I went to rehab I still had that house in Alabama that apartment in Alabama. Amanda Right because his house was above a bar. Jason Yeah. Amanda You know I wasnt gonna move to Alabama. And we found a place in Nashville that we liked. Did you feel ready to move in together was part of you worried that rehab wouldnt take? Amanda Mmhm. I mean its something you pay attention to every day. For him its something he has to choose to do every day keep making good decisions. Yes then I was a little worried but also I was prepared to be there for him cus he was trying you know. Jason Shes good at taking care of people who need it but dont necessarily deserve it. Amanda Thats not true. Jason Its true! I mean I dont know what people deserve. But I do feel like you do have a good knack for strays. Amanda I dont know. Jason You put up with more than you should have I think before I got sober. But Im glad you did clearly. I just couldnt have asked that much from you. It was surprising to me in hindsight that the relationship didnt end sooner. Was the place you decided to move in together was it like a were gonna buy a couch together kind of move in and were gonna open joint checking accounts kind of move in? Amanda Nuhuh it was sort of like we just found a duplex. Which we live in now. I put my stuff in there he put his stuff in there and our stuff got along pretty good. And then a few months later we bought a couch. Jason Yeah we did buy a couch. A really wide couch. Cus when we get home and were not working its our favorite thing to watch movies on the couch. And we couldnt both fit on the couch that we had before so we had to get a bigger couch. Amanda I still believe in having our own money. Jason Our own cars our own money. So even after marriage your finances are separate? Jason We have the same accountant but our finances are separate. She had her own credit cards and I have mine. Things like that. My impression is that in the last year youre probably earning a lot more money than you were before. Amanda He is Im not. My record didnt do as well as his. Thats just the truth of it. But I am glad that hes doing a lot better. Jason Youre not doing bad. You made a good amount of money. Amanda Yeah I make a good amount. Jason But I had a windfall you know. I own the record and it did pretty well didnt go through a major label just went through a distribution company. And so yeah I got lucky with that got real fortunate with it. I dont think its changed a whole lot for us. Were looking for a house. Were looking at houses after we leave here. So we were talking in a Nashville studio right in the middle of a classic country music right of passage. When the hit leads to a new house. But for Jason and Amanda the must-haves were not very rock n roll. Amanda I would like to live in a place that doesnt have a carpet. Thats what I want. I have allergies I dont want any carpet. Id like it to have a door that locks. Jason She needs a bigger bathroom. The place were in right now we each have our own bathroom. But theyre both kind of like hotel sized bathrooms. Like Holiday Inn Express sized bathrooms. Amanda Mines smaller than that mines the size of a closet. Which is fine. Jason Youve got a Ramada bathroom. Minus the handcuffs somebody left in there. Yeah you need a bigger bathroom. You need a bigger bathroom. Amanda And there has to be trees cause I like to watch the birds. Jason Shes a birder. So a yard? Amanda No it doesnt have to have a yard. It has to have a tree. Jason I need enough room to eventually throw a baseball with a child thats all the yard I need. Thats all I want. Amanda Hm-mm. How do you talk about kids when youre touring musicians? Jason Well figure out a way. I mean how many people in history have had children and its turns out alright. If that many idiots can have a kid and not screw it up too bad I think we can pull it off no matter what our schedule looks like. Amanda For me with kids its a lot of different thoughts that go into it because generally when a woman has a child the child is always left to the woman you know? Or the lady or whatever. The guy can go off and go touring go galavanting around the world. Jason Wifes from Texas shes from Texas. Amanda But you know I understand theres sacrifice and everything but Im still a selfish person. I still want my own career I want my own freedom and time. I want theI feel like if I do have a child its something Ill be very involved in. I know I will be. But I think it should be like a coparenting or shared parenting thing. Im not sure what exactly that means but we dont have to figure it out today so well worry about it out later. Jason We cant share the first part we cant share the first part. I mean yeah Ill be there until the babys or Im gone from the earth Ill take care of it Im not gonna screw up on that responsibility. But at the same time that motherly instinct when its combating the desire to be your own individual person for a woman I cant even weigh in on that. Thats just incredibly difficult for me to even wrap my head around. So the timeline and the logistics of kids...thats something for the future Jason and Amanda. For now these two traveling musicians are also figuring out how to deal with a long-distance marriage. Jason I dont think you had any reservations about saying This is what I need from somebody. Amanda Yeah. Jason This has always been for you. And this is what I dont need. The temptations of the road and the challenges of communicating. Thats all coming up. But before we get to that I want to thank you for making our new podcast feel so welcome in the world! We launched earlier this month and we heard from so many of you. Really nice tweets and emails questions for future shows to explore  and STORIES you shared. So many stories. We got lots of notes about the episode about my love life  and the help I got from former Sen. Alan Simpson and his wife Ann. A listener from Texas wrote in whos also divorced and in her 30s. when you said you were afraid of wasting time well YES. Honestly just typing that out was so hard for me that I cannot even read it back without flinching. Anthea wrote on twitter It made me wish there was a collection of Congressional wife interviews about times they disagreed about policy with their partners. YES! And a lot of you related to particulars of my breakup with Arthur. Heres Brady Dale whos girlfriend of five years just moved out...not because they were fighting a lot but because they had a different timeline for settling down. I think its a little easier if theres some explosion if it all comes down to that. Theres no Screw them! in the story theres no anger or vitriol at all. So I guess it is a little bit harder to wrap it up in your mind if theres nothing to be mad about. So keep these stories coming. Its made us even more exciting to keep making this show. Write to us any time at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. BREAK This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale  Im talking to musicians Jason Isbell and Amanda Shires about their marriage. Their wedding was in February of last year. Jason I just wanted to have a party that all our friends could come to that said Hey look were a thing. Were permanent. Amanda I like the commitment part of it. It somehow being attached to something bigger. Its the same as before the words changed. Amanda I want to ask you how youve navigated being Jasons wife. You had an album that came out last summer. One thing I noticed thats interesting youon Twitter youre Amanda Isbell. And on your record youre Amanda Shires. How do you think about your wife identity and your professional identity? Amanda Thats something Im still thinking on you know? On Twitter I changed my name to Amanda Isbell because I was still getting some unwanted messages and things and I thought that would help for people that still didnt get it. He put a ring on it! Amanda Yeah exactly! And then you know Amanda Shires has always been my name. So I dont know I might be Amanda Shires Isbell. Being married to somebody doesnt change your art. I can change your topics but it doesnt change what youre in the world to do. Have there been moments where you felt competitive? Amanda Nope Im not competitive at all. Im not competitive. Because he doesnt have a vagina. My problems and my thoughts are all from a womans perspective you cant compete with that. Or without that. So I guess thats part of why Ive not felt competitive because I understand the different places were in and the differenthes a white dude. You do different things. Amanda Yeah. Jason Coming from a different angle yeah. Music  Like a Bird As your professional lives have changed over the year I just imagine that theres a lot of pressure when youre together because you know youre going to part again. How do you balance checking in saying Oh my gosh this happened saying this felt this way this felt this way with just going on a date? Jason Im bad at it Im bad at it. I have modes mental modes that I get in and when Im on the road I focus very much on doing the work. On playing the show on being good every night. And part of me just gets switched off. The part thats very private and very personal and very intimate. That especially that part of me gets shut off. So Ive been trying really hard in the last few months to call that part back up when were checking in with each other when were on the phone to actuallycus she feels like shes talking to a robot sometimes and I understand that you know. I say Well I did this I did that I did this now I gotta go do soundcheck. Well thats not enough for somebody whos missing you you know. And its not that I dont miss her just as much I just have a set of techniques that I use to keep myself from going out and drinking again. Or to keep myself from getting exhausted on the road. Or whatever. And I need to learn how to navigate those things and still be personal. I think thats not just a touring musician. I think a lot of boyfriends and husbands and partners have that when they checking in with their partners. Amanda Yeah probably. Its a lot like aI dont know. Its more like a list conversation rather than a conversation conversation. Jason A lot of the world turns into checklists for me when Im on the road. Like ok this persons alive this persons fed this persons good. Soundcheck is done. Everything becomes a checklist except for the actual show. Amanda tell me about the year you said something thats happened over the last years youve built trust. How do you build trust when your husband is a touring musician? Because you know what comes with that in a lot of cases. Amanda Oh I do Ive seen it myself with other people and everything. I think in my mind sometimes just ask him or say have you been talking to any women? Youve been on your goddamn phone a lot. Then some days Im like whatever he does I have no control over his actions. And whatever he does or does not do its no reflection on me. Its the choices he makes. Hopefully were in a place where we communicate well enough to know if were having problems or not so one of us doesnt go looking for something that were not getting from somebody else. Because thats usually what it is. Jason Yeah thats the trick communicating like that. Saying it. Amanda You cant steal somebody from somebody. You cant. They go its their choice. Everybody makes a choice. You know when you cross the line. I dont know I just trust him. Jason We dont ignore it the fact that there are other people vying for our attention. And that when youre on the road it makes it easier to think you can get away with stuff like that. We discuss it. If somebodys worried we talk about it. And usually if you name something it becomes a lot less difficult to defeat. And so when you get asked Jason have you been talking to women do you feel defensive or do you feel Oh were probably due for a visit? Jason Usually no I dont feel defensive because its regular. Its a regular thing. Its almost every day that we say that. Have you been talking to anybody got any new boyfriends? Amanda Got any new boyfriends? Anybody interesting you? Jason Yeah. Amanda And you just say yeah yeah Ive been talking to this person about whatever. But you should be able to have friends. Jason Yeah thats another thing too because its hard for me to not be possessive and I dont want to be possessive you know. The family I come from is kind of old school about things. I dont want it be uneven. I dont want to be the man from Alabama whos in charge of his wife from Texas. I dont want it to be that way. I want it to be not possessive at all. I think if you really trust somebody they should be able to have whatever friends they want to have. But I think the trick is talk about it. If something happens if something is gonna happen its going to happen. You can choose to trust somebody or not. If you think you found somebody trustworthy theres a better chance youre not gonna get stomped on. But at the end of the day you have to understand that yes somewhere down the line you might get your heart broken. You know if youre a grownup it wont kill you. Amanda Sometimes it helps me to say it right out or say it in my brain Ill feel so bad for you if you fuck this up. Jason She does say that. Feel so bad for you. Amanda Ill say it like three times. Helps a lot! Jason That says a lot about her right there because I believe it I know its a taunt but I believe should would indeedif she had to kick me out she would feel bad for me. She would feel pity which is not Jason She would. Its not what you want no. But she would she would really feel bad for me. Not for having to kick me out. Just for my general situation. Music  Cover Me Up Do you have a daily practice of being sober? Is there like a ritual for you? Jason No not really. I have certain things that I do when I want to drink. Usually the first thing I do is tell her I want to drink. Im not gonna have one so Im not telling you this so youll be on guard. Im telling you this to say it out loud. Amanda When you do that it winds up being that we talk about why that is. For me its cool I like to know what and when and why and then Im just glad to be a part of it. Im proud of you. Jason Thank you. Have you talked about that not only the story of your sobriety but your love story has become so much a part of your public personas that its in your musichow much you love each other. And your story of your redemption through that love. Is that scary to be so much public of what your public profile is? Jason Yeah but its supposed to be. Things you write that are that personal theyre supposed to scare you. Its scary to me that keeping a relationship together these days is as difficult as it is. Theres so many avenues so many ways out. But the last thing Im gonna worry about if she and I ever split up is being fucking embarrassed at what the fans are gonna think. Who cares? If I have another drink and then I have a hundred more the last thing Im gonna worry about is Oh my god what are they gonna think I told them all I was soberI dont care about that. Im gonna have a lot of picking myself up to do if either of those things happened. Thats not gonna involve other peoples opinion. Amanda Yeah I like to be cheesy a little bit I just hope that love can be a little bit more contagious. Jason There you go. Amanda Its nice to be able to relate to people that experience similar problems. Jason Yeah Im totally with that if it helps anybody Theres probably some dude that thinks hes unlovable somewhere and drunk and laying in his own piss and thinking oh that pretty girl next door shell never have anything to do with me. Thats not always true. If it causes people to come to us or even just think about it in the back of their mind that theres some kind of connection then its worth telling your secrets. Amanda Amen. Thats Jason Isbell and Amanda Shires. Theyre touring all over the place this summer...and Amandas opening for him for a 3night stand at Nashvilles historic Ryman Auditorium in October. Death Sex and Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Emily Botein James Ramsay Chris Bannon Bill ONeill and Jim Briggs. THE Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Thanks also to Traci Thomas Spotland Productions in Nashville and WNRN in Charlottesville. We want to know what stories about death sex  money you want to hear. Find us on Facebook our website is deathsexmoney.org. And Im on twitter annasale. If you liked this episode how about subscribing on iTunes...and share with you like. Together well get the whole world talking about death sex  money. In the next episode the story of a woman who found herself divorced and desperate to have a child in her late 30s  a dear friend who is gay volunteered to help out. Lucy But then it was hard to get pregnant so it took us three years from when we said we were going to have a baby to actually having a baby. And we wound up getting married. So it went from Yeah were friends and I know you want this Lucy so okay Ill help you out to really both of us being a unit. And a family. Im Anna Sale. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.