 As a kid I think I thought like 40 was like your like big age like your adult age where you know stuff and like taking inventory of what I know and can do at this age Im like Ooh I wish I had learned more so I would feel more grown up. But like my body has been falling apart since like forever. So all of that stuff feels right. Like my knees have been hurting. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. The day before I called writer Samantha Irby shed found out her newest book a collection of comedic essays called Wow No Thank You had topped The New York Times bestseller list.  I was talking to my agent yesterday like he called to congratulate me and I was like I gotta hurry up and put together like six more book pitches so we can ride this wave.  I do not know if this is going to happen again. Sams writing first got notice on her blog Bitches Gotta Eat. Her first book Meaty came out in 2013. Shes been working with Abbi Jacobson of Broad City on a TV version of it. And shes also written on the shows Shrill and Work in Progress two shows that I think are really good. These days Sam who is now 40 lives in Kalamazoo Michigan with her wife Kirsten and Kirstens two teenage sons. And calling her at home while she is in isolation was a really fun way to spend a morning. She told mefor herthis time of quarantine doesnt feel that unusual.  My general routine is like get up and wander around the house and try not to uh let any outside air touch me. And  its its the same! Its I truly was built for these times. I have an inside job that is not really a job that I can do whenever. Um and I have filled my house with things that I like like books and screens um and cozy clothes. So theno my routine has not changed that much.  Has has all of you being at home during this time has it led to any kind of change in the division of labor in your household?  Um oh I gotta be honest because uh my wife is currently I am looking out the window at her uh dragging the uh recycling bins in from the sidewalk  and uh no she does the most stuff. I will - I cook I do some cleaning and the kids when they are here they split their time between our house and their dad's house. When they are here they do absolutely zero jobs because like when a kid does something you just have to do it over or you have to you have to stand there and watch them to make sure they do it right. So that is like a double job. You may as well just do it. You know what I mean?  Does your house how different does your house feel when when your wife's kids are not with in the house and when they are in the house?  Now that they are sullen teens um it is almost like they are not here because they are like TikTok-ing or like playing music in the basement or like watching TV in the basement. There is almost no difference except at meal time when like you have to cook three times what you would normally cook. Um have you ever tried to feed a child? Jesus oh my God. We had to join Costco. This was the year we had to join Costco because it was like well I will tell you what it was. I bought some fancy cheese and there was a friends over day in which you know these savages ate like all of my overpriced cheese. And I was like listen the string cheese from Target was right there. Why did you why did you eat like my special Gouda or whatever it was?  Has living with teenagers made you think about your own teenage self in a different way at all?  No. Well no I do I do like I think have more patience than I would have expected. Because I very easily can like tap right back into my 13-year-old misery. And like feeling how I felt just sort of overwhelmed and like I was not getting anything right. Everything is hard even when like from the outside it does not look that hard. Uh I I do have to resist being like you know do you know how I grew up? Do you know what I did not have? You know like I do not want to be that person. Also they do not care. I mean they would just like walk away and be like shut up. Um but   Youd youd get all going on your speech and they would not even care.  Yeah. They would be like We get it! You were poor. Great we see youre black. Great. Bye shut up. Sam grew up in Evanston Illinois an affluent suburb outside Chicago but her family didnt have a lot of money. Her dad struggled with alcoholism and was in and out of her life. Sam lived mostly with her mom who had multiple sclerosis.  We were living together um in this like really crappy apartment and like she could not afford for us to have a phone. When you are a kid like having a challenging life the the sort of mundane teenage stuff you do not just forget about that. Like it does you are not like absolved of that. So no one's like Hey your mom's dying. We are not going to tease you about not having the right shoes or like Your mom's dying you are not going to have crushes on people who do not like you back or you are We are going to let the fact that you did not do your homework slide right? So all the teenage uh movie stuff all of the crushes and the cliques and the this and the that you have to - I was going through all that stuff while also coming home to this woman who was like rapidly decaying and could not take care of herself and certainly could not take care of me. Like going into high school and kind of navigating all of that stuff and trying to keep it together in school while also like coming home and having the insane responsibility of living with a person who could not take care of herself. Especially because like I truly could not like let go of the Hey I want to make a tape for this person cause I like him. Like I was I had no - you know like you want to think that kids are like super can be super serious and maybe some people can be super serious and like cast aside all of your childish things and like focus on you know changing your mother's like bed pan or whatever. That was not me. Like I did all the bedpan stuff but I also was like I cannot believe that uh this boy whose locker I slipped a note in has not written me back.  Yeah. Well thank god you made those mix tapes because it  I know.  you are writing about them 25 years later right?  It really like had an uh a lasting impact on me.  I was also born in 1980 and so I think there were probably moments of time when both of us were laying on a bedroom floor listening to CDs.  Yes.  And doing the press and record and stop. Yeah.  Do you remember I mean do you remember when like when Mazzy Star came out  Oh!  And it was just like boy I am just gonna like this is my personality now. Like laying down and feeling forlorn while listening to this music is my identity. Oh my God. Well I feel like as you know as like weird as I feel about some aspects of my childhood I do think that like growing up when we did was just like an amazing time for sulky teenage-ness especially as a girl.  Yeah it made it like it was it was like cool and maybe even a little sexy to be sad in moments in some of that.  Oh oh yes. I was like oh my God this is it. I do not have to be happy. I can be miserable and like I will I will feel like an artist rather than like a loser. Coming up Sam talks about the deaths of both her parents and how finding a job at a bakery helped her work through her grief.  Like from TV you think it is like you know somebody like sitting depressed and not eating uh for months and then until they like emerge from a cocoon um like all healed. I certainly did not have that kind of thing. I probably grieved with like cake scraps and uh frosting and like day-old danishes or whatever. Um but like working all the time like really I think helped me get at least like get my life started.  Weve been asking you about this time of physical disconnection. Lack of touch lack of proximity to so many people we love and how you are noticing all that in your life and your relationships. We are gathering your stories along with the podcast Love  Radio and one thing weve heard so far is how the suddenness of this break from the normal has complicated and changed already complicated things. A listener named Caitlyn who is 29 and lives in Boston was living with her partner when they broke up a couple months ago. So now...  We are both living together working from home together in a two bedroom apartment thats like 500-600 square feet. And Caitlyn says thats making her new online dating ventures definitely feel awkward.  Everybody wants to have conversation and talk on FaceTime WhatsApp Messenger which also makes it super difficult to have a conversation while also being sensitive to you know my ex-partner being in same room as me in the same house and you know trying not to put it in his face too much I guess you could say that. So just chaos all over! But you also told us virtual dating isnt all chaos. We heard from a listener Nico in Toronto who just before everything shut down had an incredible second date that ended back his place. We havent seen each other since but it wasnt a one night stand he wrote. They are now getting to know each other over long conversations on Zoom because they are denied the lusty physical intimacy that we would surely be enjoying. I have a call in 5 minutes he wrote and Im really looking forward to it. Share your story about relationships and intimacy with us and Love  Radio for an upcoming episode. Write us an email or record a voice memo and send it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And we are tracking all of the different ways you are experiencing this strange stressful uncertain time in our newsletter. If you are not getting it yet subscribe at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. After high school Samantha Irby enrolled at Northern Illinois University and her first year was really tough.  My dad died in February of '98 so we had winter break came back to school. I turned 18 on February 13th and my dad was found dead the next day. And then I had a like a little bit of a - a breakdown. I just was so overwhelmed. 'ecause like you know it was on me to like pick the funeral stuff and you know it just it was a it was a lot. And I started seeing a therapist and I got on Prozac and then that felt a little better but I did not take any like real time to grieve. Sam got through that first year of school and that summer she got a job at a local bakery. Then Sams mother died.  My mom died like a month after I started and I was like settled in the job and I really liked it. They were good to me. And that was part of the decision to like to not go back to school is I was like oh I like it here. They pay me on time. Uh why not just stay? And so I stayed and worked there for three years.  Were you aware of that at the time that you needed space to take all this in?  It sort of like hit me then that like you cannot just keep going you know and like and I knew that I could keep working right? 'ecause you know you I am taking cake orders and like boxing up cookies like that that I could do. But I was like figuring out loan stuff and getting back and forth to school and then trying to learnthat I cannot do. And so I think I worked through the grief and it is I would not recommend it for anyone else but it worked for me. It felt good to have a purpose and to be making money and like you know trying to get an apartment and like have a real grown up life. Like 'ecause it I mean it truly there is no better way to feel like you gotta grow up then for your parents to uh be gone. Um so I do not know that II did not do any traditional I mean what is traditional grieving right?  Yeah.  And I do not ever mean to say any of this stuff um callously because everyone like processes death and their parental stuff differently. But like growing up my entire life I had old sick parents and like I never had a break from that and from them. And so like when they died it was like they they both died in like sad ways and probably not how you would like to see your parent finish their life. But there was like a relief too. I do not even think I got to really have a childhood. Um and so like once they died it was like I grieved but I also was like Ooo-kay. You know?  Yeah.  Like I can take a breath without worrying about you know my my homeless dad or my mom you know in her wheelchair like leaving the nursing home to go like get cigarettes at the gas station down the street. It was like oh I can just like think about me for a change.  I mean a bakery sounds like a wonderful place to be when you are rebuilding. It is happy to be in a bakery.  Yeah.  It is productive like its -  Yeah. Yes.  Yeah.  Yeah and its it everything is like clockwork. I mean the assembly line of it all is very helpful you know because it is it truly is like this gets made at this time these orders go out at this time this wedding cake gets delivered then and so and it truly was like I do not mind at all being like a cog in the wheel of of a thing bigger than me. It was not as like Hallmark movie as uh as you would think. Like any sort of food service is like low-key disgusting  and  Yeah.  Uh and like customer service is you know like the tenth circle of hell. So it like it I did like get yelled at sometimes about things where I was like Are we still just like talking about croissants? But for the most part it was great. Sam never went back to school. She stayed at the bakery for three years and eventually she started her writing career by blogging and doing readings and comedy shows in Chicago. Even as her profile rose and she started publishing books Sam kept a day job. For 14 years she worked in reception at a veterinary hospital. She didnt quit that until 2016 when she got married and left Chicago for Michigan to live with her wife.  Was it hard to step away from having a steady paycheck?  Yes I think about it every day. Um I do not like I mean when you start working at 18 and it is just every other week I get a paycheck. Every other week I know where my money comes from. I know how to budget for that. I know that unless something calamitous happens to me I will have this money and be taken care of. I do not like this feeling of uncertainty.  Uh huh.  Like once every other week I do well at least before the pandemic hit I am like I need to go get a job application at Walgreens or something. I just do not trust this very fickle lifestyle that I have chosen. And I refuse refuse can I tell you RE-FUSE. Spell it out. I refuse to do that like desperate thing where you can tell like somebodys career is like kind of over and but they are like you know scraping and scrabbling to try to like stay relevant and try to keep selling things. The minute this feels like it is over I am going to be bagging groceries or like working at the gas station or working in another animal hospital. Like whatever my limited skills will allow me to do I will be right back there doing that 'ecause I am not so desperate to keep doing this that I would ever embarrass myself to do it.  Will will you tell me why why is pride like why is that so when it comes to a creative your creative work you are like I am not going to scramble but when it comes to earning money to take care of yourself you do what you have to do?  I I mean for me there is like no shame in any sort of like rote uh hourly work. Um I have like extreme secondhand embarrassment sometimes and I do not want nothing to me is more humiliating then watching people trying to I mean all of this stuff has a shelf life right? I mean the personal essay from a 40-year-old like perimenopausal gross out lady I do not know how long people are going to want that. I assume not much longer. So I gotta be ready for the day my agent is like No bitch we could not sell it. And then that day I will gracefully bow out. Also I have the kind of friends who everyone needs who will roast me mercilessly if they see me doing something that looks like desperate and tragic.  Uh huh. Im glad you brought up friends because I I was really um I really connected to what you wrote about the difficulty of of making new friends at this stage of life. So you are all of a sudden you are married you are living in a state where you have not lived before in a community where you have not lived before um do you feel like you have a community of friends now there?  I feel like I have my wife's friends who I can call my friends and I feel like um... like like they are not just humoring me you know? Like they actually like me and want to be my friend too. But I do not have like an established community yet. You know I do not have my like place I go that is only mine and my friends that are only mine but I uh I do feel like at home here now for the most part.  You live in a house with the other people are all white. Um  Yeah.  Who who do you call when you need to talk about living in a house with all white people?  Well my so this is so funny that you are asking me that because my friend Cara who is black and married to a w a white man texted me yesterday and was like Uh can we jump on the phone to complain about these white people? But her com it was not truly a complaint. Um she wanted to tell me how much her credit score had improved  since being with her husband. God let me tell you having I mean I dunno if it is her whiteness but like having a wife who like has perfect credit and you know has not had to you know has a loving family um that took care of her it like seeing the differences in how we are based on those things is like incredible! We went to lease a car well we were going to get a different car but we ended up getting a lease and like watching how they just fling the doors open for this person with her immaculate credit is like I it is like man we do not even have a fucking chance! I mean its just like how how do you compete how do you compete with that? You do not even know what life on the other side is like until you get a front row seat. Um all of these bootstrap narratives that we get as marginalized poor people it is like no one tells you that truly other people are starting on second base if not third if not already at home plate until like you are an adult and you have already been like disenfranchised by how life is kicking your ass. Like I felt for a long time felt so bad that I did not that I could not like tough it out and get a degree or I could not like hang in there and do this or that. And it is like well no I could not do those things because uh I started on a you know I started outside the stadium let alone on any of the bases. So there is like a limit on what you can do and I am realistic about what I am capable of and what is available to me and I rarely give myself a hard time about accomplishments because of it.  Hm. When you made the decision to get married to your wife and you thought about what your life would be like together what was exciting to you about how your life would change with her?  Um okay. Here I am going to say one terrible thing and uh and then a good thing.  So - Im a shithead. I am so sorry. Okay so the first thing I was genuinely excited about the chance like the opportunity to kind of leave my life right? As much as I love my friends and love Chicago um it was getting harder and harder to say no to all the stuff people wanted me to do. Uh and now being two states away that is an automatic no. I cannot do your show for free at 11pm on a Tuesday night because I live in Michigan rather than  rather you know what I mean?  Yeah.  And it like feels exciting to move and change your life right? Um and the exciting thing about being uh about like getting married to her is it is nice to have a cozy life with someone. This is gonna sound funny but I mean it it it is truly I do not know that exciting is the right word but it is very cool to be with someone who is like invested in all the like homesteading kind of stuff. You know like canning her little tomatoes and making her jams and her pickled vegetables. Like I am not going to eat that shit but it is very cool to to see someone who knows how to do all of that stuff. It is like a thing I was like really uh really ready to get into you know like my years of eating Chinese food over the sink I was ready to experience this kind of pioneer woman uh life. I am sure she is upstairs now like fuck you I cook with those tomatoes all the time stupid.  Well I you know what hear- like now thinking about her pushing the recycling bin outside the window like which you described at the beginning of our conversation like your whole your you know from from being a teenager up to when you were in your mid-thirties like you were taking care of taking care of things for other people.  Yes.  And so I love like to think about that you get to live in a house right now where you do not have to push the recycling bin to the curb -  Yes.  is wonderful.  It is its ver it is very cool. I do trade I will say that the trade off is you know I made some book money and paid off her debt and like -  You are like I do do some stuff.  But you know I got a little royalties and was like let me Let me take care of that the rest of that college loan that you mostly paid off or even you know I buy her a lot of shirts and stuff. So that thats gotta count for something.  This bitch is going to kill me in my sleep.  When I listen if I end up murdered tonight you know who did it. That is Samantha Irby. Her new book is called Wow No Thank You. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im usually based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Ayo Osobamiro who is ending her time with us this week. Thank you for all your work on the show Ayo... especially during such a weird time. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Twitter Facebook and Instagram. Our email is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. And thanks to Sharon Preda in Toronto whos a sustaining member of Death Sex  Money. Join Sharon and support what we do here by going to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. And if you missed it in our last episode we answered some of your questions about student loans right now in a special collaboration with NPRs Life Kit podcast. Sam told me when she thinks about it now she feels just fine having left college without a degree and without owing a lot of money.  For me it was like okay I am I want to have like a door I can lock where only I live there. And like maybe I have cable and like a decent TV and I can like order a pizza occasionally. Like since that was what I wanted or like what to me felt like happiness. I should not say what I wanted but what I felt like a life that I could have was and it is a life I did have for a long time I did not need to get into thousands of dollars worth of debt for that. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC.