Heidi Reinberg What money does is it gives you choices. And now if I stay I am choosing to stay if I go I am choosing to go versus being forced out and not having any choice like last year. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lotand need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale.  I got a text at night saying she needed to talk and I knew. I knew. Because this had always been my fear that I was going to lose the apartment. A year ago Heidi Reinberg was getting ready to leave New York after 30 years. Shed lived in her Brooklyn apartment for more than a decade. And she had a great deal in her neighborhoodPark Slope...until her landlord decided to sell the building and told her she needed to move out.  I dont necessarily have the money. I dont know what Im going to do. Heidi was on one of the first episodes of Death Sex  Money. Shes a freelance documentary producer and works on Television shows like Househunters but it had been months since shed had steady work. She did have thousands of dollars in credit card debt...and very little savings. When I met her she had just started looking for a new place to live.  My goal is to sort of keep my family intact as much as I can.  When you say your family intact who do you mean?  Well my dog and my cat. Her cat Romeo and her dog Stella an old chow mix with three legs. I went to her apartment when she was packing up. Her plan was to go live with her sister in LA.  I havent decided whether Im taking the animals yet. Which is killing me. She told me then that during those final days on her blockshe was avoiding her neighbors.  You feel like a failure.  I mean do you feel like youre slinking away?  Well theres definitely a shame factor to it. I mean Ill say that. I think you can talk to your friends about....you can talk to them about sex you can talk to them about you know depression you can talk about health things -- what are the other things that are taboos? -- but you cant talk about money. Money is the last taboo. And maybe Im underestimating my friends but nobody wants to hear youre having a hard time making ends meet.  So when you think about your life six months from now and what you want it to look like what would your day be like?  Um I guess what I would hope for myself in six months because I cant envision anything now but what I would hope for is that I do have a job that makes me happy. And I guess I am looking forward to the time when I can leave New York and not miss it so much. I thought about Heidi often after this episode came out. I know a lot of people like her who stitch together a living with very little give for something unexpected. Heidis old apartment was 1100 a month and when she lost that deal everything gave way and every decision during her 30 years in New York was up for examination. I needed to know what happened after she left. I reached out to Heidi last fall. The first thing I learned is she didnt stay gone for long.  I am back. I have not gotten an apartment because I cant see spending the money to get an apartment because Im on the road working so much.  Wait youre back? What does that mean?  Originally I guess I moved what was it June 4th -- I think that was the date -- I moved June 4th out to LA. July 7th I flew back to New York City for a job. I think I went back out to LA once to see my cat and then ended up coming back here for work. So. Its very clear to me that I need to be in New York for work now and work has just sort of exploded.  Wow.  Yeah.  What changed?  I dont really its funny. I dont know that necessarily anything changed. When I initially came back things were really bad. So it was like I was getting a job. I was paying to board my cat out in LA so I was basically paying rent as much in rent for my cat out there. I was living paycheck to paycheck. And things were not great for awhile. I didnt see any reason to go back to LA necessarily. I didnt have work there but I had the hope of work here. And I was working I would say going out once a month. Then things hit sort of rock bottom. My cat died in LA. I wasnt there. I couldnt afford to go back there. I could not afford to have Romeo cremated.  How much does it cost?  It was 120. And I couldnt afford it. Hed spent the last month of his life at the vets office in a cage which was not the way I wanted things to go.  So right now youre staying with friends?  Right now Im staying with friends and Ive been staying with friends.  Like in a spare bedroom?  In a basement. I call it the sensory deprivation chamber. In the basement its completely dark. Her friends Tim and Chris are also freelancers. They werent particularly close before Heidi moved in but they understood. And they held her accountable. They asked her what she was doing to find work helped her build a website had dinner with her every night.  At a particularly low point they took me out and part of the structure was okay you need to exercise. So were going to go buy you some sneakers so that you can walk because you cant afford the gym. And I was like no no no I cant accept that. And they forced me to go buy sneakers and then I was forced to walk every morning too. What they did is they just created a safe space for me to be where I was and that was okay and baby steps very much baby steps. Because Im like you know when I got the shoes it was like Im gonna start running! Maybe Ill run the marathon. And they were like just walk. Just take a walk every day. Thats Heidi Reinberg from when we talked last fall. Another thing her friends Chris and Tim did for her is to keep Stella that old three-legged dog when Heidi had to travel for work. Coming up...I visit Heidis new place in Brooklyn...where she and Stella just moved this spring .  I have really learned and its not rocket science but I really have learned everything is a compromise. So a year ago when I said I was starting a show called Death Sex  Money this is something I heard a lot. Bill Withers Who in the world would come up with a title like that? Now Im hearing things like this Hi Anna and everyone else at Death Sex  Money Im leaving you a message from Cape Town South Africa. Im contacting you because I have experienced something that I feel alone in experiencing but I suspect isnt so unusual. My story is just so different that I thought it was worth sharing. I want to know peoples stories about dealbreakers. I just think these relationships are so so important. And not only am I totally living it but your podcast actually changed the very way Im going to frame my life. Wow Thank you. Thank you for listening and for sharing so much with the show. And its made us want to do more. So as we celebrate the first year of Death Sex  Money I want to ask you to give us some money. We make the show at WNYC New Yorks public radio station and we rely on listener contributions to do what we do. You make up the single largest source of funding for us. So to do more at Death Sex and Money Im asking if you can pitch in. Go to deathsexmoney.orgdonate to give. Give any amount and well send you a Death Sex  Money sticker -- its the perfect size for a laptop a musical instrument case the back window of a pickup truck. The website again - deathsexmoney.orgdonate. And it really does matter that we hear from you as we look ahead to the next year. We have some big plans. Again thank you so much for everything over this last year. On the next episodeTexas musician Robert Earl Keen. He writes and sings songs that are honest and clear. He answers questions about sex the same way.  I think sex is a huge driving force in your life and to be honest I would say that somewhere in your fifties you lose some of that drive and it is somewhat devastating.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. I visited Heidi Reinberg in her new apartment a few weeks ago. Shes just rejoined the YMCA in the neighborhood and wears those sneakers that her friends Chris and Tim bought her.  There is not a person in the world that says that exercise makes them feel worse. Is there? So I dont think its hyperbole to say that Chris and Tim saved my life. Shes not living out of a suitcase anymore and for the first time in a year shes getting her stuff out of storage.  I spent 2 hours going through all my kitchen boxes and pulling out the stuff that we absolutely needed.  When did you move into this apartment?  So Ive been in this apartment now I guess as of April 1st. So Im efficiently sharing an apartment now Im two blocks from where I actually was last year. Not by design. Thats just the apartment that I sort of lucked into. And Im actually um my roommate is a 25-year-old. So Im sort of back where I started. I was like when I actually came to see her and I found an internet listing and when I actually came to meet her I was like oh my god shes gonna think Im like Grandma Moses. And is this my life in my 50s Im going to be looking at roommates again. But actually its worked out pretty well. The apartments small its basically two bedrooms with a living room in between the kitchen off to the side. But its airy with lots of light and great views of Manhattan because you have to walk up four floors to get there. Its not the setup Heidi envisioned for herself a year ago but after so much moving around shes more realistic about the tradeoffs it takes to stay in this city.  Thats New York but its a lot of other places right now too.  Can we talk a little bit about your financial situation?  Sure. Youre going to ask me for numbers arent you? Okay you can try sure.  Well lets start kind of broadly. When we spoke a year ago you had credit card debt and you didnt have much in savings.  Yeah. And Ive got some in savings now from um sort of a flukey thing that happened. I was working very consistently through the last summer and fall. Well once I started working I started working consistently.  And the flukey thing was just that you had consistent work?  Well that was a flukey thing. Um but then I also just got a little bit of money from a sale of some family land. A very little bit but at least I could just put that in the bank and just have it in the bank.  And when we talked a year ago you said that you didnt discuss money with your mom.  Yeah.  Did you have to discuss money with your family as you were selling that land?  Um no because we didnt have -- I mean my moms still not going to discuss land with us. And it was below -- she gave us -- maxed out on -- so we wouldnt have to pay taxes on it. That means the amount of money was less than 14000 -- Heidi didnt want to tell me the exact amount because she didnt want to upset her mother.  And then that would be the point at which a lot of people would say Thats not a small amount of money you know and I get that.  So you got a chunk of money that was below the taxable threshold thats not like down payment money but its cushion money that you didnt have before.  Its cushion. Yes. And I havent had a cushion.  Have you changed the way that you save and spend money since 2015 started?  Well I have money to spend which is really nice um. I do not know. Um I mean that is almost I guess sort of a luxury I know I do not want to be broke again. But I do know that I do not want to pay I think when last we spoke I was like Well I am just going to have to make a lot more money if I want to live here and if it costs -- and seriously at that point I was like -- if it costs me 5000 a month or 3500 a month or whatever to live here then I am just gonna have to make that. And now I am to the point where it is like I do not want to pay that much for an apartment anymore.  How much is your rent here sharing with a roommate?  I am not sure what the total rent is I am paying 1350 plus utilities now.  And how is your credit card debt?  Oh it is still there and I am paying it down so you know I am paying things off.  You said you do not want to be broke again. What have you done to not be broke again?  I start worrying about running out of money long before I run out of it for one thing. Um when my bank account gets to be a certain point I start getting agitated a little bit more. I also I tell people very pointedly that Im looking for work. So I am doing I hate the word networking and think that can be so desperate but I do sort of look... that is the way you get work.  So you are 54 years old.  And a half let us just go there.  You are 54 and a half years old. Are you preparing for retirement?  I will prepare for retirement when financially I am able to prepare for retirement. Financially what I could prepare for right now would be a dent in what I need to obviously to live on. I will say that I am fortunate enough to be from a family where we are not I would not even put us in the rich category but I will have a cushion because I will have family money at some point. I cant worry about retirement. I am sure there is many people that are going to say We are gonna be taking care of you you irresponsible hussy so.  You said that Chris and Tim saved your life.  Yeah. I do not feel like that is hyperbole to say that. Yeah. I think when I went to live with them I was just at the end of my rope. So. Do I have it in me to do that... do I have it in me to kill myself? Probably not. I have thought a lot about that and it is certainly felt like if there was ever a time that I was near that and they asked they flat out asked. But I think I have learned over the last year that I just have so many friends and somehow I always manage to rally and I really do think... Are you watching Kimmy Schmidt?  I have seen it yes.  OK so you know she says just do it for 10 seconds and then do it... you can take anything for 10 seconds and then do it for another 10 seconds and then start the counting over and that is really I do not know the questions to ask... I do not know -- almost like a corkscrew I just kept turning around and turning around and turning around. I had no idea which way I was supposed to take a step. And when you lose your identity particularly with people in my age group -- we talk about reinvention well by nature if youre reinventing yourself then youre shedding one identity which you have lived with for 50 years you have lived with it your entire professional life and now you are being asked to throw that away and put on a new coat. And that is you have lost everything about yourself and when you are confronted with that it is very difficult to know where to...never mind what coat you are going to put on but how to even go to the store to get a coat at that point. You lose your professional life and you just or who you think you are it can be personal it can be professional your marriage can break up whatever it is in my case it was my home and my life in Park Slope. And even if it takes a year to get back I think eventually you do get back you just have to do it ten seconds at a time as Kimmy Schmidt says. And eventually those 10 seconds add up to however much they need to add up to. Heidi Reinberg in her new apartment in Brooklyn. She signed a 6 month lease. Shes not sure how long shell stay -- or where she and Stella might go next. Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC. The team includes Katie Bishop Emily Botein James Ramsay Caitlin Pierce Zachary Mack and Joe Plourde. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. Dont forget. Please give to Death Sex  Money to get that sticker. You can pledge support at any level -- at deathsexmoney.orgdonate. One more update -- Heidi is online dating which she mentioned to me when she was showing me her bedroom...where she and her dog sleep on a mattress on the floor.  I read something on OkCupid like this is the dealbreaker that you dont have a bed frame because youre not a serious person and youre not financially whatever if you dont have a bed frame. The bed is on the floor so that Stella can get on it.  So you read that it was a dealbreaker so you want to make sure everyone knows there is a rationale.  Exactly. Its the worlds biggest dog bed but yeah. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.