 You have to understand that when you make the conscious decision not to conform you keep your dignity. Um but it might take you longer to get where you want to be and you might not get there at all. But is it worth it to make it if you do not arrive there intact? And I would say that it is not. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot ...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Psych! Im Al Letson. And this is kind of a switch up. Now usually Anna and I work right next to each other out here in California. Im the host of Reveal a podcast and radio show from the Center for Investigative Reporting...yep that is the same place you hear about in the credits of every Death Sex  Money episode. And Anna and I are buddies so when she asked me if Id step in to host an episode of this show while she was out I was like HELL YES. And I knew exactly who I wanted to talk to.  'kole Hannah-Jones...  Whats up?  Waterloo is in the house.  Waterloo is always in the house. Nikole Hannah-Jones...native of Waterloo Iowa...staff writer at The New York Times Magazine...and MacArthur fellow.  And the queen of the clapback.  Definitely do not come to me with stupid shit. Shes also my friend.  I am sad that I am not in New York. My game plan was to bring you some bourbon and uh do this but -  Hah! Was that the plan? At uh -  That was the plan.  11 AM? I mean -  It is always a good time for bourbon.  If you know me you know it is never too early.   Exactly. Nikole reports on education race and inequality in the U.S. and how our schools are still deeply segregated despite the ruling of Brown vs. Board of Education more than 60 years ago. Its work that won her that MacArthur grant in 2017. But shes careful not to forget how she got there.  You know I have Waterloo tattooed on my wrist. Um I call it my You came from the dirt to the dirt you can be returned tattoo like never start thinking too much of yourself. Like you you can be humbled. And you know I live in New York I work at The New York Times. I get invited to all of these elite spaces. I know a lot of prominent folks but those people did not contribute to making me who I am. The people who did back in Iowa were working class. When Nikole was growing up in the '70s and '80s her mom was a probation officer and her dad was a bus driver. She was the middle of three sisters...and describes her household growing up as dysfunctional. Her dad was an alcoholic.  Im a girl from hard drinking folks. We worked hard and we played hard and like my dad I can see it in my head. He would throw these parties and the albums would be playing and I grew up on all this seventies music you know Isaac Hayes War The Soul Children. And all my aunts and uncles in this smoke haze living room with uh beer cans and vodka bottles and playing cards. Um the kids would be up all night um you know hiding under the tables watching uh adults really let down for what most of the time were very hard lives.  Did you guys talk about race uh as a child? I mean growing up Im slightly older than you um but growing up in the South in my household I would say that you know we did the Black History Month specials at school and at church and all of that type of stuff. Um but we I do not remember my parents ever really reflecting on race. Um I mean it was just an understanding that we were black in a mostly white community and it is what it is.  Yeah so you know I grew up in a biracial family. My mother is white from rural Iowa and my father is black from the Delta. So it is kind of unavoidable. Um my grandparents when they found out my mother was dating my father disowned my mother for a period of time until she gave birth to my older sister. Um so you know we would go see our grandparents and always be the only black kids in the room and then you know we would come back home and we lived on the black side of town and we lived around all of my uh black side of my family. And I remember when I was young I could not tell you how old my dad called me and my sisters into the living room and he told us um you are black. Like your mom is white but you are black and you need to understand that and I do not know what drove him to have that conversation with us but he wanted us to be clear that um having a white mom did not make us special or different or removed from uh other black people or our black family. So we always I do not I do not think we talked about it all the time. Um. But it really was unavoidable. As a kid Nikole went to the local school in her neighborhood. But her parents werent happy with it so in second grade she started being bused to a different school on the other side of town. That one was mostly white.  I rode the bus two hours every day an hour there to school and an hour back and I could literally see the racial landscape changing as we went from the black part of town to the white part of town. Because you cannot help but notice that um when you are on the black side of town the housing stock is smaller it is less uh taken care of the roads have more potholes. There is um no real grocery stores. And then uh as I crossed the river on the bus to the west side that all of a sudden you know the houses start getting nicer and the roads are nice and there is more parks and there is uh you know the shopping centers are over there. So I saw it uh very clearly and I also was getting the messages from uh society you know from media from conversations about why that was. And the messages were that black people just did not want to work hard did not care about their property did not care to have these things and then I would think about how hard everybody in my family worked and when I say hard I mean physical labor. Um my family were folks who worked in the beef packing plant and I remember my uh uncles would come home sometimes and they could not make a fist because their hands were so swollen from holding the knife that you cut the animals with all day. And um so I am like these are the hardest working people I know and they try very hard to keep up their homes. They want to have nice things. Like I it just it it was incongruent with what I knew and I really think had I not ridden that bus every day and had that time to think about it and really pay attention um maybe I would not have questioned so much what what we were being told.  When you were growing up did you like just want to get out of Waterloo as quick as you possibly could or or were you comfortable there?  Oh God yes. Like I knew I knew from a young age that as soon as I graduated high school I was getting out of there. I mean part of it was I just always knew it was too small for my ambitions. But part of it also was I just needed to get out of my household. Being raised in a in a very dysfunctional household with a very domineering and often disrespectful and controlling father um did make me independent and strong and understanding that I would not tolerate people disrespecting me once I had control over my life. And I moved about a month ago and in the process of moving I found my old journal from high school. And most times when I was writing in that journal it was after I would had a fight or confrontation with my father and I was venting in this journal and I came across um this page where I said once I turn 18 and I leave here I a man will never dominate me again in my life and be able to control me and I am going to run my own life. The things I wanted to do with my life I could not do there. After attending a predominantly white high school Nikole did get out. She went to college at Notre Dame and journalism school at UNC. And after she graduated she got a job reporting on education in North Carolina. It was work that quickly made her examine her own values.  When I first started covering schools back in 2003 andnewly married no intention of having kids at that timeand um was spending a lot of time in these very segregated schools. And working with other journalists who are writing about these issues and talking a lot of times to researchers and activists who said they were working on behalf of poor black kids and then you know I would ask them where are you sending your kids to school? And every last one of them was sending their kid to a white school. And I just remember thinking how hypocritical it was that you were saying these kids deserved equality and equal education and you were saying that these kids were just as good as anybody else's kids yet you would not even consider sending your own child to school with them. And I was like when I have to make this decision one day I am not going to be a hypocrite. Nikole and her husband Faraji had their daughter in 2010 when they were living in Portland. Shortly after she got a job in New York and their family moved to Bed-Stuy...which at that point pre-gentrification was a lower income predominantly black neighborhood in Brooklyn. They were making good money but when it came time to make a choice about where to enroll their daughter Nikole was adamant that Najya go to a local public school.  I am not a woman easily moved once I have decided on something I just felt it was -  You think?  - the right it honestly it just felt like it it was the right thing to do. It was the just thing to do. Um and I asked my husband let us just go into some of the schools because one of the like things that angers me the most are how people write off schools full of black kids without ever walking in the door. And when you go into a lot of these schools their test scores are low but you can tell that they are good schools and that good instruction is happening. And we went into the schools and it changed his mind. Um and our daughter has now been at at her school for five years and it is been a great experience for us. And I do not know if one day my daughter will question my decisions about her education. I do not know if one day she will say you had all these resources and you chose not to use them um to benefit my education. Maybe she will and maybe she will ask why I put her in the types of schools that I put her in and I think about that too. Coming up Nikole on developing emotional armor as a kid. How it helps her work now but also how hard it can be to take it off.  I can be candid to a fault uh my friends will be like why are you talking to me like you talk to people on Twitter? Im like oh my bad  my bad.   Hey this is Katie Bishop -- Im one of the producers on the show. If youre new to Death Sex  Money -- welcome! Our regular host Anna Sale is on maternity leave -- and weve asked some of our favorite past guests and friends of the show to step in and have conversations like this one with the people theyre most curious about. Al Letson is one of those friends of the show he also hosts one of our favorite podcasts Reveal. Its a podcast that goes deeper on the big stories you see in the headlines. It just won two Peabody Awards and we really recommend checking it out. And speaking of recommendations we know it can feel kind of overwhelming when youre on the hunt for a new podcast to add to your queue. So we make it easy for you--every week in our newsletter we recommend a couple of shows weve heard recently that really stuck with us. Our Death Sex  Money newsletter also features behind-the-scenes updates about what were working on and some really great emails that you all send in to the death sex and money inbox. We know you get a lot of email--but we think this newsletter is worth your time. And if you dont believe me heres what one subscriber recently said about it This is about the only newsletter I read regularly. So there you go. Subscribe now...and check out past issues...at deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter. On the next episode...Dr. Tressie McMillan Cottom and Daily Show host Trevor Noah. He talks about learning how to be a feminist from his mom growing up in South Africa...and why he thinks were approaching mental health conversations all wrong.  It is like having a bum knee you know? And I think that is how we need to treat mental health. if somebody said to you oh man I got a bad knee. Then we are just like oh so what do you do about that? Ah I do not squat as hard and  Yeah.  I try and do exercises to stabilize the knee.  Yeah.  And I think that is what we need to do. We have to treat it like we treat our bodies.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Al Letson in for Anna Sale. I first met Nikole Hannah-Jones about five years ago. And I remember it clearly.  We were at some conference. And I remember when I got in there it was a bunch of journalists who felt really uh uptight. You walk into the room and you your nails are done you got hoop earrings. I mean you are beautiful but also not what the stuffy rooms that you and I tend to go in to look like.  Right.  And the thing that I noticed that you were fully yourself in a place where I felt like everybody else was you know for lack of better term I felt that a lot of the African-Americans there like we were in our code-switching mode and you -   What are you trying to say? What are you trying to say about me?  I am trying to say that you were you. Like that is the thing is that like every place that I have ever seen and been with you you are so you.  Well you know the benefit of uh being a working class black girl who has spent a lot of time around more affluent white people is you do quickly learn they are actually not really smarter than you. Um they just have had advantages of of things and opportunities that you have not had. That gives you actually a certain confidence in these spaces. Um I guess what I am saying is that I do not actually know how not to be the way I am and trust me sometimes I think like maybe you should not have been so loud or maybe you should have kept that to yourself uh in retrospect after I have had a conversation or I have done something. But I actually like to look the way that I look and it it is pleasing to me um and so I do not change it even though I understand what the uniform is supposed to be.  I am curious your your mom is white um -  Mmhmm. Last I checked.  Do you have to explain to her um what it means to be a black woman in today's age?  Uh I think that yeah I think it is much easier for my mom and I to talk about race and racism and racial injustice in the abstract than it is to talk about it in terms of our own personal relationship. Um I think that there are at times tensions. You know I raise a black daughter and so uh I am very conscious about trying to raise a confident black daughter who does not think that European beauty standards are uh better that is proud of her natural hair. And I think sometimes there is a clash with my mom about that who then feels like well where do I fit into that 'ecause I am a white woman? And so for instance you know I do not allow people to buy my daughter uh dolls that are not black and my mom did not necessarily agree with that. And I am like I - I understand but that is because you are not growing up in a society that is affirming that white is beautiful and white is right. So those conversations can definitely be trying. And also you know I I do not remember my mom ever buying me a black doll and my mom definitely did not learn from my aunts like how to do my hair and so if you look at my childhood pictures uh my hair is a damn mess like in every picture. Right? So I am like you know Mom these are things I wish you would have done for me and you did not. And so I am making sure to do them for my own child. So those those conversations are not always easy and um you know that is the thing is I read somewhere some silly-ass thing that what will cure racism is interracial love. Clearly it does not.  Right right.  Uh but also you know you can have a intimate relationship with someone and still not be great on understanding race. Um that is the type of work that white people have to do very very intentionally.  So I have a my oldest is uh - uh 28 and um we are at this point in in our relationship where he uh he talks about the things that I screwed up on. When he was 16 years old he was constantly getting pulled over by the police when he was just walking home from work and so my thing was like I gotta be tough on you because I need to get you ready for these crazy people out here. Um and as a parent it is so painful to hear like that I screwed up on this and that. And I I have been reflecting a lot about uh my relationship with my parents and the fact that um I cannot have those honest conversations with my mom. Uh she just cannot deal with it. So the way that I have been dealing with my son is I have just been owning it. Like when he brings stuff up I am just like yup I did that. I am so sorry. I did not have the tools. I - I - I was trying the best I could but I did that. All of that is just a long story to ask are you able to have conversations with your mom about what happened while you were growing up?  Yeah. Yeah for sure. I have a very close relationship with my mom and so the dysfunction was not coming from my mom and I know that she was also dealing with her own trauma so we have had these conversations. And they are not easy she feels a lot of guilt and I do not want her to feel guilt but I just want her to understand things. So  I do not have to hold that in no and in general I am just not a holding in type of person.  Yeah. So do you feel like when your daughter is that age that youll strive to do the same thing?  I hope so. Even though it will be you know I am also extremely sensitive. Um so I know itll be really hard for me um to hear because probably the things that I think I failed at will not even be the things that she thinks I failed at. And I I have a a journal I keep for her. I write her letters and I write her letters one because I have a fear like what if something happened to me and she will not know how I felt about her. But I also write her letters because I am like you know when she is a teenager she is going to hate me and uh then I can pull out this book and be like do not you see how much I love you look at all these letters I wrote you um and to try to explain things like you know that I sometimes when I make a mistake or I am gone a lot and I - I try to write her these letters that I will give her one day um to help her understand me as well and hope that that will fortify whatever doubt she had um about why I did the things that I did.  You just said that you are sensitive. I - that um that that is something that I did not expect from you.  Oh my God please. First of all you know like the folks who snap the quickest are the most sensitive. That is why they snap the quickest. Yeah I am I am definitely super sensitive.  Really? 'ecause you you seem like I mean maybe it is because the way you snap you snap.     But - but you to me just do not seem to be scared of anybody.  Okay. Those are two different things.  Uh huh.  Um I am not easily intimidated and um I am confident about the things that I know because I spend a lot of time ensuring that I know them. But I am also part of me is definitely not confident and uh easily wounded I think because you know I had to build this armor to survive um my childhood but inside that was not who I was. It is just something that I had to build around myself. So I am not a I am not a person who gets intimidated because I am like I have you know I have been through some shit. Um but I am extremely sensitive for sure.  I was tweeting about uh race at one point uh and on Twitter someone asked me if I was angry. Um and my response was um I am always angry. I just figure out how to channel it in a um in a positive way. Where are you writing from?  I definitely um feel an eternal outrage. Um I think I - I - I have said before that rage is largely what fuels me. So I do not know that that is always positive but um I do not think you can write about the things that we write about that you can sit in classrooms where kids do not have books and do not even have a math teacher for an entire year and not be angry about that in a wealthy country that is choosing to do this. So I never really understand the obsession that black people should not be angry. I remember uh after Charleston and the immediate narrative was whether or not these black folks were going to forgive Dylann Roof.  Is not that always the immediate narrative though?  Right like always. That is our expectation is on black people to always be calm and forgiving because otherwise if you are angry you might turn white people off from supporting your quest for justice. Um and I just reject that. You cannot study our history and not be angry. And you cannot look at the conditions that so many black people still live in and not be angry and I see no need to try to subdue that feeling. Um I see that feeling as what drives me. I dunno how should we feel? Like what is what is the expectation of we -  I I I have no idea cuz Im angry too.  Right like what should we feel? Hopeful? Not if you study history not if you see the conditions that so many of us still live in. So I - I just I do not understand even that question and I just find it annoying as hell.  Do you go to therapy?   Um last year I tried it. I went maybe four times and they did not cure me so I had to quit. No I am playing. Um  you know I believe in it for other people uh  which is probably most people -  Nikole Nikole Nikole. Come on come on. Listen! Like every every every every day. you are reporting on some of the hardest heartbreaking stuff uh that anyone can report on and let us just be real like you are reporting on it and we both know that like a a good chunk of it is not going to change because America is too tied to its ways. Right?  Yes.  So I am just thinking that like if you have to carry that weight where do you go to let that down?  I mean trust my husband would agree with you. I - I mean I uh you know I do not know. Like I feel  I dunno I know that I should go to therapy probably but at the same time I am like I know why everything that is wrong with me and why I am like I am and I do not know that talking to a therapist will change that. So mostly you know I just tamp it all down  or or you know I I I just get mad and then um try not to feel the pain. Yeah.  And anger is it ang anger is an easier emotion to deal with than pain?  Absolutely. That is why you see it often when it comes to me.  Mmhmm.  I mean I started going to therapy um really I had a uh my younger sister passed away unexpectedly and I had a really hard time dealing with that and I started going to therapy also because I felt like uh I am too mean and I do not want to be a mean person. I think the hard thing though is so much of our personality is forged when we are young in our formative years and my formative years were very very hard and the survival tools that I uh adopted to get through my childhood in tact and to be able to be successful and to get out of that um are not so useful to me now but they are now a part of my fundamental personality. So I think that is just a very hard thing to deal with is how do you undo something -  Yeah.  - that is basically intertwined with your whole development as a human being? Thats Nikole Hannah-Jones. Follow her on twitter nhannahjones read her work in The New York Times and check out the work of the Ida B. Wells Society for Investigative Reporting which Nikole cofounded to support the work of journalists of color. Shes also got a book coming next year The Problem We All Live With. Keep your eyes peeled for it. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. The team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The good Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter as well alletson. Subscribe to my podcast Reveal on your favorite podcast player for deeply-reported stories about everything from the opioid crisis to the Trump administrations family separation policy at the border. I mean listen yall...we go in. So check us out we would love to have you as a listener. And if youre new here you should subscribe to Death Sex  Money too! They have really good conversations on this show about lots of hard stuff like student loan debt pornography and social class. I never thought I would say those three things together in a sentence but here we are people. You can go to deathsexmoney.orgstarter kit to find the episodes that other listeners think you should start with. Me personally I would say Bill Withers... that was a gem. You know growing up with Nikole for a mom it makes sense that her daughter is super tuned in to race issues. But sometimes she worries about things she doesnt need to. Like when she was at a friends house over the holidays.  So we were over there for uh Christmas caroling and they have a songbook and she turns the page and the next song is White Christmas. And my daughter is like Why is it White Christmas? And I was like  - I was like Because of the snow baby. Its okay. Im Al Letson and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.