Heidi Reinberg I guess you live your life based upon a certain set of assumptions and when one of those assumptions goes awry you are screwed. Can I say screwed? Anna Sale You can say screwed.  Okay. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot...and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Meet Heidi Reinberg. She is 53 never married. Been in New York City since right after college. She grew up in Texas.  I was raised in an era and I guess this is the thing if you are good if you work hard you will get ahead. I have been working since I was probably eleven years old. I was the most prolific babysitter in my neighborhood. You do not know Heidi but there is probably someone like her in your life. Someone you see walking the dog you swap updates on family and work then curse how everything's getting so expensive in the neighborhood and sigh and roll your eyes together. When you are talking about money you might wonder how they make it work but you usually do not ask. In this episode Heidi tells what is going through her head during those casual chats about money because she does not have any in the bank.  I would not say I am good with money but then I have never had a job where I have made enough money to be good with money. Heidi's a documentary producer and has done some work on TV on shows like House Hunters. But gigs have not come often enough.  There is not a lot out there. Working as a freelancer takes hustle and faith that the next job will come. But in Heidi's case that slid into denial over the years leaving her in terrible financial shape. Credit cards have filled in the gaps to cover the costs of being ready for work when it comes.  You need clothes you need makeup. Not great makeup you need to get a haircut you need to get your nails done. To do all those things to present yourself in a way that makes you feel good about yourself out in the world and when you cannot do that you sort of start turning inward. My dog had not been to the vet she is got three legs and she is geriatric and I was not able to take her to the vet and that is been the toughest thing because all of the other stuff I can hide. For a long time the thing holding her budget together was the sweet deal on her apartment. 1100 a month in prime Park Slope Brooklyn.  Anybody that leaves the block wants to come back. She lives a few doors down from New York's new mayor Bill De Blasio. He won in a landslide on the promise of making the city more affordable. But right after that election Heidi learned that she is loosing her affordable apartment after eighteen years. Her landlord is selling.  I got a text at night. Saying she needed to talk like if we could talk the next day. And I knew. I knew. Because this had always been my fear that I was going to lose the apartment. Because it was the one note of stability in my life. I do not necessarily have the money. I do not know what I am going to do. Like it is just going to sort of boil down to that. And my goal is to sort of just keep my family in tact as much as I can.  When you say your family who do you mean?  Well my dog and my cat. I want to keep everybody together as much as I can. I mean it is devastating.  How seriously are you considering leaving New York City?  I think I have to. I mean came here thirty years ago. I do not want to say I bought into the dream I grew up in Texas I never thought I would end up anywhere but New York City. I do not know why. I came up here my college year my parents asked me whether I wanted pearls or a trip to New York City.  So that was my graduation present. So I came out. I got off the plane and I felt like I was home and that is not a story that is unique to me I know a lot of people say that.  Where do you think you might go?   I honestly have no idea. And I do not want much. I do not want much. I just want a decent place to live and a decent neighborhood with people that I enjoy seeing in the morning and I can have relationships with. I want home. That is Heidi Reinberg talking just over five months ago. She knows you might judge her. She judges herself. She knows her credit got really bad. She did try for a retail job...  And I have never heard back from them. She is even wondered if only she had gotten married at some point would she have more security?  If I had somebody there at least there is a cushion. All of this has been part of the fallout of losing her place. And she is finally trying to be honest about where it leaves her financially.  For better or worse I do not have the money to put down on an apartment right now. At the start of this year Heidi sent me a few emails that things were turning up. New jobs were coming through maybe she could find another place not far away from the old neighborhood. But then some of those gigs fell through and others did not pay as well as Heidi had hoped. And she realized her really slow year in 2013 was continuing into 2014. Now she has no savings and thousands of dollars in credit card debt.  It feels like I will never get ahead. I will never get ahead. You know if you do not have good credit now then you are damaged goods. I met Heidi at her apartment a few weeks ago which is now mostly packed up. Heidi Reinberg is leaving New York after thirty years. But it is still not something she likes admitting. Like when a neighbor on the block asked if she would found a new place Heidi tried to dodge the question.  Because I am not telling a lot of people and she said oh you are sneaking out. And she said are you having a party? And I said no. Like honestly if I had a party right now it would feel like I was dying. it would just be the saddest thing to me and I do not think I can do that.  I mean do you feel like you are sort of slinking away and trying?  Well I mean there is definitely a shame factor to it. I am ashamed. I mean I will say that. You feel like a failure. There is just so much shame attached to money and to not making a living and to not... I mean you could talk to your friends about you can talk to them about sex you can talk to them about depression you can talk to them about how things what are the other taboos? Like but you cannot talk about money. Money is the last taboo and maybe I am underestimating my friends but nobody wants to hear that you are having a hard time making ends meet. I mean even with all my friends or people on the block when they say to me have you found another apartment yet? I want to say to them I do not have the money to get an apartment. And I know I do not care whether you are making a gazillion dollars or you are making minimum wage I feel like everybody these days is just in this constant worry about money. Heidi Reinberg is not the only New Yorker quietly loosing ground. A new report found that since 2000 median rents in New York City have gone up 75. While in the same period what people earn the median income has actually declined. And it is not just in New York. Across the country a Harvard Study found that nearly half of all renters live in what is considered unaffordable housing. They have to pay more than 30 of their income to a landlord. So coming up we look at where you can go when you cannot keep paying for the city life you know. This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale. -- Heidi Reinberg bought a one way plane ticket to Los Angeles. She leaves this month. She is going to go live with her sister.  What are you going to take with you to California?  My laptop. I have not decided whether I am taking the animals yet which is killing me. What am I taking with me? I asked my sister if she has a good vacuum cleaner this morning I may take my vacuum cleaner.  When did you decide to live with your sister?  It was funny because I was thinking about that this morning and I do not know. My sister and I have never gotten along.  we are both in our fifties and we have never gotten along. And my brother had like one of his kids was going through some that my sister and I saw on Facebook so i think I called her and said how do you think we should respond to this? And that was how we started talking and I guess the irony is that we have bonded over this whole what is happening to the cities and finances and all of that stuff. And she said come out I really need some help and I do not really trust anyone else to do it.  Who is older?  I am older. I am older by a couple of years.  Is your little sister going to be your boss? How is this going to work? Have you thought about this?  Honestly we are both just sort of going on faith at this point. Although I will say too I feel like we have had a lot more substantive conversations. This whole financial thing these days is like you know shit is getting real. So..  Shit gets real and you turn to family even though you have not lived near your family your entire adult life.  Yeah. Well again I did not have any option. Like I think our family was not raised as a family. Both of my parents were only children so we were never like family's got your back. I think like you know when you come to New York your friends are your family. I have confessed things to my friends that I would not confess to anybody or certainly talk to my family about. My mother has no idea I am moving. She has no idea and I am not going to tell her. I mean I had one conversation with her where I sort of burst into tears and she got very worried. She does try and I cannot blame her for it because a lot of it is the way she was raised and she is who she is. But the only thing she can express is worry rather than assistance or help or anything like that. i know she would say that I could come down and live with her but that would not be a good idea.  And how is your love life?  I guess I met somebody online because I was going into this new year with so much optimism and everything and I did meet somebody. I was just randomly hell I was on Match and rather than looking into New York I was like I am just going to be completely random about this and I picked a state and picked Wyoming and met somebody. He is going through pretty much the same thing right now and things were pretty good for awhile although nobody could afford to fly to meet the other person. I think that for me at least the stress of being optimistic all the time there is just not that much to be happy about. I like being positive around everybody else and I just feel like I am walking around in this constant like I am going to burst into tears any minute. There is the people who say this is an adventure and all of that and I hear that and that is what I would say to somebody else going through the same thing. But it is just so hard being on this side of it.  I have gained weight I am drinking way too much. And it is like I am sort of giving myself permission to do that. I just need to get through this and there is no way to make it particularly palatable there is no way to make it great and to find the serenity in it and I just have to get to the other side and then this will be over and I can move on with my life.  So when you think about your life six months from now and what you want it to look like what would your day be like?  Warm. Warm but not overly hot. Money in the bank. The dog and the cat. Work. But I do not even know. I cannot even envision my life. I guess what I would hope for myself in sixth months because I cannot envision anything now but what I would hope for is that I do have a job that makes me happy and I guess I am looking forward to the time when I can leave New York and not miss it so much. It is hard rebuilding. I am going to start on the next thirty year chapter. I have spent thirty years building my life up to where it was whatever that is. And it is been money aside it is been a pretty good life. I hope it is as great as the life I had here. Money aside it is been a pretty good life Heidi says. That is the thing about money though. We love to tell each other not to make decisions based on money. But if you believe that long enough then not having money can end up making the biggest decisions for you. It is a moment that everyone fears. It is about survival and about how much we are worth. We all get it. But when it actually happens to you it can be the loneliest thing in the world. So let us talk about it. Has that happened to you? And what did you decide to do because of money? Take that full time job you really did not want? Move away from that place that was becoming just too expensive? When was money the deciding factor in a big transition for you? Go to our website deathsexmoney.org. We are also talking about it on our Facebook page. And I am on Twitter annasale. Heidi's plan is to leave New York and land with family. She is taking her cat with her but her dog Stella is staying in New York while Heidi decides what is next. Death Sex  Money is a production of WNYC. Our team includes Emily Botein James Ramsey Chris Bannon and Bill O'Neill. Special thanks to Mitra Kaboli and Lu Olkowski for their help on this episode. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Other music by Jason Moran. If you like Death Sex  Money subscribe to us on iTunes. The next episode is about when my life fell apart in this case because of love. And how a former U.S. senator from Wyoming Al Simpson stepped in at a key moment with some advice.  The secret is you both try to control each other and you both fail. And it is critical that you both fail. And you do it in the most skilled and manipulative ways. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. 