This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. And first off I want to say if this is one of the first episodes of Death Sex and Money you are listening to welcome! We are glad you are here. Go to deathsexmoney.org and you can find a starter kit of some episodes to help you really dig in along with our complete episode archive. That is at deathsexmoney.org and we hope you will subscribe to Death Sex and Money on whatever podcast player you use so you will not miss any of our upcoming episodes. We have got some really exciting shows in the works in the months ahead. As of this week I can officially say that my book Let us Talk About Hard Things is out in the world. And today's episode is a conversation about that book with my friend and colleague Noel King. If you listen to NPR's Morning Edition then you know Noel's voice and her wonderful energy. She is also been on this show a couple of times in the past. We have linked to those episodes in our show notes. This conversation between us took place last week live over Zoom through WNYC's The Greene Space. The interview is about my book. But really it is a lot about the life stuff that helped inspire the book with questions that only a friend would ask. Like about the listeners I have connected with through this show or what happened during one hot girl summer years ago. Here's my conversation with Noel King. I hope you enjoy it.  Hello and good afternoon everyone. Thank you for being with us to celebrate Anna Sale and her new book Let us Talk About Hard Things. I am going to show you my copy of the book. It is already stained with coffee and tea and bits of food and crumbs. And I think that is the way it should be with a book like this. Um if you know Anna if you know her podcast Death Sex  Money you know that she bizarrely and virtuously really does like leaning into tough conversations. It is the way Anna is. And she and I have been friends for I just learned from her - it is close to 12 years now. And I have always thought that Anna's brain is wired a little bit differently than everybody else's because of this talent. And because of this desire to learn more about people to uncover the difficult things about people. And I think that when it comes to somebody whose brain is a little bit different you should try to learn from them. And this book is a really good example. This book is a really good way of learning from somebody who has a particular view about the world and who tries to be helpful. So underpinning a lot of Anna's work is this question Why do not we talk about certain things? Why are certain things taboo? And what do we lose when we make certain things taboo? And what might we gain if we just said it is actually okay to talk about that? So the book is a blend of memoir research and also interviews that Anna has done with fancy people celebrities household names and a lot of ordinary people as well who have shared their stories. And throughout the course of the next hour we are going to talk about how the book came together some of the people in it and we are going to talk a bit about how Anna got to be where she is tonight. Anna welcome and thank you for being here.  Oh thanks Noel. I am so excited to do this with you.  So I just described you um in ways that I usually only do behind your back which is to say you are a little different I think uh what do you think? Am I being fair?  You know I do not think of myself as being wired that much differently than most people. Particularly from other journalists like I feel like when you are someone who chooses to be a journalist you are someone who is like I am gonna look out and try to gather information on what is happening in the world. And then I am going to tell you. And I am going to tell you in ways that um you know might be upsetting might be uncomfortable but uh the alternative is to pretend it is not happening. And I think that um maybe it is unusual to sort of really put that lens on the most private tender parts of ourselves? Um but I sort of think of it as a very the curiosity is is a journalistic instinct. It is like Tell me what that was like. I want to understand. And I want to understand because there are parts of that I might relate to there are parts of it that other people might relate to or there are parts of it that might be quite different than what I have experienced or what people listening have experienced and that they - that is useful for them to hear as well.  I remember a story you told me when we first met. We were young producers at WNYC and you were telling me about a trip you had taken to Afghanistan as a reporter for West Virginia Public Radio. And you had been sent on this trip to cover the troops and the war. And it was a very big deal. And you said you found yourself talking to a gentleman. And instead of asking him about the war you started asking him about his marriage and you found yourself really wanting to know what that experience was like being away from his wife trying to deal with that being in Afghanistan. And I remember at the time having come from the background of conflict reporting myself thinking wow - just having met you - thinking Oh she is she is she is doing something different. So even at a young age I think there it seems like there was part of you that understood there was a certain line of questioning that really interested you. And that line of questioning was about what is what is your life? And what is it like being you in this very extreme situation but having to deal with all of the regular stuff that everybody has to deal with like having a spouse.  Yeah. That is - I like that you brought that up because I actually have thought back on that. That was in like 2007. Um and and I was embedded with the West Virginia Air Guard. And so these are people for whom um it was they a lot of them were were uh volunteers. So they had many other lives. They were you know weekend warrior type people. And then all of a sudden they were called up to go to Bagram Air Base and I just remember being fascinated by like wait how does just being sent off to war fit into your how are you making this fit into your life and not? Um and that is - that is I am not sure that is what West Virginia Public Radio thought they were going to get when they sent me to be embedded with the troops. But that is what I was really interested in.  Early early Death Sex and Money. You are a very proud child of West Virginia. You write about this in the book. Uh you write about something that I did not know as a New Yorker a lot of people have thoughts about West Virginia and preconceived notions about West Virginia and not all of them are great. And one of the things that you discovered as you went out into the world went to the Bay Area for college to Stanford was that your 'West Virginia' was something that people were going to kind of judge you by. Talk a little bit about your pride in being where you are from and how it it shapes you today even though it is been some years since since you have lived there full-time.  Yeah I left in 2008. Um that is the beginning of the chapter about talking about identity. 'ecause I was like what is the way in which I have felt oh there is something really core to me that connects me to people in a really deep way even when I do not know them. And then there is ways this is core to me and I feel completely misread by other people. Um and and I wrote about like what the experience was like to leave West Virginia and to - I just kinda thought like when you grow up somewhere you have an attachment to home. Like there is this feeling of like this is who we are. And then when you leave I would meet other people who had a very strong attachment to home. And certainly I did in California but I met a lot of people who just like did not care where they were from. Like I just really like that was the question that I would ask someone after their - I met learned their name. Like where are you from? Like help me understand what part of the country you are from what part of the world? Like tell me about your family like I wanted to know that. Um and I realized like oh for other people that does not matter as much. And and being from West Virginia people sort of either have a whole set of ideas about the place that are mostly negative which is like this is a place that is struggling economically or there is not a lot of opportunity. Um more recently it is where there is um a lot of people who are racist a lot of people who um uh are uncomfortable with changes demographic changes happening in America. Like these are sort of the big ideas about West Virginia. And then there is also like a ton of people who just like it is not even a place that registers as worthy enough to even have an idea about you know? Like I found that particularly among Californians anything outside of California it does not really matter. So of course my experience of identity then was like Oh you do not know about my place? I am going to double down and I am going to like be the most West Virginia that I can be. And I to to an absurd extent like I would you know I I can remember listening to Merle Haggard's Okie from Muskogee in my dorm room on Stanford University's campus. Like it is ridiculous. You know like like I was some I do not know working class hero and I just like it was this sort of I was just trying to figure out where do I belong? Who am I you know? Um but the other thing about being from West Virginia is like I think it it totally affects the way I like read political situations. I think about like who is being left out. Like what are the outside interests that are that are gaining here because that was a big phenomenon in West Virginia. Um but I also am very aware like oh you cannot - in most professional settings like if I do not mention where I grew up I just look like any other coastal like reporter who lives in an urban area. And um so I - that is the other sort of key part to how I think about how I talk about identity. Like I can sort of like pass and shapeshift and it is not something - I do not have to take on people's ideas about what West Virginia means unless I disclose that I am from West Virginia. And I think that is a really core difference um from than from a lot of people in how depending on sort of what categories they are identified as slotting into.  And when you have interviews when you do interviews with people and have these conversations some of them very difficult about how they how the rest of the world sees them versus how they see themselves especially in an era and at a time where I think overwhelmingly white Americans are starting to understand that the experiences in this country of Black Americans and of other people of color are actually quite different than theirs. Um it became it has always been a difficult conversation to have. I think in some ways it became easier after George Floyd was killed because everyone was having the conversation all of a sudden. But I think in other ways it became harder because people's defenses were up. My defenses were up. I know you and I talked about that at one point last summer. Do you when you are talking to someone who comes from a different background and you are hearing them talk through the process of how the world sees them and how the world presents them back to themselves how does being from West Virginia help in situations like that?  Um I - I do not know if it is because I am from West Virginia and I think that there is - that it is not been intuitive for me there is been a lot of learning about like... As an interviewer I think one of the things that um you know sort of motivated me at the beginning was like how - help me understand you. Help me like get it like inhabit what is happened in your world. So I want to ask really concrete questions about your life and I want to pull you out. And so that is kind of the emotional space I try to go into. But when you are talking across like really important identity differences I think the thing that I have just really tried to concentrate on is the sort of like allowing myself to not understand and like to not and that that is okay. Like not to sort of force whatever my own experience has been on what someone else is telling me. Does that make sense? Sort of like sit in the space of like oh what you are describing to me is never going to be intuitive to me because that is not how I have moved through the world. Um but to go back to your original question how has being from West....? I dunno what do you think? What have you observed about me?  I actually I do have I do have a thesis.  Okay tell me your thesis.  I think that um I think it is because you are from West Virginia and because you understand what it is like to have a kind of dominant culture have negative ideas about the place that you are from. And because you are proud of the place that you are from. Even if in college you went a little nuts. You are proud of being West Virginian. I think it helps you get inside the heads of people who are seen broadly in the world as there is something wrong with that person that person might be dangerous that person might be - that person is not like us. Um majority and minority cultures in the United States are fascinating to me. They always have been. Um and I think that there are different sorts of majority and minority cultures and one of them you know there is race there is gender there is ethnicity. There is also as we both know there is where you are from. I - you are from West Virginia I am from a very rural very small town.  That is why we are friends that is why we are friends.  It is exactly why we are friends. It shapes every single interaction that I have after 18 years in a town of 1300 people. Um there are certain parts of rural America and certain things that I feel like I understand intuitively. And there are certain things about city people as my parents - city people - would have called them uh where I find myself baffled. And I need to know more. Um I want to talk about your motive. I want to talk about the thing that underpins a lot of what you do and you lay this out very clearly in the book. You talk about being a young kid who would turn to song lyrics and passages and books and uh notes that your sisters had written you and you would take out the helpful bits or the bits that you thought were helpful you would harvest them and you would kind of say okay this is the thing that is going to guide me through X Y or Z. Now look that is I have interviewed a lot of people in my life. I have never heard anyone say that they did that kind of psychological and emotional collaging to get themselves through young adulthood. Tell me a little bit about that. Why you think you did it and whether you still do it today?  Oh I a hundred percent still do it. I mean the thing - the like the like way I - I think that is what this work is. It is like trying to figure out yeah trying to figure out how life works. I mean I I was in in ninth grade I was a freshman in high school doing a research paper and we could pick anything to do a paper about and I chose to do it about adolescent girls' psychological development and what was happening as they move from being girls to women. And I and the book Reviving Ophelia was out at the time it was very important to me. I mean so I was like in the public library in Charleston West Virginia being likeyou know reading all the psychological - psychology books to be like oh it is difficult for me to understand the difference between thinking and feeling. It feels like I cannot differentiate because of where my brain is. Like I was studying my own emotional experience as a way of I think coping with adolescence you know? So I think what um where the utility of thinking you can study and do homework - where that ends is like life is going to come at you no matter what like there is no hack you know? I think we just really want hacks to get us around the hard stuff. And um and I tried. I like collected all the I had you know I had all these journals. I had all these conversations with older sisters. I have always had older mentors who I am just like how did you do that? And how did you do that? And like just really cultivated those kinds of relationships. And then I still found myself at 30 like with my life turned upside down from anything that I thought it was going to be when my first marriage was falling apart and everything that I thought I had sort of been laying the groundwork for fell out from under me. And then I had to sort of - sort of change the question which was how do I get through this? How do I get through this? Like what are the small steps that I am going to take this week and the next month like to figure out what I want and then how to make it so? Um and I think that is - that sort of change in my life sort of powered - that kind of became why I was interested in in in Death Sex  Money and this idea of like let us accept the inevitability of these hard things and then let us have conversations around how we each have encountered it. You know? We can share that information and we can get a lot of help from listening in to how - other people talking about how they have made their way through. But um it it kind of allows you to sort of hurdle over the question of like why did this terrible thing happen to me? Like because terrible things are going to happen to each of us you know? Um and and some people - terrible things you know many more happen to some people than other people but there is there is limits to each of our individual control. So how do we talk about what happens when that is going on in our lives?  You write about this very beautifully in the book and very openly in the book and I hope you do not mind me sharing yet another anecdote that is actually not in the book. But uh about a decade ago you and I were supposed to go to Washington D.C. on a reporting trip together to cover I think Jon Stewart or Stephen Colbert was having some big rally in D.C. And I remember maybe a day before we were supposed to go I was very excited a day before we were supposed to go you walked over to my desk and you said very quietly I cannot come to Washington DC. I need to stay in town this weekend and work on my marriage. And that was it. And then you then you walked away. I had no idea what to think. We had not known each other for very long. Uh and you had said it in such a quiet way uh that was kind of indecipherable. In the book you talk a bunch about your first marriage and understandably so because it is one of those crucial pivotal capstone relationships. Talk a little bit about how you went from West Virginia and a marriage to all of a sudden being a very different person living a very different life.  Yeah. Um oh I just that makes me I feel so - I just want to hug that little person telling you that! She does not even take a day off work. She knows she cannot do a work trip but she is just going to say I gotta work on this. Um so looking back at what happened in my first marriage it was kind of - just really incredible. Um I met I met my ex-husband when we when I was in college my - right before I started my senior year. He was also from West Virginia. Uh he was a civil rights lawyer at the time. I was doing history...civil rights histories of of West Virginia for my thesis and that is how we met. And um and it was like we just like clicked. We just like got each other. We got that like where we were from was important to us but we also liked art and movies and music. And you know we would do these you know the the early years of our relationship were like going on road trips and we would go to we like you know there was not like a big city in Charleston. You had to go to the big cities to see the cool bands. So we would like do all these road trips and it was really fun. And we just like we were like best buds. We just were each other's person. And we were figuring out how to be adults together. And we were together for...how many years? Uh a lot of years before we got married five years four or five years. And then we got married when I was 26 and about a year into our marriage um he said I do not want to be a lawyer my whole life. I want to go to film school. I want to go to NYU. That is my dream. And um I said okay that is - that sounds really exciting. And then I think I do not know if in that same conversation but soon after came like but what about me? You know what about us? Like how does this work? Um and and we did it. Like he applied to film school he got in he got a full tuition scholarship. And it was 2009 and we decided to move to New York City. Another thing happening in 2009 was uh the financial crisis.  Oh yes.  Um which was also really impacting journalism and and media opportunities in a really real way because print was collapsing podcasting had not really taken off. Um and so I my experience of moving to New York was not Oh I am going to follow my dream It was like how am I going to pay rent? And now my my husband is a student. Um so it was very scary for me. And um It is sort of like we we decided to take do this adventure together. Um and then there would just be it took uh it was like a a very slow unraveling at first. It was like we are doing this Anna's freaked out but we are doing this. Um and I think that we did not recognize it took us a long time to recognize Oh like we are making this big change because you want your life to be really different than what it is. And I did not I I knew really deeply that I wanted to eventually have a place to live have a family like put down roots. Um and he did not he wanted to travel all over the world and do film projects and not think about stability and like go after his dreams. And we did not know how to say that to one another. So instead we just would argue about like little things. Like can we spend money on this? Can we spend money on that? Um and um probably when I told you I have to stay in town for a weekend to work on my marriage um probably it was like right when all of that was cracking open and we were just beginning to say...and we did the thing we went to couples counseling we read the books we tried you know we really tried to sort of sort it out together. Um but...and had a lot of hard conversations. And it was not until I was writing this book it is been it is been a long time since we have been apart. Um we broke up it was it is been more than a decade. Um but it was it was in writing about those conversations and also interviewing him for the book that I realized we did not fail at having these hard conversations. Like we did not not do what we were supposed to do. Like we actually had these hard conversations and they revealed that we wanted different things. Um cause I think with my original sort of mindset about if you work really hard at talking about hard things you can like reach an agreement work it out you know? Um and instead we had hard conversations that revealed that we did not we may have had a wonderful love story and grown up together and really like helped each other launch out into the world but we did not need to be married. Um and that was really sad. The conversations were sad and difficult but we were doing them the right way. 'ecause they eventually revealed that that is what we needed to learn from one another.  You separated and then there is a joke in our friend group which I will let people in on. Um we all went out to a bar a few of us and we were young - we were I do not know 29 30. We got a little too drunk and we said This is going to be the summer of us. We are going to dance and meet men and drink and party! And then like three weeks later three weeks later you came to us and you were like I think I have met someone. And hot girl summer was completely canceled but let us talk about the fellow who you met. Who you are married to today. Uh you talk about Arthur in the book. He is a fascinating person. Um you guys compliment each other in a lot of ways. Talk about how you met Arthur and how you transitioned from woman who is like young twenties going to go out there and and just party to wait maybe that is not what I want. Because I have always wondered whether or not you regret that you did not just party with us that summer.  Well you know I will - I will just say like I in my mind that was still very much hot girl summer.  Okay! Okay!  It was not with a lot of other people. I just settled on who I was doing it with. Um uh I let us see how did we meet? I mean we met we met when I write about this like I was uh we it was a weekend away. I was kind of going to go to a 4th of July party with friends and I um and I knew I was like self-conscious because it was like everybody else was couples. Most of whom were married. Most of whom knew each other from college. And I did not I was like a new friend. So it was - felt as if I was like it was like The Big Chill. Do you know that movie? The Big Chill. So it is like this reunion everybody knows each other. Everybody's married. And then I am the like weird recent divorcee lady who shows up. Like I am what is her name? Jennifer Tilly. In like the...in the leotard. So I was Jennifer Tilly um who was like the weird person who nobody else knows. And but there was another single man who showed up. This was on Cape Cod and I am like cutting a pineapple as I....I remember this I am cutting a pineapple in the kitchen for this big group dinner. And then this like man comes around the island and these shoulders and he is like Hi I am Arthur. I was like Hello. I do not know where you have come from but you have made an impression. And then I was just like who is this person? And it turned out uh just like we have been talking about like he was doing his graduate work in Laramie Wyoming and doing his field work in Northwest Wyoming rural communities. And we talked a lot about um just what that...the politics of working where he worked. And I talked about West Virginia and it was like Oh there is things that we have to talk about. So we just started talking and uh I liked talking to him and he liked talking to me. Um but I was in a sort of like you know there is....this is the summer of Anna. I am not looking. That was what I called it.  That was it. The summer of Anna.  The summer of Anna. It was just beginning and and I was also just like dude here's what is going on with me. I am just getting out of a marriage. I am kind of a mess. I live uh like it was just all on the table. Um and what was like what I did notice was like Oh he can he can like handle that. Like he is not making me feel weird about kind of being you know the fact that there is a lot that is like up in the air and a little bit messy about me. Like he is kind of like just can handle it. And so. We met that weekend and then he flew back to Wyoming and um then I emailed him and said like I really liked meeting you. And then that just became then we started talking on the phone and then it then I was like would you want to...I looked back at the email history. Cause I was like how long did it take it was like within the week that he was like do you want to come visit? And um well it is summer of Anna. I have I have not been to Wyoming as an adult. Like yes I will come. And then but but uh um you know I think it was I was not ready. I was not ready to be like super interested in and committing to someone. I was still very much like finding how to stand on my own two legs. So that kind of became a thing that we had to work through. While we knew each other. And while we were deciding you know what is this and how serious is it? And you know and it took lots of years for me to feel like I was not like just to feel confident that I was not just jumping into another sort of slot because I was afraid of being alone. I had to like really sort of like test it you know like is this is this really what you...do I want this? Do you want this? What are we doing? And we broke up and then we would then we got back together. Um and yeah it took I think I met him really quickly and we very quickly knew that we really thought a lot of each other. And I think the thing that kept me in it was like even when it was like what are you doing? Like when I would get the most scared I remember saying to people like that is when we have some of the best conversations like he can talk to me about all the feelings like and so that was a real sort of thing that was like Oh That is very attractive to me. Like I can tell you all the feelings and all the mixed feelings and fears and you can tell me your fears and mixed feelings and we can both handle it. You know? Um we do not have to protect each other from our um we do not have to protect each other. Like we can handle it. And that is been that was like Oh this is something that is a really important building block of a long-term relationship. You are listening to my conversation with NPR's Noel King. She interviewed me for a virtual event marking the release of my book - Let us Talk About Hard Things which is out now. Coming up we talk about my move from covering politics to creating this show.  This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC I am Anna sale. Today we are sharing my conversation with NPR's Noel King at a live event last week that we called How To Talk About Hard Things and Why You Should. If you are a regular listener to this show then you know that honest sometimes uncomfortable conversations are kind of our thing. And my book about just this is now officially available. Noel interviewed me about that book and what inspired it. Here's the rest of that conversation.  So as you and Arthur were getting to know each other in your personal life was sort of starting to figure itself out you at WNYC were still known as a politics reporter. You had some come from West Virginia you would done Connecticut. You would now done New York City. And I think a lot of people at the station viewed you as the woman who will cover politics for the rest of her career. She is really good at it. Um she gets the politicians to open up. And then WNYC does - holds this competition and says does anyone have ideas for a new show? And I know that you have told this story before and I am sure a lot of people listening have heard it but one of the things that I am incredibly curious about there was a perception of you as person who does X and inside you were like but I am person who wants to do Y. So I know that you went ahead and you pitched the show and it worked out and it is Death Sex  Money. But I am very curious about what it took inside of you to get up the guts to be like I do not want to be politics lady I want to be Death Sex  Money lady.  It was scary.  Was it?  Yeah. Well I think what I remember really worrying about is um are people gonna still take me seriously? You know? Um because I had worked really hard in in my journalism career up to that point you know how long had I - not yet 10 years but I have been covering politics for about that. And like to sort of like you know when you come up as a young woman reporter in the state house like there is always the like men reporters who have been covering the budget for like 25 years. And they are like Eh you should look at this line item over here. You know? And so part of my project as a young reporter was like I am going to impress those dudes. Like I want them to think like she is smart. She like is seeing stories that other people are missing and she is like we need to be afraid of her. Like I wanted to compete you know? And um but I think when I think about that transition um kind of critically between like I I did a lot of coverage of just talking to voters you know? Um around political campaigns and around the 2012 presidential campaign I did road trips and just like found voters where they where they lived and and would ask them to tell me how they thought things were going for their family. And that was very similar to the work that I have continued to do on Death Sex  Money but just in a very different container you know? It became it was like a soundbite that I would put at the top of a story about polls and how you know Mitt Romney was up here in this county because X and so-and-so says this about how things are going you know like but the actual work of getting those people to open up was very similar to what I continue to do. Um but I I had to just like kind of decide um that it was worth trying even if - I had to like I just I it was like almost like giving myself a pep talk. Like I know I am doing stuff that is meaningful even though it is not going into the like serious journalism box in the same way. Like I know that I need these kinds of interviews and conversations. Um and I think that they that if I can apply what I have learned covering Medicaid budgets and campaigns to like make it - helping us feel more competent in our personal lives? Like that that is meaningful. But um I did have to just sort of get to the place of being like if you do not get what I am doing I am gonna - it is okay. You know like I am confident in what the vision is and I know that I am still doing journalism that matters.  When you first pitched the show who did you want to listen? Who was it for?  Oh it is like I have a pitch document that I look back on every so often. And it is so weird and dated now. Um 'ecause it was like 2013 when I was first making my notes. And it was stuff like um oh I reference Oprah and I reference Lena Dunham. I reference like um uh... but I did think initially I was like okay here's so at that time I am like 33 turning 34. I am like I am in a relationship I am divorced. I am not sure if I am going to have kids or be able to have kids. I do not really know what I want to do for work and where I want to live. Like I am in this tumult. Like I bet there are people like me who could use this show. So that was like the original sort of like I think there is a need that this would - an itch that this would scratch. And I pictured myself as the audience. And I think that what is been so cool about making the show is like the listeners have continually sort of like like banged their fists at my own conception of like who who um who wants a show like this and who to invite in and who to lift up. And so it is just been this like really fun um like way of just like me being like - now I do not think like oh I am sure this is a story that our listeners would like. 'ecause I do not even really know what that means. Like I think I think more like this show is for people. This show is for people who are like in it like they are in a moment of just like ugh you know? How are other people doing this? Or who have been through it. And now are like - anything - like it being really broad like but who have just like trudged through something and kind of like um are are in that practice of like building the vocabulary for how to like talk about their emotional lives and and and um - you know Katie Bishop our executive producer she Slacked me like I think it was just a couple months ago. She is like I think our show is for people who are either curious about therapy or are already in therapy. It is like that can mean a lot of people.  Right!  And also it is quite specific.  Is there any group that you hear from and by group I mean like do you do you occasionally hear from a handful of a type of person where you are like Oh my goodness you are listening to the show I did not realize it! Are there any surprises?  Oh one person I just love to hear like I see him on Twitter sometimes he favorites my tweets - Ernie in Vallejo California. I first um he is he must be now in his later seventies but I first met him because we did an episode where we just asked people to tell us about living alone. Um your experiences of living alone. And I of course was in this experience of I had lived with my husband and then I was divorced and I had live with my - in a college dorm before that and then with my family before that so I had never lived alone. So I am like thinking of it in terms of like living on your own career woman in the city. Ernie lives in a trailer in Vallejo California in a trailer park. And he um had split up with from his wife and did not really want to but now is living on his own. And he initially just told us about his his story of like how he has found you know what he does. I think you talked about baking pies in his trailer in that first episode. And and I interviewed him um and said like Ernie like just curious like how did you find Death Sex  Money? And he had a job where he worked the night shift and he you know he was kind of on his own. And he had somehow you know gotten onto Radiolab or something... somehow some way he had made his way to Death Sex  Money and we had become part of his lineup. And um years later when we were working on an episode about or a series about class and how each of us sort of define our class identities I went to Ernie's trailer in Vallejo because now he lives not far from me out here in California and got to spend time in his house and um interview him about uh you know his own sort of um class transition. He sort of opted out is is was his experience of - kind of opted out of trying to hustle middle-classupper middle-class life and and is quite happy. But Ernie is somebody who I just like I just love like oh! You are listening you know?  So you um you started the show. The show actually took off. I mean it was instantly it was an instant hit. It was something that I think people had been craving. For a couple of reasons in particular but there is one I want to ask you about specifically which is you and I have never discussed religion or your religious background but I will admit the one thing about Death Sex  Money that I sometimes have to skip through and the one thing in the book that I had to kind of....it is the sex part. And I was not raised in a deeply religious household. I had like I had Catholicism looming over me but I am not baptized or confirmed. I have trouble with the sex part. And I am very curious how it could be that I assume you were raised going to church on occasion? Um I know you have a big family with a lot of sisters but what exactly gives you the confidence to speak so openly about sex and to write so openly about sex? And what is um for someone like me who is still reading through through uh my fingers - what is the value of it?  Well uh I was raised Unitarian Universalist going to church but if you know anything about Unitarians like they figure out ways to talk about sex and for sex to be okay. So I think that is pretty important.  And there you have it.  Um I also was raised my my dad is a doctor my mom's a physical therapist. So I was like raised where like uh with this idea like uh kind of conversation about the body. Um and how the body worked and how we talked about - and like were taught about sex by my parents and in my family was kind of like this is an extension of a way bodies work. Like my parents told me how babies were made when I was young like in a...my dad was telling me um like in a bed like a nighttime story. We were at the beach and it was like well he told us stories. He would make up these stories about Strawberry Shortcake and her family. And one night. Strawberry's parents decided they wanted to have another kid. And I was young enough that I was like WHAT? So I think that like it is like okay this is like part of what we how bodies work. Um but then I guess like how I think about my comfort and what I chose to write about in the book like. You know like I am a married woman who has two little kids and like I will tell you I think it is important for you to know that pleasure is something that I think people deserve and can figure out like um it is important to like give yourself permission to explore how to talk about in relationships. Um I also believe that like there is lots of different ways that if - that you can have sort of ethical sex lives. Like you can choose there is not one way to be moral when it comes to sex. You can choose like you can choose with your partners whether you are a monogamous whether you are not who you sleep with how many people you sleep with like um like so I think that those are sort of the bedrock things that I am like ooh is this okay to say? And I am like well it is pretty clear that I have had sex because I...I got pregnant. Um and I have two kids so that is clear. So I was not really like saying anything that people probably did not know about me. Um and then I also think it is like I wrote there is a section of the book about like um about married sex and especially like early parenthood sex and about uh and the reason I wrote that is because I think it is important to talk about sex. We...there is a lot of cultural conversation about the right ways to talk about hookups and consent and what you want to do with someone for the first time. Like when you are having that conversation like how to make sure you are both on board and want the same thing but I want it to also focus on sex conversations within the context of longer relationships because our bodies change our hormones change. We want - you know our stress levels change and that that is also okay. Like that is part of living in a body like and so that is why I chose to tell that story. I tell a story about um my OB-GYN after I had my first child like kind of talk - like opening up the conversation about like How is it going? How is it going intimacy with your husband? Which was like I was like Oh my God I cannot believe he is asking this. And then I was like but it was it ended up being such a nice conversation because we talked about whether I wanted to have a second kid like what I was getting I was in my later thirties at that point. And so he just wanted me to sort of like - he was like if you can open up the conversation about what how you are relating to each other physically that can be good because that way you do not immediately go into like high stakes we need to get pregnant you know sex. Like you can have you can you do not go from zero to sixty you know? Um which I thought was just really good advice. Um and uh so that is why I chose to write about that. So this...I am I am looking at your face and I am like this is a part of me that Noel's like Anna's brain is different.  Yes no it truly is it truly as I read through peeked fingers as I fast forward I will re....I will I will urge everyone if they have not heard the episode with Lucinda Williams to go back and listen because that was one of the funniest and most extraordinary things about our changing bodies that I had ever heard in a podcast. I put down my phone and walked slowly away from it. Obviously this is my deal. I will get through it. So tell me let us talk about now you and Arthur got together. It took some time. Uh it took a lot of conversations. You guys had to negotiate a bunch. And then in 2015 I think you moved across the country. With a new husband and a baby inside you and a show that was still relatively new. Um talk about those...talk about just talk about that one month maybe. What was that road trip like?  That was wild. Yeah. We got married in 2015 and then I very quickly got pregnant and then we were....then Arthur got a job in California and I we had to be like oh wait whoa. Like how do we...How are we going to do this? Like like can you do your show? Like do you have to leave your show? Do you have to get a new job? Like all these big open questions and even like where do we want to have the baby? If we are...we are moving while you are pregnant like do you want to have the baby in New York City? Have the baby in California where we did not have housing yet? I mean there was a lot that was just like buckle up. Um but uh We sort of figured it out. And I think Arthur taught me a lot of um you know I can tend to be very uh like to-do list and what are the things that need to happen to make this work. And Arthur is the one in our relationship who is like hang on hang on. What is the vision? Like what are we after here? And and he was the one who was like he you know he is - nature is very important to him. For him there there was a moment where he was like I do not want my baby's first experience in the world to be getting in a cab in Manhattan. Like I want to have my kid in like because we have we we there is a possibility I would like to have our kid in a different environment. So we decided to not go to California but to go halfway. And we decided to do I would do my maternity leave in Wyoming which is where we had gotten married um in Cody. So uh that was we packed up our Brooklyn apartment. I figured out with WNYC that I could work remotely and the rest of the team would stay in New York City and they are still in New York City. Um and then we got on a plane with our dog. And the rest of our stuff was in a truck on its way to Wyoming and at 36 weeks pregnant I arrived in Wyoming and I had a baby three weeks later.  I - we are getting close to time but there is a last and very important question that I want to ask you because I am asking it for me and I am asking for everyone else out there. So the past four years in this country have been incredibly difficult speaking as a reporter and a human being uh as somebody who has lost more than one good friend over the last four years in a very polarized and divided time. Um we are existing in a space in which people do not even agree on the same facts they are living in what we often shorthand call completely separate worlds. Although maybe that is that is a stupid shorthand but but it works I think. Um what is the benefit of having hard conversations at a particular time like this when mistrust is really high when misunderstanding is really high? And when misinformation is off the charts what is the optimistic outcome here?  Okay. I think there is a couple of different answers to this question. Uh cause I think about this a lot like am I doing something that is building back something that is really missing? Like when I think about am I doing what I ought to be doing in this moment in this country? Like that is the question that I turn over in my head. Um and one answer is you know it is not just like we often talk about it like we are polarized. And like it is so hard to talk to people who are different and we are in different worlds. But even people who like occupy the same worlds as you like we are not...there is a lot that could also that could be done to reinforce our connections with with people who um with in relationships that we are not tending to. And what I mean is um because of what is huge structural changes to how our economy works and how our communities look and where we gather like online instead of in person like there is there is a lot of ways in which like when you are struggling with something you can be very alone. Like very very alone. It is you and Google and whatever Reddit thread you find. And um and I I that is like part of the mission of the book is to say like we actually need to be talking about this stuff and not thinking we can just um sort of present that we have got it figured out when we are out in the world and not engage and stare at our phones and then figure it out on our own. Like when you talk about this stuff in relationship you are comparing notes you are building community you are realizing the thing that you feel the most ashamed and isolated around is not something that you alone are going through. Um and even just like like so much of just the economy now is like it is all it is on our shoulders in different ways. Like now we do not have pension plans. We have you know individual retirement accounts. We have you know just even just like that example like it is on our shoulders to figure it out on our own. So we need to build the informal networks and relationships to help us through that. So we have to learn how to talk about this stuff in our personal lives. The separate part of your question is like how and should we talk to people who we are very different from and vehemently disagree with and have very different worldviews? Um I think yes and no I do not think there is an answer to that. I think it is it is you know for for people you know I I have a life right now that is unusual in America which is I spend a lot of my time in Berkeley California. And then I spend a lot of time in Northwest Wyoming and those political environments are very different and the ways in which you know I was there during the pandemic in Cody and like the ways people talked about Corona Virus and masks and you know it was just very different contexts. And so I know when you say people are really different like I can picture a face here and picture a face there. And I am like how do I talk to those two different very different people. And it is....it goes back to like that idea of my West Virginia-ness. Like I want to enter a conversation with like without thinking like I have you all figured out. I know - I know how you do this. Like I know like Oh you think that? Like you fool. Like do not...you know? And so certainly there is going to be things in both environments where I feel like Oh you are....we really do not move through the world in the same way. Um but I want to sort of like I personally try to take a sort of position of...and a posture of like what is the thing that we can talk about like you know if you are if you are what is the thing that like we both think is cool? You like horses? Let us talk about horses first. And then let us talk about...I want to know about your family and I will tell you about my family. And like and then as you get to know each other then you can bring in like Oh you actually I really do not agree with you there. Like I really - like what about you know you can bring in personal examples to sort of challenge what they are missing from their worldview. And because you are their friend now you know you have that opening. That said that is not always possible. Like there are people who are hostile and mean and mean-spirited and hateful and I am not advocating for just um trying to you know like passively listening um because it is doing something for democracy. Like I do not that is not how I work either but I think as sort of like just uh - I do think there - it is important to just remember when you are moving through the world that that there is a lot that you do not know. Um and that you can be taught when you are curious about other people.  Anna Sale. The new book is called Let us Talk About Hard Things read it in bed read it with a glass of wine read it with a pint of ice cream. Kick everyone else out of the house and read it. It is a wonderful book. Anna you have spent years doing the work sincerely. Uh no cliche intended having the hard conversations digging deep doing it even though it is uncomfortable. Even though it means I have to listen to stories about people's sex lives. And I think everybody listening really really appreciates you and what you have brought and the way you have helped us all connect and continue to connect. So thank you for being here. Thank you for doing this. And um have a wonderful night out there in the Bay Area.  Thank you Noel. I just also want to say thank you for doing this with me and thank you for being my friend and my colleague who has shown me like what I have learned from you is like you talk about hard things but you also do it with this incredible sense of like willingness to laugh it off. And that is really - really an important skill as well. So thank you very much. That is me with my friend Noel King from NPR's Morning Edition. I was lucky to have her interview me for this event celebrating the release of my book - Let us Talk About Hard Things. Thank you to the team at The Green Space at New York Public Radio who made this conversation possible. Veronica Guity Ricardo Fernandez David McLean Utsuki Otsuka Allie Pinel Jennifer Sendrow and Emma Wagner. Yasmeen Khan produced this conversation for Death Sex  Money and the rest of our team is Katie Bishop Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our intern is Emily Tafur and this is her last week with us. Thank you Emily for all your hard work. And I really look forward to following all that comes next. And again if you are new to Death Sex  Money we are glad you are here. Please subscribe and go to deathsexmoney.org where you can see a starter kit with some of our favorite episodes of all time. Along with some playlists about the big three topics death sex and money. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex and Money from WNYC.