 Hey Anna it is been almost a year so I felt it was a good time for me to call and check in. This is Death Sex and Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot And need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. If you havent heard our episodes from last year about student loans go back and listen. In this episode Im checking back in with some of the people I talked to a year ago. Like Jordan Gibbs.who just wasnt paying her student loans...when I first talked to her. Here she was back then.  You start getting emails all the time like Hey Jordan your student loans are past due and then you get one of those pink envelopes in the mail. When its likewhen you get the pink envelope youre fucked.  How long have you been getting pink envelopes?   Maybe like on and off for about a year. Jordan decided to use her first and last name publicly in our interview to hold herself accountableand she did. She made her first payment last summer. Since we spoke Jordan has totally changed the way she spends money so she can devote 900 a month to loan payments. She sent us an email update a few weeks ago and I asked her to come back to talk about it.  Hi Jordan Gibbs.  Hello Anna Sale how are you?  How has your year been?  It has been really interesting. A lot of I wouldnt say downs but its been a little bit of a rollercoaster. Being an adult and taking on adult things has made me grow up a little bit. And watching all this money go towards stupid student loans its like uh Im pushing back what I really want in order to do the right thing so its kind of hard.  As you adjusted your budget did you talk to anybody?  No. I looked through my bank account and started x-ing things off a list. Do I need to have my eyelashes done? No. Youll be fine without eyelashes Jordan. I was shopping like crazy I was going out to dinner drinks. Just being my dads favorite word careless. Just being absolutely careless. And looking at my spending at the end of the month and I was just like wow. You can definitely afford to pay your student loans.  Did you listen to our student loan episodes that you were in?  Um yes but almost a week or two before I got back in touch with you.  You waited.  Yeah. Well umm...a couple of people had reached out to me on LinkedIn. Some of the messages were really nice and like I really identify with what you say. And there were some people who had sent not sonot like cruel messages but more just like if I had your situation you dont have the right to be so irresponsible kind of thing. And so when I read those messages prior to listening to the episode it kind of like scared me to listen to it just because I was like oh my god do I sound like some pretentious person whos completely unaware of privilege? I didnt know what to think of it so it just kind of shied me away from listening to it.  Im pretty struck that people found you on LinkedIn to send you messages about how they thought you were making bad decisions.  In some peoples defense they did send me nice things too. There was this one guy who was like you got this.  There was encouragement.  Yeah. But then there were some that were like I really dont want to hear your sob story kind of a thing. So I was like damn.  So it was exposing. Because even the people who were encouraging you you were like oh my god they know what I said.  People really listen to this. Theres a person from North Carolina talking to me about this! Im like oh my god.  Are you glad that you emailed us and said sure Ill do an interview?  Yes and no. Yes because I dont think I would have had the catalyst to do it otherwise. I mean I could have kept on just dodging. Im sure something would have happened my credit score would have blown up or something where it would have forced me to do it but I would also say no because its not fun to take a hard look in the mirror at yourself and start making better decisions. I havent been disappointed in myself like that in a really long time. Its never fun to look in the mirror and be lik OK you caused this problem for yourself. But I think I made the right decision so I guess Im happy in the end. Jordan has about 40000 left to pay off...And she told me once she finally listened she got some tips from the episodes.  I heard a lady on there and she was listening to some radio guy? And she just...  Dave Ramsey! Tara Yeah. It was two hours every day of Dave Ramsey. And I took the podcast off my phone. I felt like I needed to get out of that scarcity mindset. That lady...we called Beth a year ago. Now she is letting go of Dave Ramsey's anti-debt radio show and she is ready to shed the pseudonym she was used with me before.  I think you can just use my first name Tara. Especially now that Im done I just dont care. When we talked last year Tara was dedicating more than half her take-home pay as a public defender toward her loans...about 3000 dollars a month. She was trying to finally get rid of the more than 200-thousand dollars shed owed for undergrad and law school. Then in February she scheduled her last payment.  And I slept terribly all night I kept waking up and I was like sweating.  Huh.  But it was very strange but it was like this sort of internal excitement I guess? Then I woke up and immediately logged on through my phone and it said balance paid in full amount due zero.  In bed.  In bed.  Uh-huh.  And I just laid there for a few minutes and I just thought thats it. Im done.  One of the things you talked about giving up was going into a store and buying a shirt from Ann Taylor. Have you bought yourself a nice shirt?  I havent yet. Ive bought a couple of workout clothes items because I came back from a run the other day and I was like I hate this shirt it is a shirt that I have had a long time and it kept riding up and I said to myself why are you still wearing it? Go buy another shirt.    Its very psychological and Im trying to work through some of that that sense of scarcity. Growing up we never had much money and so I think at 37 Im now just getting to a place where I dont have to think that way? Um oh! One thing I dont know how I forgot this because Im doing it later today actually I have started horseback riding.  Oh fun!  Yeah. I did it for about two years when I was a kid maybe 7 or 8 years old before we basically couldnt afford it anymore so I promised myself that once I was debt free that was going to be the thing that I was going to do. So at this point Im going once a week for an hour. And I just I love it because I can just leave my desk leave court leave wherever and go there and just be with a totally different set of thoughts when Im out there. Coming up. I check in with a listener named Sharif. A year ago he was questioning whether his higher education was worth it at all... Sharif If I hadnt gone to college I probably would have been better off. We talk about what is changed since.  We have another update to share with you. Lawrence Bartley the inmate at Sing Sing prison that I interviewed in 2014 has been granted parole. He was 17 when he was arrested and charged with murder. He is now 44. Lawrence wrote an essay for the Marshall Project about what he is been thinking about his release. He wrote On April 16th I got my new birth certificate the letter granting my parole. With my new lease on life I still remember the one I took. There is a link to Lawrence's essay on our Facebook page. And we wish Lawrence his wife Ronnine and their family all our best as they prepare for his re-entry. On the next episode Tayari Jones the author of this year's Oprah Book Club pick An American Marriage. She talks about the challenges of becoming famous overnight. And why for her dating other artists often has not worked out. I realized that I was in the position of being support staff to these men who are artists. And I just I did not want to do it anymore. And I feel that if you have to tell someone to read your work then they do not want to do it so I really would want someone who would volunteer to say hey let me see that.  This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale.  Hello?  Hi. Sharif?  How are you?  Good! Its nice to hear your voice again.  Yes likewise.  Where are you talking to me from right now?  Im back in my safe space in my car again. Just like when he first called me Sharif was parked outside the office where he works as a chemical engineer.He immigrated to the US as a teenager from Bangladesh and he felt embarrassed and ashamed at the weight of his more than 100-thousand dollars when we spoke a year ago.  I dont know how else to put it except that I almost made it. So yeah it did make me recalculate what America meant to me.  You sounded so frustrated a year ago when we talked and stuck.  I was! I was. I still am to a certain extent but nwo I feel Im moreI am in better control of the situation. And when I heard back the episode it actually did something where Im actually a lot more comfortable. It was almost therapeutic to hear it.  Ah.  Hearing that there were so many other people out there just like me if not worse it actually made me feel like I was part of a community.   Did you do something different with your student loans?  I re-consolidated my loans brought it in one place so I have a better understanding of exactly how much I owe and how best to tackle it.  So now you get its all in one place is there just one student loan payment youre making every month?  Thats right. Everything is in one place before the payments were going out in segments throughout the month but now its just one payment. Its still amounted to pretty much the same amount that Im paying in one lump sum but it definitely helps me better in controlling and planning my finances.  How much is your monthly payment right now?  Its around a thousand and fifty dollars  Do you have a sense  A thousand fifty-seven to be exact.  Okay. A thousand fifty-seven dollars.  But Im actually making payments after the monthly payment whatever savings I can muster in a month Ill actually make an additional payment. So last year I was able to pay off around 10000 additional.  Oh.  So Im hoping to Ill be able to pay it off in five to seven years.  Am I remembering correctly you have two little kids?  Yes. My daughter whos the older shes 4 and my son turned 2 in November.  How are you thinking about their higher education?  Well I always had a little bit of a saving plan for them for their educational budget but Im not going to tell them about it because I want them to become independent. And that is what they should plan for they shouldnt be counting on the money I have saved. But then if they need it I can come in and help.  So youre not going to tell them as part of your parenting philosophy.  Oh absolutely. They will have to struggle. Otherwise they would not understand or value what they have. I will not tell them because I think that will make them complacent. I just cant have that. A year ago a listener named Josie was deciding on colleges looking at glossy brochures from the elite private school she got into...and comparing it to paying in-state tuition at the University of Louisville. She decided to go to Louisville because of the money. And I caught her on her cell phone on campus...as she was wrapping up her freshman year with big plans on her mind.  I am going to be studying abroad next semester! in Amsterdam like all next semester and that is certainly not the cheapest option. She is able to do that because she is taking out less loans for tuition overall. And now she says the only thing she regrets is how much she agonized about going to a state school.  I was in so much stress that whole year. No one isnone of these colleges who want you to pay lots and lots of money none of them are trying to make it a clear choice. None of them are wanting you to feel okay about not going there. And then when I got here I met lots of people who had very similar stories to me like I got into this elite school and chose here instead. I just felt at home. I was just so relieved.  What are you going to do this summer?  Im going to go home and work and save money for college. One last person Ive really wondered about was Jessie who a year ago talked to me about her student loans while she was pulled off the highway in Colorado. Jessie I am sitting in my car in Cortez Colorado on the drive back to my mom's house in Washington State. She was on the road because shed just broken up with her fiance...basically because of her student loans. This year she says worried a lot less about her debt... Jessie After you call off a wedding over student loans...nothing else really holds a candle. Jessies has been paying 500 a month on her 60-thousand dollar debtShe works for a nonprofit hospital and is hoping for public service loan forgiveness so shes investing and saving anything beyond the minimum payment. And in the last year shes been focusing on other things besides her student debt. Jessie I moved back to Washington pretty much immediately started a new job this past summer I bought my first house up here...I started dieting and exercising...and as of now looking back over the last year Ive lost almost 90 pounds.  Oh wow! Jessie And then the kind of more recent part of my life I about a month ago I finished the process of being licensed as a foster parent in the state of Washington. And right now I have short-term a 4 year-old foster daughter.  How did you make the decision to become a foster parent? Jessie Um you know Ive wanted to be a parent my whole life and of course the decision to leave my ex-fiance was because he said that people with debt shouldnt have children including student debt. And that was a deal breaker. So I left.  Hmm-hmmm... Jessie And this past summer I turned 30 and just the question of how prominent should becoming a mom be in my mind right now. Should I not worry about it or Ill figure it out later or you know put the move on it? You know  Yes I know that exact internal dialogue yes! Jessie  Um and got the house and my life felt a little more stable so I started looking into it and I realized that it was something I could do to kind of get feet in the water would I be okay being a single mom? It took many months of paperwork but yeah I did it! I have my first kiddo right now.  How many weeks in are you? You said its fairly recent? Jess Im two weeks in. And actually she could be going home any day now. And in this case its a really positive development so Im really excited for her. Ill be really sad to see her go because Ive grown very attached!  What have you learned in two weeks about creating connection and loving someone when you know it can be quite temporary? Jess Gosh. For this girl in particular I have just learned about the importance of just showing up just being there. Because at four shes really young but shes old enough to know shes with me and not her parentsBut I just kept showing up. You know rubbing her back when she was sad and I kept being the one to smile first when she was mad at me and eventually she came around.  How do you think back on the end of your relationship now that its been a year? Jess Hoo. thats a tough one. I mean by a million miles it was the hardest period in my lifeAnd a year out I feel like Im just coming out of the full cloud of that experience. Its been really interesting having that episode of the podcast because I saved it and a couple of times over the last year Ive gone back to it and I listen to myself talking about it and it gives me this really unique mile marker to hear how I was a year ago. And I remember a year ago I knew in my heart I was doing the right thing but every moment of it hurt every decision it all hurt. And now it feels unfortunate but gosh Im so glad that I left and that I kinda restarted my life in the way that I did in a way that is not so shame-based about money. Thats a listener named Jessie talking to me from her new house in Washington. If you have student loans weve got a list of resources to help you manage them whether you have been making minimum payments trying to pay them off as quickly as possible or ignoring them completely. Go to deathsexmoney.orgstudentloans and click on the link for free resources at the bottom of the page. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. Our team includes Anabel Bacon Stephanie Joyce Emily Botein Andrew Dunn and Katie Bishop. And last week Katie brought the newest member of the extended Death Sex  Money team into the world. Baby Lila is here. Katie is going to take the next several months off while they get to know each other. We will miss her but we are so glad she has this time to focus on that important work. Our intern is Angely Mercado. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. And this episode was a really nice reminder  that when you listen send us an email tell us a story you become part of a real community. If you want to support this kind of connection and conversation please consider donating. Go to deathsexmoney.orgdonate. And before she heads to Europe next semester Josies summer job is at a bagel shop in her hometown. I also served bagels at a job in high school and college  Its a lifelong skill youll have of cutting a bagel right down the middle.  Yeah! I had to watch some training videos online...like press lightly go halfway through flip it up! Im ready to get really good at slicing bagels. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.