 The more time you spend in the presence of death the less you fear it. Your life will be greatly enhanced by spending time with dying people even though you have been taught to avoid it. Death is not the enemy. Snakes are. This is Death Sex and Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ...and need to talk about more. I am Anna Sale. And this week we are sharing a conversation I recently had live on stage with writer Anne Lamott as part of the Reimagine End of Life festival. I think you are going to like it. During her 40 year career Anne has written many bestselling books about death and grief addiction and recovery parenthood and family as well as her impulse to jump when she is in high places. We talk about that in the second half if you want to skip it. Anne was born and raised in the Bay Area and lives there now so we were on stage in front of a hometown crowd in downtown San Francisco.  So you have been writing about death for many years going back to your first novel that you published when you were 25 called Hard Laughter which is such a great title. But I want to ask you about something that has changed that is new in your life this year when you got married for the first time at 65. How much were you thinking about death when you made that decision to get married at this point in your life?  Well I had decided that my husband-to-be Neil was actually after my Medicare payments. And um and very typically if you are an older woman a younger man--my Neil's a little bit younger--will prey on older women who are going to get Medicare. And um and of course Kaiser Senior Advantage. And so I thought there was about a 5050 chance that he would--and you see this in the paper all the time. They are always young men. They have big eyes. They are always called puppy-eyed. And so I thought well 5050 I will take it you know? And it is so amazing to know that no matter what happens to me Neil will walk me through that. And no matter what happens for Neil if I am alive I will walk him through that. And it is an amazing feeling of safety and being able to let go a little do the--I call it the sacrament of plop. You know where you go Ah! And it is amazing. But I did not really think about death except for my possible...you know him killing me or sedating me and keeping me hostage while he cashed my Medicare checks.  There was a wonderful wedding announcement in the New York Times and there was a line that stuck out to me written by the reporter--this is not a quote. She said in the paper of record She is afraid of almost everything whereas he is afraid of almost nothing. And it is not a way I think of you as being afraid of almost everything. Does that feel accurate?  Yeah.  I just came this way you know? God made me a certain way and the fact that all these things have been my destiny. I was a very sensitive child. And in the '50s that was something that was very shaming. You know there was a book called The Highly Sensitive Child which was a handbook for your parents to bear having to have you as one of their children. And you know what it means to be sensitive? It means you are paying attention. It means you see the National Geographic and you see what is happening in India. You see children with flies on their eyes you see what is going on and it grieves you. Your heart is open to it you are more permeable. God I grew up I had this kinky frizzy hair. I grew up having this be kind of what defined me. And the other thing I mean just being bullied constantly having people throw stuff at me boys and then having people say you have got to get a thicker skin. Like if you had a thicker skin we would be happier that you are here because you would not cry about really sad things. But I raised my boy to cry about really sad things. The world is an incredibly hard and sad place and so--but to be able to sit that is why it is so incredible talk about death out loud because the terror of it comes from not being able to say it to say it actually happens. I have noticed it and it sucks.  Well there is a beautiful quote also in the New York Times from 25 years ago--where you were called writer who has perfected the art of saying the unsayable. And as you just said that is not a skill that was polished when you were a young girl. When you thought about sitting down and what you wanted to achieve with the words you were going to put out in the world was that your objective? To say what was not being said?  No not really. I mean I did not mean to...I did not want to you know push the envelope intentionally for the sake of pushing the envelope. It is just even as a child and a teenager I was just starved for truth. And there is just so little truth in the world. And so if someone tells you truth you know just to use a cliched word it resonates. It is like this little Dr. Seuss creature inside of you going oh my God. And it is so it is so enlivening. It is medicine. But it starts by saying these things that you were not supposed to say. Like when I wrote the baby book. You know which one.  Operating Instructions. Very important to me. Yes.  No one had mentioned to me that--I was a single mother with no money and it was a nightmare. I was 35. I was older when I had a baby and I had never been able to be angry before. I had never raised my voice because in the '50s women were exiled. If a woman became angry she was a little bit tense cause her husband was having affairs and she expressed this they called her a witch. They used to kill us for that right? For being emotional. And so I had never raised my voice and I had a baby and I just felt crazy you know? And I remember writing in one  of the entries in Operating Instructions. You know the baby had fallen asleep and I brushed my teeth. And before that I thought Gee that sounds like a lot of energy. But I had he would fallen asleep for a minute and I would run in and brushed my teeth which is a new lease on life right? It is like God has reached down and touched you. And then he woke up again and I wrote Oh God he is raised his loathsome reptilian head again. And um and there was not a mother on earth that said How can you say that?! You know every single mother said Oh yeah that is right. Yeah. You know. And this one night when he was just under a month I mean he is an eight pound person. It occurred to me that I could just put them outside for the night you know. But I would bundle him up really carefully and you know I would put him in a basket he would not be rolling around and stuff and he would be warm. And any mother I said that to would understand it because you are going to die of being as tired as no one has mentioned. And so when I started mentioning this people saidThank you. I know what you are talking about. And they said it is such a really such really someone said it out loud.  Well also in that first year of parenthood you write in that book about losing your best friend to breast cancer. And you sat with her as she was dying. You sat with your father as he was dying when you were in your 20s. You have sat with friends since who are dying. You talk about hospice and what it is to show up. You say show up. Listen nod is what you do with the dying which I love. Have you noticed anything about what it is to sit with someone who is dying when you have been at such different life phases? Has it felt different?  Um I got birth coached by a hospice. And what they say let us see it was I was 23 so that is 42 years ago. And what they said was we are going to teach you how to stay very real in this so that your father has company. He had melanoma that had metastasized his brain and it is going to be very very scary a lot of the time but you will never be alone. And whatever comes up we have seen it before and we will help you walk through it. And I have an older brother and a younger brother. And when he died they taught us to base the body. They taught us that these bodies are so precious to us that we bathe them. We honor them. You do not forget socks. Right? When you dress a person who has just started their feet might get cold and they taught me because they helped me feel safe in the--kind of the labor pains of losing my father. They taught me I was gonna never get over it which no one had said. You know? And in America there is like a grid a grieving grid. And if you lose a child you can grieve for like four to five years. I think if you lose a spouse 18 months. Brother sister... you know it is like get on with it. Because this is about forward motion. America is about forward motion and if you stop moving forward you are going to fall into the abyss. But if someone dies you cannot live without you are supposed to fall into the abyss. You know and it is pretty abysmal but where hospice says what the community says is you need to fall into the abyss. It is appropriate and we will climb down in it with you and we will get you tea. And hospice taught me that there was truth that was not bumper stickers. And that I was going to really probably never get over my father. And I was not particularly supposed to but at some point I would be able to bear it. And at some point--what I did not know--was that at some point I would feel him again and he would be alive for me again. And that is always what I have said to people who are with others that are dying. I have always said you sit there and that you listen and you do not run and you help them savor what is working. And you help them savor the feel of a hand on their skin and you helped them savor the view out the window. And if they do not feel like savoring if they do not want any of it you help them feel really angry about the hand they got dealt. You know I think the bottom line is it sucks and I hate it and it is holy. Coming up...after a lifetime of losing other people and tells me how she is thinking about her own death.  I mean I am a Christian so I basically see death as a pretty significant change of address. --- This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. I am Anna Sale.  I want to ask you about your own mortality.  Oooh.  And it is something else you write about in almost everything. Your your newest book you write early on in the book about um a feeling you have had your entire life when you are in high spaces. Do you want to describe what that feeling is?  Oh yeah. It is funny because I am a really positive and optimistic person in a slightly cranky way and I absolutely believe in Jesus and the kingdom and eternal life and so on and so forth. And yet my entire life when I have been in high places I felt like jumping. Because I find it exhausting here. And I still do. And I have a brilliant brilliant psychiatrist who told me--who made me have a commitment with him that whenever I felt this I would tell whoever I was with I am having it again.  Wait. So explain to me--describe to me how that can happen in the real world. When you are with someone all of a sudden you are going up in a glass elevator...what do you say?  Well in a glass elevator I would not wait to be able to get to the top so I could look down and kind of imagine jumping. Right? And because I believe that when the minute that we die we are caught in the arms of God. I believe people...I just a hundred percent believe that. And so um it does not feel suicidal to me. It feels...this is why I have a psychiatrist because it does not I mean I remember our dentist was at the 450 Sutter building in San Francisco and it was on the 14th floor. And this is in the '50s and '60s when the windows opened. Do any of you remember that? When you could go and open windows? And I would feel this inexorable pull to go out the window and to jump. But all truth is a paradox. All truth. I love being alive. I love it. And I always had incredible friends that were always my great advantage here. And so I do not know how to explain it except that people that are....it is kind of like well the reason I am supposed to tell someone was cause it kind of creates a trance for me. And I am a drug addict and an alcoholic in recovery. I have an eating disorder. I have basically every single disorder you can have except for gambling which I do not get. Because it just really hurts my feelings when I lose money in a casino or something. And I also get into kind of a trance when I am at a money changing machine and I get the four quarters out I feel lifted. And so my work here I feel is to love this ordinary dumb day. And to keep breaking the trance. Now I can make a case that the great trance the great fear we have is the fear of death. And so that if you begin to draw near to it and befriend it and get to become familiar with it that it takes away--it does not take away but it changes it transforms. It does some sort of alchemy with all fear if you can just start to deal with this. But so anyway I just want to say when I was at a Coptic giving some sermons in Egypt five or six years ago. And I had made this deal with my psychiatrist that I would tell whoever I was with that it was crossing my mind that I wanted to jump. And um and so I was with a minister and we were very very very very high up. And I said um I have to tell you something. Whenever I am very very high up I just think about jumping. And he went Oh who does not? And it was so incredible. Because if you are a thinking feeling sensitive person who allows themselves to have vulnerability and to be permeable of course  you think that. Of course. You just do not want a lot more loss. It is like I am good on loss. Right? I feel like thank you. I am good.  How have you found the necessary communication around end-of-life planning?  Oh my God. You know I just did that. I just did a will. Because that is what you do at 65. You get the Kaiser Senior Advantage and you do a will. And so for like a month I have been discussing my impending death and incapacitation. And at what level of incapacitation do I give Neil a break and voluntarily go into the home? And so I been just actually having that in my face. And I can honestly say that um I know I will die. And it does not scare me. I do not want to die right away. I mean I have only been married six months. I should get like...you should get a year out of this thing. I mean I lost six pounds for the wedding. But I do not wanna die. I love love love life. I love my work. I feel like I have... I have a mission. I sit with a lot of people who are dying. I get summoned and I help young alcoholics stay sober for that day. And so I have work I want to do in that capacity. It is not you know I am totally replaceable you know probably not to Neil but he is so crazy about me. But um. But I am replaceable. And I hope that I get to live to see my grandchild--for it not to devastate him. But I do not have any fear of death. I have just seen so many people die and they have all passed with heroism and some awful days but with heroism and humor and laughter. And laughter is about as sacred as it gets. Laughter is carbonated holiness and I have seen every single person pass with grace. And grace bats last.  One more question for you. And that is as someone who has processed loss and pain through so much through words...when you have had moments where you felt in that abyss and words were not doing it for you what has helped when words did not work?  Crying and rage crying and rage. You pick up the 200 pound phone and you call someone and you say I hate everything and all of life. And no one ever says Oh come on you are a Sunday school teacher. They say I am so glad you called. Come on over do you want to shop? Do you want to go get a whole lot of candy and and shop? Or they will say do you want to come over? And it is funny because I am very very angry. And I did not notice that because I am so religious. I am such a good person I am mostly really sweet in the world. And you are raised to be if you are a woman I mean if you are not you are going to be exiled. And to do the anger with a safe person. To say I am actually so angry that I think I could be having some kind of breakdown. And I have been able to say I am so angry. I am so angry that my friend died. I am so mad. I am so mad my friend Janine's son may die. I am so mad. I do not get it. And I have found people that can let me do the rage in a really healthy healing life-giving way.  Please join me in thanking Anne Lamott. That is Anne Lamott speaking with me live on stage at the Reimagine End of Life festival in San Francisco. Her most recent book is called Almost Everything Notes On Hope. If you are considering suicide or if you have a loved one who you think might be please ask for help. The suicide prevention hotline number is 1-800-273-8255. That is 1-800-273-TALK. Or like Anne tell someone you trust who is close by. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. I am based at the studios of the investigative podcast Reveal in Emeryville California. Our team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Afi Yellow-Duke Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. I am on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney on Facebook Twitter and Instagram. Our email is deathsexmoneywnyc.org. Anne's son is now 30--and even though she is taught him not to fear death he is learned there are parts of her aging that he can leverage.  My son Sam whenever he is mad looks up on the internet this place called A Place For Mom. You know he will say oh I think you would like this place. They will let you have a little animal. I am Anna Sale and this is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information. New York Public Radio transcripts are created on a rush deadline often by contractors. This text may not be in its final form and may be updated or revised in the future. Accuracy and availability may vary. The authoritative record of New York Public Radios programming is the audio record. 