Amy Landecker At school I was like straight As very good student but then I was a huge huge partier. I was like a mess and together. This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Growing up actor Amy Landeckers father was a star.  I just sucked it up like a little fame-seeking whore. He was a rock and roll DJ in Chicago. John Records Landecker. John Records Landecker WLS Music Radio from Chicago. I am John Landecker and Records truly is my middle name. It was FM radio in the 1970s. After sundown he could be heard across 38 states. Amy got to meet people like John Travolta and Shaun Cassidy. And when her father was at concerts or live broadcasts Amy was there.  Oh my God I just strutted up past security past thousands of screaming fans like That is my daddy. Amys now in her mid-40s and is just having breakout success. Shes best known for her role on the Amazon series Transparent. She plays Sarah the oldest sister. And talking to Amy you get the sense that shes still catching up to the momentum of her career. Part of that is how she talks open and loose with regular bursts of laughter.  We talk about like difficult things. Anna Sale We talk about like difficult things... Like shes trying to charm me at a dinner party even as we sit down to start an interview at her publicists office in Beverly Hills.  You like that? Okay.  I am into difficult topics.  That is not the way I usually describe it right before - this is going to be terrible.  So Amys game. Shes fun. Like the '70s rock scene she grew up around. Turns out that scene was not great for marriage. Amys parents split up when she was in elementary school.  I do not have a lot of -  Ive probably blocked out a lot of my memories of that time. I do not know what happened.  They were really young. My parents were only 20 years older than me and my sister they had - I think they were nineteen years older than my sister and 21 years older than me so they were really young. I think they were like 29 when they separated.  Did you feel pulled to one parent or another?  No. I mean I think my dad was always the good time and my mom was more the parent so in that respect I probably always wanted to hang out with my dad just because we could eat junk food and stay up late and my mom was oddly strict and I wanted to please her very much and I was very you know I do not think she knew much of what I was up to. My father had a history of drug abuse and alcoholism and I kind of inherited that quality and was put in really dangerous...you know unfortunate situations. And that went on until I was about 24. This very Jekyll and Hyde.  Are you talking about feeling victimized sexually? Or  Yeah. Yeah. And not not victimized doing things to myself allowing things to happen that I would - would not have happened. Once you get to blackout you know there is really not much you can do to protect yourself.  And I mean there was one incident where I almost was taken by a bunch of guys down an alley but I got saved from that.  Who saved you?  A friend in a car swinging by me running away. It was like a night club. I was wasted. I just went with these guys and they were taking me down this alley and luckily a friend started screaming and I do not know what would have happened but she assured me that I was in serious trouble. I have woken up Ive - you know a couple of times not knowing where I was or who I was with and so I do not really know what happened. But no one that I know has done anything to me that I did not consent to at the time whatever consent means when you are completely shitfaced. Amy kept the extent of her drinking secret from some of her family...but it still corroded important relationships. Like with her grandmother.  My daughter's middle name is Marjory named after my dad's mom Marjory Landecker who...are you like Barbara Walters where like everyone cries at some point? Im serious. Does someone always - do people always cry at some point? 'ecause I feel like I am about to do it right now. But tell me.  Not all the time. Some times.  But a lot of the time.  Yeah. But it is ok.  Yeah. I...she was like she was just my favorite person and I was in my very narcissistic drinking phase when she got sick and I remember going to Ann Arbor the last time I saw her and I was just like obsessed about something I do not know what. And I she was getting ill and I was not even really paying attention. And then when I found out she died I got drunk that night and was screaming like a crazy person and then laughing because you know you are drunk and knowing that like I was not emotionally dealing with what was happening. And its like to miss out on mourning this person who is like pure goodness to me she is just she is everything that you want a human being to be. So I have always regretted that I was not present with her in her last you know years of life.  What changed in your life when you turned 24?  I got sober and Ive never actually talked about this publicly. I just stopped drinking and everything got better. The final drink of my life was before a audition - it was at nine oclock in the morning and I had a cast on my arm from falling earlier in the week drunk at my house at a party. And I drank the night before and I drank the morning of to stop shaking and I was vomiting in the bathroom and went and did this audition and I was absolutely terrible and I knew - I was like I am not going to be able to do what I want to do for a living if I continue down this path. And I had dinner with my best friend from college that night and I said you know I think I am an alcoholic. And she was like Ha ha ha ha of course you are...duh.  Did that surprise you?  Um her - it was funny. I had heard from some people. Usually if you have a drinking problem there is people through the years that mention it to you and I had heard that from a couple people. I had never quite heard it like her like there is something in the laugh where I thought oh maybe I am wrong maybe she is like No you are not! You know where I am like listening like she is like Ha ha ha ha. Of course you are. And it was like this weird - oh wow. Like wow okay. And she kind of saved my life in that moment. After that Amy called her dad and asked for help.  My dad got sober before me about four years before me and so then we have been sort of on this other path together of not drinking and using and  What a like powerful thing to go through together.  It was amazing yeah. And its probably a part of why we are very close. I mean you know and it is not like all of a sudden you are saints. I mean were still complete fuckups and doing like insane behaviors but it got better and it was definitely something that I know if it had not for him that never would have happened at that time in my life. Never in a million years. And I have never tried it again since because I just do not want to - because to me it is like Russian Roulette. I have - maybe I can drink I do not know I was so young maybe but I have never wanted to go back to that. Ever. So far. Coming upAmy Landecker gets pregnant then married then divorced -- right as her career takes off.  I do not think I took marriage as seriously as I should hence the divorce. But I knew I wanted to be a parent. Thats probably the best thing that I have ever I mean it is - I am so in love with my kid it is a little weird. -- So we are still working on our episode about porn and your relationship to it. Weve gotten lots of voice memos and emails from you. And for many of you learning about sex really started with learning how to get your hands on porn. Some of you started with a VHS tape some with your dads magazines or dial-up internet on the family computer. Then of course came the smartphone.  How do you watch porn? Do you watch on your phone or your laptop? Jennifer Phone is the easiest yeah.  Do you hold your phone or do you tilt it up somewhere?   Both. This is very technicaltechnical questions. They are technical questions! Because porn is everywhere...and also very private. So I want to know how you watch if porn is a part of your life. Do you wake up before your partner to start searching on your tablet? Do you delete your browser history? Or if youre trying to stop consuming porn how do you avoid it...when its so readily available? Use your smartphone to record voice memo and email it to us at deathsexmoneywnyc.org or you can just send us an email in writing. Well give you a heads up if we use anything you send us. On the next episode Darrell Cannon You dont think that for one moment people that swore to serve and protect would act like this. Were teaming up with the show Planet Money...to bring you a story about when the people who are supposed to be enforcing the rulesbreak them instead.  He said You gonna tell us what we want to know? I looked at him. Said I aint got nothing to tell you. He said Okay. You gonna talk before the day is over with. And he put the cattle prod back in the bag and walked back out. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. Amy Landecker studied theater in college. And through her 20s and early 30s she did a lot of stage work and some television guest spots. But Chicago was still mostly her home base.  I would always wanted to come out to LA. I would had like a little bit of taste of it through the years but it never - I did not want to come out here without work. It was too - I was too afraid. And I was a big voiceover in Chicago. I had a wonderful living and I got to do great theater and so there was really no there was really no impetus to go anywhere. Plus Amys priorities were starting to change.  Id just broken up with someone because - or we would broken up because he did not want to have kids and I did. I was really clear about it. Within a year I was married and had a child. It was pretty fast.  Were you supporting yourself mostly doing voiceover work?  Yeah. I was the voiceit was funny because I would go do theater at night like hardcore getting like orally sodomized by a chicken boneand then I would go do like the voice of Hallmark during the day. Send a card they will never forget you remembered. Like that was my job for 10 years. And I did like Toys 'R Us I did Sears. I did like really I did like - I still do - you know really clean wholesome products.  Are you still doing voiceover?  Oh yeah. I hope to do it 'til the day I die. It is my favorite thing of all the stuff I have ever done. Honestly it is.  Why?  It is it does not - first of all I think it has always felt very comfortable because of the microphone and growing up in radio and just loving being around studios. I am essentially lazy and it is the best bang for your buck of any job in the artistic field. I mean you literally go to some place for like an hour and can live off of it for the next six months. It is lazy man's art. There is no...because it is not a physical representation everyone behaves differently. It is it - because there is an like an anonymity to it everyone behaves differently. There is no sort of infighting in voiceover there is really no jealousy if you do not get the job. You know you do not feel as vulnerable because it is not like you are putting your physical self out there. It is like not the same when you are voice is rejected it is like okay I just did not sound like the person that they wanted it to sound like. It is not because I am too old or too young or too fat or too thin or too whatever! You know it feels less  Existential.  Yeah.  Yeah. Amys first major role in Hollywood felt like just the opposite. Her friend sent her the casting call. It was for the Coen Brothers movie A Serious Man. It was set in the 1960s.  And it described this woman Mrs. Samsky who was like this seductress. Full frontal nudity required. And I was like - I like emailed him back I was like you are out of your fricking mind.  Did they see you naked before they cast you?  No!  That is what I mean like Im like Dudes I had a baby. Like you do not know what I look like. I feel like if you go in for casting for nudity you should be pretty comfortable being nude and I was not at the time at all. But you know they assured me - I told the costume designer I said I do not have a great naked body. And she is like It is the Coen Brothers it is fine like They do not care. You know they like real people. It is the '60s. And actually the only -  It is the '60s!   The only challenge we had is that I did not have enough pubic hair and I had to wear a merkin because I would been like shaving for years and years and years and could not grow it back. That was the only issue that we had. The other thing is I have a rule that I am either naked or I am in a love scene but I do not actually do both at the same time.  Why that rule?  I had done this episode of House of Lies where I did on camera nudity with sex and I found it really challenging. And I - and I have chalked that up to maybe my own personal history like sex is a loaded thing for me it is been an issue of like feeling safe feeling good feeling myself so I do not think there is anything wrong with it I just knew that I had to be true to who I am and that I was very uncomfortable with it and it was traumatizing me so I had actually turned down the audition for for Transparent because I knew that on camera sexual nudity is required. And so I said no I do not I dont do that. And so you know luckily like the gods aligned and Jill Soloway knew who I was and was - had some kind of instinct that she wanted me to be Sarah. And so she asked if she could have lunch with me and find out why I would not audition for her show.  Wow.  Which has never happened in the history of Los Angeles to any actress that I have ever known that is not a name you know and I did not know how she even knew who I was. And then I will tell you what is funny is the first thing she said when I walked into the restaurant is I cannot believe I am meeting John Records Landeckers daughter and I went a-ha a-ha-ha-ha! I am in. She had listened to my dad growing up she was from Chicago and you know she just said What is up? And I said I am just Im just not good at it I do not like doing it. I know you are gonna want someone who is comfortable. And she is like well we do not have to do that. We will do whatever you wanna do. Of course I have done way more than I thought I would ever do but as long as - it is just weird as long as I have clothes on in some way I am pretty free to do whatever I want. And then as long as - when they come off I do not want anyone to come near me. By the time Jill Soloway cast Amy in Transparent Amy had moved to Los Angeles with her husband and daughter. And her marriage had ended. Her divorce had uncomfortable echoes with her Transparent character Sarah. Len Do you feel okay? Sarah Oh my god. I do not want you to be mad at me. In Transparents first season Amys character is leaving her husbandwhom she has a family withto reunite with a college girlfriend. Sarah This does not this has nothing to do with - this is not us this is me.  I could barely get through this scene without weeping because it just reminded me so much of - not I mean I am not gay so it was not about - and I am not bi so it was not it was not about that aspect of it - but the idea that like I need to try something I am needing to try something else.  This marriage is not fitting you.  Yeah it is not fitting me. And yeah it was like bizarre. You know I would say to anyone getting divorced my experience - it was the worst time of my whole life. Like it is...I dont know if I will ever experience pain like that. My dad's been divorced like he is on his fourth wife and he is actually the person who said to me like Get married. Marriage is not forever. Whatever if it does not work out you get divorced. And I really had this idea like Oh yeah I will get divorced. And it is like well what does that actually mean when you have kids you know? It means you are not gonna see your little child all the time if you are in an amicable divorce with a good parent. I certainly was not going to take her away from her father who is this great dad. So that meant that my six-year-old was gonna go away from me a couple of nights a week. And I had caused that? Or I had at least initiated that process? And I could not forgive myself for that. I could not you know we were in the state of California and because I had made all this voiceover money I actually had to be the one to pay out which was not something that I had foreseen with how that would feel. Really painful. You know like - and there is this real societal sexism that supports you in that like How dare he! You know it is like well he traveled around and helped me build my career and - but that is not how it felt.  Did not feel good still.  No. I was a raging freak. And I would watch Louie there was this one episode in particular where when his kids would leave he would eat doughnuts get high and want to kill himself and I was just so comforted. Because I was like that is how I feel. That is how I feel. And people told me it was going to get better and I did not believe them and it absolutely did. And it is just time you know. I would say it honestly took six years though for me to like really feel good again. But two years to be functioning pretty well and to stop crying every time she left you know. Amy and her ex-husband share custody of their daughter. Theyre both in new relationships. Amy is dating the actor Bradley Whitford. They met through Transparent. And its a relationship Amy wasnt expecting.  I was single for the first time and really happy. I was like I am finally happy! I am never gonna go out with anyone ever again! And my daughter though was worried that I was gonna be alone and she wrote - she wanted me to go on online dating and I was like no I cannot do that. I just cannot. I am too afraid to meet strangers and anyway be....And so shes like well let us just make a list then of the qualities that we are looking for - and she is like 11. So she takes out this piece of paper and she titles it If you are not this then never mind. And it goes from 1 to 20 and it was all these qualities that I wanted. I wanted him to be at least 10 years older than me I want him to have been through a divorce I want him to already have had kids I want him to like cats and dogs which Bradley has both which is very rare. He has a cat and two dogs. They have to have a great sense of humor they have to I want - I think I wrote down  this is really funny. I wrote down I want them to be like more successful than me or - and then I switched it to like as successful - like something happened and that year later Bradley got an Emmy nomination and I did not and my daughter blamed it on this change that I made on the list. She was like well that is because you changed the list.  You short-changed yourself.  Yeah. You short-changed yourself. That was really funny. I was like I dont think that has anything to do with it.  Are you making a lot more money than you did in your days in Chicago?  You know what is funny? I made a lot of money in voiceover and they only took 10 off the top. I definitely make more money now but I losebetween lawyers publicists on-camera maintenance like getting my hair colored regularly or you know getting lasers for my skintheres like 40 before you even get to taxes so it is been interesting. Like yes do I - am I more comfortable now? Yes. But is there significantly a big difference? No. Because on-camera work is way more expensive. You know so there is been a minor change but nothing but I do not feel...I do not feel rich.  Anything youve bought that you feel like you would not have bought -  Now I am like and I did buy a little - I bought a little house in Santa Monica like a 1000-square foot house. And I do not think I would have ever had the nerve. I never had any sense that stuff was gonna come in and I was always very careful. So I always say to everybody like this is the Transparent house this is what Transparent bought.  So it gave you more financial courage?  Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. I mean this is the first year where I am like oh my god I actually think I am okay.   Thats awesome.  Yeah its nice. Thats actor Amy Landecker. She stars in all three seasons of the Amazon series Transparent and her latest movie Dreamland opens November 11 in New York LA and on video on demand. Besides voice work for commercials Amy has also earned money over the years doing stand-in voice work for other actors. Including Julia Roberts.  I am just a girl. Standing in front of a boy. Asking him to love her. That is my Julia Roberts. New York Magazine did a video about thatyou can see it on our website at deathsexmoney.org. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville California. The team includes Katie Bishop Chester Jesus Soria Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. Our interns are Ali LEsperance and Rich Renelique. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale and the show is deathsexmoney. Sign up for our weekly Death Sex  Money newsletter by going to deathsexmoney.orgnewsletter or text the word newsletter to 69866.  God I have really told you a lot.   Thank you. In a very like generous way.  Oh my god.  You know like it is interesting -  I know your energy is just like - I am like this is a safe place and then it is like oh yeah and then it is gonna be put out into the universe. It is just like what happens to me on Transparent. Its like oh yeah no I will bend over you can you can flog me. And then I am like oh wait no we are actually gonna show that to people! Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.