Anna Sale If you feel like you have been harassed if you feel like you have been violated if you have been grabbed if you have been raped if you have been assaulted and you feel comfortable on the count of three lets say me too together. One two three.  Me too. This is Death Sex and Money The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot... ....And need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. It didnt take revelations about Harvey Weinstein to get actor Gabrielle Union to talk about sexual assault. This is real. We are real Gabrielle wrote last year in the L.A. Times. She was starring in the movie Birth of a Nation and new details had emerged about a rape case against Nate Parker the movies writer and director. Gabrielle confronted the news head-on. She wrote Sexual violence happens more often than anyone can imagine. And if the stories around this film do not prove and emphasize this then I dont know what does. Gabrielle described how she was raped when she was 19 by a man who came into the Payless shoe store where she was working. Gabrielle writes about recovering from the trauma of sexual violence in a new collection of essays. It is called Were Going to Need More Wine. She also describes breaking out in movies like Bring It On getting divorced in her mid-thirties and raising a family with her second husband NBA star Dwyane Wade I got to talk to her about all of this over a glass of wine on stage in San Francisco at an event hosted by InForum at the Commonwealth Club. It was just a few days before Gabrielles 45th birthday.   You have written a book that is profoundly honest about your family and growing up about the family you have made the boys you are raising about trauma you survived about the life you have built...how are you feeling about your 45 years?  Oh the 45 part that is good. I feel so solid. I have never felt more whole and healed and connected and present and beautiful and powerful and legit I have never been more in demand in my entire career that I have been at this moment in time. So that is great. In the last week since the book has been released in the midst of the... the cultural shift that I believe that we are having I was very nervous at the Harvey Weinstein scandal was the tip of an iceberg that that would somehow melt away and it would not signal the sign of a greater shift but I think what we are seeing and what we will continue to see is we are fu-- oh well you might as well get used to it I cuss-- we are fucking fed up and we have had enough. And it is awful to say it is nice to have this community of people who are finally sharing their pain but it is nice to know that I am not alone I am not on an island I am not... you know sometimes you feel like a helium balloon sort of drifting off and nobody's trying to catch you. I just feel finally very connected and rooted and okay.  Good!  Yeah.  Because...   Thank you for that.  You also write about growing up a young black girl in Pleasanton California--who is from Pleasanton? Not far from here.  Hey! P town!  And you also spent summers in Omaha Nebraska visiting your grandmother where you were in a community surrounded primarily by black people and you would go back and forth between these two places. When you would come back to Pleasanton after spending the summer in Omaha how would you feel about your blackness?  In the beginning it felt like I was an animal that just got put on display at the zoo. It felt like I was starting over again when I was much younger As I got older and I finally had crushes where the love was returned and I am like... me? You know in Pleasanton I was not an option I was not... it was... you are invisible at a time you want to be seen. In Omaha I started becoming an option I started being seen and so the reentry period as I got older I became very angry at having to conform and shape-shift and be invisible again because once you have had a taste of attention that you have been craving especially male attention for a girl that had very low self-esteem to go back to being invisible to go back to being voiceless to go back to being the one that is supposed to feel special when they say Oh you know there is niggers and then there is black people you are one of the good black people. And you are supposed to be like yeah sure! You know my parents of course they thought moving us to Pleasanton was giving us all of the opportunity you know you have great schools safe neighborhoods you are going to be around the right kind of people and all it did was isolate us. It made it we were immediately othered. I always talk about at high school dances there is that moment when the fast songs you know are on and you are like Okay I am happy magical negro! and then the slow song comes on and there is that 30 seconds of like Anybody? Anybody? and you suddenly have to come up with an excuse for why like no one's asked you to dance. I was thirsty and I am so hot! So hot... I have to go outside. I was not fucking hot you know what I mean? I was just hoping for a pity dance to Bryan Adams. No one wants to be in heaven with me? No one summer of 69 and at 68 I owe you one something? No? No one? Yeah.  You write about a young man who was interested in you and his compliment to you was You are like a white girl without the hassle.  Yes.  And this was supposed to be a compliment. And I took it as one not understanding...  What did you hear in that moment and what do you hear now?  Well in the moment I felt ...  I felt chosen and chosen and I thought I might get lucky so chosen again. Like I was the girl that was I will suck your dick anybody any.. any of them. Anybody anybody? No? So he could have said Gibeldy goo gibeldy goo and I would have been like Great! I just wanted to be chosen so badly and for him to say that... Now when I when I hear it felt like for him I got this completely assimilated good girl from the right side of the tracks who speaks a certain way who lives--I do not know how he thought I lived cause he is never seen my house-- But that you had all the perks of a white girl but you did not have to deal with interracial dating. For whatever you think that means. Or black guys mean when they say that. But I did not care. He was a dream. He was a vision. He could have had a club foot I do not know. He chose me and ...  When you think about your teenage self learning about men and sex what do you wish you could tell yourself?  That you do not have wolf pussy vaginas come in all shapes sizes colors you know and that they are all amazing. They are all flowers. Various states of blooming but that what you are going through is not unique everyone else is is experiencing the same thing no matter what kind of bravado they are putting forth. But also know that you are not just a vessel for male sexual gratification. You are not a disposable mouth or orifice. That you should have every expectation of enjoying sex as well and you should communicate what you like and do not like. You do not have to just take it because someone has chosen you in this moment. That you have agency over your body and over your own sexuality. That you do not have to accept the sexuality that some random dude puts on you you know that he saw in some old porno on VHS porn.  So you are learning about sex you are learning about what feels comfortable for you to do what feels comfortable to be done to you as you are a teenager and then you are 19 the summer after your your first year ofcollege and you are at work. You write about this in the book in detail. You write about a man coming in your closing time with a gun to rob the store taking you and your coworker to the back and he asks you to take your clothes off at gunpoint. And he rapes you. And you press charges.  Well you know it is interesting. I did not. It was just done. Which is interesting because I am assuming because it was a stranger rape it was not something that anyone asked if I wanted. It was just... they just you know assumed...  They assumed you were a victim.  Yeah.  They let you be a victim.  Yeah yeah.  And when you think about just those first hours what you write about is seeing your parents' faces and you have a sentence that on your father's face you saw he thought we were priced out of this shit. What does that mean?  Well you move your your black kids to Pleasanton to be different to have the American dream to show everyone that not only are we keeping up with the Joneses weve shot past the Johnsons. And you think if I just raised my daughters in this idyllic community with all of these white people you know going to the right Catholic Church you know if she is in sports if she is a leader I have basically insulated my family from pain. From harm from violence from life. And his face was I failed.  You failed.  He failed I somehow failed I do not know if he quite understood everything that had happened. I mean obviously later he did but that first moment  it was What the fuck did you do what the fuck did I do to get here? This does not happen to us. This does not happen to good people.  You at one point took the gun that he was aiming at you and you shot at him. How do you feel about guns?  On that day?   Yeah.  Great great! On that day. But you know when they say you know Had she been armed with the gun when... I would have shot myself probably. In that moment when it was me or you and motherfucker as not gonna be me not today. So I am going to try to you know take you out if I can in that moment. Later when I thought about gun ownership mixed with my Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome those things do not make good for a good symbiotic relationship. That is a recipe for disaster.  I think about how you talk about sex and the joy that you bring to conversations about sex and the emphasis on female pleasure and then I think about what that trauma must feel like in your body. How long did it take for sex to feel good after you were raped?  Not long.  That is good!  because is that... is that because it felt like such a fundamentally different act?  Well it was I mean rape is violence. You know what I mean? And also because my... thank God for my soul literally was kind enough to leave my body when I was being raped. So it was almost like I was watching a movie of someone else being raped. So it is like I did not feel that I do not have that connection to it.  What I didnt realized when I read your book was the crime was was described in the newspaper very soon after.  Yes.  And it was described as having a black victim.  It was Black 19 from Pleasanton. Okay well if you are from the tri-valley area would not take you that long to put that together. And my place of employment which... everybody knows everything. I was immediately identified.  And how do you feel about that that your ability to decide when and how to reveal that this was part of you to people in your hometown was not your choice?  That was the... that was the bit that felt the worst because I would worked my whole life to assimilate and to disappear when necessary to be the unseen to not cause a problem to... you go along you get along you fly under the radar unless it is for something grades or sports-related and now I have been publicly othered. Something bad has happened to you. You know that was what Id run from my whole life as having...as this black body being this othered negative thing. Even though I didnt asked to be raped. You were raped. Like you become that black girl. And that was actually the most traumatizing part. Coming up  Gabrielle learns that getting famous while protecting her personal space is going to be hard.  There is no boundaries. And if you do create boundaries you are an asshole. You are a bad celebrity people write blog posts about how they had shitty interactions with you.  --- We have been asking for your stories about when you have felt your class status--and you are sending in so many interesting stories. Thank you! And last week we started a survey to get a snapshot of how you feel about your class relative to your parents. Nearly 1000 of you have taken the text survey so far -- Most of you 40 percent feel like youve moved up and are in a higher class than your parents. But then its an even split -- about a quarter of you feel like youre in the same class as your parents and a quarter of you feel like youre worse off. To do the survey just text the word class to 70101. Again text the word class to the number 70101 to join in. And one thing I forgot to mention last week -- this text thing only works in the U.S. Im sorry I forgot to mention this! Please forgive my American myopia! We do want to hear your stories about class from outside the US-- and the different local ways you define it. Weve gotten some stories from other parts of the world already including this voice memo from a listener named Molly who sees class very differently than her working class grandparents. Middle class means something a little bit different in the U.K. For example if I say I did a lunch instead of dinner that would be considered middle class by my grandparents or if I ate foreign food or if I listened to some jazz...its just about being a bit posh. Please keep sending us your stories about when you have felt your class status. Send an email or record a voice memo and send it to us at classdeathsexmoney.org. And if youre sending it from outside the US for good measure put your country in the subject line -- with an exclamation point! -- so we dont miss it. Again the email is classdeathsexmoney.org. On the next episode I box a lot of stuff up. I talk with a first responder in my hometown of Charleston West Virginia who spends a lot of his time now on calls for heroin overdoses. Its hard to take it off. You can take your boots off when you get in the door and you can change uniforms but its hard to go to the same grocery store where youve run overdoses in the bathroom. -- This is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. In the year after Gabrielle Union was raped she says only left her house to go to court or to go to therapy. When she finally did begin going out more shed carefully evaluate the safety of the most mundane public places.  It started with you know I did not want to go anywhere that could be robbed. Which eliminated... I mean a lot of places that you go exchange money. Most places can be robbed. So just figuring out where was a safe space. Libraries. Turns out my love of books came in handy. You know going to restaurants not sitting with my back to the door. Always having an exit route. I felt like if I could just be efficient if I could manage the clock I could eliminate the time where something terrible could happen to me. Eventually that gave way to talking to myself in the parking lot of Target the likelihood of you been murdered or robbed from the car to Target and back is very low you are gonna be fine you are gonna be fine you are gonna be fine. But meanwhile I am in Hollywood as I am going through this process and I am becoming recognizable. So there is these moments where I am literally talking to myself in the parking lot of some store and someone has literally T-boned me in and I am shaking sweating and then they proceeded to scream the cheers from Bring It On. You know so trying to deal with Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome trying to function trying to get to class and then trying to navigate Hollywood as a young actress all at once when you are... there is no boundaries.  So how did you?  I did not. No boundaries. I would be just shaking. You know randomly I would say no but it is very rare. Me and my former spouse were having an argument on the casino floor in Vegas and I am literally you know crying you know screaming the whole operation. Clearly not a good time. And it was a cheerleading competition in the hotel. And I looked up and it is a swarm of Bring It On-ers just with the bows and they looked like deranged clowns you know and then they are like Bring It On! and I was like It is not a good time girls! Because I am just you know... and then they just looked so disappointed I was like you know okay I am not gonna... I am gonna try not to say no again. But not saying no means theres no boundaries. So self-care goes out the window. You have got to be everything to everybody at all times which is impossible. It is impossible. Think about what it takes to get a selfie. How you have to position your body next to someone. Mind you Ive got post-traumatic stress syndrome. I have been violated. Things keep happening to you that you do not want to happen to you. And for some people it is like Fuck I just asked for a selfie! But when you think about what it physically takes to get in somebody close enough...the grabbing of someone that you do not know full of expectation. For those people that moment is everything. I am literally feeling like a hunted rabbit and if I try to escape it I will be called a bad celebrity. I am not a nice woman. She was a bitch.  I want to skip ahead a bit. To a moment when you are in your 30s after the end of your first marriage and you are under the bed.  Hmm with Bubba.  Bubba your dog came to investigate. You write while you are under the bed.  I would hit rock bottom. I absolutely hit rock bottom. It was... I had this trifecta of very public failure and humiliation. Divorce my TV show Night Stalke got cancelled and I had this weird random racist incident happen that played out like you know in social media and I just had hit rock bottom. And I was a hider. I do not know if anyone else hides... Or I tried to fold myself up into you know like small spaces. Whatever-- it was a thing. And I finally decided to link up with a life coach and she had said you know I need you to come up with 10 things to put on your happy list. And I was you know we were boxing--she is also a trainer-- so you know I am boxing I am crying you know I am literally rock bottom and she is like Name stuff! and I am like... Ground beef...real butter and imitation crab. And she was like hold up she grabs the bag and she was like Did you just say imitation crab? Like you do not even like the real fucking thing? And I was like Well it taste the same and it is cheaper! And she said It is no wonder you got a divorce. You have no idea what makes you happy how the fuck did you think someone else was going to make you happy? That was kind of the response. That was my Ooohhhh! Like Oprah has aha moments I have Ooohhhh! Because it feels more like Oh god you dumb motherfucker like you did not... It is such common sense stuff that like did you really need that spelled out for you? And over time I slowly added things to my happy list and finally started figuring out what actually made me happy. You know one marriage in in the middle of my career you know at the times when you think that you have it all together--you would think that by my mid thirties I should have a general idea--and I had none. Ground beef real butter imitation crab. And I think there is so many of us who if you had to say name 10 things that make you happy we might struggle a bit. So maybe that is your homework for tonight. Write down 10 things that make you happy.  Good homework! We are about 5 minutes until the QA so think about your questions. You write about going through IVF cycle after IVF cycle after IVF cycle in your book. What did you call that chapter?  Oh Get out of my pussy.  Why did you call it that?  I felt like my pussy should be the sacrificial pussy. For everyone else who is had any kind of fertility issue who is so tired of being asked So when is the baby? Oh is it coming? How did it go? Like if I wanted you to know I would fucking tell you. Alas I have not. So stay the fuck out of my pussy. And again I know some of us here do not think that you know the Kardashians deserve basic decency but the manhunt into like Kylie's bump and Khloe's you know like What is in her uterus boy or girl... tell us! And it is like we are the townspeople Kardashians we need to know gender reveal now! It is fucking weird and the fact that she is so fucking hunted is sick. It is actually sick that we would put pregnant women in harms way for what? if you have ever had if anyone in this audience has ever had any fertility issue and you are finally pregnant you want to put a cage around your whole body. Not only are you not telling anybody... you know we made the mistake of telling everybody you know when we got pregnant the first time because we were so... just I have never seen my husband so happy. And then to have to turn around and call all those people. And then they just kept coming you know you start to get numb it is like you do not even get excited anymore you are like Well let us just see you know let us hope for the best and it is just not happened for us. But that time of do I even get hopeful do I...but again you want to move through the world with a steel cage around you to protect yourself. And watching you know female celebrities be hunted during this very crucial time and delicate time you know emotionally physically it is terrifying. And I know that is to come if and when this happens for us and just knowing what is to come is terrifying.  And with that we will turn to questions. Audience member Hi Gabby how are you?  Thank you for being so honest. I wanted to ask you when you were talking about going through your list of happy things the 10 things was there a moment in being the woman that you are now where you just kind of looked in the mirror and were just like I am the shit! Like when did you really know not like in a perfect way but you were just like I feel good about who I am.  Like last year.  It was not yeah I mean it is been a gradual thing. I really realized I had put the shackles on myself the shackles of fear and it waschoking me. I was literally being snuffed out by my own fear. And it just took someone suggesting that I had done that where I was like huuu. It was one of my huuu moments. And it was like take the shackles off! Fuck it worked! And that was just my beginning. It was not some big transformative moment or it was like at this premiere I wore this dress and oh the bitch was bad.  It was just it was a slow process. Behavior modification. I think a lot of us have totally identified what the problems are but we have  made no move for behavioral modification or accountability you know. So my happy list now is my husband is at the top of my happy list. He is literally like the coolest yummiest little being. Parks like we... we do like the things that make us the happiest have turned out to be the cheapest things like taking a football to the park and challenging other couples randomly. It is a really good time.Yes we would like to play football with you they did not realize it is like Ahhh It is Joe Montana and Jerry Rice! D has this thing he is like Throw it mama! And I am humdingering it and it is a very good time he runs a nice little 9 rout and it is a fabulous time. And it is free. Except there is the emotional pain and toll of the other couple. Audience member Hi Gabrielle I love you by the way. So you talked about how you had low self-esteem and you have gone through different traumas and PTSD and all these things and now you seem to be this really confident woman that knows her self-worth but my question is how did your younger self decided to go into a career that had such hyper-vigilance and surveillance and you know...like how did you decide to get into acting?  So my low self-esteem led me to a career where you get to be chosen. And your being chosen is very visible to millions of people. See the more productions I get chosen for I see I am valuable I am worthy I am beautiful and I am talented! But then what happens when you do not get the job? Your ass is under the bed with your dog. And it all started with a Tupac video. I was interning at a modeling agency for... as office help as an internship while UCLA and as my internship was ending one of the agents was like Do you think Gabrielle would want to audition for this Tupac video? And the man I have been interning for was like No she is a serious student she would never! And I was like I am sorry what was that? I need to go in a bikini and gyrate in front of Tupac and 25 of his closest friends? I would love to! Can I bring my UCLA degree with me? I will write an essay perhaps on Freud and Durkheim! But yeah just a hot mess for many years many many years. Yes. Audience member Hi Gabrielle thank you so much for sharing your story I really appreciate it. My question is I see you and Dwyane Wade in the media and you both seem so happy what is the secret to the both of your happiness versus your first marriage? How did you both you know get it right this time?  Well we got it wrong a lot during the courtship. You know when you shovel a lot of shit onto each other it takes a lot of digging to get yourself out and we had to hit rock bottom as a couple and decide is this worth it? I love you and I like you but this is not healthy for either of us. And it took therapy you know it took being painfully accountable for us to figure out how to love each other at the same rate at the same time moving in the same direction in a happy healthy honest loving way where we are supportive but also cool enough to give each other space to breathe and exist. There is no you-complete-me shit it is I am making a conscious choice to be with you every single day because we both have a lot of options so I am choosing you every day. Thats Gabrielle Union. Her new book is called Were Going to Need More Wine. Together she and Dwayne Wade are raising three boys -- two of his sons from a previous marriage and his nephew. They live part of the time in Cleveland where Dwyane plays for the Cavs. Thank you to Inforum at the Commonwealth club for hosting this conversation-- you can find out about more of their events at commonwealthclub dot org slash inforum. Death Sex and Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. The team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. Keep sending us your stories about class especially if youre living outside of the US! Send us an email at class at deathsexmoney.org Since making her original happy list of ground beef and imitation crab Gabrielle says she has added a few more things.  Animals nature travel friends beaches ice cold Coronas Mexican food...oh family! Family time kids. Do not tell them do not tell them do not go on their Snapchat and be like She did not even say you all like she said Mexican food well before she said you guys. Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex and Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.