Lori Interlicchio I mean it definitely was there that like this is obviously gonna affect our relationship romantically. But I also remember like If this entire relationship goes to crap because of this then like whatever. A person has a kidney! This is Death Sex  Money. The show from WNYC about the things we think about a lot and need to talk about more. Im Anna Sale. Lori Interlicchio had just finished college and moved home when she tried Tinder for the first time.  I mainly just wanted to find some more queer women friends on Long Island. You know it is not always as easy to go out and meet people or you know sometimes you are just looking for people to surround yourself with who are kind of like yourself. And you know it is kind of like a fun toy it is like shopping for people online.  Laughing along with her there is Alana Duran whom Lori first noticed during those early days on Tinder.  Well I do remember scrolling through Alana's pictures and being like This girl's really cute. I am not going to swipe yet because I want to look at her. Um and she seemed funny she had a cute bio and I remember just thinking that I hope she swiped back on me. And she did.  Wait can you tell them what was on my bio though?  Oh my goodness. Yeah she had this joke and it was um...  A Mexican magician...  A Mexican magician said I am going to disappear on the count of three. And he said uno dos and he disappeared without a tres. And I loved that.   It was so corny but it worked.  I like that joke but I also love that Alana you were like Will you tell the joke that I had on my bio?  It is just really good!  It was really good. Lori and Alana have been together two years now. When I talked with them they were in a studio together in New York while I was in California. When they first met Lori was 22 years old and living with her parents as she applied to law school. She was not looking for anything serious. Alana was 25 still finishing college on Long Island and by that point a Tinder veteran.  I had like matched with a decent amount of people.  You are on the market.  Yes. I was. Alana knew how to work it on Tinder. Like Lori Alanas very cute fit-looking. And going on dates with people shed met online had taught her when to reveal that she actually wasnt very healthy at all.  When would you disclose that you were dealing with lupus?  Um sometimes like beginning talking to them. Maybe after like a week or so if it would last that long. Or I would not really - I I would kind of say it in passing like Oh I had a bunch of health issues yadda yadda yadda and then when I met with them in person and we were actually on a date then I would go into it in like a little more detail. Um but not so much to overwhelm them. They would be like Oh my god this is too much for me like let us go let us go leave leave leave. Lupus is an autoimmune disease with a wide range of symptoms and complications. It disproportionately affects young black women like Alana. And her case is severe.  I still sometimes have a hard time remembering how many surgeries I have had. Which sounds funny to regular people. They are like Oh I just remember I had my wisdom teeth out and like my appendix. But for me it is it started with uh a hip infection that led to them taking out my right hip joint and then months of antibiotics and then they replaced the hip. I had another surgery to implant my cardiac device um it is a pacemaker-slash-defibrillator. And like there had been times when I was in the hospital for months. Like literally months. Like one year I missed Thanksgiving because I was still in the hospital um like another time I just totally missed spring it felt like it was just summer by the time I got out.  Yeah. And when - how old were you when you got the lupus diagnosis?  Um I was 12 when I was diagnosed with lupus. Um at first they thought it was leukemia um or some kind of cancer. I felt sore in places I usually - you know like my joints my elbows my hands my fingers. Places that usually did not hurt for me were starting to hurt and I did not understand why.  When did you first realize that this is something that might kill you?  Um let us see. Uh really the heart my heart function had dropped towards maybe ten percent twelve percent and even then I thought I was gonna be okay. Like I had faith in myself and in modern medicine that I would be okay. But the doctors and nurses and even my family and friends were not sure if I was gonna make it through the night. And that is really when you knowafter that when I was like really aware of what was happeningafter that is when I really realized that this is something that can kill me. On their first date Alana told Lori that she had lupus. And then about a week later Alana told Lori that her kidneys were failingand she was on dialysis to manage it.  I had a lot of questions.  Yeah Lori definitely did have a lot of questions.  Meeting Alana you would just would never ever know that she was sick. Uh so I you know I would never like talked to someone about dialysis before I was just like When do you go on it? How long does it take? What does your machine look like? A lot of those kinds of questions. Um about her long term health prospects. And um you know needing a kidney.  So it is like a whole other dimension of those kinds of really deep conversations you have when you are first connecting with someone that you you know are dating.  Yeah.  It is like a whole other level of how do you think about your life?  Yeah like I think a lot of people will immediately start asking like you know Well what do you want to do in the long term? or You know do you want kids at some point? Like these are things that you wanna like found out about relatively early on and I guess part of it is like Hey if this works out like what is our life going to look like? You know?  And what did being on dialysis mean for your daily routine? What sorts of restrictions did it put on what you could do and where?  So being on dialysis I did a certain kind of dialysis that I did from home. So pretty much I have this big machine that I have next to my bed and I would hook it up and I would do it while I slept so with that being said um night life was rather hard  I had to be on my machine my treatment time was ten hours. So most people do not even get like seven hours of sleep a night so to be hooked up to a machine in my bedroom for ten hours is like an outrageous amount of time. At the end of their nights together Alana would hook up herself up to her dialysis machine while Lori watched. It didnt scare Lori off like Alana feared. It did make Lori think about how it didnt need to be like this.  I can be a little impulsive and blurt things out and I remember like almost blurting out likeyou know I asked her what her blood type blood type was and she said O-positive. And I wanted to just blurt out Oh I am O-positive I wonder if I could donate. And then I stopped myself and was like That would be a stupid thing to say right now like think about this. And I went home and I the next day I I I like I could not get it out of my mind. I was like you know I googled it and I was like Maybe this is like a I thing that I could do. And then I called one of my former roommates who I am just really close friends with and I started asking her like Is this absolutely insane or is this like fine?  And what did your friend say?  Uh she was like Wow that is a lot. But she is a very rational person she knows me super well and she said like I think that this is not you just acting on a whim and just doing this because you like her a lot. Like I think that this is something that you would do. And I dunno it is kind of like a why not right? Like I I do not want to say What do I have to lose? because like a kidney  but um but like it is one that I do not need right? So that just like made sense to me to do that. Um like if a another person needs like something that you do not need and are not gonna miss then like whatever right? Why not give it to them?  How much time had you spent with Alana when you decided to see if you would be an eligible donor?  Um not a lot. So I think this was probably my probably our third date? I think it was like our third week maybe. So it was probably like the fourth time we would actually hung out.  Probably. And she is on the couch and that is what I rememberher being on my couch and like kind of asking casually like Hey do you think I would be able to get tested to see if I am a kidney match for you? And I think like at the time I was literally setting up my dialysis stuff. Um for the night.  Had you told each other you loved each other?  No.  Yeah I do not think  so.  You are very definite about it. I am like I do not think so...  We did not. I have the timeline in my head a little bit.  Okay.  And we had not.  When when did that happen?  Um I am not sure exactly when but I know that it was after I asked her to be my girlfriend. And this was before I asked her to be my girlfriend.  Wait are you serious?   Yeah.  You had not defined the relationship before you discussed...?  Yeah we had not yet defined the relationship.  Well that is actually a funny story.  So like three days later we were filling out the um initial paperwork that you have to fill out before you go to a before you get tested to see if you are a match. And there was a box that said Relationship to the recipient and I wrote girlfriend. And I was like Is this okay?  So that is that is when we we started...  Yes.  Yeah. Coming up  They were definitely not thrilled at first. Lori tells her parents that she has a new girlfriend. And that she might be giving her a kidney.  They had not met Alana they did not really know I was seeing anyone.  Did they think you were being impulsive?  Absolutely. Yes.  Yes they did. -- For the past few weeks youve been sending us your stories about class. I am a millionaire on paper for all the wrong reasons. Dating someone from a different class was a real eye opener for me. It was common to hear 'Oo be careful you dont want to end up working at McDonalds.' One listener named Julie wrote to us that her dad often bragged about how rich they were when she was growing up. Thinking back on this makes me nauseous she wrote. Now she works as a hairstylist and says My husband and I do not have nearly the kind of money my parents had at their age. Another listener says she grew up working class but is not anymore. At home it amazes people that I jog and do yoga. They hate exercise. And a listener named Richard whose parents immigrated to the U.S. from Colombia sent in this about himself and his four siblings. We all work hard and fulfilled our parents' dream of what America had to offer upward mobility. But I think we have lost touch with our humble roots. For the most part none of us have poor friends and we tend to socialize with individuals in our income level. Its the week of Thanksgiving. Prime time to think about our families and where we come from. And we want to have a broader sense of how you all view yourselves when it comes to class and your families. So were doing a one-question survey about whether you think youre in the same class as your parents or in a higher or lower one. To do the survey just text the word class to 70101. Again text the word class to 70101 to join in. Well share all the results with you. And keep sending in your emails and voice memos about class and the moments when you have felt your class status the most. Send your stories to us at classdeathsexmoney.org. On the next episode actor Gabrielle Union. She and I sit down to talk about sexual assault splitting time between white and black neighborhoods growing up and what she and her husbandNBA Player Dwyane Wadelike to do for fun.  The things that make us the happiest have turned out to be the cheapest things. Like taking a football to the park and challenging other couples randomly. Its a really good time. Except theres the emotional pain and toll of the other couple. -- This is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Im Anna Sale. It was unusual for Alana Duran to get offered a kidney in the first weeks of dating someone from Tinder. But it wasnt the first time someone in her life had talked about getting tested. She knew not to get her hopes up.  I would get a lot of like what Lori was saying before how she wanted to blurt it out like Oh I am o-positive like I could probably get tested. I got a lot of that. But with no follow-through. And you know they just like shout it out and do not really mean it there is no meaning behind it. Um so that was fucking annoying. I am not going to lie. But most of my family did get tested I am pretty sure like a few other friends got tested and none of them were a match. Um but then I have like you know just like friends who did not get tested. And you know I do not expect anybody to do that because that is a lot to do and ask of someone. So I think really I was just more annoyed at the people who blurted it out and did not mean it. Alana did know that Lori had started the testing process. But then Lori stopped bringing it up.  So I kind of stopped asking about it because I thought oh you know maybe she did not want to get tested anymore. Maybe she is not a match and she just you know does not want to tell me or she kind of just dropped the whole thing altogether. Lori hadnt dropped it but she didnt want to get Alanas hopes up unless she knew she could really be a donor. And Lori needed to tell her parents.  That they were not thrilled about.  Did that make you feel defensive? Or like...  Oh yeah yeah I felt defensive. We argued for like a couple days actually and uh and they were just scared. You know that is all it is is that they were scared because they love me. And I love them. So I appreciate that they were scared but you know my parents were freaked out. They did not even know this person and I was thinking about having major surgery for her . And...  You had not introduced Alana to them...  No I had not told them  about Alana. So I kinda just did all of that in one conversation and then I mean I needed medical history from them so that is kind of why I asked them this stuff and then I went for the first doctor's appointment and then about two weeks later I found out that I was a match and I told them that and they were again still really freaked out. But Lori had made up her mind. And after a series of follow-up visits with doctors it was time to tell Alana.  Um she was supposed to meet me at my apartment so we could go on a date and she is late per usual and I am like Where IS she oh my god? So she comes into my apartment. And then on the table there is a box with my name on it. And she says Oh I got you something. Lori got out her phone and recorded Alana unwrapping this box full of treats.  So I open the box and it is all of my favorite stuff my favorite candy...  ...things that I think are cute   And you know I did not know that at the bottom of the box was going to be...  This is amazing! I have to call my mom! They both posted this video on Facebook and it got shared a lot first by people they knew then strangers. A filmmaker reached out to ask if she could follow them as they went through the transplant process. So there were cameras there on the day weeks later when Lori and Alana both went into surgery.   It took place early on a winter morning. Both their families were there. Alana and Lori had known each for four months.  They were wheeled into surgical rooms right next door to each other. Surgeons removed Loris left kidney...walked into the next room...and put it into Alana.  And then Lori and Alana waited...together...to see if Alanas body would accept Loris kidney.  My main concern was that we were going to come out of the surgery and find out that the whole thing was was for nothing and that I could not help her.  And just um tell me about when you are in recovery and you learn that the kidney is working inside Alana's body Lori. What was that like?  Um it was just like a flood of relief. Yeah I just did not feel like I could really rest until I knew that. And when I knew that like it just it all it was just all so worth it.  Alana what is changed in your life now that you have a functioning kidney?  Well for the most part one I do have a functioning kidney and I can actually peebefore on dialysis I like would not pee at all.  So you just kind of stop peeing when you are on dialysis?  Yeah for the most part maybe  I would go like once a day or like twice a day like once in the morning and then try to go once before bed? But like it was unproductive pee that is what I would call it. An unproductive pee. I felt like I had to go but I could not. Um so that was the biggest change like immediate change for me.  Do you feel like...  Oh right sorry most importmost important partsorry Lori was motioning at me that it also increased my heart function? Her kidney? So remember when I said I was at the time when it was really bad it was at 10 percent. But then after that it increased I think to 40 and then the last echo-cardiogram was 62 percent which is normal. So I now have a normal heart function thanks to Lori's kidney.  Sorry did not want to toot my own horn there but I was like Uh that is a pretty significant one to leave out.  Yeah.    I think you have earned some tooting Lori.   Thank you!  Toot away.  Thanks.  You are you are in a long-term relationship together you were in the early part of that relationship when you went through this really intense thing. Like do you remember the first time - do you remember the first time you got mad at each other after the surgery?  I really do not...  I do not know. Like I think that for at least three months we were just so happy that everything went well there was no fighting. And then...  Yeah I feel like  it must have been in the summer at least.  Several months afterwards.  Yeah.  Oh it might have been when I called Alana and told her I was gonna move to Michigan.   So she called me and she always prefaced like something bad with like Okay do not get mad at me. Or Okay I have some bad news but like it is not my fault. Or you know something like that um and she is like I got accepted into University of Michigan Law School. And I was like Wow that is great but now you are leaving and I still have another year of school left. And like I cannot I cannot I cannot leave and go with you. I was not mad per se. I was just like What like already?  It was like the first tension.  And this is still just a few months after your surgeries.  Yeah. And um you know she was great and she was supportive but I think that she was scared and maybe a little bit annoyed that like I dunno if I want to move to Michigan in a year right? So it just kind of added an element.  Lori was there a part of you that worried about leaving Alana?  Definitely. Yeah I mean like I totally trust that she has like such a great support system. But yeah I was worried that she would have to go to the hospital at some point. That had happened like immediately after the surgery. There was like a night where we had to you know Alana had to go to the hospital and get the kidney checked on because she was not doing well. And I definitely worried at least for the first few months that that could just happen at any time. I know that right now Alana is doing really well health-wise but I also know that that could just change at any time. Um and like I am definitely super like willing to always take care of her. But I think that that is something that always is just in the back of my head a little bit is that one day she could get sick again. And that that is - if she does that will be a big part of our lives.  How how do talk about like the power dynamic in your relationship? I think in any relationship there is there is a partner who might be more needy in a moment and another who can give more and sometimes that shifts back and forthyou all have had a very extreme example of that. How how have you talked about that?  I think that Lori did a really good job um starting the conversation. So Lori said something like You know even though I am giving you a kidney we do not have to stay together. If you wanna break up you can break upyou do not have to stay with me because I gave you a kidney. Um and that was really nice to hear. I mean I was not planning on breaking up with her but to know thatyou know because like I do not know how to explain it!someone gave me a literal piece of them. Like whatlike you know I cannot repay them for that. Um so like kind of in my mind I was thinking or like that would come up like Oh I cannot break up with Lori because she gave me a kidney. That would be terrible people would be really really mad at me.  Yeah it is a lot of pressure. Yeah.  Yeah exactly. There is a lot of pressure there. And like having Lori come in and say Hey if you need to break up with me because it is not working that is fine do not worry about it like obviously it is gonna suck but just because I gave you a kidney does not mean you have to stay with me forever.  Do you think that is true? That even though it is something that is been said that you would find like that that is something that you could do?  Lori I did not want you to find out this way but.... No no I mean I think it is true. I mean I we have not put it to the test but I think if I needed to I would be able to. What about you?  I mean Alana can definitely break up with me. My mom pointed that out like super early on to me that like this is maybe not the best thing for a brand-new relationship. And Alana and I talked about it immediately. We talked about it before um . Like far before the surgery yeah. And like I remember even saying like If you want to break up with me before the surgery like this is brand new if youlike you are cool and we can be friends and it does not have to belike that is not why I am doing it. So I mean I hope that she knows she can break up with me. Like I mean I do not want her to break up with me ever but like if it happens it will be treated like a normal breakup. Thats Lori Interlicchio and Alana Duran. Alana moved up to Michigan earlier this fall to live with Lori. Shes currently volunteering at a neurology lab at the University of Michigan. Lori is midway through her second year of law school. And a few days after we talked they got a puppy together. The documentary about Lori and Alanaand the kidney theyve sharedis called Bean. Its currently playing at film festivals around the country. And theres a link to it on our website at deathsexmoney.org. Death Sex  Money is a listener-supported production of WNYC Studios in New York. Im based at the Center for Investigative Reporting in Emeryville CA. The team includes Katie Bishop Anabel Bacon Emily Botein and Andrew Dunn. The Reverend John Delore and Steve Lewis wrote our theme music. Im on Twitter annasale the show is deathsexmoney. Keep sending us your stories about when youve felt your class status in your life. Record a voice memo or write an email and send it to us at classdeathsexmoney.org. And if youre traveling this Thanksgiving holidayor just need some podcasts to keep you company in the kitchencheck out our Podcasts Were Thankful For playlist. It includes picks from our friends at Call Your Girlfriend Dirty John Embedded Nancy and more. Find the podcast playlist on our Facebook page. Alana still has to take a lot of pills to suppress her immune system. But her health has gotten a lot better since getting Loris kidney. There is one thing though that she and Lori miss about the pre-transplant days.  She was great on car rides.   Um yeah I was the best long-distance like Give me some snacks and I am good. Once I had the kidney I was like a five-year-old. I am like I need to go to the bathroom and I need to go now! Im Anna Sale and this is Death Sex  Money from WNYC. Copyright  2019 New York Public Radio. All rights reserved. Visit our website terms of use at www.wnyc.org for further information.